SAN RAFAEL 
COOK BOOK 

1906 



Complied by the 

Xafcies of San IRafael 

San Rafael, California 



Price, 



COPW.-MTCD 1808 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



-I ^ 



o 



o 

00 

^ o 

.> 

O 



(/) 



O 
O 
CO 

14 

o 



u a 

O K 

< ^ 



en 



O 



o 
o 




. 

oo 




-J 

00 



DQ 



LU 



DQ 



V) 







Q 


Q 

LU 


LU 

X 
H 
O 






LU 


DQ 


< 




Q 


DQ 


LU 
& 


Z 




LU 

m 


LU 


O 
2 


X 
H 


R BREAD 


.WEETER 1 


H 

LU 
DQ 

in 

LU 


BAKES 




LU 


Ul 


<! 






H 


in 


DQ 






X 


LU 
L j 









RAFAEL 
- COOK : BOOK 

= 1906 = 




FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 



Compiled by the Ladles 
or 

San Rafael, California 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



H t EKLUND, Mgr 

710 FOURTH STREET 

. CaL 



Clectrlc Mou.e -Wiring 
Electric Motor* 
Electric Bell* 




ERNEST KLOEPKA 

Dealer in 

, Choice Family Groceries 

Telephone Red 825 
Cor. First and E Sreets SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 

Telephone Black 1571 

F. P. GRADY & CO. 

Dealers in 

WOOD, COAL, HAY AND GRAIN 

PROMPT DELIVERY 

Cot. Second and A Streets X San Rafael, CaL 



ADVERTISEMENTS 5 

COOK BOOK 

RECIPES 

COAL STOVE 

HOT WORK 

DIRT, ASHES 

WHAT'S THE USE? 

COOK BOOK 

RECIPES 

Gas Stove 

COOL, CLEAN, FINE 



COOKING A PLEASUSE 



*" San Rafael Gas & Electric Light Co. 



826 Fourth Street, San Rafael. 



K E 




BROS. 

Sanitary 
flMumbers 

DEALERS IN 

Plumbing Supplies, Garden Hose, 
Hardware, Tinware, Agateware, 
Stoves, Ranges, Electrical Supplies 
Household Furnishing Goods, Paints 
Oils, Etc., Etc. 

6O9 FOURTH ST. 

SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 

Telephone Red 104 



ADVERTISKMENTS 



Mount Tamalpais Military Academy 

SAN RAFAEL, CALIFORNIA. 

An Ideal School in an Ideal Climate 
Health of Mind and Health fo Body 




CLASSICAL, LITERARY, 

SCIENTIFIC, COMMERCIAL, 

CAVALRY, INFANTRY, 

ARTILLERY. 

REV. ARTHUR' CROSBY, A. M., D. D. 

HEADMASTER. 



Preface. 



"We may live without poetry, moisic, and art; 

We may live without corecience, and live without heart; 

We may live without friends; we may live without books; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

He may live without books, what is knowledge but grieving? 

He may live without hope, "what is hope but deceiving? 

He may live without love, what is passion but pining? 

But "where is the man that can live without dining? 



8 ADVERTISEMENTS 

San Rafael 
Cottage Hospital 



302 Fifth Avenue, Corner Petcluma Avenue, 
X X SAN RAFAEL, CAL, X X 



MEDICAL, SURGICAL and CONFINEMENT cases 
taken. Massage and Baths. 



Trained Nurses and Doctors in Attendance 

ALL MODERN IMPROVEMENTS 

Charges Reasonable Headquarters of the 

Emergency Hospital 

iiiiniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimTniniiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiimiiiiiiiiuiinuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



Any reputable physician can treat his patients in 
this hospital. Direct all communications to 
"San Rafael Cottage Hospital," or to Drs. Wick- 
man, Jones or Howitt, Proprietors. 

No contagious diseases admitted. Telephone Black 1651 




RULES FOR MAKING BREAD. 

Twice as much flour as wetting is a good rule to follow, to avoid 
having the bread too stiff. By this rule, beat with a spoon for 20 min- 
utes, and let stard over night. In the morning add as little flour as 
possible to mold into loaves. 

For 5 large loaves, take 3 pts. of liquid, (% fresh milk and % po- 
tato water): a little mashed potato; in warm weather % cake of yeast, 
and 3 qts. of flour, 1 tablespoon sugar, same of butter or lard, and salt. 

In cold weather more yeast is required. 

Bread is better when raised slowly. 

Bread should never fall, but be mixed before reaching this stage. 

Before putting into the oven, cut across the top 3 timies; for a 
rich brown crust nothing equals melted butter, for brushing. The oven 
must be hot when the bread is put in, and after it is well browned a 
more moderate oven will do. Bake bread from ^ to 1 hour, according 
to size of loaf, and always in separate pans. 

POTATO YEAST Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

Peel and grate 3 medium sized raw potatoes; pour 1 qt. of boiling 
water over them, stirring well all the time. Let it stand on the back 
of the stove, and add 1 tablespoon sugar, and a little salt. When luke- 
warm, add % cup of baker's yeast or 1 cake of compressed yeast dis- 
solved in ^ cup water. Let it stand in a warm place in open stone jar 
until it ferments. Then cover and set away in a cool place, and it is 
ready for use. This yeast will keep 2 or 3 weeks in cool weather. 

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pt. of milk, 1 pt. of water, both warm, 1 cup of syrup, 1 teaspoon 
of salt, 1 teacup of white flour, 1 cake of yeast in winter andi % in 
summer, and about 2 qts. of whole wheat flour. It should be a stiff 
batter; cover and let stand over ndght. In the morning, stir well and 
turn into 3 good sized bread pans without kneading. Bake when light 
from % of an hour to nn hour in a moderate oven. 

MIXED RYE AND WHOLE WHEAT BREAD. Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Use same ingredients as above excepting flour, instead use 1 pt. "white 
f.our, 1 pt. rye and a little more than a qt. of whole wheat. This makes 
a very agreeable combination. Sometimes we add 1 cup of raisins to 
one loaf for a variety, also walnuts and raisins. 



]Q BREAD 

RYE BREAD. Mrs. McMahon. 

Make a sponge of 1 qt. warm water and % cake of yeast; thicken 
with rye flour; set in warm place to rise. When light, add 2 cups of 
wheat flour, and then rye flour to make thick enough to mold; let rise, 
and bake about 1 hour in a moderate oven. 

i 

GRAHAM BREAD. Mrs. J. C. Dickson. 

Stir into a qt. of flour enough milk and water, equal parts, to make 
a thin batter using a half cup of home made or small cake compressed 
yeast. Beat all together thoroughly, let rise over night. In the morn- 
ing add % cup molasses and sift in enough graham flour to make a 
firml dough not too dry. Beat well and pour in pans, let rise until 
light and bake. 

BROWN BREAD Mrs. R. H. Renebome. 

One and a half cups white flour, % cup corn meal, 2 cups graham 
flour, % cup molasses, % cup brown sugar, 1 p-t. sour milk, 2 teaspoons 
baking soda, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon baking powder; bake in mod- 
erate oven about % of an hour. 

RAISIN BREAD Mrs. R. S. Barclay. 

Dough to make good-sized loaf bread. When raised, mix with it $ 
tablespoons sugar, good-sized piece of butter or lard; 2 pounds of ral- 
ins. Mix thoroughly. Put in pans and raise again till quite light. 

WHITE ROLLS Mrs. E. O. Allen. 

Scald 1 qt. sweet milk with % cup butter. When lukewarm add 2 
tablespoons white sugar, 1 large teaspoon salt, 1 yeast cake dissolved 
in 1 small cup warm water, 3 pts. flour. Mix well and let rise for five 
hours in a warm room. Then add what flour is necessary to stiffen, 
knead for ten minutes, cut out with small round cutter, moisten and 
lap under the edges of each. Place in buttered baking pans, far apart, 
let rise two and a half hours. Bake in a hot oven, browning well De- 
Scions. 

CINNAMON BUNS. Mrs. A. A. Curtis. 

Make a sponge of 1 pt. of sweet milk, 1 heaping cup of lard, % pt. 
cf yeast, % cup of sugar, 1 qt. of flour; set at night. In the morning 
add 2 eggs beaten light, and salt; make up stiff as for bread. When 
light divide into two parts, roll out about an inch thick, and narrow; 
spread with the mixture, and roll as for jelly cake; cut in slices; lay 
in pan to rise again; bake 20 minutes. 

Mixture. % Jb. of butter, browned to a rich brown; when cool aidd 
enough sugar to absorb the butter, and about 2 tablespoons of water; 
add enough sugar to absorb both water and butter; flavor with cin- 
amon. 



BREAD 11 

RUSKS. Mn. W. F. Jones. 

1 pt. of new milk, 1 cup of susar, % cup of butter, 2 eggs, a little 
more than 1 qt. of flour. Cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs 
-well and add to them the tepid milk. Mix and add the sifted flour, 
"beating well. Then dissolve 1 cake of yeast in a little tepid water or 
1 cup of potato yeast, and stir into the sponge. Put in a warm place 
until morning. Then add enough flour to knead on the board and let 
rise again. When light make into round biscuit and drop in the center 
of a muffin ring, and when light bake a delicate brown. Before put- 
ting into the oven brush with melted butter. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. Mrs. W. J. Dickson. 
Boil 1 pt. of milk with butter about the size of an egg. When 
cool add 1 teaspoon salt, % cup yeast, and flour enough to make a thick 
batter; stir well. When light, knead fifteen minutes; roll out, cut 
with a large cutter, spread with butter, fold over, put In the pans, 
and when light, bake in a quick oven. A little sugar may be added if 
preferred. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. Mrs, W. F. Jones. 
1 coffee cup corn meal, 1 coffee cup graham, 1 coffee cup white 
flour, % coffee cup molasses, 2 coffee cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 heaping teaspoon soda and 1 of baking powder sifted with the white 
flour. Steam 3 hours in a funnel steamer. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. Mrs. E. A. Hartman. 
Made in a minute, and sure to be good; never fails! 1 cup of mo- 
lasses, 2 cups of cold water, 2 teaspoons of soda, and mix. Stir this 
mixture into 2 cups of white flour and 2 cups of graham flour. Boil ia 
pudding pail 3 hours. 

RAISED MUFFINS. Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

1 cup sweet mdlk scalded and a small piece of butter melted in it. 
Add to this enough flour for a stiff batter, a little salt, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar and % cup of yeast. Beat well and let it rise over night. In the 
morniag beat in one egg and let it rise again in gem pans for about 
20 minutes. Bake 15 minutes. 

WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS. Mrs. McMahon. 
Make batter of 1 pt. sweet milk, 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 of salt, 1 
tablespoon butter, % cup of yeast; add flour enough to make a thin 
batter; let rise. When light, add 2 well beaten eggs and % teaspoon 
soda; let stand % hour to rise. Bake in quick oven. 

MUFFINS. Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

% cup of sweet milk 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, mielted butter the 
size of an English walnut, salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder sifted wltfc 
1V6 cups of flour. Bake quickly until a light brown. 



12 BREAD 

SCONES Agnes B. James, Ca. 

1 qt. flour, ty cup melted butter, 2 cups sour milk, 1 teaspoon cream 
of Tartar and the same of Soda, a pinch of salt, sift the cream of tar- 
tar in flour and dissolve the soda in a little boiling water. Roll out 
about % an inch thick and cut any shape desired. Bake on griddle. 

WAFFLES. Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

2 pggs beaten separately, % cup of melted butter, 4 cups of flour, 
2 teaspoons of baking powder, milk sufficient to make a thin batter. 3 
tablespoons to a medium sized waffle iron. Be sure and have the 
iron well greased on both sides and very hot. Excellent. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES. Mrs. W. F. Jonefe. 

Beat 2 eggs light, stir in 1 cup of boiled rice, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
* teaspoon of salt, and 2 cups sour milk. Lastly sift in 1 cup of flour, 
1 teaspoon soda and 1 teaspoon yeast powder. If a trifle too stiff, add 
a little milk; or if too thin, add a little more flour. Use the same pro- 
portions for other hot cakes, substituting y 2 cup flour in place of rice. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

1 pt. of sour milk, 1 pt. of flour, mix and let stand over night. In 
the morning add y 2 teaspoon of soda and 2 eggs well beaten. Cook on 
hot griddle. 

MRS. BARCLAY'S PANCAKES. 

Use 1 egg for each person, Beat eggs thoroughly. To 5 eggs use 1 
tablespoon sugar and a small teaspoon salt. Beat eggs into 1 cup 
flour, and thin with milk till right consistency quite thin. When 
ready to cook, add not quite a teaspoon oL baking powder. Very 
quick fire. Turn cakes just when bubbles begin to form. 

CREAM BISCUIT Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

2 cups of flour, % cup of sweet cream, 2 teaspoons of baking pow- 
der sifted with the flour; salt, a little milk to make soft dough to 
roll out. 

DROP BISCUIT. Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 qt. of flour sifted with 3 heaping teaspoons baking powder, and 1 
teaspoon of salt. Rub in a piece of butter the size of an egg, and then 
stir in 1 pint of sweet milk. Drop from a spoon on buttered tins, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. Mrsi. W. F. Jones. 
Sift 3 heaping teaspoons baking powder and a little salt with 1 qt. 
of flour, and rub in % cup of butter. Then wet with milk sufficient to 
roll. Cut in small biscuit, brush with melted butter, and bake in a 
quick oven. 



BREAD 13 

LIGHT BUNS Mrs. Robt. H. Menzies. 

1 Ib. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, % Ib. currants or raisins, % pint 
milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Rub the flour and baking pow- 
der together through a hair sieve; work the butter into the flour; add 
sugar and currants. Mix all these ingredients well together; make 
a hole in the middle of the flour and pour in the milk mixed with the 
egg which should be well beaten; mix quickly and set the dough with 
a fork on baking tins and bake the buns from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes. 

SOUTHERN BEATEN BISCUIT Mrs. R. B. Sanchez. 

1 pt. flour, 1 tablespoon lard, 1 teaspon salt, mix lard and salt thor- 
oughly with flour add water enough to make very stiff dough beat 
with hammer or knead till dough is smooth and snaps about twenty 
minutes roll about % inch thick, cut and prick with fork, bake in 
quick oven. 

BRAN BISCUITS Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Wash., D. C. 

2 cups bran, 1 cup flour, 1 small teaspoon soda sifted with flour. 
pinch of salt, tablespoon New Orleans molasses, milk enough to make 
a batter, add an egg if desired. Bake in a gem pan. 

SALLY LUNN. Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

1 qt. of flour and 2 teaspoons of baking powder well mixed, 3 large 
spoons of sugar put in the flour, salt, % cup of cream, or butter size of 
an egg, 2 cups of milk, 2 eggs not beaten. All stirred together. This 
makes 2 cards. 

PO ROVERS. Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Beat 2 eggs Just enough to mix, add 1 cup milk and 2 level cups 
flour; beat 5 painutes; add 1 teaspoon salt and another cup of milk; 
beat 10 minutes more and bake in: quick oven. 

FAVORITES. Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1% cups of milk, 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoon of buttei, 2 eggs 
beaten separately; melt the butter and put in to the milk and beaten 
yolks, a pinch of salt, whites well beaten put in last. Bake %' hour I 
gem pans. 

CORN BREAD, OR JOHNNY CAKE. Mr*. W. F. Jones. 

1 egg, 1 cup corn meal, % cup flour, % cup sugar, 1 teaspoon of 
baking powder, and 1 level teaspoon of soda sifted with the flour. A. 
pinch of salt, % cup of sour cream, and % cup sour milk. If you have 
no sour cream use 1 cup of sour miilk and a heaping tablespoon melted 
butter. This can be made with sweet milk and 2 teaspoons cf baking 
powder, but it is not so nice. Less sugar if so preferred. 



14 BREAD 

CORN BREAD Mrs. Porcella. 

3 eggs, 3 tablespoors butter, 2 cups buttermilk, a little salt, 1 tea- 
spoon sugar, corn m'eal enough to make a thin batter. 

KENTUCKY SPOON BREAD Mrs. Chas. Christensen. 

1 cup corn meal, 2 cups cold boiled rice, 1 tablespoon butter, a little 
salt. Wet the corn meal with hot water and stir until the consistency 
of mush, add the rice etc., and let stand over night or during the day 
as the case may toe. Add two eggs and enough sweet milk to make a 
thin batter. Add one teaspoon of baking powder and bake thirty min- 
utes in a medium oven. Put little bits of butter over the top when 
almost done. Serve with a spoon. 

SOUTHERN CORN BREAD Mrs. R. B. Sanchez. 

2 cups cooked rice or small hominy, 1 qt. milk, % cup white corn 
meal, 1% teaspoon salt, 1 slice butter 1 in. thick, 3 eggs. Scald rice 
or hominy in % of the milk, and pour over dry corn meal, (butter and 
salt. Add eggs well beaten and remainder of milk and if necessary 
add more milk, as the batter must be very thin. Bake immediately in 
quick oven. 

COSMOS CLUB EGG BREAD Mrs. Wm. B. Bradford. 

1 cup white corn meal, 1 tablespon of butter, 1 teaspoon salt. Stir 
meal, in boiling water until thickness of mush. Let stand over night, 
then add 4 eggs, 2 tablespoons of flour, 1 cup milk. When ready to bake 
add 2 tablespoons baking powder, bake brown in small egg pans. 

GRAHAM GEMS Miss H. Pregge. 

1 cup of sweet milk, 1 egg, tablespoon sugar, a little salt, 3 tea- 
spoons of baking powder, and graham flour sufficient for a thin batter. 

DATE GEMS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 eggs, 1 cup milk, ^ cup finely chopped dates, 1V& cups whole wheat 
flour, 1 tablespoon (butter melted), 1 teaspoon baking powder. If sour 
milk is used 1 level teaspoon of soda should be sifted with the flour 
and a small teaspoon baking powder. 

HUCKLEBERRY GEMS Mrs. H. A. Moore. 

% cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 egg well beaten, scant % 
cup of milk, 1 rounding cup of flour before sifting, 1 heaping teaspoon 
baking powder. Pinch of salt, 1 cup of fresh huckleberries or black- 
berries which you have sprinkled with flour and which must be stirred 
In lightly. Bake % hour in gem' tins. 
/ ... '* 
....... .; ,., r _ : ,.. BROWNIES Mrs. H. A. Moore. 

1 cup aeur :friiik,>l cup sour cream, 2 eggs, well beaten, little salt, 1 
tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 3 cups graham flour. Drop in gem 
tins, bake from 20 "to 30 minutes in hot oven. 



BREAD 15 

GRAHAM GRITS Mrs. Frances C. White, Everett, Wash. 
4 cups graham flour, 1 small cup sugar, % cup shortening, half butter 
half lard; salt, 1 teaspoon of soda. Sour milk or buttermilk enough 
to make a stiff dough, like pie crust. Bake 20 minutes. Put in warm- 
ing closet to get crisp and dry. 

WHEAT MEAL CRACKERS Mrs. Charles H. Fish. 
Mix thoroughly 2 qts. wheat meal (ground from blue stem wheat) 
with 1 heapirg teaspoon salt and 2 heaping teaspoons cream of tartar. 
Then rub into the meal thoroughly, 3 heaping tablespoons of shorten- 
ing (% lard and % beef drippings) add % pt. of cold corn meal gruel, 
and 1 pt. of cold water in which has been dissolved 1 heaping teaspoon 
of soda, 2 tablespoons sugar. Mix lightly and roll quickly on molding 1 
board as thin as it can be handled, dusting the board with entire wheat 
flour. Cut diamond shape or any odd shape to distinguish them from 
other crackers, and bake. Re-heat when served. (Blue stem wheat 
meal from J. Everding & Co., 48 Clay St., San Francisco.) 

CREAM TOAST. Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Put 2 pieces of buttered toast in a hot dish, boil % cup of milk, 
add % teaspoon of butter, season with a pinch of salt, and add sugar 
if liked. Mix the yolk of an egg with % cup of cream; add slowly the 
boiling milk to the cream and yolk, stirring constantly. Pour over the 
toast. 



In using sour milk and soda allow 1 level teaspoon of soda free 
from lumps, to 1 cup sour milk. 




., inc. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 19 

GEO. MURRAY, Pres. D. J. HALEY, Secty. 

'PHONE BLACK 1031 

ESTABLISHED 1869 

THE W. H. OHOEBSOK 

Incorporated 1904 

Stall Fed Meats 

Fine Groceries and Market Produce 
401 B Street San Rafael. 

'Phone Black 1032 

CALIFORNIA FURNITURE CO, 

GEO. H. WILLIAMS, Proprietor 
Estimates given on House Painting, Whiting and Paper Hanging 

Furniture, Carpets, Etc. 

707 Third Street Around the corner from the Postofflce San Rafael 
Suits to Order Gents' Furnishing Goods 

Louis Becker-==x 
Merchant Tailor 

Dry Goods, (Motions and Ladies' Sundries 

Ladies' Tailor-made suits a Specialty. 729 Fourth St. 

Fine Stock of Suitings always on Hand San Rafael, Cal. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



E. K. Wood Lumber & Mill Co. 



Manufacturers and Dealers in 




SHINGLES AND LATH 

SASH, DOORS AND MILL WORK 

SAND, BRICK, LIME, CEMENT 



Hardware of All Kinds 
Paints and Oils 

(Get our Prices on 

Drain Boards, Flour Bins, China Closets, Etc. 



MILLS AND YARDS: 

SAN RAFAEL AND SAN ANSELMO 

-STORE: Fourth Street and Petaluma Avenue. 

i San Ansel mo. Main 281 

'PHONES: ] San Rafael Store " 78 

(. " " Wharf " 14 




RULES FOR STOCK. 

Put meat to cook in cold water; simmer slowly not less than 5 hours, 
skimming occasionally. 

A piece of liver is an addition; or cooked meat or cooked bones will 
give the rich brown color without the use of burnt sugar. 

CARAMEL FOR COLORING SOUP. 

Melt 1 cup white sugar in a saucepan till it is dark; add slowly 1 
cup of cold water, stirring briskly, and boil till it thickens. Keep in 
large mouthed bottle. t Roast onions are also used. 

TO CLEAR SOUP. 

When hot add the well-beaten white of an egg, and as the soup boils 
up, after stirring in the egg, skim well. 

All milk soups are improved by the addition of cream, and a few 
drops of Worcestershire, Tabasco, celery salt or extract, and onion 
extract. 

BOUILLON Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Take from 4 to 5 pounds of beef, cover with cold water, add salt. 
When boiled, skim and add % teaspoon of black pepper, 2 carrots, 2 
turnips, 2 leeks, celery and parsley; boil from 4 to 5 hours, strain, and 
set aside. When to be used, roast one good sized onion dry, in the 
oven; stick whole cloves in it; put in the stock and boil 10 minutes. 
If liked, add half a glass of sherry. 

SOUPSTOCK Mrs. Orey J. Short. 

A beef shank bone, containing marrow, a piece of mutton neck and a 
Joint of veal. Cut in small pieces and soak for several hours in enough 
water to cover. Add a stick of cinnamon, a couple of cloves, a cup of 
barley, a bay leaf, a little brown sugar, a pinch of oatmeal, mixed 
herbs and chopped vegetables. Place over a slow fire and simmer all 
day. Strain, season and put in a crock. Keep in cool place and it will 
keep several days. 

MARROWBALLS FOR SOUP Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Chop fine % cup of marrow good and fresh, and rub with it 1 cup of 
flour and a saltspoon of salt. Wet with sufficient cold water to make 
like pastry, and roll into tiny balls like small marbles. Drop into boil- 
-ing soup, boil 15 to 20 minutes, and serve. 



:22 SOUPS 

RAVIOLA Mrs. W. J. Wickman. 

Make a paste of 2 cups flour, 2 eggs, % teaspoon salt, and water 
enough to make a stiff dough. Knead well and roll out into a sheet as 
-thick as thin cardboard; cut it in half. Place'one teaspoon of farce 
In regular rows on the paste 2 in. apart, moisten the upper part of 
paste and place carefully on top of the lower piece, pressing the two 
together with the fingers or with a raviola rolling pin, forming small 
cushions between. Cut through the rows down and across, with a pas- 
"try knife in such a way as to leave pieces about 2 in. square. Place 
the raviola on a board covered with a clean piece of muslin near the 
stove and dry thoroughly when needed poach them a few at a time in 
clear bouillon for ten minutes. When all are done place In a tureen 
and pour soup over raviola. Add a few teaspoons of grated parmesan 
cheese and serve. 

FARCE FOR RAVIOLA (FILLING) 

Take one cup cold chicken, veal or fish, chopped very fine and rub 
to a paste with one calf or sheep brains parboiled add one cup bread 
-crumbs which have been soaked in milk and squeezed dry, one tea- 
spoon onion juice, % teaspoon salt, a grating of nutmeg, dash of Cay- 
enne and thyme and rub well together. Have ready 1 cup spinach 
(which has been boiled, drained and chopped). Stir the spinach into 
the paste, add yolk of 2 eggs, and beat for ten minutes. 

WHITE SOUP Mrs. Grandjean. 

Ingredients 'Five Ibs. veal (shin), five pts. cold water, 1 tablespoon 
'salt, 1 onion, 6 pepper corns, a little celery, 1 pt. cream or milk, 1 table- 
spoon butter, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 egg. Wipe meat, put all ingredi- 
ents except cream, butter, flour, and egg, into soup kettle, taring to a 
'boil quickly, then cook slowly several hours, skimming when needed; 
strain,, add lemon peel, salt and pepper (white), cook butter and flour 
together add to soup stock, beat cream, add to stock, beat egg put into 
"tureen, strain in the soup carefully and serve with browned crackers. 

OXTAIL SOUP Miss H. Pregge. 

Separate the joints of 2 oxtails; put them into a frying pan with 
a little butter and fry them nice and brown; add 1 onion and 1 carrot 
and fry brown also. Then put all into a soup kettle with about 3 qts. 
of water, let simmer slowly, add a few cloves and a blade of mace, 
also a little barley, and cook well. If desired add a little sherry wine 
Just before sending to the table. 

OXTAIL SOUP Mrs. H. Decourtieux. 

1 qt. soup stock, 2 oxtails, 1 pt. boiling water, 1 tablespoon of beef 
-extract, * cup each of diced carrot, onion, celery, turnip and potato, 
U teaspoon salt, % cup Madeira wine, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, % of a 



SOUPS 2Jt 

green pepper, 6 stoned olives, 2 tablespoons 'butter, 14 cup flour. Cut 
the oxtails into irch pieces, wash, drain, and sprinkle with salt and 
pepper; dredge with the flour and fry in butter ten minutes. Then- 
add the oxtails to the stock and simmer one and a half hours, add the- 
boiling water and the beef extract. Parboil all the vegetables to- 
gether twenty minutes and add them. Simmer until vegetables are- 
tender, then add salt, wine and lemon juice. Cut the olives in smair 
rings and place them in tureen, pour in soup and serve hot. 

GUMBO SOUP Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

One spring chicken, 1 small slice of ham, 1 heaping tablespoon lard,.. 
1 qt. okra, 1 or 2 large tomatoes, 1 spoon of flour, a little boiled rice. 
Cut up chicken in small pieces, also the ham. Put into a pot with a 
tablespoon of hct lard; when fried, add tomatoes and flour; cover the 
whole with water and let it simmer over a slow fire one hour, then add' 
okra cut up fine, simmer another hour; place a little boiled rice in the 
center of a soup plate, add some gumbo. Many persons in New Or- 
leans add Chili pepper. 

CREAM OF CHICKEN SOUP Mrs. Chas. S. Fay. 
Put in a saucepan 2 tablespoons good butter, 1 sliced onion, celery,.. 
leek ard carrot; allow to fry without browning; add 2 tablespoons 
flour, fry again, then add 1 gal. water, stirring well till it boils; pot 
in fat fowl and boil 2% hours. Strain soup, season with salt and little 
white pepper and, if liked, a little nutmeg; add 1 pt. cream and smallT 
piece of fresh butter. Serve with croutons. 

CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP Mrs. E. W. Newhalf. 
1% pints strorg chicken broth or stock, % cup barley, l.cup cream,, 
yolks of 4 eggs; flavor with celery, lemon or onion. Wash the barley 
thoroughly, and cook slowly until soft enough to rub through a sieve. 
Put it into the strained chicken brotfr; and cook half an hour. Theft- 
add the yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten. Be sure and pour the broth on to 
the eggs, and not the eggs into the broth. Lastly add one cup of 
cream. Do not boil after the cream is added. If too thick, add a lit- 
tle hot milk to the right consistency, and salt to taste. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 
This receipt is also good for cauliflower, potato, or asparagus. If 
you have roast beef bones left from the day before, break them up and 
put on to boil with soup greens and a head of celery. (If you hare no 
bones, and do not wish to buy fresh soup meat, water alone will do, but 
it will not be as savory.) Add some young onions, 5 or 6, a tablespoon 
of butter, and some flour dissolved in water until smooth, and wheifc- 
the soup is boiling add the flour, salt, pepper, a little mace, and the- 
top slice of a lime for a few minutes only, as it will make the strap- 
bitter If left longer. For potato soup, leave out the mace and 



24 SOUPS 

but add a pinch of allspice instead. After the celery is quite soft, 
strain it through a fine sieve, add a gill of cream thinned out in as 
much milk, arsd the yolk of 1 egg, all beaten and allowed to come to 
a boil. Serve with fried bread cut in slices. For asparagus or cauli- 
flower, cut off the heads and boil only the stalks before straining, as 
they have to be all mashed through the strainer; then put in the head* 
and flower, and let boil in the soup until tender. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Fry 1 cup of rice in 1 tablespoon of butter until the rice turns white, 
then add 2 qts. of boiling milk, and cook slowly, stirring occasionally 
until done. Pass through a fine wire sieve by mashing with a spoon. 
Season with salt and grated nutmeg; or instead of the nutmeg, cut up 
a small onion, and fry with the rice. Add 1 cup of cream just in time- 
to warm 1 but not to boil, before serving. Serve with croutons. Part 
stock or chicken broth may be used instead of all milk. If too thick,, 
thin with milk to the right consistency. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP Mrs. Herbert Kellogg. 
Havfe a good stock. Boil 1 qt. of dark beans in water until tender,, 
and mash through colander. Add a pinch of cloves, allspice and black 
peppers bruised and tied in a cloth; add the stock. Chop 3 hard boiled 
eggs and place in t,he tureen; pour the soup over, and add % glass of 
sherry at the last. Salt to taste. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 cups of black beans boiled until tender. Mash through a colander, 
and add to 1 qt. of rich stock; "when hot, strain through a sieve; sea- 
son with allspice, cloves, pepper and salt. Just before serving, add a 
cup of cream. This is far more delicate than where pork is used. Fry 
squares of bread in butter until they are a rich brown, and add last. 

WHITE BEAN SOUP Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Put 1 cup of white pea beans to cook, and when tender mash through 
a colander and add n\ilk until of the right consistency. Season with 
salt and pepper, and thyme fresh from the garden is preferable to the 
powdered. Tablespoon of butter and 1 cup of cream. Serve with 
croutons. 

ONION SOUP (JOE TILDEN'S) Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

4 large onions cut up, 6 ozs. butter, salt, cayenne, stock and milk, 
yolks of 4 eggs, ^4 loaf of French bread cut in very thin slices and 
dried, and 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese. Slowly stew the 
onions in the butter fqr 1 hour, stirring frequently and being careful 
not to burn. Add salt, pepper, cayenne, and stock, and cook one hour; 
add % as much milk as stock. Have im the tureen the bread and 



SOUPS 2* 

cheese; beat up the eggs and mix with them. a ladleful of the soup. 
Pour this on the bread, cover close for five minutes, let stand, add the 
rest of the soup, and serve at once. 

PUREE OF PEAS Mrs. C. A. Thayer. 

Shell and wash peas (1 pt. after they are shelled) put them into 3 
pts. boiling water with % small onion, cook uncovered after coming 
to a boil until peas are quite soft. Rub through sieve with back of 
wooden spoon. Put this back into saucepan, add 3 cups milk, salt and 
pepper to taste ard put on stove. Melt 1 tablespoon butter and add 1 
tablespoon flour (off stove) rub until smooth, and cook until it froths. 
Stir this into boilirg soup. Cook one or two minutes and serve. 

CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP Mrs. E. Q. Smith. 
Wash carefully 2 qts. of spinach; boil until tender in salt water, drain 
and drop 5nto ccld wat^r to heighten color. Put through a potato ricer. 
Have readv 1 qt. of thin white sauce made with 2 scant tablespoons 
butter and 3 tablespoons flour and 1 qt. milk; add this sauce gradually 
to the pulp, stirring and rubbing that it may be smoothly blended. Put 
on the fire and stir almost constantly, unless in double boiler, until it 
hoils; season highly and strain. Return to fire and just before serv- 
ing add % cup of whipped cream. 

'( 

SALSIFY OR MOCK OYSTER SOUP Nelly Wood. 
Cook 1 bunch of oyster plant ir as little water as possible and when 
tender pass through puree strainer; add to the pulp 1 qt. of milk and* 
1 pt. of stock, 1 teaspoon corn starch, salt and pepper to taste. A lit- 
tle cream added last is an improvement. Can be made of all milk, but 
some stock is preferable. 

TOMATO BISQUE Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 

1 qt. cooked tomatoes, 2 qts. sweet milk, 1 level tablespoon corn- 
starch, salt, butter, paprika or white pepper, 1 teaspoon soda. Strain 
the tomatoes and put on to heat; when boiling put In soda, then add 
the hot milk, sugar, salt, pepper, and butter. Cook the cornstarch In 
milk before adding tomatoes, to prevent curdling. Some prefer a little 
sugar added. 1 cup of cream is an improvement. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP Mrs. W. F. Jons, 

Remove the corn from 1 can; cover with 3 cups of water; simmer 
for one hour; press through a sieve. Scald 3 cups of milk; add the 
corn and 1 tablespoon of b'utter well mixed with 1 tablespoon of flour. 
Cook until smooth, season with salt and pepper, add % cup of cream 
and stir until heated. Take from the fire, add 1 beaten egg, and serve 
^t once. The egg or cream may be omitted, but the soup is far more 
delicious with the addition of both. The corn from twelve ears equals 
one can. 



:26 SOUPS 

CLAM CHOWDER Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

In the kettle in which the chowder is to be made fry several slices 
of salt pork. When nice and brown remove, and in the gravy put 4 
large potatoes and 4 onions which have been chopped; season with salt 
and pepper, add from 1 qt. to 3 pts. of water, and boil half an hour. 
Take 1 qt. of clams or 1 can, and after cutting off the black heads, 
chop and put them with the broth into the kettle about 10 minutes be- 
fore taking up. When ready to serve, add pilot bread broken in small 
pieces. 

FISiH CHOWDER Mrs. Jas. W. Cochrane. 

Slice fine four good sized onions and fry a light brown in butter; 
cut any kind of raw fish in small dice, sufficient for two cups; four 
large potatoes cut in dice, four crushed soda crackers; salt and pepper 
"to taste. Cover with boiling water and cook until potatoes are done. 
Add one cup of cream and serve. 

BISQUE OF LOBSTER A LA TOINVILLE Mrs. Chas. S. Fay. 

Put a saucepan with a good tablespoon of butter on the fire add some 
-sliced onion, leek, celery and carrot, fry lightly, then cut up two live 
lobsters, wash well in boiling water and put also in the saucepan with 
a. tablespoon of rice, fry again lightly and then add about 1 gal. clear 
-white strong broth, let boil for about % hour, then strain and pound 
lobster, rice and vegetables thoroughly in a mortar; put^ again in 
^saucepan and let it boil for % hour; then strain it again through a sieve 
-return it to a saucepan, season with salt, cayenne, add 1 pt. sweet 
ream, heat thoroughly, then put a garnishing of cut-up lobster and 
trouffles in the tureen, pour the soup over and serve. 

SALMON CHOWDER "FINE" Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

1 Ib. can salmon, 1 large onion chopped fine, %'. tt>. salt pork fried 
"brown, 1 pt. cream or milk, 3 ships crackers, 3 large potatoes, salt and 
-pepper to taste. Remove salmon from can, strain off the liquor, break 
fish in small pieces with a fork. Fry onions and pork together. Place 
alternating layers of potatoes, pork, onions, fish and crackers in a large 
saucepan. Continue the layers until the ingredients have all been 
used. Cover all with boiling water season well and simmer 20 min- 
mtes, then add cream and a lump of (butter; serve very hot. 

CRAB SOUP Mrs. Thos. Wintringham. 

3 pts. rich milk, 1% tablespoon butter, 1% tablespoon flour. Have 
the milk hot in a double boiler. Melt the butter in saucepan; cook 
flour with the butter and add very slowly the boiling milk. Return to 
the boiler then add the shredded meat of a large crab, season well, 
add a few drops of Tabasco and Worcester sauce. 



SOUPS 2T 

LENTEN SOUP Mr. Tho. Wintringham. 

Same as crab soup, save substituting 1 pt. of picked out shrimps IB. 
place of the crab. 

BREAD FINGERS FOR SOUP Nelly Wood. 

Slice stale bread or the crust from sandwiches can be used, spread, 
with lumps of butter and place in oven until crisp and brown, shaking: 
the pan occasionally. Serve warm with soup. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 

Telephone, Black 1201 



SCOTT & C.O 

>iiiuininmiuitiiimiiiiiiiiiiiuMUMnHiiiiuiiiiiiii!HuiiMiuuitiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiuuniuniiiuiiiHuiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiii!Utiiiiiiiiintiii!iiiiiminttii' 

AGENTS . FOR 

PHOENIX PURE PAINT 
CLIMAX CARRIAGE PAINT 
MASURY'S COLORS 

Leaders in Hardware and Cutlery 

GLAZING ATTENDED TO 
OPERA HOUSE, FOURTH ST. 

Bet. C and D Sts. San Rafael Cal. 



THE BEST 

Sugar Cured, 
tlicory Smoked 



The most delicate in flavor, and most 
economical in cut 

Ask your grocer for them 



DODGE, SWEENEY & CO. 

Distributing Agents 




CALIFORNIA. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



If We Could Have 



A five minutes heart-to-heart talk: 
with every intelligent woman in 
the land on the wholesome, diges- 
tible, nutritious qualities of 




THE PERFECT SHORTENING 

as compared with greasy, indigestible hog lard 
(the pig-sty product) the latter would never 
again enter any well regulated kitchen. - - - 

Send a 2ct. stamp for Mrs. Rorer's 
book of "Home Helps," containing time 
tried recipes and hints for the home, - 



Chicago, 



THE N. K. FA1RBANK COMPANY. 
St. Louis, San Francisco. 



pish end 




BOILED FISH Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 
(To be served cold.) 

Put into the fish kettle enough water to cover the fish; add 1 large 
onion, small piece of garlic, 1 dozen cloves, 1 dozen allspice, 4 laurel 
leares, 2 carrots, celery, % cup of vinegar; cover tight, and boil *fa hr. 
Have the fish ready. Any fish of from 4 to 5 Ibs. will take from 15 to 
20 minutes. When done, serve cold. 

Sauce for same. Make a mayonnaise; add a small piece of garlic; 
let It stand about one hour. Chop cucumbers fine. When ready to 
serve, add pepper, salt, juice of lemon, and lastly the chopped cucum- 
bers. If necessary, thin with cream. 

TARTAR SAUCE FOR BROILED FISH Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

2 tablespoons of mayonnaise, 2 tablespoons chopped capers, % onion 
grated. Mix 1 hour before using. 

DRESSING FOR BOILED FISH Mrs. R. E. Neil. 
6 raw tomatoes or % can; strain through a colander; add 3 table- 
spoons chopped capers, 1 large pickled cucumber, and 1 pickled onion 
chopped very fine with the capers, 4 tablespoons tomato catsup, a dash 
of cayenne, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 1 cup of stock. Simmer 10 minutes, 
and pour over boiled fish. 

FISH A LA DELMONICO Mrs. Fronmuller. 

3 caps of cooked white fish, 4 tablespoons butter, 4 tablespoons 
flour, 2 teaspoons salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 pt. milk, 1 slice onion, 2 
sprays parsley, 2 yolks of eggs, bread crumbs. Scald milk with onion 
and parsley, blend butter and flour and gradually add the milk, then 
the seasoning and eggs. Bone, skin and shred the fish. Butter a dish, 
put in fish and sauce in alternate layers, finishing with sauce, sprinkle 
with buttered bread crumbs and bake in moderate oven about % hour. 
Nice for left over fish. 

FINNAN HADDIE Mm. Francis C. White, Everett, Wash. 
Pick up like codfish, scald until tender and drain dry. Make a cream 
sauce, put the fish in it and scald. Boil 1 egg hard, grate yolk and mix 
with 2 tablespoons grated cheese, season with salt and cayenne to 
taste. Add beaten egg last. Serve on toast. 



:3Z FISH AND SHELL FISH 

CODFISH BALLS Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 cup salt codfish, 2 cups mashed potatoes, 1 egg, 2 teaspoons butter, 
1 saltspoon pepper, salt if needed. Wash and shred fish and drain. 
Mix fish and potato thoroughly, add egg and seasoning and work to- 
gether with masher. Drop from spoon into deep fat and fry until 
brown and drain on cheese cloth, before serving. Some prefer to 
scald the codfish before mixing, 

FISH SOUFFLE Mrs. J. S. Macintosh. 

Any "kind of fish may be used. After the fish has been boiled, chop 
a. pint of the fish very fine, put a piece of butter the size of an egg, in 
a saucepan; melt it and stir in 3 scant tablespoons of flour, rubbing 

: It very smooth, add 1* cup milk or cream, yolks of 2 eggs, pepper 
and salt, cook till the mixture is quite thick, stirring all the time, then 

add the fish. Just before serving, and when cool add the whites of the 
ggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put in paper cases or shells, cook for a 
few minutes, till the top is a light brown and the souffle has risen; 

'fill the cases only half full. This will serve eight persons. 

TIM BALE OF FISH Mrs. J. K. Armsby. 

1% Tb. raw fish mashed through a colander, % pt. thick cream, small 
piece of "butter, size of egg, 4 eggs yolks and whites beaten separately, 
teaspoon of onion juice, pepper and salt to taste. Use whites of eggs 
last. Cook in a pan of water in the oven for about half an hour. 

F4SH PUFF Mrs. J. W. Cochrane. 

A delicious way of using remnants of cold cooked fish. Chop fish 
; and mix with it an equal part of mashed potato. Season with salt and 
pepper and two tablespoons of melted butter. Stir into it two well 
beaten eggs. Form into a roll and place on buttered tin . Brush over 
with, a beaten egg. Roll in bread crumbs and bake one half hour in 
fcot oven, 

SALMON LOAF Mrs. G. G. Vanderlip. 

One small can of salmon, 2 eggs beaten lightly, 4 tablespoons butter 
melted, one half cup fine bread crumbs, season with salt, pepper and 
minced parsley. First chop the fish, then rub in the butter until smooth. 
Beat the crumbs with the eggs and season before working together. 
Pat in a buttered mould and steam for one hour. When cold arrange 
ra< a platter with a border of parsley and hard boiled eggs. 

SALMON CUTLETS Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

1 can of salmon, 1 cup thick white sauce, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 
1 egg. Pick over salmon remove all skin, bones and oil, mix with lem- 
t juice, then stir in white sauce. Turn out on plate to cool. Divide 
1m twelve portions, shape like cutlets. Beat an egg, slightly roll cut- 
'lets hi it, then cover thoroughly with fine bread crumbs, and fry in 
deep fat to a light brown. 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 33 

HOW TO PREPARE TERRAPIN Mrs. A. W. Foster. 
Throw live terrapin into boiling water; after boiling fifteen minutes 
remove and take off black outside skin from the shell, the skin and 
nails from the claws; replace them in water a little salted, and cook 
until under shell cracks or feels soft to the touch. Remove the under 
shell carefully over a bowl, take out the sand-bag, remove head, gall- 
bag from the liver, and meat from upper shell. 

TERRAPIN A LA BALTIMORE Mrs. A. W. Foster. 

Place the meat, cloves, and eggs if any, of two terrapin in a sauce- 
pan; add a dash of cayenne, white pepper, a grating of nutmeg, small 
saltspoon of ground cloves, a wine glass of Madeira or sherry. Cook 
five minutes and put away to cool for future use. Place in a saucepan 
a cup of good stock, add a glass of Madeira. Blend % cup butter with 
2 tablespoons of flour; add this to the gravy, with a piece of lemon. 
Put in the terrapin, and heat. Have ready the yolks of 6 hard boiled 
eggs mashed fine; beat and mix gradually with the terrapin. The 
whites of the eggs can be chopped fine and added. 

Terrapin a la Maryland differs only in substituting cream for stock. 
The cream is warmed and added gradually to the eggs at the last min- 
ute, and not allowed to boil. Epicures prefer stock to cream. 

TERRAPIN STEW Mrs. W. B. Bradfdrd. 

Boil according to size 30 or 40 minutes, so that the upper shell will 
separate from the lower easily. Take gall-bag from liver, which is 
always found on the right lobe; avoid breaking, as it would give a bit- 
ter taste and spoil the dish. Strip the skin from the claws, cut off the 
nails and skin the head. Throw nothing away but the gall-bag. Cut 
all in small pieces and stew all slowly in sherry wine, with a good 
supply of butter and red pepper, for 1* hours, keeping closely covered 
all the time. Salt to taste. If they have no eegs in them, add two 
hard boiled hens' eggs to each terrapin just before the stew is done. 
Add a little flour rubbed in butter, just before taking from the fire. 
Place crispy toast on platter. Serve with baked .potatoes and celery. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE Mrs. Carter P. Porneroy. 

Pare and grate over a pi*ve 4 large crisp cucumbers, when drained 
turn pulp into a bowl, add a teaspoon of pepper, 1 medium sized onion 
grated, a level teaspoon salt, 2 of tarrapon vinegar. Set on ioe an!* 
pust before serving add six tablespoons cream well whipped. Serve 
witJi cold boiled fish of any kind. Must be served very cold. 

SARDINES AND ANCHOVY SAUCE Mrs. Geo. Boyd. 
Put piece of butter size of an egg into saucepan; when melted, stir 
in the yolks of 2 eggs, a saltspoon cayenne, and 2 tablespoons anchovy 
sauce. Add a tablespoon of weak sherry (don't cook on a hot fire). 
Pour this sauce over the sardines which have been laid on toast with 
sardine oil poured over them, and thoroughly heated in oven. 



34 FISH AND SHELL FISH 

ANCHOVY FINGERS Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

Prepare some croutons (fried bread) in finger lengths, and lay on 
each an anchovy fillet (after washing and boning it). Garnish with 
thick mayonnaise sauce and chopped capers. 

DEVILED CLAMS, NO. 1 Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Chop fire 25 clams; cook for 20 minutes in a double boiler; drain 
and save the liquor. Rub 2 tablespoons of flour and 1 of butter to- 
gether, and add to the liquor; when boiling, add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, a dash of red pepper, a tablespoon each of chopped onions 
and parsley, and the clams. Mix and fill into shells; dust with crumbs, 
and brown in a quick oven. 

DEVILED CLAMS, NO. 2 Mrs. A. A Smith. 

Chop 50 clams very fine; take 2 tomatoes and 1 or ion chopped 
equally fine, a little parsley, thyme and sweet marjoram, a little salt 
and pepper, and y 2 cup of bread crumbs; add the juice of the clams 
till it is of the consistency of sausage; put in shells with lump of but- 
ter on each; cover with bread crumbs and bake % hour. 

ESCALOPED CLAMS Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Wash clean 100 dares; use only the soft part and the string part 
chopped fine; put a layer in the bottn-n of buttered baking dish, season 
with salt, pepper, cayenne and a little mace; scrinkle on plenty of 
stale bread crumbs and a quantity of bits of butter; repeat the layer 
until the 'dish is full; put plenty of butter on top, and pour in a cup 
of the water from the clams; bake in a moderate oven for one hour, 
and when half dene, ponr in a good glsss of sherry. 

CLAM CHOWDER Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Fry y 2 lb. of salt pork cut in small bits and 1 large sliced onion 
together, until brown. Chop the necks of the clams, and add to the 
mixture, also the 'clams and juice, and 3 or 4 potatoes cut like dice; 
let all simmer together about % hour. Season with salt and pepper, 
and thicken with a teaspoon of corn starch. This is too thick to serve 
as soup but takes the place of a fish course. If one prefers this in 
soup ad'd 1 qt. of milk, and serve as such. 

OYSTERS) AND MUSHROOMS Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 
1 tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon of flour cooked together; add 
% cup of mushroom liquor; when thick, add 1 qt. oysters and 1 cup of 
mushrooms, 2 eggs beaten light, 1 teaspoon salt, and a dash of cayenne 

OYSTER AND MUSHROOM RAGOUT Mrs. Jas. W. Cochrane. 

Boil 20 oysters in their liquor for one minute and 
drain, saving the liquor. Let cold water run over the oys- 
ters. Peel a pint fcf meadow mushrooms; cut in pieces and sim- 
mer for five minutes with four tablespoons of butter, half a teaspoon 



FISH AND SHELL FISH 35 

of salt, and half a saltspoon of pepper; add the oysters, two tablespoons 
of the oyster liquor, a gill of hot sweet cream, and a tablespoon of but- 
ter cut small and rolled in flour. Boil up once and serve in individual 
dishes. 

DEVILED OYSTERS Mrs. James Cochrane. 

For this you need some fancy shells. Select medium 1 sized oysters, 
drain well, butter the shells, and lay in each four oysters; dust thickly 
with salt, and pepper or paprika, sprinkle with lemon juice and lay 
on the oysters a small pat of butter. Bake in a very hot oven until 
the edges of the oysters are crimped. This dish may be varied, by 
adding a few drops of good table sauce, or by putting in a few pieces 
of chopped fresh mushrooms or a little mushroom catchup. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

100 California oysters, 3 tablespoons of unsweetened tomato catsup, 
4 tablespoons oyster liquor, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, juice 
of 1 large lemon, 1 dash of tabasco, salt to taste; mix well, and place 
on ice 1 hour. 

CREAMED OYSTERS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Melt a lump of butter the size of an egg in a sauce pan. Stir into it 
a heaping tablespoon of flour. Let this cook but not brown, and then 
add 1 large cup of rich cream previously warmed, a dash of cayenne 
and tabasco, about 1 level teaspoon of salt, and a little Worcestershire 
sauce. This is for 3 dozen large oysters. When smooth, skim the 
oysters from the pan in which they have been heating, and add to the 
cream. Let them puff up, and when the edges curl they are done. Add 
a little of the oyster juice to thin the mixture, according to judgment 
and taste. 

TOASTED ANGELS Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

V'i-"i i large oyster in i very thin slice of bec">n or fat sa't nork. 
putting en the oyster a little cayenne and 2 drops of lime juice; fasten 
with a string, or pin the bacon with a wooden toothpick; brcil til?, the 
bacon is crisp, and serve very hot on squares of buttered toast. 

FANCY ROAST OYSTERS Mrs. Sidney Gushing. 
Put 1 tablespoon of butter in saucepan, add % saltspoon white pep- 
per, 1 teaspoon salt, a little cayenne, 2 tablespoons torr.ato catsup. 
When hot, add 1 pt. of oysters, and cook until plump and the edges 
curl; serve on toast. Can be cooked in chafing dish. 

SHRIMPS ON TOAST Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of rich cream to 1 It), of picked shrimps; salt, and a dash of 
cayenne. Cook all together and serve on buttered toast. A few drops 
of Worcestershire is an improvement, also a dash of tabasco. 



36 FISH AND SHELL FISH 

SHRIMPS AND TOMATOES Mrs. McMahon. 

1 large tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon flour, browned together. 
"Scrape in a little onion, 3 or 4 cloves, and a few drops of Worcester- 
shire sauce. To this add a can of tomatoes strained, or an equal 
amount of fresh cooked ones, 1 Ib. of picked shrimps, a small wine 
glass of white wine, add a teacup of sweet cream with a pinch of soda 
in it. Cook all together 20 minutes. 

CREAM SHRIMPS Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

1% cups rich milk, % cup of tomatoes (etrained) ; season with 
cayenne pepper and butter; thicken with flour. 35c shrimps will an- 
swer for six persons. Serve on toast. 

CREAMED CRAB OR SHRIMPS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
1 large picked crab or 1 pt. of picked shrimps, 1 cup of cream, % 
cup of milk, 1 heaping tablespoon flour, 1 teasroon salt, dash each of 
cayenne and tabasco, 1 tablespoon butter, and a few drops of Worcest- 
ershire if desirable. Put the cream on the stove with the crab or 
shrimps in it. Stir the flour irto the milk and add when the cream is 
hot; then the other ingredients, and when well cooked put into seven 
individual shells; roll one cracker to dust over the top, and put some 
butter in center. Bake until brown. The shells can be filled the day 
before they are baked, if kept in a cool place. 

DEVILED CRAB Mrs. Oge. 

Clean and shred a crab; add to it 3 tablespoons melted butter, % 
cup of clear soup stock, salt, a little red* and black pepper; the 
crumbs from the inside of a ir.ilk loaf, using no crust, and 3 tablespoons 
of thick, sweet cream. Put all in shells and bake until a light brown, 
for about 20 minutes. 

DEVILED CRAB Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

One crab shredded (% lemon, juice) 1 teaspoon mustard, 3 teaspoons 
oil, 1 teaspoon curry, 1 teaspoon milk, salt to taste. Rub piece of garlic 
on clam shells (large shells) bake ten minutes. Roll crackers on top 
and thin slice of lime laid over crackers; put red pepper ovnr lime and 
crackers, then bake long enough to warm; if crabs are fat, not so 
much oil. 

CANAPE LORENZO Helen Walker. 

(Will serve four). 

1 large crab (cut in large pieces) 1 loaf of stale bread, 1 pt. of cream, 
4 hard boiled eggs, 1 finely chopped onion, 1 large tablespoon butter, 
I tablespoon flour % cup grated cheese (Parmesan) 2 tablespoons but 
ter, salt, tabasco, paprika, chopped parsley. Cut the loaf of bread into 
quarters, remove all crust and shape into little cups about half an 
inch thick by scooping out the center of each piece. Toast 
in a moderate oven until a light brown. These can be made 



FISH AND SHELL, FISH 37 

at any time and then heated just before serving. Let the 
finely chopped onions simmer in one tablespoon of butter until thor- 
oughly cooked (but not brown). Stir in one tablespoon of flour then the 
cream, the eggs (yolks mashed and white cut fine) salt to taste and a 
.few dashes of tabasco. Last of all, add the crab: Put at once into 
the cups and pour over each melted cheese and butter . Sprinkle 
"with finely chopped parsley and paprika. 

CRAB CHOPS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Boil 2 crabs and pick in small pieces. Melt one tablespoon of butter 
and stir into it 1 tablespoon of flour; when well mixed, add 1 cup of 
hot water. This gravy must be good and thick. Stir in the crab, add 
1 beaten egg, % a lemon, a dash each of cayenne and tabasco, and salt 
to taste. Place it on a board in the form of a square and about % of 
an inch thick. Put in a cool place or leave until the next day; then 
divide your square into smaller squares and cut each small square into 
two pieces from corner to corner; each piece should be about the size 
of a small lamb chop. Roll in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry in hot 
fat. Place around the edge of platter, and in the pointed end 
of each piece insert the sharp claw cf the crab, leaving the large end 
showing to look like a chop bone. 

'Sauce for Same. Cook 1 qt. of tomatoes until thick, season with 
butter, salt and a dash of cayenne. Pour in the center of platter. 

CRAB FRICASSEE Mrs. Jas. Oliver. 

1 crab, *4 pt. milk, % tablespoon mustard, piece butter, season with 
salt and pepper; mix well, and let it come to a boil. Then stir in crab 
and beaten yolk of an egg. Put into a dish sprinkled "with cracker 
crumbs and bits of butter. 

CRAB CREOLE Mrs. Sidney Gushing. 
(Chafing Dish.) 

Rub a stewpan with a piece of garlic; then put in 2 ounces of butter, 
3 green onions, and 2 green peppers chopped fine; add salt, pepper, 
and cayenne, and stew slowly 10 minutes. Then add 1 large tomato 
without the skin, cut in small pieces; stew this until the tomato Is 
dissolved; also add a teaspoon of flour and good cream enough to make 
thick as drawn butter; add a picked crab, and serve on buttered 
toast. 

CRAB STEW Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Pick one crab to pieces, and add 1 cup of milk, a dash each of cay- 
enne and tabasco, salt, and a heaping teaspoon of flour stirred into a 
little cold milk; also 1 tablespoon butter and 2 eggs. Pour Into the cen- 
ter of a platter, and make a border of 1 cup of boiled rice that has 
been cooked in milk to which a good spoonful of butter was added. 



38 FISH AND SHELL FISH 

LOBSTER CUTLETS Mrs. W. B. Noble. 

Boil 1 large lobster for 30 minutes; remove the meat, and chop it 
rather fine. Put a half pt. of milk on to boil. Rub together 1 large 
tablespoon of butter, and 3 rounding tablespoons of flour, and stir into 
the milk when boiling; stir, and cook until this forms a thick paste, 
then add the slightly beaten yolks of two eggs; take from the fire, and 
add 2 cups of the chopped lobster, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, 
% teaspoon of onion juice, % of a nutmeg grated, *4 teaspoon of white 
pepper, and a palatable seasoning of salt and cayenne; mix, and turn 
out to cool. When cold form into chops about the size and shape of 
a French mutton chop; dip first in beaten egg, and then in bread 
crumbs, and fry in smoking hot fat. When done, drain on brown pa- 
per; stick a claw of the lobster in the end of the chop to represent the 
mutton bone. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG Mrs. E. W. Newhall. 

Cut the best part of a lobster into small pieces. Rub the creamy fat 
through a sieve, and stir into this 1 teaspoon of butter blended with 
2 teaspoons of flour. Put into a hot dish 1 tablespoon of butter; when 
it creams, season with salt, pepper and a speck of cayenne, and add 
% cup of sherry; pour this over the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs; re- 
turn to fire, and add gradually 1 cup of cream; pour this over the 
creamy fat, and cook a few minutes; add the pieces of lobster which' 
must be seasoned with salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice; and 
cook 10 minutes. 

LOBSTER A LA MARYLAND Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

To a pint of cream just at the boiling point add 4 lobsters (or craw- 
fish) cut in small pieces and seasoned with salt, pepper, and a pinch 
of red pepper. Add the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon of 
flour mixed with water to a paste, and a large wine glass of sherry. 
Serve very hot. This is a fine chafing dish recipe. 

CURRY OF LOBSTER Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 lobster of medium size, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup of stock or wa- 
ter, 1 tablespoon flour, salt, cayenne, 2 small onions minced, 2 table- 
spoons curry powder, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, boiled rice. Cut up- 
boiled lobster into dice. Fry minced onion until pale brown in butter, 
stir in curry and flour and when well blended add stock slowly. Sim- 
mer 15 minutes add lemon juice and seasoning andi serve with wajl 
of boiled rice around it. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 41 

A. CHRISTENSON L. A. LANCEL, 

PRESIDENT. SEC'Y & MANAGER 




ESTA.TE AND 



713 Fourth Street 

Telephone Black 66 SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 

* . _ 

Houses, Lots and Farms for sale and to let. Rents Collected. Loans 
Negotiated. Full Charge Taken of Property for Absentees. Set- 
tlement of Estates a Specialty. 

EUGENE W. SMITH 

Practical Shoemaker 

Ladles' and Children's Shoes a Specialty 
Repairing All Work Promptly Attended To 

B STREET, Between Third and Fourth, SAN RAFAEL 

NELSON & CO. 



Carriage and Wagon Painters 

FINE CARRIAGE PAINTING 
TRIMMING AND UPHOLSTERING 

RUBBER TIREING 

HORSESHOEING IN THE BEST STYLE 
REPAIRING AND GENERAL BLACKSMITHING 

Cor. Third and C Streets 

Telephone Red 170s SAN RAFAEL, CAL 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



THE BUNK OF H. P. ITflLlI 8 60. 



815 Fourth Street 



CA.L. 



MRS. A. P. TAYLOR 



l^boto StuMo 



606i Fourth St. = = San Rafael 



CHILDREN'S PORTRAITS A SPECIALTY 

illllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIMtlllMMIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 1 ' 



ADVERTISEMENTS 43 



:: 




MARIN COUNTY BANK 

Commercial anfc Savings 
? OUR UNDIVIDED ATTENITON and earnest efforts are 

T ^^^ *t* 

devoted to the conduct of our business and insure f 
$ X 

I PROMPT SERVICE 

LIBERAL TREATMENT 

ABSOLUTE SAFETY 



J. D. BENNETT 

JEWELER & OPTICIAN 

OCULISTS- PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED 
7O9 FOURTH STREET 
== SAN RAFAEL. CAL. == 



44 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



New San Francisco Market 



(F. MEHL & CO.) 



WILKINS BLOCK, Fourth St ^Near B, SAN* RAFAEL, CAL. 



PHONE MAIN 58 




WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN 

BEEF, MUTTON, PORK, VEAL 

HAM, BACON, LARD 

SAUSAGES and POULTRY 



HLL OUR MEATS are the best and finest 
that can be selected, and absolutely fresh. 
No cold storage. No chemicals used on our 
= meats. === 



F 1 . MEHL & CO. 




RULES FOR COOKING MEATS. 

Put all salt meats to cook in cold water; all fresh meats, excepting 
for soups, into hot water, then cook slowly. 

All roast meats, excepting veal, are put dry into a very hot oven; 
veal requiring a little more moisture. When well browned, add hot 
water; and when about half done, salt. Never salt meat until partially 
ccoked. 

Rare meat requires about 15 minutes to the pound. 

Baste all roasts frequently. 

Roast beef requires a hotter oven than any other meat. 

Ve'al is delicious roasted with strips of salt pork laid on top. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

To lie eaten with roast beef. 1 cup of flour, 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 
teaspoon of salt. Have the pan quite hot in which is some of the roast 
dripping; pour in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven. This is 
preferable to the old way of raising the roast and baking the pudding 
underneath. 

ROASTS Mrs. R. S. Barclay. 

When roasting beef, lamb, mutton or pork, place in pan with meat 
apples prepared as for baking (with skins on) and onions. Roast with 
the meat, basting them when meat is basted. Should the apples and 
onions be thoroughly done before the meat is ready, remove them from 
pan and keep hot. Serve on platter with roast. This is particularly 
good with pork. 

POT ROAST Mrs.R. S. Barclay. 

Have the butcher lard the meat. Rub with juice of one lemon and 
paprika. Put in hot kettle or dutch oven with enough fat to brown. 
Cover tightly, turning occasionally that it may brown on all sides. Then 
add two cups of soup stock, two carrots, 1 piece celery, 1 onion and 
salt. Boil slowly until tender. 20 minutes before serving lift the roast 
from the kettle, strain and thicken the gravy, adding one fourth of tea- 
spoon of sugar and Worcestershire sauce. Return roast to the gravy 
and let stand on back of the stove. 



46 MEATS 

FILLET OF BEEF A LA ROSSINI Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 
Braise a larded fillet with what vegetables are in season; moisten 
while cooking, with a bottle of good claret, some say sherry. When 
done, glaze ard dish it up garnished with macaroni prepared as fol- 
lows: Boil l / 2 Ib. of macaroni cut in 3 inch lengths; put in a stew pan 
with some sliced mushrooms, % pt. good stock, 3 ozs. grated Parmesan 
cheese, and a pat of butter; season with salt and pepper; toss over the 
fire till well mixed, and serve around the beef. Pour over the beef the 
gravy from the pan, with the vegetables strained out. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

The fillet is the tenderloin of beef. Have the butcher prepare and 
lard it with strips of salt pork ready for the oven; pepper, and spread 
thickly with butter; add a little salt to x /4 cup boiling water, and pour 
into the pan. Bake in a quick oven 30 or 40 minutes, basting 4 or 5 
times. 

Mushroom Sauce 1 can cf French mushrooms, 1 cup of stock, 1 cup 
of cream, 2 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons butter; salt and pepper 
to taste. Melt the butter, add the flour, stir until a dark brown, then 
gradually add the stock; when this boils up, add the Honor from' the 
mushrooms; season and simmer 20 minutes; add the mushrooms and 
let cook 5 minutes more, then add the cream ; let it boil up and remove 
immediately. Pour it around the fillet and serve. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHROOMS Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 
Put into a saucepan 1 oz. of butter, a small onion chopped fine, a 
little ground sage and thyme, and place over the fire. When hot, 
shake in 2 tablespoons flour, and when it becomes brown, put in 1 gill 
of water and let it boil for % hour; then add 3 tablespoons of beef 
stock, a little suet and a little nutmeg. Put in 1 can of mushrooms; 
let it boil for 10 minutes; and pour over a nicely broiled beefsteak. 

BEEFSTEAK ROLL Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Take a slice of round steak, not too thick, and spread it with a dress- 
ing made of 1 cup of bread crumbs, l small onion chopped fine, 1 table- 
spoon of butter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and sage. Wet with a 
little cold water. Roll up the steak and tie securely, especially at the 
ends. Fry a couple of slices of salt pork in a pan, and in this hro<wn 
the roll thoroughly. Pour hot water over it, cover tightly, and cook 
slowly for 2 hours. Then add thickening and seasoning. This is not 
so dry as when baked. Heart is also better cooked this way than 
baked. Cook the onion in a little butter and water before putting it 
into the dressing. 

BEEFSTEAK PUDDING Mrs. Fronmuller. 

2 Ibs. round steak cut in dice, 6 sheep's kidneys, cut in dice ami 
soaked in cold water % hr. Sift 4 cups flour with 2 teaspoons baking 



MEATS 47 

powdar and 1 teaspoon salt, mix with 2 cups chopped suet and wet 
with sufficient cold water to roll. Lane a greased bowl with this pas- 
try, put in the kidneys and beef, sprinkle with salt, pepper and a little 
flour. Roll out the rest of the pastry, wet edges of under crust and 
press the edges well together, set in saucepan of water, cover with 
greased paper and steam 3 hrs. Cut a hole in top of crust and pour in 
some hot stcck before serving. 

INVALID'S STEAK Mrs. Fronmuller. 

With a sharp knife scrape the fibrin from a thick piece of round 
steak. Season slightly with salt, and form into a thick flat cake. Place 
:r ureassd broiler and broil for about 5 min. turning often. Serve on 
hot toast. 

HAM3URGHER LOAF Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 Ibs. HaTitiirjrl:er ?teak, nut in chopping bowl and rechop, mix with 
it 8 crackers rol'e: fine, butter size of an egg, 1 or 2 eggs, 1 grated 
onion, % teaspoon Worcesterrhire sauce, a dash of tabasco, 1 level 
tablespoon salt, a little pepper, * teaspoon celery extract. Moisten 
with milk or soup stcck. Make loaf, sprinkle top with bread crumbs 
and lumps of butter, an-1 bake from % to 1 hr. according to whether 
it is preferred rare or well dore. Make either tomato or brown sauce, 
using soup stock and pour over loaf. Some use a little sage and thyme 
in the seasoning, but it is not so digestible. 

SCOTCH COLLOPS Mrs. W. J. Dickson. 

1 cup of Hamburgher steak, % cup of cold water, and a teaspoon of 
chopped onion, 1 pepner and salt to taste. Let it cook about three 
minutes, bird with a teaspoon of corn starch dissolved in cold water. 
Pour over toast. 

SPICED BEEF Mrs. J. I. Macintosh. 
(To serve cold.) 

Ingredients 14 Ibs. of brisket of beef, % lt>. coarse brown sugar, *4 
Ib pcunded allspice, 1 oz. salt petre, 1 Ib of common salt. Rub the 
sugar well into the beef and let it stand for 12 hrs., then rub the salt 
petre and allspice and let it remain another 12 hrs.; then rub in the 
salt. Turn daily in the liquor for two weeks. Roll the meat and tie 
with strong string. Put into boiling water and boll for 4 hrs. Trim 
with cut paper and holly. 

MOCK VENISON Mrs. A. Decourtieux. 

Put leg of mutton 4 days in the following: 1 pt. of vinegar, 1 pt. of 
water, 3 bay leaves, 10 cloves, 10 whole peppers, 1 onion cut in slices. 
When ready to cook put beef drippings in kettle and allow to get hot, 
add roast; when well browned, cover with water; add 1 onion, pepper 
and salt; simmer for 2 hrs.; thicken gravy with corn starch which is 
always preferable to flour in thickening gravies. Serve gravy separate 
from meat. 



48 MEATS 

RAGOUT OF BEEF Mrs. Fronmuller. 

3 tablespoons butter or drippings, 14 cup minced onions, 2 Ibs. round 
steak, 3 tablespoons flour, 3 cloves, 1 saltspoon mace, pepper and salt, 
1 pt. water. Heat drippings very hot and fry steak and onions until 
brown. Scatter in flour and cook for a few minutes. Remove steak 
add water and seasoning and when near boiling, put steak back and 
simmer until tender, about iy 2 hrs. Garnish with savory balls. 

SAVORY BALLS Mrs. Fronmuller. 

2 cups flour, 1 cup finely chopped beef suet, 1 tablespoon chopped 
parsley, 1 saltspoon thyme, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 egg, pepper, 
salt and milk to form a rather stiff dough; sift flour, baking powder, 
salt and pepper together. Add herbs, suet and eggs well beaten and 
mix with y 2 cup of milk and more if needed. Roll into small balls 
with floured hands. Cook with meat 30 min., allowing plenty of space 
to swell. 

PIGS IN BLANKETS Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Cut a round steak into 4-inch squares; place on each square a thin 
slice of bacon, a clove, and a small bay leaf; add pepper and salt; roll 
up- and skewer; put some butter in the bottom of a stewpan with, a 
little minced onion; place the pigs in this, and fry brown; then a'dd 
just enough water to stew; keep adding boiling water as it is needed 
having enough gravy at the last to thicken and pour over them. 

CURRY Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

Brown onion and apple; for a good dish of meat take 2 onions and 3 
or 4 apples. Chop the apple, slice the onion; take these out of frying 
pan, after being browned, and if fresh meat is used, brown it. Take 1 
tablespoon of flour, 1 (dessertspoon of curry powder; mix smoothly with 
milk; add to the rest of the ingredients with a large cup of milk. Stew 
in a saucepan for 2 hrs., cooking very slowly, stirring now and then. 
A few cold string beans, or peas that have been cooked, are an im- 
provement; also a little sweet pickle. 

CURRY A LA HONOLULU Mrs. Southard Hoffman. 

To 2 tablespoons melted butter add iy 2 tablespoons chopped onion, 
% clove of garlic chopped, 3 teaspoons curry powder, and fry 10 min. 
Add 1 cup stock and simmer about 1 hr., and add 1% cups milk. Put 
in double boiler and thicken with flour wet in a little cold water. Cook 
all day. About ^ hr. before serving add 1 cup of warm milk poured 
over 1 fresh grated cocoanut which has soaked for 2 hrs. in the milk, 
and been straineA and squeezed dry. Then add cooked eggs, lobster, 
meat or fish. Served with rice. 

PEPPER STEW Mrs. Herbert Kellogg. 

Put 3 onions into beef dripping, and cook moderately until soft, be- 
ing careful not to scorh them. Add 1 K>. of raw bee* cut into small 



MEATS 49 

pieces, 3 red peppers, first removing all the veins and seeds; or if pre- 
ferred, bell peppers can be used. % hr. before serving, add % can of 
corn or 4 ears scraped from the cob, and 3 or 4 fresh peeled tomatoes. 
Season with salt and pour over toast. It should cook slowly for at 
least 1% hours. 

KIDNEY STEW Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

2 beeves' kidneys cut up very fine; pour hot water over, and as it 
boils, pour off and add fresh water; then let it simmer slowly for 2 
hrs. Cut up 2 large onions, add to the stew, anjd cook 1 hr. About 2 
minutes before serving add a little curry, thicken with flour, add wine, 
and serve on toast. 

KIDNEY STEW Mrs. P. T. Burtchaell. 

Parboil the kidneys and pour off the water. Have frying-pan hot, 
put in a piece of butter, and fry 1 onion in same until brown; drain 
kidneys, put in frying-pan with onion and fry brown. Put saucepan, on 
with a wineglass of sherry, let boil 1 min., then turn kidneys in with 
salt, pepper, ^ teaspoon of allspice and cinnamon; add water to cover; 
thicken with a little flour. Mushrooms may .be added if desired. 

KIDNEY SAUTE (Ten Minutes) Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 
Cut the kidney in dice; brown a slice of butter very brown; throw 
in the kidneys; turn until they become white. Sift a tablespoon of 
flour over them, thin with boiling water; put in a wine glass of sherry 
or white wine and a little parsley. Serve at once. 

CREAMED KIDNEY AND EGGS Mrs. Geo. Boyd. 
Slice % doz. boiled kidneys; mix kidneys with creamed mushroom 
sauce; pour kidneys and mushroom sauce into deep baking dish, first 
covering bottom and sides with thin slices buttered .oread; then cover 
with % dozen sliced hard boiled eggs. Pour over this a cream, sauce. 
Sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs and bake in oven 20 minutes. 

KIDNEY SAUTE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

6 sheep's kidneys, sliced, trimmed and soaked in salt water 1 hr. 2 
tablespoons butter, 2 slices of onion, 1 cup of Madeira sauce, % cup 
French, mushrooms, pepper and salt. Cook the onion in butter nntll 
brown. Wipe kidneys dry, roll in flour and saute in butter for 5 min. 
Heat mushrooms -with Madeira sauce and pour over kidneys. Quick 
cooking is best for kidneys. 

MOCK TERRAPIN OF LIVER Mrs. Francis C. White, Everett, Wash. 
Take calf s liver, cut in thick slices, season and fry. Cut with knife 
in rery small pieces, add good bit of butter, cayenne pepper andi mus- 
tard, and enough warm water to form gravy; at the last moment add 
2 or 3 hard boiled eggs cut in small pieces. A fine luncheoa dish. 



50 MEATS 

BAKED LIVER, LARDED Mrs. A. Decourtieux. 
Skewer liver into shape, and lard with strips cf fat pork. Surround 
it with vegetables chopped fine. Add to the boiling water the season- 
ings and the beef extract. Pour this over liver. Cover and bake for 
1 hour and a half. Uncover and bake fifteen minutes more. Remove 
from the par, add the lemon juice to theliquor, strain over the liver and 
serve. 1 calf's liver, % Ib. fat salt pork, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 red pep- 
per, 2 stalks celery, l / 2 bay leaf, 1 teaspoon beef extract, 2 cups boiling 
water, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour, % teaspoon salt, juice 
of 1 lemon. 

VEAL CUTLETS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Lay the cutlets on a board and chop on both sides until they are 
quite ragged; roll in egg and cracker crumbs; put into a pan where 
there is plert^ of hot fat, and cook rather slowly for 20 minutes, or 
until they are a nice brown; salt them and place on a platter. Put 1 
tablespoon of four into fat remaining in the pan, and let cook a few 
minutes, stirring constantly; then gradually add milk until the gravy 
is of the right consistercy. Season, and pour over cutlets, or serve 
separately. It is best when cutlets are well browned to cover them and 
set them 'back for 10 min. longer. 

VEAL CUTLETS BAKED Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Put the veal cutlets in a baking dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
small green onion cut fine, and a little parsley, bread crumbs and bits 
cf butter. Add another layer if necessary. Bake about 20 minutes 
until done and brown on the top. 

FRICANDEAU Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Have your butcher lard a piece of veal with the bone removed. 
Brown your veal thoroughly, add a little water, G cloves, 6 allspice, 2 
laurel leaves, a few mustard seeds, 2 good sized carrots cut UD, pepper 
and salt, season highly. Toward last add 1 small glass of white wine 
or sherry. When done put your meat in a deep dish arranged with 
carrots and a few olives, and pour your liquor over it and set aside to 
cool. Serve cold. Simmer the boce cf the veal with meat and use 
stock for the liquor. 

FRICANDEAU OF VEAL Mrs. Robt. H. Menzies. 
3 Ibs. best veal from the fat side of a leg of veal, 2 carrots, 2 large 
onions, savory herbs, flavoring of mace, allspice, 2 bay leaves ami 
pepper to taste, a few slices fat bacon, 1 pt. of any good stock. Take 
off the skin, trim the meat evenly into a good shape and make some 
slits in it. Lard thickly with the bacon fat. Slice the vegetables and 
put these with the herbs and spices in the middle of a stew pan with 
a few slices of bacon on top ; these should form a mound for the veal 
to rest on. Lay the fricandreau over the bacon, with a little salt 



MEATS 



51 



sprinkled over it and pour in just enough stock to cover the bacon, etc., 
without touching the veal. Let it gradually come to the boil, then put 
it over a slow and equal fire and let it simmer very gently for about 
2% hrs. Baste it frequently and a short time before serving put it into 
a brisk even for a few minutes; skim the fat from the liquor and serve. 

VEAL PILLAU Mrs. R. H. Renebome. 

This is a very savory and economical mode of preparing veal, 3 Ibs. 
cut from the neck and shoulder being used. The other materials need- 
ed are 1 cup of rice, 3 tablespoons butter or % of a Ib. of salt pork, 1 
onion, 3 teaspoons salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 cup strained tomato, and 
4 cups boiling water. Cut the veal into small pieces and season well 
with salt. Chop onion fine, cook in the butter until a light brown, add 
va? ?.nd stir until brown, add tomato and 1 cup of the water and sim- 
mer gently for 1% hrs. Now add the other 3 cups of water, salt, pep- 
per and rice. Cover closely and simmer for another hour. The rice 
will abrorb most of the liquid. 

BREAST OF VEAL (Norwegian Style). 

Breast of veal, 1 egg, bread crumbs, chopped parsley, salt, butter; 
wash meat in tepid water, boil in salted water. When tender dip in 
beaten egg, roll in bread crumbs and chopped parsley and salt and 
brown in frying pan, in butter. 

VEAL LOAF Mrs. E. O. Allen. 

2% Ibs. raw veal, minced with ty Ib. fat salt pork; add 1 cup fine 
cracker crumbs, 2 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons milk, 2 teaspoons 
salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1% teaspoons pulverized 
sage, 3 eggs, beaten. Mix thoroughly; press into a deep pan; bake 2 
hrs., basting every ten minutes with a little hot water; when cold, 
linmould on a platter, and garnish with watercress and slices of lemon. 

VEAL LOAF, STEAMED Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 
2 Ibs. of veal and *4 Ib. of salt pork, put through a sausage grinder; 2 
cups of bread crumbs soaked in stock or milk; 2 eggs unbeaten; a 
little grated onion; salt and pepper; steam In pudding pail 2 hrs. This 
is good served hot in slices with tomato sauce; or cold with mayon- 
naise dressing; or for a cold lunch dish; very easily made, and sure 
to be good. 

PRESSED KNUCKLE OF VEAL Mrs. Geo. Rodden. 
Simmer a 2 Ib. knuckle of veal in highly seasoned water until it will 
pull to pieces. Boil 6 eggs hard, when cold slice. Shred veal with, a 
silver fork, place % in a deep dish, and alternate slices of egg and 
lemon around the sides of the dish, add remainder of veal, put slices 
of egg on top, and pour over a little of the liquor from the veal, which 
must be boiled down until it will jelly. Press and set aside to cool. 



52 MEATS 

TIMBALES OF VEAL Mrs. Fronmuller. 

2 cups of finely chopped cooked veal, 2 tablespoons butter, % cup 
milk, 1 teaspoon salt, cayenne, nutmeg, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 
% cup cream, 1 cup bread crumbs, 4 well beaten egg yolks, 1 teaspoon 
cloves, 4 whites of eggs beaten stiff. Put butter, crumbs, milk yolks 
of eggs and seasoning into a saucepan and heat well. Then add the 
veal, cream and lastly fold in the well beaten whites of eggs. Fill 
well buttered timbale molds or small cups % full, cover with buttered 
paper, place in pan cf hot water y z way up molds and bake from 15 to 
20 min. Turn out and serve with white or yellow bechamel sauce. 
Garnish with parsley and lemon points. 

VEAL CROQUETTES Mrs. Wm. B. Noble. 

Put % lb. of bread to soak in 1 pt. of cold water; % lb. of cold veal 
to be chopped fine. Press the bread through a cloth to extract all the 
water. Put into a stew pan 2 ozs. of butter and 1 tablespoon of onion 
chopped very fine; fry for 2 min.; add the bread and stir until rather 
dry. Then add the meat, a little grated nutmeg and lemon peel, with 
salt and pepper to taste. Stir continually until very hot, then add 2 
eggs, one at a time; mix well together, then spread on a dish to cool. 
Make into egg-shaped balls, dip into egg and bread-crumb them, then 
fry in boiling fat to a light brown. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES Mrs. Wm. B. Noble. 
Remove the skin, fat and bones from one cold boiled chicken; then 
chop or grind as for mincemeat. Take 2 tablespoons butter into which 
work 1 large tablespoon of flour; to this add y 2 pt. of cream or rich 
milk, % of a nutmeg grated, a pinch of ground mace, 1 teaspoon of 
scraped onion, 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley, with salt and pepper to 
taste. Place this mixture, with the chicken, in a pan, and stew it about 
5 minutes; remove from the fire and add the yolks of 2 eggs; mix 
thoroughly and spread on a dish to cool. When cold take about a tea- 
spoonful and roll in flour, and shape in a mold or a wineglass. Then 
take the yolks of 2 eggs, tablespoon of cream, 1 teaspoon of lemon 
juice, and a little salt; mix well, dip the croquettes first in this and 
then in fine bread crumbs. Fry in boiling fat, a light brown. These 
may be warmed over by putting them in a warm oven, not too hot or 
they will dry. 

KEYSTONE PATES Mrs. W. B. Noble. 

Chop cold cooked meat fine, measure, and to every pt. add 1 table- 
spoon of butter, 2 tablespoons of dried bread crumbs, % cup of stock 
or boiling water, 2 eggs slightly beaten, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir over the fire for a 
moment until thoroughly mixed. Fi31 custard cups full with this 
mixture, stand them in a baking pan ^ full of boiling water, and bake 



MEATS 63 

in a moderate oven 20 min. When done, turn them out carefully on 
a heated dish, and pour around them Bechamel sauce. Remains of any 
cold meat or poultry are delightful used in this way. 

PRESSED CHICKEN OR VEAL Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Cut up a full grown chicken, or 2 Ibs. of veal stew; put to cook in a 
small amount of water, cover tightly and cook 4 or 5 hrs. Pour off the 
liquid and strain into another saucepan; there should be a good cupful 
of rich juice. Remove all bones and the skin of the chicken; pull the 
meat apart, put it into the juice and return to the fire. Season highly 
with salt and pepper, pour into bread pan, and set away to get cold. 
A few slices of cooked carrots cut in fancy shapes and placed in the 
bottom of the pan before pouring in the meat, improve the appearance. 
Garnish with parsley. Nice for lunch. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

(For a chafing dish.) 

Cut a cold chicken into small pieces, removing all bone and gristle. 
Put into the chafing dish % pt. of cream and *4 Ib. of butter rubbed 
into a large spoonful of flour; pepper and salt to taste. Add the 
chicken, and when it boils up, a^d 3 hard boiled eggs chopped fine, and 
the juice of a lemon. Simmer for a moment and serve. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Split the chickens down the back, dry and dredge with flour; add 
pepper and salt; put in a pan with some bits of butter, cover with 1 
qt. of water; put in oven, and closely cover with another pan which 
may be removed when the chickens are nearly done, to let them brown; 
thicken the gravy; serve with mashed potatoes. 

CHICKEN AU SUPREME Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 
1 tablespoon butter; 1 tablespoon flour nibbed together, ^ pt. of 
milk; cook until thick; add % teaspoon onion juice. Cut into dice 2 
cups of cooked chicken cr turkey which have stood from % hr. to 2 
hrs. in 2 tablespoons olive oil; add % teaspoon celery salt, * teaspoon 
white salt, and a dash of cayenne. 

SEVERAL WAYS TO COOK CHICKEN Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Take young chickens to fry; or if old they must be steamed first, 
then jointed, rubbed dry, rolled in seasoned flour, and fried in butter; 
or equal quantities of butter and dripping can be used. There must 
be plenty of fat; and after the chicken is well browned on both sides, 
cover tightly, and. remove to where it will cook slowly, for at least % 
hr.; turn occasionally. Put 1 heaping tablespoon of flour in fat; after 
the chicken is done, pour in milk to the right consistency; season, and 
pour over chicken, or serve in gravy boat. 

White Fricassee Joint the chickens and put to cook in hot water, 
pouring on water about % the depth of chicken. Cover tightly, and 



$4 MEATS 

cook slowly from 2 to 5 hrs., according to age of chicken. % hr. be- 
fore serving, season, make a drawn butter gravy of the broth, and let 
the chicken simmer in this on back of stove. Serve on split biscuit or 
toast, or place boiled rice around the edge of the platter. Some prefer 
a cream gravy. 

Smothered Chicken Split down the back young chickens % grown; 
spread with butter, cover with another pan, and bake % hr. Season 
brown before serving. Some brown the chicken on the broiler. 



CHICKEN SOUFFLE Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

1 pt. chopped chicken, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon chopped 
parsley, 1 pt. of milk, 2 dashes of pepper, 1 tablespoon flour, 3 eggs, 
and % cup of stale bread crumbs; put the butter into a small sauce- 
pan, and when melted add the flour and mix till smooth. Then add the 
milk and stir continually until it boils, add the crumbs, cook 1 minute; 
take from the fire, add salt, pepper, parsley, chicken, and the yolks of 
the eggs well beaten. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir them into 
the mixture carefully. Pour into a well greased baking dish, and bake 
in a quick oven for 20 min. Serve immediately or it will fall. 

CREAMED CHICKEN Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 chicken, 4 sweetbreads, 1 can mushrooms. Boil sweetbreads % 
"hr., chicken until tender. When cold, cut up as for salad. In a sauce- 
pan put 4 large tablespoons of butter; when melted, stir in 5 table- 
spoons of flour, add 1 qt. of rich milk, or y 2 cream and %' milk; stir 
until it thickens; flavor with a little onion juice, black and red pepper, 
and a little nutmeg. Put all together in a baking dish and cover with 
"bread crumbs; add* a little of the chicken broth. Bake 20 min. 
"Oysters, mushrooms and sweetbreads are delicious prepared in the 
same way. 

CHICKEN WITH RICE Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Boil a chicken with a little salt, pepper, parsley and celery. When 
done, strain stock onto one cup of rice and boil until done. Brown a 
big tablespoon of butter in a frying pan put your chicken in it and' 
lirown thoroughly. Cut up fine, a good sized onion, brown it in the but- 
ter, then put back chicken in the onion and cover tightly for 20 min. 
Put the onions into the rice, stir, and serve with chicken. 

SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN Mrs. Nicholas Kittle. 
Season flour well with salt and pepper, mixing thoroughly. Cut 
young chicken in 10 pieces, wash and dry, leaving the parts just moist 
enough to allow the seasoned flour to adhere to them. Put in frying 
pan equal parts lard and butter, and fry the chicken brown, turning 
frequently, as it must be thoroughly cooked. Take from pan, add 
cream or milk to the gravy and cook until quite thick, pour over 
chicken and serve. More cream and less cooking gives the white 
sauce, but brown sauce is what Southern cooks prefer. 



MEATS 55 

SOUTHERN CHICKEN GUMBO Mrs. Thos. Wintringham. 
1 large fowl jointed, % It), fat salt pork; cover well with water and 
In il until thoroughly cooked. Remove bones and cut in small squares. 
Return to the broth of which there should be at least 2 qts. Add to- 
this: 1 Ib. okra sliced fine, C large tomatoes skinned, 1 small onion, 
1 green Chile pepper, 3 or 4 birdseye peppers, and salt. Boil slowljr 
3 hrs, taking care net to burn. Serve with boiled rice. 

CREAMED CHICKEN Helen Walker. 

(Use Chafing Dish or Double Boiler) 

i' cir->H cfiicken, 1 large tablespoon butter, 2 cups cream, yolks of 2 
eggs, y 2 cup French reas, % cup mushrooms (French) cut up, 1 table- 
spoon cornstarch, 1 wine glass sherry. Season with salt, tabasco, onion 
juice, Worcestershire, celery salt, a.nd paprika (just a suggestion of 
each. Cream, butter and cornstarch together. Place dn chafing dish 
ard let it melt. Add the cream gradually, the beaten yolks, salt, celery 
salt, onion juice, Worcestershire, tabasco and paprika; then the mush- 
rooms, peas, chicken and sherry. Serve on buttered toast. 

MINCED CHICKEN WITH GREEN PEPPERS Edythe Foster. 

Boil 2 green peppers 10 irin., remove seeds and cut into small strips. 
Mix with 2 cups cold chicken, cut in dice. Blend 3 tablespoons butter 
with ?. tablespoons flour an ' add gradually 1 % cups chicken stock; 
when thick add chicken and peppers and serve on toast. 

CHICKEN PIE WITH OYSTERS Helen Walker. 
Boil a good sized chicken until tender. Drain the liquor from a qt. 
of oysters, line the bottom and sides of pan with pie crust. Put in a 
layer of oysters and one of chicken until the dish is full. Season with 
salt, pepper, bits cf butter and oyster liquor. Cover and bake. Serve 
with sliced lemon. 

CHICKEN CURRY Mrs. A. W. Foster. 

Two fryers. 1 cocoanut, 1% qt. milk, or part cream, green ginger 
root size of thumb, \ onion, 1 clove garlic. Grate cocoanut, pcur over 
milk, let stand on back of stove an hour then strain and squeeze hard. 
Fry onion cut fine, ginger cut and garlic with curry powder; then add 
milk, let simmer 20 minutes, strain again, then add chicken which has 
been browned in butter and let simmer. Serve with rice, lemon, Chut- 
ney and Bombay India. 

CURRIED CHICKEN Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

Cut up chicken with few thin slice s of salt pork, 1 onion, little salt, 
cold water to cover, boil slow until tender. When water simmers away 
mix tablespoon of curry with a little water stir in gravy and stew 
with the chicken a few minutes; have some boiled rice moulded in cups- 
set around chicken when ready to serve. 



56 MEATS 

CURRIED CHICKEN Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

I onion, a green pepper, small piece of garlic, fried in a tablespoon 
of butter. Cut up a young chicken, add pepper and salt, a tablespoon 
of curry, fry 10 minutes. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of flour over chicken, 
add cup of water, boil slowly for one half hour. Place the curried 
chicken in center and rice around edge of dish. 

CHICKEN VEAL, OR LAMB TERRAPIN Mrs. C. Shaw, Cloverdale 
Cut cold meat into dice and make the following sauce. This is sauce 
for about one pt. of meat: 2 tablespoons butter; (Cook flour and but- 
ter together.) 1 tablespon of flour; 1 teaspoon made mustard; 1 table- 
ter together,) 1 tablespoon of flour; 1 teaspoon made mustard; 1 table- 
spoon currant elly; 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce; % cup cream; 
the yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs cut very fine; pepper and salt to taste 
and just before serving, 2 large tablespoons sherry. 

A NICE BREAFAST DISH Mrs. Chas. Shaw, Cloverdale. 
8 hard boiled eggs chopped; 1 pt. cream sauce as follows: 2 table- 
spoons butter and same of flour; 2 1 / cups milk, season and cook, 1 
heaping cup ham, tongue, or chicken. Put in layers in baking dish 
with bits of butter and fine bread crumbs. Bake. 

MEAT SOUFFLE Very Fine Mrs. Francis C. White, Everett, Wash. 

1 pt. chopped meat, roast beef or steak. Chop the meat dust fine, 
1 teaspoon onion chopped very fine, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk, 1 large table- 
spoon of butter, 1 large tablespoon flour. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Set the milk on the stove, when hot, add the flour, rubbed smooth in 
cold milk and the butter. When quite cool add the well beaten yolks 
of eggs. Stir in lightly the meat, onions and the beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake in moderate oven y 2 to % of an hour. Eat hot. 

MRS. GORDON'S GRAND MOTHER'S HASH Mrs. Thos. Wintring- 

ham. 

1 pt. chopped corn beef and some of the fat, 1 pt. chopped cold 
boiled potatoes. Put in a pan with rich milk to almost cover; piece of 
butter size of an egg; salt and pepper. When thoroughly heated 
through add fine bread crumbs and ccok until rich and creamy. 

CORNED BEEF SOUFFLE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

2 cups cooked corn beef, 3 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 
tablespoon lemon juice, few drops of celery extract, salt, cayenne, 3 
eggs; make a sauce of butter, flour and milk, add seasoning, cool and 
stir into well 'beaten yolks; add finely choped cornbeef and! lastly, fold 
in the well beaten whites. Pour into buttered ddsh, bake in moder- 
ate oven 25 min. Serve at once. 



MEATS 57 

MEAT PIE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Chop cold meat very fine, removing all gristle. If you have cold 
gravy sufficient to moisten it well use it, if not brown 1 tablespoon 
butter, add 1 heaping tablespoon flour and sufficient soup stock to make 
the right consistency. Stir in meat and season with salt, paprika, ta- 
basco, celery and onion extract and Worcestershire. This can be made 
in the baking pan you are to use. Make rich baking powder biscuit, 
cut with small cutter and put closely over the top. The meat must be 
hot or the biscuit will not cook on under side. Brush biscuit with 
melted butter and bake about 20 minutes. 

SALAMAGUNDI Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Chop cold beef, mutton or veal very fine, removing all bone and gris- 
tle. Take sufficient macaroni to make about double your quantity of 
meat, boil in salt water % hr. and drain in colander. Have about 1 
cup of tomatoes after they are boiled down with bell peppers to taste, 
and a little grated onion. Butter granite pan, put in layer of macaroni, 
dotted with butter, a little salt and a dash of paprika, then a layer of 
meat and so on until material is all used, putting macaroni last, sprin- 
kle with bread crumbs and lumps of butter. Over this pour at least 
a cup of good rich gravy mixed with the tomatoes, to which you have 
ad-ded a little celery extract, and Wbrcestershire. Bake in moderate 
oven % to % of an hour. Must be neither dry nor sloppy. 

RISSOLES Mrs. Fronmuller. 

Roll some good short pastry % in. thick into rounds of oblongs and 
in the center of each place 1 teaspoon of creamed chicken, sweet 
breads or oysters. Brush round the edge with beaten egg, fold, press 
edges together and fry in deep fat until brown and drain on cheese 
cloth before serving. 

JELLIED MEAT OR POULTRY Mrs. James W. Cochrane. 
"Left-overs" of meat or poultry to be used this way should be lean 
and tender and quite free of bone and gristle. Chop very fine and 
season with salt and pepper. Pack in an earthernware dish, and pour 
over it a good cup of stock in which has been dissolved % package of 
any good gelatine. Set away in refrigerator to harden. When firmly 
set, place dish in hot water for a second and turn out on a platter and" 
garnish with cress. This is very nice for luncheon or supper. If stock 
is sufficiently rich, the gelatine will not be necessary. 

TAMALE LOAF Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Put 1 Ib. veal stew, 1 Ib. fresh fat pork to cook in 1 qt. boiling water or 
stock, 5 dried Chiles with seeds and veins removed, or 1 level tablespoon 
Grandma's pepper, or half of each, and 2 cloves of garlic. When meat 



58 MEATS 

is partly cooked -add 2 teaspoons salt; simmer gently until bones and 
meat can be easily separated, then drairj off % qt. of the juice, being 
sure to get most of the fat. Sift gently into this liquid, while stirring 
briskly 1% or 2 cups fine corn meal and cook until it >does not taste 
raw. It must be thick enough to lea,ve the pan as you stir. Remove 
:garlic and peppers, separate bores, gristle and skin from the meat, pull 
into pieces and return the balance of liquid which should be about 1 
cup. Add to this 1 cup tomatoes, about 2 tablespoons ccrn meal, more 
salt to taste, boil until just moist; add 2 dozen olives an I 2 dozen rais- 
ins last. Line a 'bread pan with your corn meal paste, pour in meat, 
cover with pats of corn meal. Bake % to %hr. in hot oveni in pan of 
water. 

You can also thicken the entire mixture with corn meal and turn 
into pan. Timbal molds lined and filled make a very satisfactory indi- 
vidual dish as it is difficult to serve the large loaf in slices. If one 
objects to veal or pork substitute beef from the neck and flank fat. 

CASSEROLE Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

y 2 lb. fine chopped cooked meat, y 2 teaspoon salt and white pepper, 
" 5 /4 teaspoon Marjoram and thyme and celery salt, !/4 teaspoon minced 
onion and parsley, a dash of cayenne pepper, 3 tablespoons cracker 
crumbs, 1 egg well beaten. Warm water or stock enough to make a 
paste. Mold in boiled rice and steam 20 minutes. To be eaten with 
tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup stewed and strained toma- 
toes, 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon minced onion. Fry onicn in butter, 
add flour and cook together. Then throw in the tomatoes and stir until 
thick. 

DEVILED CHOPS Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Mix well together 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoon made mustard, y z teaspoon 
French mustard, salt, pepper, cayenne, 1 teaspoon hot Chutney, 1 tea- 
spoon grated horse-radish, a little Chili vinegar, and the juice of 1 
lime. Rub a little of this on 2 thick mutton chops broiled rare, and put 
the rest of the sauce over them, in a very hot dish. 

PORK PIE Mrs. V. Neale. 

(To 'be served cold with breakfast or lunch.) 

Cut up some cold roast pork into rather large dice; have % meat 
stnd % fat; put the bones and trimmings in a. saucepan and make a 
S~ood gravy out of them. Put the pork into a deep pie dish, season well 
with salt, pepper, a little sage, and a very little chopped onion. Fill 
halfway with part of the gravy (cooled and seasoned), cover with a 
good plain short crust, ornament with paste leaves, and bake about % 



MEATS 59 

of an hour in a moderate oven until brown; then take it out and pour 
the remainder of the gravy (hot) through the hole in the center until 
nearly full. Memorandum: Be sure to make a small hole in center 
before placing the pie in the oven, otherwise it will not be wholesome. 
When cold the gravy should be all in a jelly; and the whole should 
be well seasoned. 

PORK AND BEANS Mrs. C. F. Robinson. 

Put 1 pt. of pea beans in bean pot, with 1 tablespoon of syrup, a 
dash of cayenne, and 1 Ib. of fat salt pork, scored, placed on top; cover 
with cold water, and baks in moderate oven from 12 to 24 hrs., adding 
hot water as it evaporates. They must not be allowed to get dry until 
the last hr., when the water must be somewhat cooked down. If these 
directions are followed, the beans need not be soaked over night. 

HAM, SUGAR BAKED Miss Parsons, Kentfield. 

Put the ham to soak in ccld water the morning of the day before 
cooking. Put it over the fire next day, and boil 6 or 7 hrs., until soft, 
or until a fork can be turned partly around in the rind. Strip off the 
rind, which can be done readily if the ham is done enough. Rub over 
the surface % cup of brown sugar; put into the oven in a dripping pan, 
and bake until nicely browned, or about an hour in a slow oven. In 
serving, slice very thin. 

TO BAKE A HAM Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Soak the ham over night; in the morning scrape, clean, lay the ham 
in pan skin down, cover the part where there is no skin with 
a paste about ^ in. thick made of graham flour wet in cold water; as 
the ham bakes, fill the cracks which form with some reserved paste. 
Put it into the pan dry and bake about 5 hrs. in a slow oven, or longer 
if the ham is very large. Remove crust, skin and all, and stick the 
ham with cloves; rub with bread crumbs, ard brown, or frost, and gar- 
nish the bone with fancy paper. 

TO BOIL HAM Mrs. L. A. Lanccl. 

Wash the ham thoroughly, and soak it if necessary. Have boiling % 
gallon of clarpt with enough water to cover the ham; a good-si z d 
ham will need to bcil 3 hrs., or until a fork enters easily. When do~e, 
remove the skin; sprinkle the ham with bread crumbs on top, an T 
stick in a few cloves; then brown in the oven. Or, if boiled in water, 
when the skin is removed, while hot pour over it champagne or brandy 
with a little sugar; keep on pouring till about 1 cupful is absorbed, 
letting the ham remain in the liquid until cold. 

BOILED HAM Mrs. B. M. Sims. 

Scrub the ham thoroughly with a brush and cold weak borax water, 
put in cold water and soak over night; put on to boil in a large kettle- 



<)0 MEATS 

as the ham must be covered with water. Let come to the boil very 
slowly, remove the scum which rises. When it begins to boil, add 12 
whole cloves, 12 peppercorns, 12 allspice berries, 2 blades of mace, 2 
"bay leaves, the outsid'e stalks of 1 bunch of celery, a qt. of cider or a 
cup of vinegar, boil gently allowing ( 25 mini, to the lb., or until easily 
pierced by a fork; let stand in the pot liquor until cool, then lift out. 
peel off the skin, stick with cloves if liked, roll it in dry crumbs in 
which 3 tablespoons of brown sugar have been sifted, put in dripping 
pan set in the oven till the the crumbs form a crisp brown crust. 

HAM CUSTARD Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

From a ham bore, cut sufficient lean meat to make about 1 pt. after 
It is chopped very fine. To the meat add 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 
a little paprika, 4 well beaten eggs and 1 pt. of milk. If the ham is 
pretty salt no other salt will be needed. Bake until it sets ; serve at 
-once. Nice for breakfast or lunch. 

CAROLINA SOUTHERN DISH Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 
1 lb. of rice, 1 lb. of sausage, 1 lb. of ham, 2 onions, 2 large toma- 
toes, a small piece of red pepper, a sprig of parsley, a heaping table- 
spoon lard, 1 pt. of boiling water, a little salt. Wash the rice and soak 
It 1 hr., cut up the sausage, tomatoes, onions, parsley, reaper and ham. 
Try these in the lard, then add the water. Stir in the rice gradually; 
cover the pot and set it where it can cook slowly; serve while hot. 
Carolina is very nice made with oysters, shrimp or chicken substituted 
for sausage. 

BACON WITH CREAM, GRAVY Mrs, Thos. S. Bonneau. 

Cut the bacon into the thiinnest of slices and soak in milk for 10 or 
15 min., grease a hot frying pan with a little of the fat, dip the slices 
of bacon into flour, and fry brown, laying them on brown paper to 
drain. Pour out the fat in the pan and put in the milk the bacon was 
soaked in. Mix a tablespoon of flour with a little cold milk and add 
when the milk is at the boiling point. Stir well, let it boil up once 
and pour over the bacon. 

TONGUE Mrs. R. S. Barclay. 

Boil a fresh beef tongue till it is- tender enough to run a straw 
through. Plunge in cold water, remove skin, then put in oven to heat. 

Take 2 tablespoons of butter and 1 small onion cut up. Put in fry- 
ing pan and leave till thoroughly hot without browning. Put tongue 
in fryingpan, and keep turning till it is brown. Remove tongue to oven 
again. Add to mixture in pan 1 tablespoon flour, enough bouillon to 
make gravy, % teaspoon mustard, 2 tablespoon Worcestershire, 2 table- 
spoons currant jelly, 1 cup vinegar, 14 teaspoon ground cloves, small 
saltspoon utmeg, little allspice, salt to taste. Stir all till well blended. 



MEATS 61 

Add tongue, and stew about 20 min., turning often. White wine or 
claret may be substituted for vinegar, and brown sugar for currant 
jelly. This makes a delicious entree, or a lunch dish. 

BREADED BEEF TONGUE Miss Annie Day. 

% doz. large slices of cooked corned tongues, % can tomatoes, 1 
large onion, a bit of bay leaf, 3 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 
% cup bread crumbs, 1 egg, salt and pepper. Dip tongue in egg and 
then in crumbs and saute in butter. Place on a dish and pour around 
the sauce, made by adding butter and flour cooked together with the 
tomatoes, onion and bay leaf for 15 minutes. Season to taste with salt 
an i pepper. 

BAKED BEEF TONGUE Miss Annie Day. 

Boil a fresh tongue 1 hour, skin and lay in the roaster upon a layer 
of sliced vegetables carrots, turnips, onions, a tiny piece of garlic; 
in fact any vegetable you may have; season all well with salt and a 
little cayenne. Pour over all som* of the water in which the tongue 
was boiled. Cover and cook slowly for two hours. Serve with vege- 
tables around the tongue and thicken the gravy with browned flour 
and pour over all. Add more seasoning if desired. 

STEWED FRESH TONGUE Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 
Soak a fresh tongue in cold' water 1 hour; boil 3 hours, and put on 
one side till cold. Put it in a stewpan, cover with stock, add salt, 
cayenne, 1 dozen cloves, 1 turnip, 1 carrct, 2 onions, and % head 
celery, all cut very small. Stew gently 1% hrs.; take out the tongue 
and add to the gravy 1 tablespoon made mustard, 3 tablespoons mush- 
room catsup, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire, 3 pickled gherkins chopped 
fine, 1 tumbler port or red wine, ami 1 2 ozs. butter braided with 3 table- 
spoons browned flour boil and stir this till smooth; put back the 
tongue and simmer % an hour; dish the tongue, and pour the sauce 
over it. 

SHEEP'S TONGUE, SPANISH Miss H. Pregge. 
Put 8 sheep's tongues into water and boil until tender; skin while 
hot, then slice them and place in a saucepan with 1 can of tomatoes; 
add a little onion, pepper, and salt. Boil * hr,; before removing from 
the stove, thicken with 1 tablespoon of flour. ( 

BOILED LAMBS' TONGUES Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Take as many lambs' tongues as you like, clean and put in boiling 
water; add salt, pepper, celery, carrots, turnips, laurel leaves, a little 
green pepper, and garlic. Boil all together till done; peel, and serve 
very hot. Boiled calves' feet, same as lambs' tongues. 

Sauce for Lambs' Tongues or Calves' Feet Take small chives, es- 
chalots, and parsley; chop fine. Mix well 2 heaping tablespoons of the 



62 '' MEATS 

chopped greens, 6 tablespoons of olive oil, 8 of vinegar, % tablespoon 
of salt, % teaspoon of pepper, ty cup capers; serve on hot tongue. 

CALVES' TONGUES Mrs. A. Decourtieux. 

4 calves, tongues, 1 onion, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 
tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 2 cups boiling water, 1 table- 
spoon beef extract, 1 tablespoon vinegar, y 2 teaspcon salt, *4 teaspoon 
paprika, 1 tablespoon capers, 12 stoned olives, sliced. Cover the- 
tongues with boiling water, add the onion, sliced, together with salt 
and pepper, cover and simmer slowly, until thoroughly done. Remove 
from the water and skin the tongues, then cut them in halves length- 
wise. Brown the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and brown thor- 
oughly, stirring all the while carefully; then add the boiling water, in 
which you have dissolved the beef extract. Season with salt, paprika, 
vinegar and capers. Then add the tongues, which should have been 
reheated. Dish on a hot platter, add the olives and serve. 

CALVES' FEET A LA M ARECHAL Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Boil, bore and cut into inch pieces, 4 calves' feet. Fry till soft in 4 
ozs. butter, 2 onions, a little garlic, 2 green peppers and some mush- 
rooms, all chopped small; add salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace; 
stir in 4 tablespoons of flour, and then ad-cL boiling milk enough to make 
the mixture as thick as rich cream. Put in the feet, and mix all well 
together. Take off the fire, add the yolks of 2 eggs, the juice of a lime, 
and a tablespoon of water, all well beaten together; pour this mixture 
into a buttered pan, and put it by until cold; cut into slices, dip twice 
into egg and bread crumts, fry to a light brown in butter, and serve 
very hot. 

TRIPE, SPANISH Miss H. Pregge. 

Take about 2 Its. cf tripe (honey-comb is the best) ; wash thoroughly 
and cut into small pieces; then put irto a saucepan and scald with 
boiling water for 10 or 15 min.; pour off the water and add 1 qt. of 
tomatoes, a little salt, a small piece of green or red pepper and about 
5 whole cloves, a small onion cut fine, and a lime thinlv sliced. Boil 
for 1 hr. and thicken with 1 tablespoon of moist ene! flour; serve hot. 
To be nice, the tripe must be fresh and tender. 

FROGS A LA POULETTE Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Joint the hind legs and backs of 12 frogs; put in a closely covered 
stewpan with some truffles, a small can of mushrooms sliced, a glass of 
good white wine, salt, white pepper, cayenne, mace, and 4 ozs. butter; 
stew gently 15 min., stirring once or twice ; if then tender, add 1 tea- 
spoon cornstarch rubbed into 1 oz. of butter; let it cook 2 min., take 



MEATS 63 

from the fire, and stir in the yolks of 6 eggs beat up well with % pt. 
cream. Do not put on the fire again after putting in the eggs. Cut 
the inside of a German loaf into a nice shape and fry brown; put into 
the center of the dish, and stick into it skewers decorated with truffles, 
limes, and mushrooms. Put the frogs and sauce around this, antf 
serve very hot. 

CANVAS-BACK DUCKS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Tie the skin tightly to the neck of the duck, then put inside 1 level 
tablespoon salt and 1 teacup of water. Sew up as tightly as possible, 
put in a dry pan and bake in a hot oven from 20 to 30 min., according 
to size of duck. As the ducks brown, turn them; when dore serve 
Immediately. 

DUCKS (WILD) Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Ducks 17 min. Have oven very hot; put in ducks with small amount 
of water in the pan. Cook 17 min. -Split the meat away from the breast 
bone, ard squeeze on it * lemon covered thickly with paprika. Serve 
piping hot. 

STEWED SQUABS Mrs. W. F. C. HassOn. 

Make a stuffing of the livers and hearts chopped fine with a little 
butter, chopped pork, the yolk of an egg, salt, cayenne, and a little 
lemon. Stuff with this 6 squabs, put them in a stewpan, cover with 
stock, and stew gently % hr. ; take out the birds and add salt, cavenne, 
3 tablespoons mushroom catsup, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire, 1 table- 
spoon lime juice, 1 large glass of port or sherry, and 2 ozs. butter 
braided with 2 tablespoons browned flour, put back the birds for 10 
min. Fry some thick slices of bread, stand a bird on each, and pour 
the sauce over all. 

SWEETBREADS Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

Parboil 2 pairs or 1 Ib. of sweetbreads 15 mins., blanch, and cut 
Into dice. Melt 1 tablespoon of butter, add 1 rounded tablespoon of 
flour, and cook until thick; slowly add % pt. of cream, and 1 gill as- 
paragus liquor; cook together until the sauce is thick; add the sweet- 
breads, and 1 cup of fresh asparagus cut into small pieces. Stir care- 
fully until cooked, adding 1 teaspoon salt and a dash of cayenne. 

SWEETBREADS Mrs. W. F. C. HassOn. 

Lay the sweetbreads in cold water for 12 hrs., changing the water 
several times; then boil them 5 minutes, drop into cold water, skin 
them, and lard them with fat bacon. Put in a stewpan 1 small carrot, 
2 small onions, and a teaspoon parsley all minced, the sweetbreads 
and 1 pt. of stock; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and a little mace, 
and stew till tender. Clean and slice a dozen mushrooms, boil them 5 



64 MEATS 

minutes in water and lime juice, drain them, and put them in a stewpan 
with a pt. of good brown sauce; stew till reduced! %. Dish the sweet- 
breads, and pour the sauce over them. 

SWEET BREADS A LA ROULETTE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

2 sweet breads blanched and cut in cubes and 1 cup poulette sauce. 

Roulette Sauce Melt 2 tablespoons butter with 2 tablespoons flour, 
cook until frothy and add % cup white stock. When cooked add yolks 
of 2 eggs mixed with 2 tablespoons cream, pouring sauce into eggs 
gradually. Strain into saucepan, add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 table- 
spoon butter, pepper, salt and 1 teaspoon chopped parsley. Put sweet 
breads into this sauce and when hot pour over buttered toast. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. 

QUAIL PATE Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

6 quail or same amount of chicken, 2 Ibs. veal, 1 Ib. fresh pork. 
Put into a bean pot a layer of quail, pork and veal alternately; season 
each layer with pepper, salt, a little garlic, and a few bay leaves ; keep 
on until all the meat is used; add l / 2 pt. of good stock; some use white 
wine. Cover tightly so that no steam can escape; mix a paste of flout 
and water to put around the cover so that the jar will be air-tight. 
Bake 2y 2 hrs. in a moderate oven. The meat can also be chopped fine, 
and baked' in the same way. The bones of the veal should be placed 
on top of the meat when ready to be covered for the oven. 

BRAINS A LA VINAIGRETTE Mrs. Walter S. Hobart. 

(Dinner entree after soup.) 

Put into a fryingpan 2 large tablespoons butter; make smoking 
brown. Add 1 tablespoon chopped estregon or small garlic, 1 table- 
spoon chopped eschalot, 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley, 1 cup of 
bouillon or soup, 1 cup of white wine, 2 tablespoons of vinegar, 3 or 4 
bay leaves, black pepper and salt to taste. Boil all together 10 mln.; 
add prepared brains to the mixture, and boil 15 min. Let the brains 
be divided in large pieces, not chopped fine. 

BRAIN PATTIES Mrs. Anna Stubbe, Banning. 
2 sets brains, % can mushrooms, French peas, butter sauce, pepper, 
salt, nutmeg. Boil, clean and chop the brains very fine. Have ready 
the drawn butter sauce, quite rich and thick, stir the brains into the 
sauce, and heat thoroughly. Add mushrooms chopped fine. Fill pas- 
try shells, with mixture, add a grating oF'nutmeg on top and, last, a 
few peas that have been warmed in their juice and well seasoned. 
Serve as entree. 

CASES FOR ENTREES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 well beaten egg, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 full cup flour, pinch each of 
salt and baking powder, sifted with flour. Have fat smoking hot, heat 



MEATS 65 

iron in fat, dip iron into batter and drop quickly into fat. When 
brown, remove gently onto cheesecloth or brown paper. This makes 
about 3 doz., and by keeping tightly tinned will be good for some time, 
it reheated before using. 

SAUCE BECHAMEL Mrs. Wm. B. Noble. 

Put 1 tablespoon of butter in a frying pan, when melted add an even, 
tablespoon of flour; mix until smooth, add 1 gill of cream and 1 gill of 
stock; stir continuously until it boils; take it from the fire, add the 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, % teaspoon of salt, 14 teaspoon of pepper, and 
it is ready to serve. Do not boil after adding the yolks. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

1 heaping tablespooni butter; when melted, add 1 tablespoon flour, and 
cook a few minutes. Then add 1 teacup of boiling water, and stir until 
smooth. Gradually add the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, the juice of 1 lemon, 
salt, and red pepper. Nice for fish or meat. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE Mrs. Geo. Boyd. 

Ingredients: 3 or 4 tablespoons of cream, 4 tablespoons of grated 
horse-radish, 1 teaspoon of pounded sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, ^ tea- 
spoon of pepper, 2 teaspoons of mustard, vinegar. Mode: Grate the 
horse-radish, and mix it well with the sugar, salt, pepper, and! tie 
mustard which has been mixed with vinegar; put in the cream, and 
warm in a double boiler; do not allow to' boil, or it will curdle. With 
cold meat, serve cold. This sauce will last several days. 

DRESSING FOR CHOPS Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

2 pickled cucumbers, 1 pickled onion, 1 tablespoon capers; chop all 
fine and add 1 tablespoon tomato catsup. Melt 1 tablespoon butter; 
add to it 2 teaspoons flour, 1 cup of stock and the chopped pickles. 
Simmer 5 minutes, and pour over the chops. This is nicest with 
breaded chops. 

TOMATO SAUCE Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

1 pt. canned tomatoes, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 8 
cloves, and a small slice of onion. Cook tomatoes, cloves and onion 10 
minutes. Heat butter in a pan, add the flour, stir until brown; add to 
the tomatoes, and boil 10 minutes longer; season with salt and pepper, 
and strain through a sieve. 

SPANISH SAUCE Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

A small clove of garlic, a good sized onion, tablespoon and % of lard, 
2 green peppers, fry brown. 6 or 7 tomatoes, salt to taste, stew about 
10 min. Canned tomatoes will answer. Pour sauce over Rock Cod, 



Q6 MEATS 

Omelette, Chops, Steak, or fried Chicken. (Sausages, add a little 
thyme). 

WINE SAUCE FOR VENISON Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Simmer together % glass currant jelly, % glass water, 1 tablespoon 
butter, juice of % lemon, 1 teaspoon salt, dash of paprika, and 3 cloves. 
Strain and add % glass port wine, and a little of the game gravy. 

MUSTARD Margaret Ware, Santa Rosa. 

3 tablespoons mustard, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 beaten egg and add 
gradually % of a cup vinegar. When well mixed put on stove and stir 
till it begins to boil; remove immediately and add 2 tablespoons olive 
oil and salt to taste. Put in a large necked bottle or jar, cover tight 
and put in cool place and it will keep for weeks. If preferred butter 
can be substituted for the oil. 

OYSTER DRESSING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Remove all the crust from a baker's stale loaf, and crumb up fine; 
work in 1 cup of butter, a dash of cayenne, and salt to taste. Add 1 
qt. of fresh oysters and sufficient strained juice to moisten the dress- 
ing. Fill the craw of the turkey with plain dressing, and about Vz hr. 
before serving put in oyster 'dressing in the body. 

PLAIN DRESSING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Make the same as above, omitting the oysters; season with sage; 
wet with nice rich milk; chop an onion fine, cook in butter and stock 
or water, and add; if onions are agreeable, but do not .brown the onion. 
A few olives added makes an agreeable variety. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

1 Ib. chestnuts boiled, 1 Ib. beef, %' Ib. fresh pork, chopped all to- 
gether. Season with salt and pepper; add 1 A loaf of baker's bread 
soaked in water and drained, and 2 beaten eggs. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING Mrs. McMahon. 

1 qt. chestnuts; shell, tlanch, and boil them until tender; strain, 
mash or chop fine; add 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, and a 
saltspoon of pepper. Mix, and put into the turkey. Do not mash too 
fine. I think it better to chop with a hash knife. Or 1 cup of French 
chestnuts prepared as above may be added to a rich bread and butter 
dressing. 

CHESTNUT FORCE-MEAT Mrs. Fronmuller. 

Vz Ib. sausage meat, 1 cup chopped mushrooms, Vz Ib. cooked chest- 
nuts, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, l saltspoon thyme, pepper, salt, % 
cup bread crumbs, 1 shallot, 2 tablespoons butter. Cook finely chop- 



MEATS 67 

pei shallot in butter 2 or 3 min., add sausage meat and cook about 5 
min., then add mushrooms and mashed chestnuts and all other ingredi- 
ents and stuff turkey. 

POTATO DRESSING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

This is better for tame duck or goose than any other dressing. To 
a qt. of mashed potatoes whipped light add % cup butter melted, a 
grated onion and about 1 cup of celery cut as for salad, 2 teaspoons 
chopped parsley. Season highly with pepper and salt. 



70 ADVERTISEMENTS 

A. B. THOMSON 

Dry Goods, 
Notions, Gents Furnishings 



Linen Goods Imported from Europe Direct. 

SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 

THE JOURNAL 

The Leading Paper 
of San Rafael, Cal. 

Saddle Horses Stylish Turnouts Four-in-Hands 

Telephone Red 1031 

i 

ROBINSON'S LIVERY STABLES 

710 Third St. San Rafael 



Special Attention to Boarding 
And Transient Horses : : : : : 



x x x A: 

Opposite 

Williams' Furniture Store MERRITT ROBINSON, 

Proprietor 



ADVERTISEMENTS 71 

W. Von Husen Telephone, Main 28 H. C. Eckhoff 

W. VON HUSEN & CO. 



Groceries, Fruits and Produce 

Wilkins Block, Fourth St., Bet. A and B SAN RAFAEL, CAL 

Phone Red 1451 

JOHN NELSON 
Painter and Paper Hanger 

And Dealer in PAINTS, OILS AND WALL PAPER 

House and Sign Painting, Paper Hanging, Decorating, Tinting, Calcimining 
Estimates Furnished on Every Kind of Work 

B Tamalpais ave. Opposite Broadguage Depot. San Rafael 






720 FOURTH ST. SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 

Under Complete New Management. ' 
Conducted in First-class Style 

No Expense or Care Spared to Please Patrons 



HENRY A. CRANE, 

Telephone, Main 29 Proprietor 



72 ADVERTISEMENTS 



:|' $ 

:| , t 

Y Y 

' v 

V 

v ; 

v * 

Y Y 

Y Y 

T Y 

Y Y 

Y 4* 

** % 

Y Y 

v ! 

> . ;* 

Y * 

Y Y 

i! A. DECOURTIEUX | 

Wholesale and Retail 

X 

Dealer in *- 

SPECIAL 
SELECTED 

MEATS * 

t 

j 


Main Office S. E. cor. llth and Market Sts. 

* SAN FRANCISCO 



: 

> 




: -^"'^ 4 

* $ 

Branch Office S. E. cor. 4th and D Sts. 

SAN RAFAEL & 

Phone, Main 152 

> t 

Y X 

V t 

A V 


! 






Vegetables 



RULES FOR COOKING VEGETABLES. 

Put all fresh vegetables to cook into boiling water. 
Onions and string beans require more time than other vegetables, 
1% hours at least being required to cook them tender. 

STUFFED POTATOES Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Bake good sized potatoes; when done, cut off top (the long way) 
scoop out the inside and mash ; season with butter, cream, salt, pepper, 
and beaten white of egg; refill the potatoes and brown in oven. Must 
"be eaten immediately. 

ESCALOPED POTATOES. Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Use a deep baking dish suitable to place on the table; or a granite 
pan with a napkin wrapped around it will answer. Slice cold boiled 
potatoes; place 2 slices of salt pork in the bottom of the dish, then a 
layer of sliced potatoes ; over the top of this sprinkle pepper, salt, and 
a little flour with a few pieces of butter; repeat this till the dish is full; 
finish the top with flour and butter; fill with milk, and place in the 
oven; bake 1 hr. This is a nice dish for lunch. 

POTATO SOUFFLE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

2 cups hot mashed potatoes, 2 tablespoons melted butter, % cup 
cream, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon salt and pepper. Beat potatoes until smooth 
end light, add "butter, cream, beaten yolks and seasoning. Fold In 
stiffly beaten whites and pile in buttered dish not smoothing the top, 
and bake on top slide a light brown. % cup of grated cheese is an 
agreeable variation to this dish. 

POTATOES IN FANCY GUISES Mrs. Ernest Lovell. 
1 qt. of boilel potatoes cut fine, 1 onion, 1 carrot, 3 tablespoons but- 
ter, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 pt. milk, 
1 cup grated bread crumbs. Flour beaten in 2 tablespoons of the but- 
ter, add onion, carrot, salt and pepper. Having warmed the milk pour 
over all and let come to a boil, immer for 5 min. Strain over potatoes, 
add bread crumbs. Dot with remainder of butter and coot in oven 
20 minutes. 

SWEET POTATOES WITH SUGAR Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Wash. D. C. 
Boil and pfel potatoes; put into a skillet 1 cup of sugar, 1 table- 
spoon butter and % cup of water. Let cook about 15 mi., then put In 
potatoes and cook slowly until nicely browned. 



74 VEGETABLES 

STUFFED PEPPERS Mrs. M. B. Walker. 

1 lt>. flat macaroni, cooked soft in boiling salt water, 1 cup chopped 
cooked meat sausage preferred 1 finely chopped onion simmered 
till soft in 1 tablespoon olive oil, add % cup tomatoes, salt to taste, 1 
cup corn, minced parsley, celery and Chili pepper. Add to macaroni. 
Cut the stem end off peppers, take out seeds, then fill with mixture 
and replace top of peppers, either by tying or fastening with splints 
of wood. Place in baking pan 'with a very little water and bake in 
moderate oven about 20 min. Serve with or without tomato sauce. 

BELL PEPPERS Mrs. H. O. Howitt. 

Stuffed with Virginia Green Corn Pudding (Texas Dish). 
Select firm large peppers, cut off tops, take out centers. Make a 
corn puddirg by scraping the corn off from 6 ears of corn. Beat 3 
eggs separately. Put the corn and yolks together- stir hard, add 2 
tablespoons melted butter, then 1 pt. of milk gradually, beating all the 
while; next a little sugar and a pinch of salt; lastly the whites of the 
eggs. Put all in the bell peppers, place in a baking ddsh an'Ji cook 
slowly. Cover at first, then remove cover and brown. Send to table 
hot. 

STUFFED PEPPERS Mrs. Francis C. White, Everett Wash. 

Take large green peppers and soak them for V 2 hour in very cold salt 
water, remove all the seeds but one in each pepper; then stuff them 
with creamed oysters or sweetbreads and a bit of butter in center of 
each. Bake about 20 minutes. 

STUFFED BELL PEPPERS Mrs. O. J. Short. 

Select large well shaped bell peppers, cut off stems and place pep- 
pers broad end down; slice off tops and scoop out seeds. Stuff with 
the following: 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup chopped boiled Lam, 1 large 
ripe tomato, 1 onion, 1 beaten egg, a little parsley, salt and pepper; 
mix thoroughly. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Cut off the tops of good fresh peppers; take out all the inside; fill 
with a mixture of sausage meat mixed with bread crumbs, egg, salt, 
and a little milk if necessary; put them in a saucepan with some nice 
stock andi a good piece of butter; cover tightly and steam 1% hours. 
Thicken gravy with teaspoon cornstarch. 

GREEN CORN FRITTERS Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

1 dozen ears corn grated or scraped ; yolks of 4 eggs ; 3 tablespoons 
flour. Fry in lard and butter mixed. 

CORN FRITTERS Mrs. A. A. Smith. 
y 2 can of corn, the same quantity of rolled cracker, 2 eggs beaten 



VEGETABLES 75 

separately, a pinch of salt, and pepper. Wet the mixture with milk 
sufficient to drop from the spoon; fry in a mixture of butter and 
lard in a frying pan. 

CORN OYSTERS Mrs. H. M. Jones, Pomona. 

1 pt. grated corn, ^ cup of milk, % cup of flour, 1 level teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 2 eggs, salt and pepper. 
One tablespoon makes an oyster. Fry in butter and serve hot with 
butter. 

CORN CHOWDER Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

3 slices of salt pork cut in dice and fried brown, 1 large onion sliced 
and fried in the pork fat, 6 boiled potatoes sliced. Heat 1 qt. of milk, 
stirring in 4 rolled crackers and small pieces of butter size of a wal- 
nut, salt and pepper to taste, put altogether, adding 1 can of corn and 
boil up once. 

CORN TIMBALES Mrs. C. C. Stevenson. 

Take 6 ears of sweet corn and press out the pulp; to 1 cup of corn 
add 1 tablespoon of butter melted, */ teaspoon paprika, % teaspoon 
salt, the beaten yolks of 3 eggs, then the stiffly beaten whites and 1 
tablespoon flour. Butter corn timbale molds, then fill with the mix- 
ture % full, set in a pan of water and place in a hot oven. Bake until 
firm, then unmold onto a hot plate. 

SWEET PEA TIMBALES Mrs. F. D. Madison. 

Boil spaghetti or macaroni in long pieces in salt and water. Butter 
molds, begin in center of bottom and gradually wrap the spaghetti 
around until the mold is all lined with it. Sometimes the spaghetti 
will not stick, if so, dip it in the beaten white of an egg. Filling Mash 
and strain 1 cup peas, add 1 beaten egg, 2 teaspoons pate de foie gras, 
salt, pepper and celery salt to taste, 3 tablespoons cream, 2 tablespoons 
white sauce, 1 teaspoon flour wet in a little chicken stock. When 
mixed it should be the consistency of molasses. Pour into molds and 
bake 15 min. Turn out onto rounds of toast. 

PIMIENTO TIMBALES Mrs. F. D. Madison. 

Butter and line each timbale mold wdth a pimientD, fill with the follow- 
ing mixture: % cup of boiled spaghetti or macaroni, 1 tablespoon pate 
de foie gras, 4 tablespoons cream, 1 egg (beaten), 2 tablespoons white 
sauce, celery salt, pepper and salt to taste. Chop spaghetti very fine 
and stir all together. Put in molds and sprinkle on top with Parmesan 
cheese and powdered cracker. Place molds in pan standing in a little 
water and bake 15 min. Turn out on rounds of toast and cover with 
prin-temps, cream or butter sauce. This recipe is for % dozen tim- 
bales. 



76 VEGETABLES 

STUFFED PIMIENTOS MORRONES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
To 1 large can of pimientoes take 2 cups finely minced meat, 1 cup 
cracker crumbs, 2 teaspoons chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons butter, 
2 teaspoons chopped capers, 8 drops celery extract, a little onion juice, 
Worcestershire, paprika and salt to taste. Fill the pimientos and place 
each one in a ramekin or in a large porcelain dish in which they can 
be served. Pour over them the juice from the can and heat thorough- 
ly. Prepare a white sauce by blending 1 tablespoon of butter with 1 
of flour; thin with cream' until right consistency, add a little chopped 
parsley, 1 chopped truffle and season with salt, cayenne and tabasco. 
Pour hot over peppers and serve. Also pimientos are delicious stuffed 
with my cream crab or shrimp recipe and served as when stuffed with 
meat. 

STUFFED TOMATOES AU PIMIENTOS MORRONES Mrs. L. A. 

Lancel. 

6 medium sized tomatoes, 1 cup boiled rice, % cup chopped Pimientos 
Morrones, paprika and salt to flavor. Directions: Cut off the tops of 
the tomatoes, remove inside with a spoon, mix the rice, Pimientos, 
parsley, salt and paprika, fill the tomato cases with the rice mixture 
and on top of each place half level teaspoon of butter, put in oven and 
brown; garnish with slices of lemon. Serve on a lettuce leaf. 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH HAMBURGHER STEAK. 
Mrs. H. O. Howitt. 

Take 12 large, firm arid ripe tomatoes; remove the tops with a 
sharp knife, also the centers; fill with the following mixture: Mix 
well some Hamburgher steak with browned bread crumbs, chopped 
onion, salt and pepper, and especially butter; ibe sure that the firm 
textures of the steak as -well broken up; then fill the tomatoes with 
this mixture, with the centers of the tomatoes added; place the tops 
on them, bind with a light string, and lay in a kettle in which are 
placed some strips of bacon; steam for % of an hour; then remove 
the strings carefully and serve. Be sure they are browned before 
serving. 

EGGS AND TOMATOES DP. C.B. Brown, S. F. 
Mix 1 tablespoon butter and 1 dessert spoon flour; cook together 
and add % pt. of thick tomatoes. When this is hot, add 6 eggs beaten 
light, 1 teaspoon salt, and % teaspoon onion juice. 

OKRA AND TOMATOES Mrs. Thos. & Bonneau. 
Wash pods of okra and cut them in thin slices sufficient to fill a qt. 
measure; peel tomatoes to fill a pt. cup -when sliced, put together in 
a saucepan, add a little salt, cover, and let simmer gently for half an 
hour, add a tablespoon of butter with pepper and serve. 



VEGETABLES 77 

SPAGHETTI (HAWAIIAN) Mrs. Geo. Rodden. 

Break up fine % package of spaghetti, put in boiling salt water and 
cook steadily % hr., and drain in colander. Put into a good sized sauce 
pan a slice from a square of butter almost an inch thick and brown 
with 1 tablespoon flour. Add 1 clove of garlic, 4 onions chopped fine, 
2 teacups soup stock, 1 can mushrooms, 1 small can tomatoes, season 
with salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Brown spaghetti in a little 
olive oil, pour over it the sauce and simmer 15 min. Just before serv- 
ing add small slice of butter, garnish with parsley and enjoy a royal 
dish. 

RICE, SPANISH Mrs. L. A. Lance I. 

Put % cup of rice into a pan with 1 heaping tablespoon of lard; let 
boil until all the kernels turn white; then add 1 qt. of tomatoes, 1 
green pepper, 1 large onion browned in butter, and salt; if not hot 
enough, add more pepper. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

1 Ib. mushrooms, 2 tablespoons butter. Put mushrooms into melted 
butter; and cook until soft. Add 1 gill cream, 1 teaspoon salt, and a 
dash of white pepper. 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS Mrs. R. S. Barclay. 

(Entree.) 

2 cans French mushrooms, 1 small can Pimientos, 1 It. sweetbreads. 
Heat 1 tablespoon butter till it bubbles, without browning. Add a lit- 
tle onion, salt and pepper. Steam for short time, taking care not to 
burn. Add juice from mushrooms, stir till thick; thin with milk till 
consistency of cream. Add peppers, cut fine, and pepper juice, mush- 
rooms and sweetbreads. Cook till thoroughly heated, taking care not 
to burn. (Sweetbreads for this are prepared in usual way). 

NOODLES A LA GERMAN Mrs. Thos. Duffy. 

2 eggs beaten light; add 2 tablespoons water. Put some flour in a 
bowl, add the egg, beating well; add more flour to make stiff; knead 
light like bread; roll thin as possible; leave it dry; then cut in strips 
2 in. wide, lay rows together, cut very fine; shake them out on a cloth 
to dry. Boil 20 min. in salt water; drain in colander. Fry small cubes 
of ibread in butter; melt more butter, and pour over noodles. Serve 
immediately. 

CAULIFLOWER, GERMAN STYLE Mrs. H. O. Howitt. 

Boil a large white head of cauliflower in salted water until tender; 

then place it in a baking dish, and pour over it this mixture; the 

beaten yolks of 2 eggs mixed with a little cream or milk, 2 heaping 

tablespoons of grated cheese, a little melted butter, a pinch of cayenne 



78 VEGETABLES 

pepper, a pinch, of salt; bake 5 min. until brown; serve in same dish. 
This may be used as an entree. 

SAUCE FOR HOT SLAW Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 teacup of cream, butter the size of a walnut. When hot mix with 
a beaten egg, and pour over cabbage that has been cooked in vinegar 
and water. Pour the hot cream over the egg to prevent curdling. 

SAUCE FOR CABBAGE Miss C. E. Reynolds, Ress Valley. 
Boil and chop cabbage. Sauce 7 tablespoons vinegar, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon mustard, salt, 2 eggs. When 
the vinegar boils beat in the eggs. 

CABBAGE AU GRATIN Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 qt. of boiled cabbage, 2 cups thick white sauce, 1 tablespoon lemon 
juice, % cup buttered crumbs, % cup grated cheese, pepper and salt. 
Put a layer of chopped and seasoned cabbage in a well buttered bak- 
ing dish. Mix lemon juice with white sauce and spread a layer of this 
over cabbage, repeat until all is used. Mix buttered crumbs and 
cheese and cover over top and brown In quick oven. 

STUFFED CABBAGE Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Cut the heart out of the cabbage, scald outer leaves twice in boiling 
water; brown a piece of butter the size of an egg, into it cut 1 small 
onion and season with pepper and salt, then add a little water; mix 
about 1 cup sausage meat, and y 2 cup bread crumbs with a little milk 
cdd an egg and season with pepper and salt, stuff, tie the leaves over 
the meat, put it in your stock of butter andi onions, steam 3 hrs. 

SPANISH STRING BEANS Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

2 Ibs. string beans, 2 bell peppers, 2 onions sliced very thin, 4 
medium tomatoes, piece of butter size of egg, salt to taste, simmer 
slowly 8 hours. If not hot enough add a little chili chopped. Do not 
use any water. 

FRUOLES Mrs. S. M. Augustine. 

1 qt. of dried black beans or red kidney beans, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
1 small onion chopped fine, 3 cloves of garlic, 1 cup best olive oil, 1 
cup cider vinegar. Soak the beans over night. Put them on in fresh 
water with the onion, garlic, sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Sim- 
mer until tender, or about four hours, add the oil and simmer an hour 
longer; add the vinegar and keep on the back of the stove until ready 
to serve. Stir frequently, especially after adding oil and vinegar. If 
the oil comes to the surface, add more water and allow more cooking; 
keep this up until the oil is no longer seen. When done, the beans 
should be moist, but all liquid should be absorbed. They are better 
if cooked slowly for eight or ten hours. 






VEGETABLES 79 1 

BEANS SPANISH Mrs. Jas. W. Cochrane. 

Use small pink beans 4 cups beans looked over and washed well 
boil until skin cracks and beans seem tender, (do not over cook. Take 
large mouthed earthernware pot and in it place a round spoonful 
(large mixing spoon) of nice sweet lard. Pour in the beans, with suf- 
ficient bean soup to come to top, salt and pepper to taste; bury in the 
beans 1 chili pepper, 1 large onion cut in halves and 1 or 2 tomatoes. 
Place in, quick oven and as soon as the beans turn dark brown on top 
stir well. Repeat this for one hour. They must positively fry in the 
oven. 

SUMMER SQUASH Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

Boil squash in salt and water, after peeling, slice on a platter, 
sprinkle a good layer of grated cheese and put a small piece of butter 
on each slice, season with salt and pepper. Bake brown in the oven. 

ASPARAGUS WITH CHEESE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Boil asparagus until tender, drain and place on buttered pan, sprin- 
kle with grated cheese and a little salt and paprika. Put in oven and 
bake until cheese melts. Serve hot. 

TURKSH CROQUETTES Mrs. Anna Stubbs.Banning. 
Stew % can tomatoes fifteen min. with 1 slice each onion and carrot, 
1 teaspoon herbs, a sprig of parsley, 2 cloves, 2 pepper corns, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 saltspoon pepper, and pass through strainer. Take 1 
cup of the strained tomatoes, 1 cup brown soup stock, when boiling 
add a scant cup of rice which has been parboiled 5 min. Cook until 
liquor is absorbed, then add % cup butter and cook or steam, on the 
back of the stove until the rice is soft, add 1 egg and a little cream 
sauce or thick tomato sauce, using enough to make quite moist. When 
cool shape into rolls, then roll in fine bread crumbs, then in egg and 
again in crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. 

RICE CROQUETTES Mrs. R. H. Renebome. 

1 pt. of cold boiled rice warmed with 2 or 3 tablespoons milk; when 
soft add 1 egg well beaten, 1 tablespoon butter, % teaspoon salt, little 
pepper and tablespoon chopped parsley. The last may be omitted If 
desired. Shape into croquettes roll in fine dry crumbs, then in beaten 
egg, again in crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat. They may be served 
with or without the following sauce: 

EAST INDIA SAUCE. 

Into a frying pan put 1 large tablespoon butter, when melted, dice 
1 onion and fry in butter until a golden brown, add 1 tablespoon flour, 
and a large cup of tomato juice, when thick strain and return to fire; 
add when hot, 1 teaspoon curry powder, saltspoon salt, pinch of cay- 
enne, and a small cup rich cream. Boil up once. This sauce may be 



80 VEGETABLES. 

used for thin slices of lamb heated in chafing dish, or for diced sweet 
breads, etc. 

EGG PLANT FRITTERS Mrs. H. A. Moore. 

Boil a medium sized plant whole about % of an hour, or till very 
tender, then peel and put into a bowl and mash perfectly soft, add 
salt and pepper, 1 well beaten egg, and two or three well rolled soda 
crackers mix thoroughly and fry in hot butter, frying not more than 
a tablespoon of the mixture in a fritter. 



82 ADVERTISEMENTS 



t 

t 



F. J. WARD 
Staple and Fancy Groceries 

*i* 

1053 Fourth Street. 

SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 
Telephone Black 1171 




Louis Smith Telephone, Red 1111 Otto Smith 

SMITH BROTHERS 



NATIVE SONS MARKET 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

Fresh and Salted Meats 

Fruits and Vegetables 

Mutton, Ham, Bacon, Sausages, 
Lard, Butter and Eggs 

Poultry of all Kinds Always on Hand 

. Goods Delivered to All Parts of the City 

Buyers and Sellers of all Kinds of Live Stock 

Smith Building, Fourth St.,, near D SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 83 

Wm. CONNER 
Hay, Flour, Grain, Coal, Wood 

Orders by Mail or Telephone Promptly Attended to 
Telephone Black 1671 , f Storags and Commission 

Telephone Main 6 

BAY VIEW STABLES 

BOARDING 

Livery of Every Description 

M. MURRAY, Proprietor 
C Street, San Rafael. 



EDWARD J. GRAHAM 

Practical Horseshoer 



Road Horses a Specialty. 



421 Fourth Street Telephone Red 242 San Rafael 



84 ADVERTISEMENTS 

Telephone Red 251 Open Sundays 

Everybody Buys and Rents" from 

GEO. D. SHEARER & CO. 

REAL ESTATE AGENTS AND AUCTIONEERS 



Proprietors "Everything Auction House and Storage Co." 
Furniture Bought, Sold and Stored. Money loaned on Valuables and Real Estate- 

Geo. D. Shearer, Public Auctioneer, Notary and Collector 

9-11 Tamalpais ave. 
Opposite Union Depot San Rafael, Marin Co., Cal. 



Telephone Red 1127 



HY. SCHLOSSER 

Wood, Coal, 
Hay, Grain. 



Broad Gauge Depot San Rafael, CaL 




CHICKEN SALAD Mrs. F. M. Angelotti. 

2 boiled chickens cut in dice; with this mix thoroughly an equal 
quantity of good crisp celery cut in small pieces, 3 chopped olives, and 
2 teaspoons of capers. Make a dressing of 6 tablespoons of best olive 
oil, 2 tablespoons of vinegar, 2 teaspoons of salt, and a dash of cay-" 
enne; pour over and set away. Prepare a mayonnaise as follows: 2" 
yolks of eggs in a soup plate; add little by little the olive oil, stirring 
steadily with a silver fork; as the dressing thickens, thin it with * 
little lemon juice to the consistency of cream; add salt and pepper to 
taste. Make a mound, pour over it the mayonnaise, and garnish with 
lettuce leaves. 

CHICKEN SALAD Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Cut the white meat of the chicken into small bits (also the dark 
meat if you wish), cut the celery the same size, and use the same- 
quantity of each ; allow 2 hard boiled eggs to each qt. of meat. Dress- 
ing: 1 teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons mustard; hot 
water to mix smooth; % cup melted butter, 3 eggs well beaten, % cup 
cream, % cup vinegar. After it is thoroughly cool add % pt. olive oil, 
1 drop at a time. The dressing must not be put on until just before 
serving. 

CANNED CHICKEN SALAD Mrs. H. V. Robinson. 
Use recipe below substituting 1 can of chicken instead of crab. 

CRAB SALAD Mrs. H. V. Robinson. 

Pick 1 large crab; wash and cut 1 head of celery in small cubes; 
shred 1 head of lettuce. Be careful to prepare both on a cloth to ab- 
sorb all the moisture. A few drops of grated onion to taste; a little 
salt and cayenne; 2 tablespoons of mayonnaise. Put all together and 
mix gently with fork and spoon. Place on a salad dish, and garnish- 
with lettuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise. 

SHRIMP TOMATO SALAD Mrs. O. J. Short. 

1 large can shrimps, 2 large ripe tomatoes, 1 onion; wash and putt 
shrimps apart, cut tomatoes into cubes, add chopped onion, place oa 
lettuce leaves and pour French dressing over whole. 



86 SALADS 

\ 

TOMATOES STUFFED WITH SHRIMP OR CRAB Mrs. Hugh S. 

Walker. 

To 1 Ib. picked shrimp or 1 large crab, add the white part from 1 
bead of celery cut fine, a few chopped chives and mayorraaise to bind 
and, salt and cayenne to taste. 

Peel 10 or 12 tomatoes and after they have stood some tdme in the 
refrigerator scoop out the inside, fill the mixture, putting mayonnaise 
on top, and return to refrigerator until ready to serve. Garnish with 
crisp lettuce leaves before serving. 

A pimiento chopped and added to the mixture and another cut in 
pieces and put on the top in mayonnaise is an improvement. 

GELATINE SALAD- M/s. Oge. 

Soak % box of Cox's gelatine in 1 cup of cold water 1 hr. Boil soup 
vegetables with 3 whole cloves, season with pepper and salt; put them 
into 1 qt. strained tomatoes; strain the boiling mixture and stir the 
gelatine into it while heating slowly on thi" 1 stove; strain again and fill 
sherbet glasses % full. When cold, turn out on salad plates and gar- 
Dish with lettuce. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

MOULDED TOMATO SALAD Mrs. C. A. Thayer. 

1 can Tomatoes, stew and strain, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon sugar; 
soak % box gelatine in % cup cold water, add to tomatoes; add also 
a touch of cayenne and a little lemon; pour into small cups and chill. 
When it begins to set, add about 2 teaspoons chopped olives to each, 
cup. When ready to serve turn from cups, take out small portion of 
tops of moulded tomato and fill space with chopped celery, (This is 
optional). Cover with mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaf. Very 
good. 

TOMATO MOULDED SALAD Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Boil a knuckle of veal several'hours, then add spices and vegetables, 
cook until well seasoned and strain. If the stock is good and strong 
no gelatine will be required and the salad will taste much better than 
when gelatine is used. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Press through a sieve sufficient firm ripe tomatoes to have % qt. of 
juice, add 1 heaping teaspoon salt, dash of tabasco, salt spoon of pa- 
prika, tablespoon lemon juice and a little grated onion. Dissolve 1 
heaping tablespoon Knox gelatine in a little cold water, add a little 
boiling water and hold over steam of tea-kettle and when dissolved 
strain into tomatoes. Pour into ring shaped mold, individual molds or 
any mold you may have. Put waxed paper over, cover and bind with a 
strip of suet- saturated muslin and bury in equal parts of ice and salt 
for 4 hrs. Serve with lettuce and mayonnaise. 



SALADS 87 

TOMATO JELLY FOR SALAD Mrs. Jas. W. Cochrane. 
Simmer 1 can tomato with 1 onion, 6 sprigs parsley, 6 stalks celery, 
12 pepper corns for 20 min.; strain and add, while hot, % box gela- 
tine, softer ed in a little hot water, 1 teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons tar- 
ragon vinegar. Place a teaspoon in 6 small cups with a slice of hard 
boiled egg. Stand, on ice until stiff, then add enough tomato to come 
*4 up. Chill again and then lay slices of olives, pimolas and hard 
boiled egg against side of cup and add a little tomato so when stiff 
it will -hold these slices in position. Then fill up the cup and chill for 
last time. When ready to serve dip in hot water for an instant and 
invert on bed of blanched lettuce or celery plumes, sticking a bit in 
the top. Serve with mayonnaise. 

TOMATO JELLY Mrs. Geo. Boyd. 

% can or 2 cups tomatoes, 3 cloves, 1 'bay leaf 1 slice onion, * oz of 
gelatine soaked in % cup of w,ater, ^ teaspoon thyme, 1 teaspoon salt, 
1 teaspoon sugiar, *4 teaspoon pepper. Boil together spices, onion and 
tomato until soft, add gelatine and stir until dissolved; strain and' pour 
into a ring shaped mould. When cold turn out and fill center with cut 
up celery and mayonnaise. Serve very cold. 

A DAINTY WAY OF SERVING TOMATO SALAD Edythe Foster. 

Scoop out the inside of 6 cucumbers leaving % of an inch of tae 
white part next to the rind and fill with tomato that has been cut into 
dice with mayonnaise dressing. 

CUCUMBER JELLY Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel and grate 3 large cucumbers (not bitter) bruise 2 or 3 han'dfuls 
spinach, mix and strain through cloth. You should have about 1 pint 
of bright green liquid. Add to this *4 box of Knox's gelatine dissolved 
in a little of the juice and held over steam until melted, 2 teaspoons 
lemon juice, a few drops of onion juice, & teaspoon white pepper, and 
about a teaspoon of salt. Do not season too highly or you destroy the 
cucumber flavor. The green color can be gotten by grating cucumber 
without peeling but it is apt to be rank. This can be used for fish, 
cold meat or served with lettuce leaves and mayonnaise for salad. 
Shrimps put around the edge of mold are good; also cut 2 pimentos in 
pieces and put in gelatine and serve the balance of a small can cut in 
strips on lettuce leaves around the moulded jelly. Celery cut and a 
few rings of pickles makes another variety. Serve with mayonnaise. 

CHEESE RING FOR SALADS Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 
% pint of tlwck cream, whipped; 5 tablespoons grated eastern cheese, 
1 pinch a.ch of dry mustard, cayenne and paprika, 1 level table- 
spoon knox gelatine dissolved in % cup thin cream or milks Mold 
in a ring. When served fill with any good vegetable salad. When in 
season, asparagus tips and artichoke hearts cut in slice, half and half. 



3JQ SALADS 

dressed with mayonnaise is best. In winter, celery root boilesi until 
tender, cut in dice and served with mayonnaise, is a very good substi- 
tute, or the cheese part may be molded in timbal forms and) served 
Individually on lettuce leaves dressed with French dressing. 

SUMMER SALAD Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Lay a few crisp lettuce leaves on each plate, fhen add a few slices 
ripe tomato and cucumber, cover with salad dressing and serve very 
cold. 

FRENCH SALAD Mrs. V. Neale. 

Wash the lettuce well and leave in cold water a couple of hours; 
then dry in a cloth. Mix in the salad bowl 2 tablespoons of olive oil, 
4 or 5 drops of vinegar, % a small green onion cut in slices, % a mild 
green pepper (when in season), a pinch of salt, and plenty of fresh 
ground pepper; then break up the best part of 2 lettuce heads inrto the 
bowl; mix all well together, and serve. Do not keep it waiting long, 
and be very careful not to use too much vinegar or salt. 

CABBAGE SALAD-7-Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

1 cup vinegar, 3 teaspoons mustard (.small), 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon 
melted 'butter, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, % cup sugar. Heat 
the vinegar in a double boiler, and stir in the other ingredients which 
have been mixed together. Cook only long enough to thicken slightly, 
as it curdles if cooked too long. Use this as a dressing to pour over 
chopped cabbage. 

PINK SALAD Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

3 qts. of cabbage chopped very fine, 1 qt. of boiled beets chopped, 
1 cup of grated horse-radish, 1 teaspoon of black pepper, 1 cup of 
sugar, 1 tablespoon of salt, % teaspoon r<,d pepper; cover with cold 
-vinegar, and keep in air-tight fruit jars. 

SARDINE EGGS Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

Boil 4 eggs 10 minutes, then place them in cold water; scrape 4 
sardines gently and pound in mortar; shell the eggs and cut through 
middle; take out the yolks and add to the sardines in the mortar, with 
1 oz. of butter, a little pepper and salt, and a dessert spoon of parsley; 
pound all well together, then fill the whites with mixture, and put the 
halves together. Serve on a nest of green salad or watercress, sprin- 
iled with oil and vinegar. 

LEVILED EGGS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Boil 8 eggs hard and lay in cold water until cold. Take off the 



SALADS 89* 

shells, cut in halves, slicing off a small piece of the big end to make- 
them stand. Remove the yolks and rub smooth; add a little mustard, 
a tablespoon of butter, a dash of cayenne, and a few drops of vinegar 
or lemon juice, also salt; make any additions that may be liked. Fill 
the whites with this mixture and put together; stand them in a bed or 
chopped cress, lettuce or white cabbage, seasoned with salt, pepper, 
vinegar, and sugar if desirable. A little chopped ham is nice addeti. 
Mayonnaise alone is nice mixed with the yolks, then piled up in the- 
little white cups of the eggs and served on lettuce leaves; in this way 
cut off both ends of the eggs, so the cups will stand. Olives or pickles 
may be chopped and added. Serve with mayonnaise. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD Mrs. McMahon. 

Choose the heart leaves of nice head lettuce; make cups of 2 leave* 
with the stems crossed; fill with firm berries. Put a spoonful of may- 
onnaise dressing on top of berries. 

ORANGE SALAD Mrs. McMahon. 

Slice oranges lengthwise, and fill lettuce cups same as for straw- 
berries. Pour over the following dressing: % cup vinegar, 2 table- 
spoons salad oil, 1 teaspoon sugar, a pinch of salt. 

AFRICAN SALAD Mrs. Chas. S. Fay. 

(Better for Dessert) 

4 bananas, 2 oranges, 1 pineapple, piece of 1 lemon, a few dates, dash: 
salt, % cup of sugar, yolks of 2 eggs; slice about an hour before serv- 
ing. Beat the eggs, and sugar together until very light; pour the juice 
of the fruit with sugar and eggs and beat until foamy, then mix withr 
the fruit. Serve as cold as possible. 

FRUIT SALAD Mrs. O. J. Short. 

Chop in small cubes 1 orange, 1 apple, 2 bananas and some celery; 
place on lettuce leaves, sprinkle with walnuts and serve with the fol- 
lowing dressing: Make a stiff mayonnaise; add beaten white of 1 egg- 
and 2 tablespoons cream. 

MELON SALAD Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

Select a firm nutmeg melon, halve it, remove seeds, loosen the soft 
part with a teaspoon letting it remain in the half, let stand there three 
minutes then drain off the liquid, remove the skin from a fair size* 
tomato, cut it in small pieces and lay on the melon. Salt and pepper 
to taste then add mayonnaise dressing. Garnish melon with lettuce 
leaves. Serve at once. 

BANANA AND PEANUT SALAD Mrs. Jas. W. Cochrane. 
Peel as many nice firm bananas as there are plates laid at table. 
Cut once lengthwise then crosswise, dip In white of egg, then roll in 
chopped peanuts (chop nuts very fine). Arrange in form of log cabin. 
Place in bed of crisp white lettuce with celery plume in top. Serve 
with mayonnaise made of either oil or cream. 



90 SALADS 

WALDORF SALAD Mrs. W. F. Jones 

Equal parts of celery, tart apples and broken walnuts; mix with 
mayonraise and serve on lettuce leaves or scoop out the inside of 
bright red apples, notch the top, fill with mixture, put a little extra 
mayonnaise on top and serve on lettuce leaves or cress. 

CELERY SALAD Mrs. Oge. 

Take the white parts of a bunch of celery and cut them into pieces 
of a quarter of an inch; also cut up a little of the white part of a head 
of lettuce, and a very little of the top of an onion. Make a mayonnaise 
dressing of y 2 cup of olive oil, yolks of 2 eggs, red and black pepper to 
taste; wher dene ad-J 3 tablespoons of thick sweet cream or whipped 
cream.' Mix with the salad and fill small green peepers with the 
mixture; put 1 pepper on each plate, and garnish with small pieces 
of lettuce. 

CELERY SALAD Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel 1 doz. large tomatoes; remove the s?eds an1 juice, leaving 
them cup shaped. Cut the white stalks from 3 bear's of celery into 
small pieces; baste with French dressing, and set away for an hour 
in a cold pl^ce. Mix with soire mayonn?.'se. Stuff the tomatoes with the 
celery, sprinkle with salt, and on the top put mayonnaise. Serve very 
cold on crisp lettuce. Celery is also nice served on lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise, without tomatoes. 

CLUB HOUSE SALAD Mrs. Bernhard Johnson, S. F. 
3 handsful macaroni boiled in salted water unt.il well done. Chop 
into small pieces after draining. 4 hard boiled eggs, whites chopped 
and yolks mashed fine; 2 or 3 olives, a sharp pickle, a piece of red pep- 
per and a suspicion of orSon, gratedi is best. One cup white celery cut 
fine. Mix all together with a stiff mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce 
leaves or on a slice of tomato, surrounded with lettuce leaves. 

MASHED POTATO SALAD Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Rub a dish with garlic and put in it 4 cups cold mashed potatoes, 
whip well, add slowly 1 cup olive oil, lemon juice or vinegar to taste, 
1 teaspoon salt, dash each of cayenne and tabasco, celery salt or ex- 
tract, % teaspoon Worcestershire, small grated; onion or a few chives 
chopped fine with 2 teaspoonfuls parsley, 1 cup of cut celery. Garnish 
with hard boiled eggs, serve on lettuce leaves or cress. A little may- 
onnaise with each helping improves. 

POTATO MAYONNAISE Mrs.A. McMahon, San Francisco 
Boil 1 small potato, mash thoroughly ar.td place in bowl until cool, 
then add yellows of 2 eggs or more if required, a little cayenne, salt 
spoon of mustard and 1 teaspoon salt. Beat together and add your oil 
a little at a time and vinegar or lemon juice to taste. Mayonnaise made 
this way will not crack. 



SALADS 91 

POTATO SALAD DRESSING Mrs. E. Q. Smith. 

1 cup mashed whipped potatoes, beat into the potatoes gradually 
4 tablespoons olive oil, 4 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 tablespoon mild 
French mustard, % teaspoon salt and 5 drops tabasco. Beat well and 
if warm weather chill. Just before serving add * cup of whipped 
cream and pour over your lettuce. 

POTATO DRESSING Mrs. Winfield Davis, Ross Valley. 
Boil about 1 potato, mash and whip light with fork; let cool. Chop 
garlic size of a pea very fine, and add to potato, also 1 teaspoon salt 
% teaspoon pepper. 1 teacup of oil, about 3 tablespoons vinegar, or 
vinegar to taste. Mix well and pour over lettuce and then stir thor- 
oughly. Chill. 

SALAD DRESSING Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau.. . . .. 

2 eggs beaten, add 1 cup milk, tablespoon, mustard mixed with a 
little vinegar; teaspoon of salt and 1 of sugar, cup of vinegar, if not 
too strong, otherwise % cup. Oil to taste or butter size of an egg. 
Put contents in double boiler and cook to consistency of cream. 

FRENCH DRESSING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 teasccon salt, % teaspoon paprika, 14 teaspoon pepper, 14 cup of 
lemon juice or vinegar, % cup olive oil,, % teaspoon Worcestershire 
Bauce, ^4 teaspoon onion extract, 14 teaspoon celery extract. Either 
shake well in bottle or beat with egg beater. Ingredients must be 
cold. This is good to keep on hand. 

SALAD DRESSING TO KEEP ON HAND Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

5 teaspoons of mustard, 4 teaspoons of sugar, 1 small teaspoon of 
salt, 4 tablespoons of olive oil; beat these thoroughly; then add 4 eggs, 
12 tablespoons of milk, 12 tablespoons of vinegar; stir all together In 
a qt, bowl that can be placed over a boiling kettle; stir constantly till 
it becomes creamy; remove, and stir a little more lest the eggs curdle. 
This will keep two months or longer, in an air-tight fruit jar. 

CREAM DRESSING FOR SHRIMPS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Whip 1 teacup cf cream just turning sour; add very little vinegar, 
and sugar to give a rich taste, but not too sweet; pour over the 
shrimps and serve on lettuce leaves. Nice where one does not like 
oil; also good with plain salad. 

CREAM DRESSING Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 cup of cream, 1 tablespoon of vinegar, 1 teaspoon of mustard, * 
little salt; mix together very slowly. 

WALNUT SANDWICHES Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 
Mix finely chopped walnuts with enough mayonnaise dressing to 



t)2 SALADS 

make a soft paste. Take thin slices of buttered bread;, spread 1 slice 
with the paste, put a lettuce leaf on the other; put them together and 
cut in any shapes desired. Keep in a cold place until ready to use 
them. 

FOR PIMIENTO SANDWICHES Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

1 cup walnuts ground fine to 1 small can pimientos chopped. Add 
a little salt and spread on bread with mayonnaise dressing. 

HAM SANDWICHES^Mrs. Southard Hoffman. 

3 tablespoons chopped ham, yellows of three hard 'boiled eggs, 1 
tablespoon chopped parsley, % tablespoon dry mustardi, 3 tablespoons 
warmed butter. Rub together well or pass through a mincing machine 
and spread between thin slices of bread. 



Hitchcock Military Academy 



SAN RAFAEL 



WRITE FOR CATALOGUE AND 



PICTURES OF THE ACADEMY 





eese. 



SARDINES WITH CHEESE Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 
Open a box of large sardines, drain them; cut stale bread into %-in. 
slices, then into strips a little longer than the sardines; fry in deep 
fat a bright brown, drain on brown paper. On each strip lay one sar- 
dine, and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Put in hot oven on pan 
till the cheese melts and crusts over them; sprinkle with finely 
chopped parsley and a little lemon juice; serve hot. 

EGGS BAKED IN CHEESE SAUCE Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 
. 1 teaspoon of butter melted; add 1 teaspoon of flour, or more if a 
thicker sauce is liked. Cook thoroughly but do not brown; add 1 cup 
of milk, or cream preferred (use more butter if milk is used), which 
must be added slowly to make a smooth sauce; then add 4 tablespoons 
of grated cheese; stir well, and when thoroughly hot, pour into a hot 
baking dish which can go to the table. Drop in 4 eggs as if for poach- 
ing, being very careful not to break the yolks. Put at once into oven, 
and when the eggs are set serve at once. Makes a very nice entree. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 tablespoons of butter. 1 tablespoon of flour. Rub smooth, and add 
% cup of milk, yolks of 3 eggs, and 1 cup of grated cheese. Cook 
In double boiler; let boil 2 minutes, and then cool. Ad<t the beaten 
whites, and bake 10 minutes In muffin rings with white paper under- 
neath. Remove rings and serve immdiately on the paper. Delicious. 
Ramekins could be used. 

CHEESE RAMEKINS Mrs. C. A. Thayer. 

4 tablespoons grated cheese, % cup milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 
ozs. of bread, yolks of 2 eggs, whites of 3, caytfnne and salt to taste. Put 
the bread and milk on to boil stirring until smooth then add the cheese 
and butter. Stir over the fire for 1 min.; take off and addi the seasoning 
and the yolks of the eggs. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and stir 
them in carefully. Pour into a greased baking dish and bake fifteen 
min. in a quick oven; serve at once. Very nice for luncheon. 

CHEESE FONDA Mrs. Thos. Wintringham. 

1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup fresh milk, 1 cup fine bread crumbs, 2 
cups grated cheese (Eastern Dairy), 2 eggs, saltspoon dry mustard, 



96 CHEESE 

saltspoon of salt, a few drops of tabasco or a sprinkle of cayenne. Put 
butter in chafing dish or pan, when melted add milk, bread crumbs 
and cheese. Cook stirring constantly until cheese is melted and just 
before serving, add the well beaten eggs. Pour over nicely trimmed 
rounds or squares of buttered toast. An appetizing relish for evening 
refreshment, or a lunch course. 

CHEESE SAVORY <Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

(2 persons) 

Put the yolk of 1 egg in a pan, add a little butter, about a teaspoon 
of milk, pepper, salt and cayenne to taste. Then 2 oz. grated cheese; 
when "hot and meltedt, spread on buttered toast, after cutting off the 
crust. 

CHEESE SCALLOP Mrs. Robert Dollar. 

Soak 1 cup of dry bread crumbs in fresh milk. Beat into this 3 
eggs; add 1 tablespoon of butter and % Ib. of grated cheese; strew 
sifted bread crumbs upon the top, and bake in the oven a delicate 
brown. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE Miss Smythe. 

Materials 4 cups macaroni, % Ib. of butter, 1 Ib. Eastern cheese, 
not too fresh, 1 cup milk, 2 cups cream, salt and paprika. Into a large 
saucepan of rapidly boiling salted water, drop the macaroni broken 
into bits. Boil for % of an hour or until very tender. Drain in a 
colander. Have cheese grated. About % (hour before serving put a 
heaping tablespoon of butter into chafing dish, heat slowly and stir In 
1 tablespoon flour, stirring constantly. "When smooth and thick adi 
milk by degrees, and when boiling add macaroni, and gradually the 
cream and remainder of the butter. Give a liberal dash of paprika and 
salt to taste. Just before serving stir in the cheese, mix well; serve. 

MACARONI Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

Boil macaroni until tender, and drain through a colander; then turn 
It into a pudding dish and pour over it 1 cup of rich gravy, 1 cup of 
stewed tomatoes, 1 cup ol dried mushrooms that have been soaked In 
warm water 2 hours, and 1 teaspoon of salt in which has been rubbed 
a little garlic. Lastly, add 2 chopped Chili peppers and 2 cups of grated 
Parmesan cheese spread over the top. Bake % or % of an hour. Ex- 
cellent. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES Mrs. Fronrmiller. 

% cup butter, % cup flour, % cup milk, yolks of 3 eggs, 1% cups 
cheese cut In small pieces, % cup Parmesan cheese, salt, cayenne, 
paprika. Make a sauce of butter, flour and milk; stir in yellows of eggs 
unbeaten, add the cheese and cook until cheese softens; remove from 



CHEESE 97 

stove, season and spread on shallow buttered dish and cool. Now cut 
squares, roll in crumbs, dip in egg, roll in crumbs again and fry in 
deep fat until brown, then drain on cheese cloth. Serve as cheese 
course. 

MACARONI CROQUETTES Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

2 ounces macaroni, butter size % an egg, pepper and salt, 1 table- 
spoon cream, 2 ourxses grated cheese. Boil macaroni in water % of an 
hour; strain, and cut in small pieces; put back in stewpan with the 
cream and butter; when hot, add cheese and 1 egg well 'beaten. Put 
away till cold; shape into croquettes, roll in egg and bread crumbs, 
and fry in deep lard. This is very good; use small macaroni; serve 
alone, or with a tomato or cheese sauce. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Boil % of a pound of macaroni in salt and water for about % hour or 
vntil tender, and drain through a colander, pour cold water over it. 
Grate % of a pound of rich cheese. Put a layer of macaroni in the 
bottom of an earthernware dish; add salt, a few pieces of butter, a 
cash of cayenne, and sprinkle with cheese. Repeat until your material 
is all used, having cheese come on top. Pour over this 1 pt. of milk 
and bake about % hour. It must be well browned and the milk cooked 
away, but rot too dry. Serve as an entree. 

SAVORY HOMINY Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

Soak 2 tablespoons of hominy all night in % pt. warm water on 
stove. Next morning add to this % pt. of milk, and let simmer an hr., 
stir constantly, then add 1 oz. grated cheese (dry is best) and a little 
pepper, mustard and salt. Grease a pie dish, if you have a little paste 
cover the edge with it, pour the mixture into the dish, add another oz. 
of grated cheese, and a few bread crumbs on top, and over all a few 
bits of butter. Place in hot oven to brown the top. 

CHEESE PUFFS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup flour, 2 cups grated cheese, pinch of salt, dash of cayenne, 
mix with rich sweet cream, roll out % in. thick, cut in small biscuit 
and bake brown in quick oven. 

CHEESE STRAWS Mrs. W. F. C. Hasson. 

Mi:: together 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 ozs. flour, 2 ozs. 
butter, and a little salt and cayenne; make into a stiff paste with the 
yolk of 1 egg. Roll out the paste until % inch thick and 5 inches wide; 
cut into strips % inch wide, and bake on buttered tin in a hot oven 
cut into strips % inch wide, and bake on buttered tin in a hot oven 
10 minutes or till a pale brown. 



-t)g CHEESE 

CHEESE STRAVVS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of flour, % scant cup of butter, 1 cup of rich grated cheese, a 
pinch of salt. Rub flour and butter together as for pastry, then add 
cheese, 5 dashes of cayenne; wet with the whites of 2 eggs well beaten, 
and if not moist enough to roll, add a little water. The eggs can be 
omitted and all water used. Roll out as for rather thick pie-crust, and 
cut in strips 2 inches wide; then cut these into strips *4 of an inch 
wide. Bake in a quick oven until a light brown. They must be crisp 
Nice with salad or cold meats. Keep in tightly closed tins. 

WELSH RAREBIT Mrs. H. O. Howitt. 

Ingredients 1% lt>s. of dry Eastern cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 
teaspoon 'dry mustard, % teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, 1 drcp tabas- 
co sauce, beer ad lib. Set the dish in which the rarebit is made in 
one of boilirg water, see that th'9 chafing 'Jis'h lamp is full of alcohol, 
enough to last till the rarebit is cooked. Put 1 tablespoon of butter in 
chafing dish, allow to heat, not brown. Break the cheese into dice 
and add to butter. Stir and mash with -heavy chafing dish spoon, add 
mustard and paprika, then put in enough beer to moisten, stirring con- 
stantly. When it begins to cream add a little Worcestershire sauce, 
and a drop of tabasco. When nearly ready to serve put in 1 egg well 
beaten. When it looks creamy and very smooth and before the cheese 
looks crumbly, serve on toast or snow flake biscuits. Eat at once. 

CRACKERS TO SERVE IN AFTERNOON WITH SALAD. 

Edythe Foster. 

Grate % IT), of Eastern cheese and add 2 tablespoons butter, 3 table- 
spoons of Worcestershire sauce and salt. Spread on dainty chips 
(crackers) and put in oven for a minute. Serve hot. 

NUT CANAPES Mrs. Jas. W. Cochrane. 

Cut bread into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and stamp them into 
any 'desired shape with a fancy cutter, fry them in hot fat. Spread 
these with finely chopped nuts moistened with sweet cream; dust 
lightly with cayenne pepper, sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, 
and place in a hot oven until crisp and brown. 

PIMIENTOS AND CHEESE Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

For each person to be served use the following: 1 piece of pimiento 
a.s taken from the can, 1 tablespoon of Camembert, fromage de brie, 
or Petaluma cheese, or cottage cheese; 1 teaspoon of chopped olives; 
paprika and salt to flavor. Drain the oil from the pimiento, press th 
chopped olives into the cheese, dust with paprika and salt and place 
inside the pimiento, which should be laid on a platter and just before 
sending to the table, place in the oven to heat, but don't bake, garnish, 
with chopped parsley and olives, and serve on lettuce leaf. 



CHEESE !9 

PIMIENTOS AND CHEESE Mrs. Winfield Davis, Ross Valley. 
Allow 1 Sierra cheese to .3 persons and 2 teaspoons cream to each 
cheese. Crush cheese with silver fork, trim the tops of pimientos even 
and chop the little pieces and mix with cheese and cream. Stuff pi- 
mientcs wit'h mixture then dip the cheese into the beaten yellow of an 
cgcr. ?nd then into bread crumbs and place cheese side down into a 
very hot frying pan, which is buttered just long enough before to melt 
the butter. It only requires 2 or 3 mitutes to heat thoroughly as the 
cheese must not melt and run. Serve on lettuce leaves with French 
dressing or with my potato dressing. Dish cheese side up. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 101 



H. W. OTTON, R. L. DUNCAN, 

President Secretary 



Otton Grocery Co. 



422-25-27 B Street. 

:: 

* Telephone Black 1191 SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 



THE INDEPENDENT 



THE LEADING PAPER 
OF MARIN COUNTY 



Job, Book and Brief Printing 

A SPECIALTY 



Office McNear-Cochrane Block 
M. F. COCHRANE, Editor San Rafael, Cal. 



102 ADVERTISEMENTS 



.......J..J.J....J..JJ.*.J.J * 

f 



| Fine Carpeting 

Elegant Upholstery 
Rich Furniture 









Y 
Y 
t 
* 
* 



Y 
f 

* 

* 

f 
* 

* 



Sole Agents John Crossley & Sons X 

y . 

Celebrated English Carpets. X 

T 
y 

I 

Importers and Manufactuaers v. 

GHAS. M. PLUM & CO. | 

Upholstery Co. 

I 

| NEW STORE 

| 1 632 to 1 648 California St. | 

v > 

Between Van Ness and Polk SAN FRANCISCO 



H*HXHX <^X^XKX^X^X*X*X**XX*X<*X 




OMELETTE Mrs. Wvn. B. Bradford. 

Beat the whites and yolks of 6 eggs separately. To the yolks add 
3 teaspoons of corn starch or flour, salt, and 1 cup of milk. Stir in the 
whites and turn into a hot buttered pan. When it sets put it on the top 
-slide of the oven for a few minutes, then fold and serve. A little 
chopped parsley or finely chopped ham makes a variety, or a few 
cooked green peas, or a few fresh oysters seasoned and cooked in their 
own juice until the gills curl, and spread over the omelette just before 
serving. Nice for an entree. 

OMELETTE. Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Sure to be good and light. G eggs, yolks and whites beaten separ- 
ately; % tablespoon of butter; '% tablespoon of flour; 1 cup of milk; 
make a white sauce of milk, .butter and flour, and when cold add first 
the yolks well beaten and then the whites beaten to a stiff froth; have 
the pan very hot, brown quickly, fold and serve. If possible put the 
pan in oven for a moment as it cooks more quickly. This makes a 
delicious entree with a little canned or green corn left from the day 
before, made hot and folded inside; or a little stewed tomato; or some 
asparagus tips cooked in a cream sauce; or as a dessert with lumps of 
sugar on the edge of the dish, upon which brandy or rum has been 
poured and lighted ; bring it burning to the table, and with the serving 
spoon throw the burning brandy over the omelette. 

CHOCOLATE OMELETTE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Make either of the above omelettes, and just before folding, pour 
over the following: 2 heaping tablespoons chocolate, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, and 1 of water; cook until smooth. Serve as dessert. 

SPANISH OMELETTE Mrs. Walter S. Hobart. 
Put 2 large tablespoons butter with 2 large bell-peppers chopped 
fine, into a frying-pan with 6 or 7 large tomatoes skinned and chopped. 
Cook till tender; add 2 or 3 large onions; cook all together until ten- 
der; season with salt, and red or black pepper to suit taste. Make 
an omelette of 1 or 2 eggs to each person; when partly done add the 
above filling, and make a turnover. 

SWEETBREAD OMELETTE Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 
Boil and skin a pair of sweetbreads, and cut in small pieces; brown 



104 EGGS 

some butter; put in the sweetbreads, when brown pour over it the 
eggs prepared as for any omelette; add a little chopped green onion 
and parsley. 

RUM OMELETTE Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

3 eggs, beaten lightly, 2 tablespoons of cold water. Have frying pan 
very hot; put in a little piece of butter. Add eggs. When cooked 
fold it, put lumps of sugar on the top and pour the rum over it. Set 
fire to the rum and serve. 

BIRD'S NESTS Mrs. Fronmuller. 

6 hard boiled eggs, 1 Ib. sausage meat, 1 uncooked egg and bread 
crumos. Boil eggs and when cold peel and cover with a layer of sau- 
sage meat. Dip in beaten egg, roll in fine bread crumbs and fry in 
basket in deep fat until brown. Drain on cheese cloth, cut in half 
with sharp knife and arrange on platter cut side up, pour tomato sauce 
around and garnish with toast or pastry. 

STUFFED EGGS WITH CREAM SAUCE Edythe Foster. 
Boil the eggs hard, cut in halves, remove the yolks and mix with 
butter, pepper, salt to taste. Put mixture in whites, place halves to- 
gether, roll in beaten raw egg and bread* crumbs and fry in boiling 
lard. Serve hot with cream sauce. 

EGGS A LA ROULETTE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 pt. of cream sauce, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon chopped 
chives. 1 teaspoon salt, "white pepper, 2 eggs. Add all ingredients to 
white sauce but eggs. Beat them well and pour sauce into them. 
Keep hot but do not boil. Cut 3 hard boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, 
olace in deep baking dish, pour sauce over, sprinkle with buttered 
crumbs, place in pan of hot water, bake 5 min. and serve in same dish. 

BAKED EGGS (MALTAISE FASHION) Mrs. Geo. Rodden. 
Cover 6 eggs with boiling water and let them stand % of an hour, 
nlace in cold water and when cooled, shell. Cut in thick slices. Have 
ready a cup of white sauce made of 2 tablespoons each of butter and 
flour, 14 teaspoon each of salt and pepper, and 1 cup of white broth 
or milk, or y 2 each. Spread a layer of sauce on a buttered baking dish, 
add a few spoons of hot cooked tomatoes, simmered until dry, sprinkle 
(his with 2 tablespoons grated cheese, then add a layer of sliced eggs, 
and cover with other ingredients in same order as before. Stir % cup 
cracker crumbs into % cup melted butter and put on last. Put in oven 
long enough to make very hot and brown the crumbs. 

EGGS WITH MUSTARD SAUCE Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

Boil as many eggs as needed, 5 minutes; take off the shells and cut 
in halves lengthwise; lay on a platter. Mielt a slice of butter; mix a 



EGGS 105 

little mustard with milk, and add to the heated butter; as this will 
curdle, boiling water must be added to make it smooth. Pour this 
gravy over the eggs, and seYve hot for lunch. 

BAKED EGGS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Chop very fine some cold meat; lamb or veal is preferable. Put in a 
saucepan with a good piece of butter, salt and pepper, and add enough 
gravy stock or milk to moisten. When hot, have muffin rings in a pan, 
and drop into each one enough of the mixture to about half fill the 
ring; then drop a fresh egg on the top of each, not breaking the yolks; 
put some pieces of butter with salt and pepper over the top, and bake 
until the eggs are cooked. Slip out of the rings and serve. This can 
be made in a large dish without muffin rings, or use ramekins. 

CREAMED EGGS Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

3 eggs for 5 guests; boil 10 minutes, then lay in cold water to cool. 
Prepare toast cut in any fancy shapes desired. Put 1 pt. of cream to 
heat, not boil. Separate whites from yolks of eggs; press whites 
through fruit presser, then add to cream. Have toast arranged upon a 
platter; having pressed yolks through fruit presser, pile upon each 
piece of toast; pour cream around; add salt and pepper to taste. Serve 
immediately. 

EGGS ON ANCHOVY TOAST Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Cut round pieces of toast, butter them and spread with anchovy 
paste. Make a cupful of good rich cream sauce; chop the whites of 5 
hard boiled eggs fine; put them into the cream sauce, heap it on the 
, toast; squeeze the yolks of the eggs through a patent potato masher 
of the squeezing kind, and pile that on top. Serve hot on individual 
plates as an entree, or arrange with a garnish of parsley on a large 
platter; it is pretty and good, and easily made. 

EGGS WITH ANCHOVY CREAM SAUCE Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Make a large cupful of cream sauce; add enough anchovy sauce to 
color it pink, about the color of shrimps, and either poach eggs in it, 
or put the sauce in a hot baking dish, drop the eggs carefully in, set 
in hot oven, and when the eggs have set, serve on same dish; or boll 
the eggs hard, cut in halves, arrange neatly on a dish, and pour the 
sauce around them; making 3 quite distinct dishes, and all good. 

ANCHOVIED EGGS Dr. C. B. Brown, S, F. 

2 tablespoons butter and 1 tablespoon flour; stir until smooth; % 
pt. of milk and 2 teaspoons anchovy paste. Stir until smooth and 
thick, then add 6 hard boiled eggs cut in slices, 1 tablespoon cream, 
and a dash of cayenne. Cook in double boiler. 



106 EGOS 

SMOTHERED EGGS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Have a large spoonful of butter hot, and the pan hot; set this onr 
back of stove, break in the eggs quickly, and cover; keep turning the 
/pan so that all will get the same heat. Peep in once in a while, and 
when you see the white set, remove cover and dish up carefully. De- 
licious if done properly. 

THE MOST DELICATE AND WHOLESOME WAY TO BOIL EGGS. 
Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Put them in a saucepan, pour fast boiling water over them, cover 
tightly, and remove at ornce to back of stove; let stand 6 minutes, or 
10 if required harder. When done properly the white should be jellied 
hut not hard. 

EGG NESTS ON TOAST Helen Walker. 

6 eggs, 6 slices of toast, 2 tablespoons butter, % teaspoon salt. Sep- 
arate the eggs and keep the yolks whole by letting them remain in 
half the shell until ready for use. Beat the whites to a stiff froth with 
the salt. Dip the toast into hot salt water, butter, and heap each 
piece with the beaten whites. Make a depression in each mound and 
drop in a little piece of butter arid the yolk of the egg. A 'dash of 
paprika on top of each. Place in pan and bake in moderate oven about 
3 min., or until the whites are a light brown. 

HAM AND EGGS FOR BREAKFAST Mrs. A. A. Smith. 
2 cups chopped ham, % cup milk, mixed with 2 spoons rolled crack- 
ers, put in a deep pie pan making holes to drop in eggs and put inU 
oven till eggs are set. Serve in pan. 

EGG TIMBALES Mrs. Sidney B. Gushing. 

6 eggs, 3 gills milk, 1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon 
chopped parsley, % teaspoon onion juice. Beat the eggs with a fork, 
add the seasoning and beat another minute, now stir in the milk thor- 
oughly. Pour the mixture into buttered, medium sized timbale molds 
and put the molds into a deep pan, pouring in hot water enough to 
reach nearly to their top. Place in moderate oven and bake about 20 
minutes, or till firm at the center. Turn them out on a warm platter 
and serve with a tomato or cream sauce around them. 

TOMATO AND EGG ENTREE Mrs. W. T. Wheatly, Los Angeles. 

Allow 1 tomato for each person, scrape out about % the center, put 
in granite dish, drop an egg in the center of each, season -with salt, 
pepper and butter and bake until the egg sets, and serve at once. 
These are nice served with lamb chops, putting the tomatoes in center 
of platter, with chops around. Also serve in ramekins. 



108 ADVERTISEMENTS 



<f)(irtcf|ael & (o, 

The Leading Grocers 

Rafael, Qaf, 



TELEPHONE MAIN 88 



f\$\( Your (Jro<;er for it 

Old Homestead 
Mince Meat 



Each Case Contains 3 Dozen 1 Ib. Packages 
Each Package Makes Three Pies 



We are the Agents 

DODGE, SWEENY & CO 

SAN FRANCISCO 



Padding: 



v_ 



PLUM PUDDING Mrs. Vincent Neale. 

Ingredients: 1 Ib. seeded raisins, */& Ib. sultanas, 1 Ib. currants, 1% 
Ibs. moist sugar (brown), 1% Ibs. bread crumbs, 12 eggs, 1% Ibs. finely 
chopped suet, % Ib. mixed candied peel, rind of 1 lemon, a pinch of 
nutmeg and cinnamon, a few drops of almond flavor, 1 wineglass of 
whiskey or brandy. Cut the raisins, but do not chop them; cut the 
candied peel in thin slices; wash and pick the currants, and dry them; 
mix all the ingredients together and moisten with the eggs (if too 
moist, sprinkle a little flour over) ; stir in the brandy. Scald and flour 
a pudding cloth, put in the pudding and tie up fairly tight; boil for 6 
hrs. 2 or 3 puddings may be made instead of 1, as they -will keep for 
several weeks if hung up in a dry, cool place. Excellent. 

PLUM PUDDING Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 Ib. butter, 1 Ib. suet chopped fine and free from shreds, 1 Ib. sugar, 
2% Ibs. flour, 2 Ibs. raisins seeded and chopped fine and dredged with 
flour, 2 Ibs. currants carefully washed, 14 Ib. citron finely shredded, 12 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 1 pt. milk, 1 cup brandy, % 
oz. cloves, % oz. mace, 2 grated nutmegs. Beat together cream, .butter 
and sugar, and mix in the yolks when beaten smooth and light. Add 
the milk, then the flour alternately with the beaten whites. Then add 
the brandy and spice, and lastly the fruit well dredged with flour. Mix 
all thoroughly. Wring out pudding cloth in hot water, flour well in- 
side, pour in the mixture, and boil 5 hrs. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

1 Ib. raisins, 1 Ib. currants, 1 Ib. beef suet chopped very fine, % R>- 
brown sugar, % Ib. flour, % Ib. bread crumbs (stale bread), % Ib. 
mixed peel (orange, lemon and citron), 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
mixed spices, and 8 eggs. Mix all the ingredients very thoroughly. 
Wring a cloth out of boiling water, and flour it. After putting the 
pudding into the cloth, tie tightly, but allow room to swell. Boil 10 or 
12 hours. 

PLUM PUDDING Mrs. Robert Dollar. 

2 Ibs. raisins, 1 Ib. currants, 1 Ib. beef suet, 2 ozs. orange peel, 2 ozs. 
lemon peel, 2 ozs. sweet almonds, 2 ozs. bitter almonds, 1 Ib. bread 



110 PUDDINGS 

crumbs, the rind and juice of 1 lemon, % Tb. flour, 1 tt>. sugar, 1 tum- 
bler of jelly, 9 eggs, % teaspoon soda. Boil 9 hrs. This quantity may 
be made into several puddings, and cooked a shorter time. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING Mrs. French. 

1 Ib. suet shredded and minced, 1% Ibs. raisins stoned and cut, 1% 
Ibs. currants washed, 1 Ib. stale bread crumbs grated, 1 Ib. sugar, % 
pt. brandy, 12 eggs beaten light; ^4 Ib. of citron, orange and lemon 
peel, 1 nutmeg grated, 1 spoon ginger, cloves, and cinnamon. Mix % 
hour with the hand. Flour and butter a cloth which is just dipped in 
hct water; put the pudding in and tie tightly; boil 5 to 8 hrs.; blanch, 
some almonds, put them endwise 2 inches apart over the top; after it 
is on the dish, pour some brandy over; and just as it is to be brought 
to the table, set fire to the brandy that the pudding may be in flames. 

ANY-DAY PUDDING Miss A. Gordon. 

1 cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup each of raisins and 
currants, 1 cup of suet chopped fine (or, instead, a small cup of butter), 
1 teaspoon of salt and 1 teaspoon of soda sifted with 3 cups of flour, 1 . 
teaspoon each of cinnamon and allspice. Mix milk, molasses, suet, 
and spice; add flour, and then the fruit. Put in a buttered mold, and 
boil ,3 hrs. Serve with hard or liquid sauce. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING Miss C. E. Reynolds. Ross Valley 

3 cups raisins (stoned), 3 cups currants, 3 cups suet, 3 cups bread 
crumbs, 2 cups of flour, 2 cups brown sugar, 12 eggs, mix with sherry 
and brandy no water; candied citron, lemon peel and orange peel, 1 
grated nutmeg, spices to taste. Boil about 8 hrs. After the ingredi- 
ents are all mixed beat it up half an hour with the hand. It must be 
tied up very tight in a floured cloth. Put a small plate in the bottom 
of the saucepan to prevent the pudding from sticking. 

PLUM PUDDING Mrs. B. M. Sims. 

1 cup ground fat salt pork, 1 heaping cup chopped raisins, 1 cup 
New Orleans molasses, 2 scant teaspoons soda, iy 2 cups milk, 1 tea- 
spoon powdered cloves, 4 cups flour. Steam 3 hrs. 

Sauce that Goes With This Pudding. 

Cream together a half cup butter, a heaping teaspoon flour, a beaten 
egg, scant cup sugar, pour slowly into this while stirring nearly a pt. 
of boiling water. When creamed add the juice and grated rhrdi of 1 
lemon. 

^ORANGE MARAMLADE PUDDING Mrs. Chas. Christensen. 

1 cup orange maramlade, 1 cup suet chopped fine, 2 cups dried bread 
crumbs, % cup sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved In hot 



1MDDINGS 111 

water; stea.n 3 hrs. Sauce: 1 large cup bar sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 
% cup butter beaten to a cream, warm over teakettle, stirring con- 
stantly, but do not ccck it. When ready to serve add whites beaten 
thoroughly. Flavor with brandy. 

VEGETABLE PUDDING Mrs. A. F. Pacheco. 

1 cup each of flour, chopped suet, raisins, currants, grated carrot, 
grated potatoes, 1 wineglass brardv, 1 tablespoon cold water; % tea.- 
spcon each of cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and allspice, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder; boil 3 hrs. and serve with brandy sauce. 

CARROT PUDDING Miss O. A. Gordon. 

Cream 1 tablespoon of butter, with 1 cup of brown sugar, then add 
1 egg beaten very light, % cup milk, 1 cup grated carrot, 1 teaspcon 
each of cinramon, allspice, carbonate of soda, * a nutmeg, % tea- 
spoon cloves, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 cup of flour, % cup raisins, % cup 
currants, 2 tablespoons citron; dredge raisins and currants with a 
little of the flcur used; add salt, stir the whole very hard; put in a 
buttered mold and steam 3 hrs. Sauce: Cream % cup of butter with 
1 cup of powdered sugar, flavor with sherry, 1 egg beaten with sugar 
and butter. 

DATE PUDDING Mrs. S. P. Morehead. 

l a /& Ibs. dates (seeded), % Ib. suet, % lb. bread crumbs, 10 tablespoons 
sugar, 2 tablespoons brandy, salt and nutmeg. Mix well with the 
hands like breac?. Put in a buttered mold and lay a cloth over the top 
before putting on the cover. Boil 4 hrs. 

PORTLAND PUDDING Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 
1 cup beef suet chopped fine, */ 2 cup sugar, % cup molasses, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 cup chopped raisins, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon saleratus 01 
soda, 1 egg-nutmeg and cloves, or cinnamon. Steam in a well greased 
2-qt. basin 3 hrs. Sauce: Beat 1 egg, % cup sugar, 2 tablespoons 
butter in 1 dish; take 1 pt. water and stir a heaping tablespoon of flour 
in, boil and if lumpy strain, then pour over sugar, butter and eggs and 
set to cool. 

GRAHAM PUDDING Mrs. F. L. Wheeler, Berkeley. 
1% cups graham flcur, */ cup melted butter, % cup molasses, ^ cup 
sweet milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, * teaspoon salt, 1 cup raisins 
stoned and chopped, % teaspoon cinnamon, 14 teaspoon allspice and 
nutmeg, currants and citron may be added if desired; steam 1*4 hrs. 
Serve with hard sauce. 

FIG PUDDING Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

% Ib. of grated bread, % Ib. of best figs, 6 ozs. of suet chopped, 6 
ozs. of moist sugar, 1 egg, a little nutmeg, 1 teacup of milk. The figs 



112 PUDDINGS 

and suet must be chopped very fine; mix the bread and suet first, then 
add the figs, sugar, and nutmeg, after that the egg and the milk. Put 
into a basin and boil 4 hrs. Serve with brandy sauce. 

FIG PUDDING Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

% cup of finely chopped suet, 2 cups of stale bread crumbs, 2 eggs 
well beaten, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, and ginger, a little 
salt, 1 cup of sugar, y 2 Ib. of chopped dried figs. Steam 3 hrs. It is 
best served with the wine sauce given with the Cottage pudding. 

TROY PUDDING Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

1 cup of suet, 1 cup of flour, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of currants, % cup 
of molasses, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, and a small pinch of salt. 
Boil for 3 hours. 

STEAMED NUT PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Mix thoroughly together 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup chopped 
raisirs, 1 cup currants, 1 cup New Orleans molasses, y 2 cup brown 
sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup chopped suet, 1% cups sour milk; sift 1 teaspoon 
soda and 1 teaspoon yeast powder will '' cups flour, % teaspoon each 
of cinnamon, allspice and cloves. Pou" Into a buttered mold that will 
be about half full to allow for rising. Steam ? hours. 

SPICE PUDDING Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Put % cup of butter and lard mixed, into a mixing bowl; add to this 
1 cup of sugar, 1 well beaten egg, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, *4 
grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoon each of allspice and cloves; beat all well 
together. Pour into this % cup of molasses, 1 cup of cold coffee, and 

1 cup of flour with 3 teaspoons of baking powder sifted thoroughly; 
add enough flour to make a stiff batter; put into this mixture 1 cup of 
stoned raisins and 1% cups of currants; aJdd flour enough to barely 
mold -with the hands, then turn into a floured cloth and pin loosely, 
giving room to swell. Place in boiling water and boil 1 hour. 

SUET PUDDING Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

1 cup of suet chopped fine, 1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sour milk, 3 
cups of flour, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk; spice highly, and 
steam 3 hours. 

FREE CHURCH PUDDING Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 
1 breakfast cup of beef suet; the same of flour, bread crumbs, raisins 
or currants; 1 teacup of brown sugar; 1 teacup of milk; 1 teaspoon of 
soda; % a nutmeg grated. Boil 3 hours. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
1 cup of sweet milk, 2 tablespoons butter rubbed with 1 cup of sugar, 

2 eggs, 3 cups of flour sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder. Mix, 
and then add 1 cup of preserved figs, or dried figs chopped and stewed 



PUDDINGS 113 

-until tender, cr ary other fruit you may prefer, making some allowance 
about the fruit being dry or juicy, as to the stiffness of the batter. 
Fill teacups about half full, and steam % hour. Turn each mold upon 
a plate, and serve hot with cream ; or sauce can be used if preferable. 

VIENNOISE PUDDING Mrs. Fronmuller. 

5 oz. stale bread, % cup sultana raisins, 3 eggs well beaten, *4 cup 
sherry, % cup sugar, % cup candied peel (minced), 1 cup milk, *4 tea- 
spoon salt, grated rind of 1 lemon. Cut bread into dice and mix with 
raisins, can-died peel, half the sugar, salt and lemon rind. Brown % 
sugar in sauce pan, stirring constantly to prevent burning and add 
milk and stir until melted. Pour this over eggs and add to bread and let 
stand 5 to 10 min. Pour into buttered mold, cover with buttered paper 
and steam l 1 /^ hrs. Serve with apricot sauce. 

STEAM PUDDING Nelly James. Canada. 

1 cup molasses, % cup butter, 2 teaspoons ginger, 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon, 1 teaspoon allspice, 2 tablespoons sugar, pinch of salt, 1 egg, 
2 cups bread crumbs, 1 cup currants, 1 cup raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar, flour enough to make stiff; steam 2 hours. 
Heat molasses, butter and spices before mixing. 

CANARY PUDDING Mrs. J. S. Macintosh. 

Weight of 3 eggs, in sugar and butter, weight of 2 eggs in flour, the 
grated rind of 1 small lemon, 3 eggs. Beat butter to a cream, stir to 
this the sugar and lemon peel and gradually dredge in the flour 
keeping the mixture well stirred, whisk the eggs, add them to 
the other ingredients. Beat all until thoroughly blended, put into but- 
tered mold with tight cover and boil for 2 hours. Serve with wine o* 
lemon sauce. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING AMERICAN Mrs. Fronmuller.. 
% cup butter, *4 cup sugar, 3 eggs, ^ cup milk, 3^ cups flour, 1^4 
tablespoons baking powder, 1% cups huckleberries. Cream, butter, 
add sugar, beat eggs, sift flour and baking powder and add alternately 
with milk. When smooth stir in huckleberries, turn into greased mold, 
and steam 3 hours. Serve with, warm sweetened cream. 

RAISIN PUFFS Mrs. G. G. Vanderlip. 

4 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon buttor, 2*4 cups flour, 1 cup water, 
2% tea spoons, baking powder, 2 eggs, 1 cup chopped raisins. Steam 
In seven cups, one half hour. Serve warm with hot sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Wash, D. C. 
Bread crumbs, 1 cup, eggs 3, Sugar % cup, milk 1 tablespoon 
vanilla, 1 teaspoon. Ghiradellies grated chocolate 4 tablespoons. Beat 
up yolks of eggs with the pudding. Beat whites very stiff and add last. 
Steam the pudding about 30 minutes. Serve with cream. 



114 PUDDINGS 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. Chas. S. Fay. 

Weigh 5 cz. butter, 5 oz. sugar and; 5 oz. of chocolate, put all in a 
steamer saucepan and let stand until melted, then take 5 eggs separ- 
ating the yolks, put the yolks into your other ingredients and: stir until 
stiff; now beat your whites very stiffly and put all together; grease 
your mold, shake a little granulated sugar on, put mold into a saucepan- 
with a little water and put in oven. Cock 1 hour; serve hot with hot 
chocolate sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. J. K. Armsby. 

12 tablespoons of bread crumbs, 6 tablespoons of grated chocolate, 
1 qt. milk, 4 eggs keeping out the whites of two, for the meringue. 1 
teacup sugar. Boil bread crumbs, milk, sugar, and chocolate together 
until thick. When cold add eggs well beaten. Bake % of an hour. 
Before serving drop on a meringue and brown slightly. To be eaten 
hot with hard sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING Mrs. Ludwig Schwabacher. 
Boil % pcund of chocolate with % cup of milk and set aside to cool. 
Take yolks of 6 eggs and 6 tablespoons of sugar stir until very light, 
then add 3 tablespoons of finely rolled, crackers to chocolate. A little 
vanilla, a pinch f cinnamon, and beat all until light. Beat whites to a 
stiff froth and fold into the mixture, put into a well buttered pudding 
form, close up tightly and boil for one hour. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Put in mixing bowl first 3 tablespoons melted butter, 1 cup sugar, 
1 beaten egg, 1 light pt. of flour with 2 teaspoons baking powder sifted 
with it, and 1 cup of sweet milk last of all. This will seem thin, but 
will make a nice loaf, light and tender. Serve hot with wine or other 
sauce. 

MACAROON PUDDING Mrs. Anna Stubbe,Banning. 
Take 6 eggs, beat the yolks with % cup powdered sugar, add % Ib. 
of stale macaroons and % Ib. ladyfingers, powder them, either by chop- 
ping or rolling. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and mix with 
the rest. Line the pudding dish with candy made of yellow sugar. 
Boil from 1% to 2 hours. Serve hot with whipped cream. 

SPONGE PUDDING Mrs. W. L. Landon. 

1 pt. of milk, 1 small teaspoon salt, 2 rounded tablespoons flour, % 
cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 eggs. Put all of the milk but suffi- 
cent to moisten flour in double boiler and when hot stir in flour, sugar, 
butter and salt and cook until it thickens. When cool add the beaten 
yolks, then the whites beaten very stiff. Turn into buttered pudiding 
dish, bake ^ hour, setting dish in pan of water. It should be erenly 
browned. Serve with hard sauce. 



PUDDINGS 115 

CASTLE PUDDING Mrs. J. S. Macintosh. 

The weight of 3 eggs in butter, sugar and flour, all beaten separately. 
Then mix, adding juice of 2, grated rind of 1 lemon, bake % an hour, 
serve with sweet or wine sauce. 

OLD-FASHIONED RICE PUDDING Mrs. Thos. Duffy. 
2 tablespoons rice to 1 qt. of milk; 2 tablespoons sugar, a grating 
of nutmeg, a little butter, 14 cup of raisins if liked; cook slowly for 1% 
"hours in a moderate oven, stirring down crust for the first half hour 
-as fast as it forms. Then allow a paper-like cover to form, and! the 
pudding is done. Serve hot or cold. 

BREAD PUDDING Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

1 qt. of milk, 2 tumblers of bread crumbs, 4 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 
2 lemons, 1 slice of butter. Beat the yolks separately, and mix with 
milk and bread crumbs; add 1 cup of sugar, the rind of the lemons, 
and butter. Boil until thick as a custard. Boil 1 cup of sugar and 
juice of lemons separately. Beat whites of the eggs, ad'd) juice, and 
-spread on the top for a meringue. Brown in the oven. 

CRACKER PUDDING Mrs. J. C. Dickson. 

Butter 6 or 8 soda crackers, put in pudding pan buttered 1 , sides to- 
gether, cover with a custard, made in proportion of 2 eggs to a pint of 
milk, and sweeten to taste; flavor with nutmeg. Place in pan of hot 
water and bake long enough for the custard to thicken. Eat with hard 
sauce. 

SOFT CORN PUDDING Miss O. H. Gordon. 

1 cup white corn meal, 1 cup boiled rice, 1 cup milk, 1% cups boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 3 or 4 eggs beaten separ- 
ately. Pour boiling water over the meal, add the other ingredients, 
whites of eggs last of all. Bake in a pudding dish in a moderate oven 
% of an hour; serve with plenty of butter. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING Mrs. W. L. Oge. 

1 qt. of new milk, 4 tablespoons of corn meal, % teaspoon of ground 
cloves, 2 teaspoons of cinnamon, % cup of molasses, pinch salt, 2 eggs. 
Put all the milk except % cup in a farina kettle and when boiling stir 
in the corn meal slowly to let it thoroughly cook 20 min. Add the 
spice and molasses. and salt. Put in a baking dish to cool and then add 
the beaten eggs and bake slowly 2 hours. Serve with cream or butter 
and sugar sauce. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 
1 pint of milk ; as it comes to a boil, stir in % cup of meaV When 
cold, add 3 well beaten eggs, % of a cup of molasses, % teaspoon of 
salt, 1 wineglass of wine, butter size of half an egg, % teaspoon of 



116 PUDDIhGS 

soda. Beat well, and add less than 1 qt. of cold milk. Bake 3 hours 
with a cover over it, and stir it every half hour until the last hour. 
Very nice. 

LEMON TOAST Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

J Beat the yolks of 3 eggs and add Ity cups of sweet milk. Dip thin 
slices of bread in this, and fry a light brown, in butter. 

Sauce. Beat the whites of 3 eggs stiff; add % cup of white sugar, 
the juice of 1 lemon and 1 cup of boiling water. Pour over the toast 
as you serve it. 

QUEEN ESTHER'S TOAST Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

Cut stale bread into pieces 2 inches square and 1 inch thick. Steep 
them well in milk, then dip in beaten yolk of egg, and fry in butter. 
Make a sauce of sugar, water and cinnamon, to serve with the toast. 

BERRY PUDDING Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

2 eggs, 1 pt. of milk, a little salt, % cup of sugar, flour to make a 
thick batter, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, 1 pt. of berries (any kind) well 
dredged with flour, stirred in at the last; boil 1 hour in mold. Make 
sauce. 

BLACKBERRY OR RASPBERRY PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Put a layer of berries in the bottom of a baking dish and sprinkle 
with sugar; then cover with a layer of thin bread and butter, and re- 
peat until the dish is full; have the last layer of bread crumbs. If 
made from canned fruit, drain off the juice and pour it over the pud- 
ding last, then the sugar may not be needed. Bake in a pan of water 
in rather a slow oven about 1 hour. The blackberry pudding is best 
hot with hard sauce. The raspberry pudding is to be eaten cold with 
cream. Part Loganberries improves the blackberry pudding. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Sieve well together 1 qt. of flour, 1 level teaspoon salt, and 2 heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder; rub in % cup of butter; then wet up 
with milk just sufficient to roll out. Divide the dough into 4 parts ; roll 
1 piece in a round shape, put in a deep jelly cake pan, spread the top 
with a little butter; roll out another piece and pile on top of this; pre- 
pare the other 2 pieces the same way in another pan, and bake in rath- 
er quick oven until nice and brown. Then remove from the oven ; open 
and spread both sides generously with butter. Have a drawer of ber- 
ries cut up and well sugared; put half between each shortcake and 
serve at once with rich cream. It is an improvement to halve enough 
of the largest berries to put around the edge of the shortcake, pouring 
berries inside; then cover the top with whipped cream. 



PUDDINGS 111 

PEACH COBBLER Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Fill a pie dish with peeled peaches leaving* in the pits; add a very 
little cold water and sugar to taste. Cover with pie crust, prick with, 
a fork; bake % of an hour. Eat with cream. 

PEACH PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel and halve 2 dozen peaches, and sweeten to taste; or use 2 qts^ 
of canned peaches; place in a pudding dish and put in the oven. Cream 
the yolks of 4 eggs and 1 cup of sugar; add 1 tablespoon water, 1 tea- 
spoon lemon extract, and 1% cups of flour into which 1 teaspoon of 
baking powder has been sifted, and the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. 
Pour over the hot peaches and bake about 20 to 30 minutes. Serve hot 
with cream. 

APPLE PUDDING Miss A. Gordon. 

Fill a buttered baking dish with sliced apples, and pour over the top 
a batter made of 1 tablespoon of butter, % cup sugar, 1 egg. % cup- 
sweet milk, and 1 cup of flour in which has been sifted 1 teaspoon 
of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven till brown. Serve with 
cream and sugar, or liquid sauce. Blackberries are very nice served 
in the same way. 

STEAMED APPLE PUDDING Miss Margaret Bremner. 

Pare and slice as thin as you would for pies 6 medium-sized tart ap- 
ples (Northern Spies are the best), and lay them in the bottom of a 
round baking dish. Stir 1 cup of sugar and *4 cup of butter to a 
cream; add 2 eggs well beaten, and 1 cup of milk. Sift together 2 cun 
of flour and 2 teaspoons of baking powder; add the flour to the mix- 
ture, and stir well. Cover the apples with the mixture and steam 1 
hour; serve with a cream or foaming sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING Mrs. Grandjean. 

6 eggs, 6 tablespoons bread crumbs, 6 tablespoons currants, 6 table- 
spoons sugar, 1 piece butter (size of walnut), 6. apples chopped fine, 
1 wineglass wine, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon cloves, % tea- 
spoon nutmeg. Steam 3 hours. Eat with hard sauce. 

GOOD APPLE DUMPLINGS Mrs. C. A. Thayer. 

1 pt. flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 teaspoons baking powder, wet up 
with cold water or milk. Roll out into sheets and cut into pieces 
large enough to cover an apple. Pare and core the apples and cut if 
necessary and wrap closely in the pieces of dough. Place in a deep 
baking dish and cover with a cup of sugar, bits of butter and hot water. 
Bake in a moderate oven. The same dough can be used for a roll of 
any kind 1 and steamed. 



118 PUDDINGS 

APPLE PUDDING Mrs. J. C. Dickson. 

Sift 1 pt. of flour with 3 level teaspoons baking powder and saltspoon 
of salt, add 1 cup of milk, 1 beaten egg and spread on a shallow pan. 
Pare, core and quarter half a dozen apples; cut the quarters in halves 
and stick these pieces in rows with the sharp edge down in the bat- 
ter. Sprinkle wdth sugar using more or less as the apples require. 
Bake in rather quick oven and serve in squares with a liquid sauce. 

APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 teacup of tapioca soaked well in water over night (about a pint) ; 
cook until clear about y z hour; add 1 cup of sugar, a little salt, and 
lemon or nutmeg; when cooked, pour over the apples after paring and 
quartering them, add a few small pieces of butter over the top to help 
crown it. Hard sauce, or cream may be served with it. 

APPLE FRITTERS Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 cup flour, y 2 cup tepid water, 14 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon olive 
oil, whites of 2 eggs; sift flour and salt into bowl, add water and oil 
and beat until smooth. Beat eggs very stiff and fold into batter. Pare 
and core goodi apples and cut into % in. slices, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar and lemon juice and let stand 1 hour T-efore using Drain, dip 
pieces in batter, fry in hot fat until brown, drain on cheese cloth. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve with lemon sauce. 

FRUIT FRITTERS Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

2 eggs, whites; 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon cold water, 1 table- 
spoon butter or olive oil, apricots, peaches and strawberries. Make 
a batter with the beaten whites of the eggs, flour, cold 1 water and but- 
ter or oil. Mix thoroughly before putting in the whites. Pare the 
apricots or peaches and cut in quarters, strawberries used whole. Dip 
each piece of fruit into the batter, and drop in the boiling fat. 2 min. 
will cook them brown and crisp; then sugar them and serve hot. 

BANANA FRITTERS (WILL SERVE FOUR) Helen Walker. 

A bananas, 3 tablespoons cold! water, 3 eggs, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 
teaspoon sugar, 1 teaspoon melted butter, or 3 eggs, 1 cup of milk,, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon melted butter, about 1 cup flour. 
Remove skins from the bananas, split them and cut in two. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs well and add the sugar. Mix the flour with the wa- 
ter, add the yolks of the eggs and melted butter. Pour the mixture 
into the stiffly beaten whites, stirring constantly. Dip the bananas 
into the batter, drop them into hot fat and fry until a golden brown. 
Serve at once with whipped cream or hard sauce. Sliced pineapple 
may be \ised instead of bananas. Wine sauce may be served instead 
of cream. 



PUDDINGS 11J* 

PINEAPPLE FRITTERS Mrs. Anna Stubbe, Banning. 
Soak slices of pineapple in white wine, with a little sugar added for 
1 hour. Fry in batter as for apple fritters. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

1 large tablespoon butter, 1% cups powdered sugar, white of 1 egg, 
1 pt. mashed strawberries. Beat the butter to a cream, add gradually 
the sugar and the beaten white of the egg. Beat till very light, and 
just before serving add the mashed strawberries. Instead of the but- 
ter and egg, 1 qt. of the whipped cream may be added to the straw- 
berries and sugar. A generous half-pint of cream makes a quart when 
whipped. 

HOT CHOCOLATE SAUCE Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Wash., D. C. 
Sugar 1 cup, boiling water 1 cup, baker's chocolate 1% squares, corn- 
starch 1 tablespoon. Melt chocolate and add boiling water in which 
sugar has been dissolved. Wet cornstarch and add to liquid. Let it 
boil up thoroughly, then push back on stove and let simmer for 30 
minutes. Just, before serving add small piece of butter and flavor 
with vanilla. 

JELLY PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. W. L. Jones, ClOverdale. 

% cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 glass tart jelly, % cup boiling water, 
white of 1 egg. Cream butter and sugar together, stir in jelly and 
water and put on stove. When well melted remove and add the well 
beaten white and serve. 

APRICOT SAUCE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

% cup apricot jam, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 2 tablespoons 
sherry, % cup sugar, 1 cup water. Cook all until at' boiling point, rub 
through strainer and pour over Viennoise pudding. 

WHIPPED CREAM SAUCE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, and add gently % cup bar 
sugar; whip 1 cup of cream and add. Flavor with 1 tablespoon sherry, 
or nutmeg or vanilla. Brandy and nutmeg together are good. Mast 
be served 1 as soon as prepared unless kept on ice. 

PARIS SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 
Take 1 glass of sherry, 1 large tablespoon of powdered sugar, and 
the well beaten yolks of 2 eggs; put these in saucepan on fire and stir 
until thick; add slowly 3 tablespoons of cream, without letting it boll. 

FOAM SAUCE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 eggs, butter the size of an egg, 1 cup sugar. Beat the yolks, butter 
and sugar together thoroughly, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, 
the juice of 1 lemon, and' % cup of boiling water; serve immediately- 
Very nice with cottage pudding. 



120 PUDDINGS 

FOAMING SAUCE Miss Margaret Bremner. 

Beat to a cream % cup of sugar and 1 tablespoon of butter; add 4 
tablespoons of cream and a few drops of vanilla. Beat with an egg 
beater, setting the bowl in a dish of hot water till the sauce is light 
and foamy. Serve as soon as finished. 

COMMON SAUCE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 tablespoon flour and 1 tablespoon butter rubbed together; pour on 
boiling water until of the right consistency; add 1 cup of sugar, ana 
just before serving, aidd % cup of wine or 2 tablespoons brandy, or any 
extract preferred. An egg beaten light and added last is an improve- 
ment. 

SAUCE Mrs. Thos. S. BOnneau. 

1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons butter, 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup 
old water, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 tablespoon Vinegar. 

PUDDING SAUCE Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

1 cup powdered sugar, % cup butter (rub to a cream) add the white 
of 1 egg well beaten and a little nutmeg. When ready to serve, stir 
in 2 tablespoons of boiling water and flavor with a glass of sherry 
wine. 

WINE SAUCE Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

2 cups of sugar, y 2 cup of butter, 1 cup of sherry with a little brandy. 
Stir butter and sugar till it creams, adding, drop by drop, the wine. 
When mixed, put into the dish in which it is to be served, and set in a 
basin of hotwater. Do not stir or disturb it, and when melted it will 
foam as if made of beaten eggs. This sauce is to be used with cottage, 
plum, or any hot pudding, and is delicious. 

WINE SAUCE Helen Walker. 

1 cup wine, 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 egg. Cream together butter 
and sugar, add egg well beaten, set in hot water and heat but do not 
eook. Just before serving add the wine. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 12S 

FASHIONABLE MILLINERY 

MHUlllllllllllllllllllllillll!millllli:iiiH,n!iiiiiiililllill|il:l!i>;iwiilLliiiii!i!liiii nimillimiiim.lin. minimum'- 

GEORGIANA POSEY 

705 FOURTH ST. SAN RAFAEL 

Phone Black 351 fr COUTTS 

Carpet Cleaning Works 

General Upholstering 

Carpets Cleaned on the Floor with My New Dustless Electric Carpjt Renovator 

at 5 cents per yard. 

Carpets to be Cleaned and Relaid taken up Fres. 
Top Mattresses Made Over and Renovated, $2.00 each. Feathers Steam Renovated, 

10 cents per pound 
Antonette Ave., Bet. C and D Sts. San Rafael, Cal. 

Telephone Red 66 

W. T. Butterworth 

Manufacturer and Dealer in 
FINE HARNESS AND SADDLERY 

Horse Furnishing Goods, Boots, Sponges, Chamois, Etc. 
Carriage Trimming -and General Repairing a Specialty. 

712 Fourth Street, Near B San Rafael, Cal. 

Telephone, Black 1662. 

California Fruit and Poultry Market 

M, HAUBRICH, Propr. 

Fruits, Vegetables, Fish, Poultry, &c. 
Fresh Every Day. 

809 Fourth Street San Rafael, CaL 



124 ADVERTISEMENTS 

H. Knittel M. Burke J. P. Davenport H. C. Fletcher 

MARIN FURNITURE CO. 

Incorporated 

PAINTING, TINTING AND PAPER HANGING 

INTERIOR DECORHTIONS and UPHOLSTERY 

Window Shades, Carpets, Spring Beds and Mattresses 
Telephone Red 1142 314 B St., San Rafael 



:S. HERZOG M. BLUMENTHAL 

TELEPHONE RED 26 



NEW SAN RAFAEL MARKET 

S. HERZOG A CO. 

Wholesab and Retail 
Deahrs in all kinds of 

Fresh and Salted Meats, Beef, Veal 

Lamb. Mutton, Ham, Bacon, Smoked Beef and Tongues 



B St. opp. Postoffice, San Refael 

. M , LAWRENCE 

PRACTICAL HORSESHOER 

Telephone Red 1037 
Third Street Between B and C San Rafael, Cal 



light]) 

*^ ^ * 



essert. 



GERMAN PUFFS Mrs. E. W. Newhall. 

1 pt. of milk, 10 tablespoons of flour, 1 tablespoon of melted butter, 
6 eggs, leaving out the whites of 3. Bake in buttered tins half filled, 
20 minutes in hot oven. Turn them into a flat dish, and just before 
serving pour over them the following sauce: Whites of 3 eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, 1 coffee cup of sugar, juice of 2 oranges. 

CREAM PUFFS Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

f % cup of butter, 3 eggs, % pt. of water, a pinch of salt, flour about 
*4 Ib. Boil the butter, water and salt; add the flour quickly; boil until 
the dough loosens from the saucepan; if it does not do this quicldy, add 
more flour; let the mixture cool; add the yolks and; the whipped whites 
of 3 eggs. Drop into boiling lard, the size of an egg; fry till brown, 
and serve with jelly or bake in oven, and fill with whipped cream. 

CREAM PUFFS Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

1 cup ^ater, i cup butter, soda the size of a pea. When boiling 
stir in 1 cup flour, ard cook until the mixture will roll in a ball in the 
pan. Spread out to cool; when cool add, 1 at a time, 3 eggs. Drop In- 
to 12 puffs, and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

CREAM PUFF FILLING WITH WALNUTS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
When whipped cream is not obtainable, make the following custard: 
1 pt. of milk in a double boiler, 1 cup of sugar, 2 tablespoons of corn 
starch wet in a little cold milk and added to the boiling milk, 1 tea- 
spoon butter, 2 eggs beaten, 1 teaspoon vanjlla and 1 teacup chopped 
walnuts. 

NEW ZEALAND TRIFLE Miss F. Alice Brown. 
Cut a stale sponge cake into slices about an inch thick; then put in 
layers raspberry jam, about 12 macaroons, 2 dozen ratafias, 2 ozs. 
sweet almonds, grated rind of 1 lemon, % pt. wine, 6 tablespoons 
brandy. Cover with gcod custard, and then with whipped cream. For 
the whip 1 pt. cream, sugar, the whites of 2 eggs, wine to flavor; 
whip till thick. 



126 LIGHT DKSSKKT 

A LADY FINGER TRIFLE Mrs. Anna McMahon, S. F. 
6 yolks of eggs beaten with a cup of powdered sugar; have on the- 
stove Sy 2 good wine glasses of sherry and a little water, into which put 
1 teaspoon cf sugar and 1 of vanilla; stir in the beaten eggs and 
sugar, then add 1 large teaspoon of flour made into a paste. Have a 
deep platter lined with lady fingers and macaroons, sprinkle with 
wine; when the mixture has slightly cooled, pcur over the cakes, beat 
the whites with G scant tablespoons of sugar, spread over tcp, let 
brown in the oven; to be eaten cold. 

TRIFLE Mrs. A. A. Adair, Riverside, Cal. 

Put a layer -of cake crumbled up in the dish you expect to serve It 
in on the table; if the cake is stale and dry, put a little hot water over 
it to soften jiist a little. If the cake is fresh the fruit juice will ba suffi- 
cient to moisten it; put in lots of walnuts chopped not very fine, and 
a generous sprinkling of cocoanut; add strawberries or raspberries; 
cover with a nice rich custard; then add another generous sprinkling 
of cocoanut, and cover the top with whipped cream. This is very nice. 

BAKED PRUNE PUDDING Dr. C. B. Brown, S. F. 

Put !/2 H>. of prunes and 1 slice of bread through a meat cutter to- 
gether. Add 1 egg, piece of butter <5ize of an egg, milk to fill pudding 
dish, and % cup sugar. Bake % of an hour. 

PRUNE FLOAT Miss Tena Bremner. 

1 pt. milk, 4 tablespoons corn starch, % lb prunes, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, % teaspoon vanilla, 4 eggs, 3 tablespoons powdered sugir. Wash 
choice prunes in several waters, and soak over night. In the morn- 
ing acid 1 tablespoon granulated sugar, and stew until tender. Cut a 
few in halves, remove the stones from all, and chop the rest very fine. 
Put milk on to heat, beat yolks of 4 eggs light with 1 tablespoon of 
sugar and syrup from prunes; add to hot milk, also the corn starch 
moistened with a little cold milk; stir until it thickens; then remove 
from the fire and stir in the chopped prunes and vanilla. Pour into 
pudding dish in which it is to be served. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff 
froth with 3 spoonfuls of sugar, and put on top of the pudding through 
a pastry tube. Drop half prunes around the top. Put into a quick 
oven, and brown slightly. May be served cold with whipped cream. 

PRUNE WHIP Mrs. A. A. Adair, Riverside, Cal. 

20 prunes cooked without sugar till very tender and very dry; stone 
and chop fine; beat the whites of 4 eggs very stiff; add a small cup 
of sugar and *4 teaspoon of cream of tartar; mix all thoroughly; bake 
*,& hour in a pan set in a pan of water. Serve with cream; whippe<jt 
cream is nicest- 



LIGHT DESSERT 127 

JELLIED PRUNE Mrs. Geo. Foster. 

1 pint prunes, 1% pints water, % package gelatine, 1 cup sherry, 1 
cup sugar. Scak gelatine in gill cf water 2 hours. Cook prunes in 5 
gills of water slowly 1 hour. Remove stones and mash very fine. Pour 
a little boiling water on gelatine to dissolve it. Strain it into the 
prunes; add sugar and water; beat thoroughly. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE Mrs. H. V. Robinson. 

Cock prunes until well done, drain on cloth, chop, and to every 4 
prunes allow the white of 1 egg, beaten very dry, sweeten to taste and 
if liked add a grating of lemon peel. 7 eggs will serve 8 people. Bake 
in buttered pan set in water until done. Try with straw. When cold, 
turn out, slice and serve with whipped cream. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE Mrs. A. F. Fechteler. Washington, D. C. 
Prunes, 1 cup; Eggs (whites only), 3; sugar, 1 teaspoon; sherry, 1 
tablespoon. Soak prunes over night. Stew until tender. Remove 
stones and press through a fine sieve. Put back on stove in a 
saucepan, when hot stir in sugar and sherry. Take off the fire and add 
the well beaten whites of eggs. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve with whipped cream. 

APPLE SOUFFLE Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Stew the apples, add a little grated lemon peel, the juice, also sugar 
to sweeten; line the sides and bottom of the dish about 2 inches thick. 
Make a boiled custard with 1 pint of milk, 2 eggs, and a little sugar; 
when cool, pour into the center of the dish; beat the whites, add a 
little sugar, spread over, and brown a few minutes in oven. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Beat the whites and yolks of 3 eggs separately. To the whites add 
2 tablespoons sugar; mix together, flavor with vanilla; put into a pud- 
dign dish, sprinkle with sugar, bake 15 minutes, and serve immedi- 
ately. 

ORANGE SOUFFLE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 cup stale bread crumbs, % cup milk, grated rind of % small orange 
14 cup orange juice, 1 table spoon lemon juice, % cup sugar, 1 salt 
spoon salt, 3 eggs, beaten separately. Soak bread crumbs in milk un- 
til soft and mix with all other ingredients, excepting the whites of 
eggs, which are folded in last. Butter small cups or molds, fill about 
% full, and bake in pan of hot waiter in moderate oven until set. Serve 
at once. 

SAGO CREAM Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cook ty cup of sago in 1 quart of milk until clear. Then add 1 cup 
of sugar and the yolks of 3 eggs. When a little cool, stir in the well 
beaten whites and flavor. Some use the pearl tapioca and cook it the 
same way. 



128 LIGHT DESSERT 

DESSERT Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Slice the ripe part of a watermelon, and cut it into diamonds, 
squares, hearts, or disks, the size of a mouthful. Put a layer of water- 
melon in a glass fruit dish, cover with sugar, then another layer of 
watermelon, and so on until the dish is full, with sugar over the top; 
set it in the ice-fhr-Pt ti'l wnt"^. To HP e'lten as fruit with cake. This 
is a delicious way of serving watermelon. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD Mrs. W. F. Jones 

1 quart of milk, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons corn starch, 1 cup brow.n sugar. 
Melt the sugar, stirring constantly; then add the milk but do not let 
it. boil or it will crack. When near boiling add the corn starch, sugar, 
and yolks of the eggs. When a little cool, stir in the whites and 1 teas- 
poon \anilla. Pour into a mold; to be eaten with whipped cream. 

FLOATING ISLAND Mrs. H. V. Robinson. 

Pi't 1 miart milk 'n double boiler; 1 cup sugar, 1 tablesnoon of corn 
starch wet in a little cold milk, are to be added to the milk when boil- 
ing. Remove from the fire, add the beaten yolks of 3 eggs; when cool 
add 1 teaspoon of vanilla, and pour into a glass dish. Just before serv- 
ing, beat the whites very stiff and drop over the top. This is nice 
poured over stale cake soaked in wine, over sliced oranges, or over 
strawberries or raspberries. 

BAKED CUSTARD Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Beat 4 eggs light; add % cup of sugar, 1 pint of milk, and nutmeg to 
taste. When well mixerd, pour into a pudding dish and drop into the 
center % cup of table syrup; do not stir again. Put in a pan of 
water and baks in a mode-ate oven until it sets. When cold, loosen 
the edges and turn upon a platter. The syrup forms a sauce. If prop- 
erly made, this is ve~y nice. The use cf ma')le syrup or caramel syrup 
makes a variety. These proportions without the syrup make delicious 
cup custards, or a boiled custard. 

LEMON CUSTARD Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

5 cs^r- t^e v^'ks beaten ^-'t^ 1 !a-<?e "'ip of sugar; add the juice and 
grated rind of 2 lemons. Cook in double boiler, stirring constantly 
until it bubbles and thickens. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and 
gently pti r the mixture ' n t them. Dip into lemonade glasses, and 
serve when cold. This makes about enough for 11 people, and is deli- 
cious. 

ORANGE PUDDING Mrs. C. H. Clickner. 

Peel and slice 4 large oranges and sprinkle over them 1 cup of sugar, 
and let stand 1 hour to draw out juice. Heat 1 pint of milk to boiling 
point, add 2 tablespoons corn starch wet in a little cold milk the yolks 
of 3 eggs and white of 1 beaten light. Beat the remaining 2 whites 
very stiff, add 4 tablespoons sugar, put on top and brown. Serve cold. 



LIGHT DESSERT 129 

ORANGE CREAM Mrs. Orey J. Short. 

4 oranges, squeeze out juice, add 1 cup sugar and let stand. To 1 
qt. nearly boiling milk, add two tablespoons corn starch wet with a 
little cold milk, and beaten yolks of 3 eggs; cook until thick. When 
cool mix with orange and frost with the beaten whites of the eggs and 
half cup sugar, flavor with a little lemon. Brown lightly. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM OR SNOW Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 1 pint of strawberries 
passed through a colander and sweetened to taste. Stir gradually and 
gently into the eggs. Other berries and apple sauce are nice the same 
way. 

DANISH PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Dissolve 1 cup of sago or the same of pearl tapioca in a quart of 
water, and cook until clear. Add 1 glass of sour jelly or 1 pint of stew- 
ed rhubarb, and when cold serve with whipped cream. With the rhu- 
barb do not use quite so much water; but it must not be too stiff or it 
will be tough. Sweeten to taste. 

MARSH MALLOW PUDDING Mrs. Wm. L. Jones, Cloverdale. 

2 teaspoons gelatine (Knox), dissolved in ty cup of water over steam. 
Whites of 5 eggs, pinch of salt, % cup sugar. Add sugar gradually and 
beat half an hour with Dover egg beater. Also add gelatine slowly, 
after straining. Pour in shallow, straight sided pan or vegetable dish. 
Before serving cut in squares and roll in powdered sugar. May be, 
molded in mold, with whipped cream in center. 

MARSHM<XLLOW PUDDING Mrs. C. C. Stevenson. 

1 tablespoon gelatine, % cup cold water and % cup boiling water, 1 
cup sugar, whites of 3 eggs, flavor with vanilla. Put gelatine to soak 
in the half cup cold water for 15 minutes, add enough boiling water to 
fill cup and let stand 15 minutes longer, beat the whites of eggs stiff 
and add the sugar; add gelatine with the vanilla and beat for % hour 
in a cool place. Strain the gelatine before adding to the eggs. 

MARSHMALLOW DESSERT Mrs. Geo. Foster. 

% Ib marshmallows, 1 Ib English walnuts, 1 glass Maraschino Cor- 
dial, % pt. cream (before it is whipped). Cut the marshmallows in 
quarters, chop the walnuts. Mix the marshmallows, nuts and cordial 
with the whipped cream and decorate with Maraschino cherries. Save 
out some of the cream to put on top of the dish and put some of the 
cherries on top of that. It is better if put on the ice for a few hours 
before serving. 

IMPERIAL RICE PUDDING Miss O. A. Gordon. 
In a double boiler put three cupfuls milk, and half a cupful well 



130 LIGHT DESSEKT 

washed rice, cover and cook until milk is absorbed, adding a quarter 
of a teaspoon of salt, when it is half done, add one cupful sugar, one- 
third of a box of gelatine, soaked in one-half cup of cold water, stir 
gently until dissolved, set aside until rice is cold, and beginning to 
thicken , add a teaspoon of vanilla, one-quarter cup of sherry, one-half 
cup cut candied fruit, one cup thick cream whipped to a stiff froth, 
mix lightly and turn into a mold and set aside to stiffen. 

IMPERIAL RICE PUDDING Edythe Foster. 

3 tablespoons rice, 1 pt milk, 3 tablespoons sugar, rind 1 lemon, *4 
box gelatine,, % pint cream. Drop rice into enough cold water to cover 
it, bring to a boil, then wash rice in cold water. Simmer rice in milk 
with sugar and lemon rind. When quite tender add gelatine which 
has been softened in a little milk and set aside to cool. Mix in lightly 
% pint of whipped cream, fill mold and set on ice. Serve with preserve 
ginger. 

BANANA CREAM Mrs. J. K. Armsby. 

1 pt. milk, 14 box gelatine, y 2 cup sugar, 2 eggs beaten separately. 
Soak gelatine in milk % hour. Put in double boiler, with % cup sugar. 
When hot add the well beaten yolks and flavor with vanilla. Beat 
whites to a stiff froth and stir into the mixture, beating well. Slice 2 
bananas and put in the mold and pour mixture over them. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

BAKED BANANAS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cook 1 level tablespoon butter, 2 heaping tablespoons sugar, and the 
juice of 1 lemon, in a double boiler until clear. Have 1 dozen bananas 
peeled and sliced once lengthwise on a buttered dish. Pour % of this 
sauce over the bananas, and bake 15 minutes; then add the remainder 
of the sauce, and bake until a rich brown, basting occasionally. Nice 
either hot or cold. Also good baked with brown sugar and butter to 
form a caramel. 

BANANAS AND APPLES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Pare and core about 1 dozen apples; fill the centers and all the 
interstices with bananas in little squares and stirred into the above 
sauce. Bake until a rich brown and well done. Serve with cream. 

AMBROSIA Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel and slice as many oranges as needed, and fill a glass dish with 
thin layers alternately of oranges sprinkled with sugar, sliced pine- 
apple and more sugar, then grated cocoanut and more sugar; repeat 
until the dish is full. Let it stand a few hours before using. Some 
prefer bananas instead of pineapple, but both will do no harm. 



LIGHT DESSERT 131 

BLANC MANGE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 quart of milk, 1 cup of sugar, 4 tablespoons corn starch wet up in a 
little milk. When cooked pour it into the beaten whites of 2 eggs, 
and mold. For chocolate Blanc Mange add Vfc cup chocolate. 

Sauce for Blanc Mange 1 tablespoon corn starch wet in cold water; 
pour boiling water over it until it is clear and of the right consistency. 
Add 1 tablespoon butter, % cup of sugar, the grated rind and juice of 
1 lemon, yolks of 2 eggs; then pour around the molded pudding. 

Caledonia Cream for Blanc Mange Whites of 3 eggs well beaten, 3 
tablespoons pulverized sugar, % cup of whipped cream, 3 tablespoons 
of currant or raspberry jelly. Nice without the cream. 

DELICIOUS BLANC MANGE Mrs. Wm. B. Noble. 

Put 1 ounce of gelatine in a little warm water and keep it on the 
stove until dissolved; then sweeten and flavor with vanilla 1 quart of* 
cream, and whip it. Strain the gelatine or the cream. Wet the molds 
in cold water, fill them and set away to congeal 

ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 cup milk, 4 teaspoons arrowroot, 2 teaspoons sugar. Make a 
smooth paste of arrowroot and water; stir this into the boiling milk: 
add the sugar, flavor with vanilla; stir all the time until it thickens; 
turn out, and when cold serve with cream. 

CREME A LA VANILLA Mrs. Grandjean. 

1 quart of good cream, sugar to taste, stick of vanilla, put to boil to- 
gether then4)eat four whites of eggs, add to the cream (always stir- 
ring). Cook two minutes (always stirring). If yolks are preferable 
instead of white, put 5 or 6. 

SELLAPO'JP Mrs. Grandjean. 

1 glass Malage. M. jx>und sugar. Put sugar in wine to melt one hour 
before serving. Beat 1 quart of creaTi until thick, strain the wine, 
then mix with cream, just beaten so wine and cream are well mixed. 
CRE^M JELLY Miss O. A. Gordon. 

1 tablespoon ge'atine 1 pint c-eam, 1 teasnoonful vanilla, % cup 
sugar, 4 tablespoons sherry. Put gelatine, sugar and vanilla into the 
cream and let stand for ^ hour, in a cool place. Then put into double 
boiler and heat until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain when cool, add 
the wine stir well and turn into small molds to set. Serve cold. 

FRUIT CHARTRUSE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 qt. of wine or lemon jelly, glace cherries, angelique, white grapes, 
etc. Line a mold with jelly and set in ice, then add a layer of fruit 
when the jelly is set, pour another layer of jelly over fruit and return 
to ice. Keep on in this way until fruit and jelly are all used, being 



132 LIGHT DESSERT 

careful each layer is set before adding a fresh layer. Turn onto glass 
dish and serve with whipped cream. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING Mrs. J. K. Armsby. 

% box Cox's gelatine, % pint cold water. Dissolve gelatine. % cup 
sugar, % cup chopped raisins, 1 tablespoon brandy, 1 pt. milk, yolks and 
whites of 5 eggs beaten separately, % lb. macaroons, 3 tablespoons 
blanched almonds, 2 teaspoons vanilla. Let the milk come to a boil 
and stir in sugar and yolks of eggs. Cook a few minutes and dissolve 
gelatine in it. Chop fine raisins and almonds and roll the macaroons 
fine and add to mixture. Flavor with brandy and vauilla. Add the 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, then turn into molds previously rinsed with 
cold water and sprinkle with sugar. Put on ice for 2 hours or more. 
Serve with whipped cream flavored with rum. 

JELLIED PLUM SYRUP Miss Margaret Bremner. 

Take the juice of any kind of fruit desired. Put % a box gelatine to 
soak in 1 cup of cold water for 20 minutes; add 1 cup of boiling water, 
and 2 cups of syrup from a can of plums. If the Plymouth Rock 
gelatine is used, no other acid will be needed, otherwise the juice of % 
a lemon will improve it. Strain all into a large jelly mold, or cups that 
have been wet with cold water; put on ice or in a cool place until stiff; 
turn out and serve with cream and sugar or whipped cream. 2 or 3 
large nlums cut into pieces and put in the jelly while cooking improves 
the jelly. The writer discovered this recipe while wondering what to 
do with a can of syrup left over from canning green gages. 

EASTER PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Make 1 quart of wine, orange or lemon jelly; mold in a round basin 
in the center of which you have three saucers turned upside down. 
Save 1 dozen egg shells opened at the small end, and put them in cold 
water. Make 1 quart of corn starch blanc mange; fill 3 of the shells, 
and stand them in a pan of bran or meal. Bruise a few spinach leaves, 
squeeze out a few drops of the color, add to a little of the mixture, and 
fill 3 more shells. Color some with chocolate, some with the yolks of 
eggs and some pink from a little of Knox's pink gelatine. While you 
are preparing the eggs, have the skin from 2 oranges or 2 lemons boil- 
ing; when tender, remove all of the white inside, and cut in little strips 
with scissors; then boil in syrup until clear, and spread out to dry. 
The next day turn out the jelly; around the edge of the nest put the 
peel for straw. Remove the shells from the eggs and pile in the nest; 
put whipped cream all around the jelly. This is a very pretty dish and 
delights the children. 

ICED PINEAPPLE CREAM Mrs. W. J. Wickman. 

Take a small % box of gelatine; place on fire with 1 cup or iy-> cups 
of water, and allow to dissolve. After thoroughly dissolved, strain the 



LIGHT DESSER; 133 

same through a clean cloth into a pint of grated pineapple; stir thor- 
oughly and continuously until it commences to congeal. At this stage 
stir into it 1 pt. of ice cream. Put all into a glass dish (ready for table) 
and set on ice. To be eaten with or without thick cream. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE Miss H. J. Trumbull. 

1% pint-can pineapple, 1 small cup sugar, % package gelatine, 1% 
cups water, whites of 4 eggs. Soak the gelatine 2 hours in % a cup of 
water. Put the juice of the pineapple in a saucepan with the sugar 
and the remainder of the water; simmer 10 minutes; add the gelatine 
take from the fire immediately, and strain into a tin basin. Add the 
chopped pineapple, and when partially cooled, add the beaten whites 
of the eggs, and beat until the mixture begins to thicken. Pour into 
H mold, and set away to harden. Serve with a soft custard made as 
follows: 

Custard Sauce 2 cups of milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 1 small cup of sugar. 
Heat the milk almost to boiling, add beaten yolks and sugar; stir con- 
stantly until it begins to thicken. Remove from the fire and add vanilla 
flavoring; allow it to cool, and when ready to serve, turn the pineapple 
sponge into a dish, and pour the custard around the base. 

PINEAPPLE CUSTARD Mrs. Geo. L. Richardson. 

Custard. 1 heaping tablespoon flour, salt and enough milk to blend, 
yolks of 4 eggs and 4 tablespoons sugar. Beat all these together and 
add to 1 qt. boiling milk and cook until very thick, stirring constantly. 
Cool and flavor. 

Pineapple. Chop 1 pineapple fine in meat chopper. Make a syrup of 
equal parts of pineapple juice and sugar, use water if you have not 
enough from pineapple and boil 5 minutes. Pour in pineaple and let 
come to a boil, when cool pour custard over it. Serve very cold with 
whipped cream on top. 

SPANISH CREAM Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 quart of milk, yolks of 3 eggs, % package Knox's gelatine, 2 table- 
spoons of sugar; flavor with vanilla or lemon. Soak the gelatine 2 
minutes in cold water. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add to the 
scalding milk, heat to boiling point, and add the gelatine, stirring all 
the time till it is dissolved. . Pour into a mold and set on ice. 

SPANISH CREAM Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

% box gelatine soaked in a quart of milk three hours, put on the flre, 
warm slowly. Divide the whites and yolks of five eggs, put five table- 
spoons of sugar with each, flavor the yolks with vanilla and the whites 
with lemon. When the gelatine and milk have come to a scald, put In 
the yolks, and when taken off the flre, add the whites, stir gently, then 
fill the forms. After standing in a warm place for three hours, put on 
the ice. Beat cream and wine to eat with it. 



134 LIGHT DESSERT 

NARCISSUS BLANC MANGE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

% box of Knox's gelatine soaked in 1 teacup of cold water; wheiv 
dissolved pour over it 1 pint of scalded milk; add % cup of sugar and 
the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Set away, and when it begins to set around 
the edges, transfer a spoonful at a time to another dish, and beat with 
an egg whip. Then flavor and add 1 cup of whipped cream. Turn into 
a funnel-shaped mold. I use an old-fashioned scalloped cake pan with 
a funnel. Serve with whipped cream around the edge and in the fun- 
nel. If short of cream beat the 2 whites, sweeten a little and add to 
the cream. A flavoring of sherry is preferable to vanilla. 

WINE JELLY Miss H. Pregge. 

Soak 1 box gelatine in y 2 pint of cold water 2 hours; then pour on 
l 1 /^ pints boiling water, and stir until it is dissolved, but do not set it 
near the fire. Now add the juice of 2 lemons and sweeten to your taste. 
Wring a piece of thin muslin out of hot water, and lay in a fine strain- 
er; strain the jelly through this after adding 1 pint of sherry wine to 
it. Make this jelly the day before you want to use it. 

COFFEE PUDDING Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 pint of cream whipped light, % package gelatine dissolved in 1 cup 
milk, I large cup of strong coffee, 1 cup sugar, whites of 2 eggs. Add 
the sugar and gelatine to the boiling coffee, strain and let cool; when 
the gelatine is cold, whip it slowly into the beaten whites until it is a 
firm froth, then add the whipped cream. Mold, and serve with cream. 

COFFEE JELLY Mrs. W. F. Jones 

^ package of Knox's gelatine in y z CU P cold water, % cup sherry, 
3 cups hot coffee, 1 cup sugar. Dissolve gelatine in cold water, pour 
over boiling coffee, add sugar and sherry and strain into wet mold. 
Serve with unsweetened whipped cream. If sherry is omitted use a 
little more coffee. 

COFFEE CHARLOTTE RUSSE Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

In making Charlotte Russe % cup of black coffee, sweetened to taste 
and mixed with a teaspoonful of lemon juice, makes a delicious flavor. 
It is put with about a pint of rich cream, chilled and whipped to a 
froth, poured into. molds lined with sponge cake and heaped at the top. 

NORWEGIAN CHARLOTTE Mrs. Geo. L. Richardson. 

Make sponge cake in 3 layers, beat whites of 2 eggs, add 2 table- 
spoons powdered sugar; Mix y 2 H>. chopped almonds into % of this and 
spread on first layer. Mix other half with maraschino cherries cut fine 
and spread on second layer. After putting on top layer, cut centers 
from 2 upper layers, leaving about a 2 in. rim. Make a custard of 1 
cup milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, and 1 teaspoon gelatine. 
Flavor with sherry or almond, or a little of each. Cool and fill center 



LIGHT DESSERT ].'i5 

with custard. Over all put whipped cream and decorate with almonds 
and maraschino cherries. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 pint of cream whipped light, 1 ounce gelatine dissolved in 1 gill of 
hot milk, whites of 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 small teacup pow- 
dered sugar, flavor with y* teaspoon bitter almonds and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Mix the cream, eggs, sugar and flavoring; add to it the gela- 
tine and milk when nearly cold. Line a mold with lady fingers, fill 
with the mixture. Set on ice to cool. 

ORANGE GELATINE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Pare 6 oranges, cut in thin slices (rejecting the seeds), and lay in a 
glass dish; dissolve % box of Knox's gelatine in 1 cup of cold water; 
when dissolved pour over it 1 pint or 2 cups of boiling water, 1 cup of 
white sugar, and strain upon the oranges. Serve with whipped cream 
or cream and sugar. To make variety cut in * dozen bananas and a 
can of sliced pineapple cut into small pieces. To double the recipe for 
the jelly, use the juice of the pineapple and have 2 quarts of jelly in- 
stead of one. 

ORANGE WHIP Miss Tena Bremner. 

Allow 1 quart of thick, rich cream to 6 oranges; make very sweet, 
and whip. Separate the oranges into sections; cut them in dice, taking 
out all membrane .leaving soft bits of pulp. Fill a glass dish with 
alternate layers of whipped cream and pulp, making upper layer of 
cream. Sprinkle top with macaroon crumbs. 

ORANGE BASKETS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cut as many oranges as required, leaving half the peel whole for the 
baskets, and a strip across half an inch wide for the handle, that is, cut 
out 2 right-angled pieces each side of handle Remove the pulp and 
juice, and use the juice for the orange jelly. Place the baskets in a pan 
with broken ice between to hold them upright. When ready to serve, 
put a teaspoon of whipped cream on top of each, and serve on orange 
leaves. It is an improvement to tie a small bow of ribbon on the center 
of the handle. To each pint of juice dissolve ^ box of Knox's gelatine 
in % cup of cold water. When dissolved, pour over the gelatine 1 cup 
of boiling water, 1 cup of sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and then the fruit 
juice; strain through a cloth and fill the baskets. 

ORANGE JELLY Mrs. Frances C. White. 

6 large deep colored oranges, juice of all, grated peel of one; 2 lem- 
ons, juice of both and peel of one; 1 glass best brandy; 1 package of 
gelatine soaked In 2 cups of water; 1 pint of boiling water; 2 cups 
sugar. Stir the sugar, lemon, and orange juice, peel, and soaked gela- 
tine together and cover for an hour. Pour the boiling water over them, 



136 LIGHT DESSERT 

stir until the gelatine is quite melted, strain and add the brandy, strain 
again through a close flannel bag and pour into a wet mold. I usually 
take the orange skins, remove the pulp and throw them into cold water 
until ready to use them. Fill them with the jelly and serve. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM PUDDING Miss Margaret Bremner. 

1^ pints milk, % cup sugar, 1^4 squares sweetened chocolate, 5 level 
tableespoons corn starch, % teaspoon salt, whites of 3 eggs. Boil milk, 
sugar, and grated chocolate together; then add the corn starch dis- 
solved in a little cold milk; boil for 5 minutes, stirring constantly; 
then add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and let boil 1 minute longer, 
stirring until done; put in a mold or molds as desired; serve cold with 
cream or whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 box of Knox's gelatine dissolved in 1 quart of milk; set it on stove 
and let it gradually heat until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Use 
1 drawer of strawberries, reserving the best for the garnish; strain the 
rest through a cloth, add to the milk, and sweeten to taste. There 
should be about 2 quarts. Set away in mold to cool; when it begins to 
set, stir in 1 cup of cream whipped. When stiff, turn on to platter or 
any flat dish; put whipped cream all around, and drop the large re- 
served berries into the cream around the dish. Delicious. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 139 

>:,MXK~:"K"H~K~K^^ 



X Telephone Red 1611 

X 

I Laurel Grove Nursery f 

Z 

H. SCHLUTER, Proprietor 

t 

All Kinds of Bedding Plants 

2 

I Roses, Palms, Ornamental Plants 

? ? 

X Arid Trees, Fruit Trees in season, 

y Orange and Lemon Trees 

i 

.;. SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 



Phone Red 1692 

E* S. Lansdown & Son 

UPHOLSTERS and 
CARPET LAYERS 

Dealers in Mattresses, Linoleum, Carpets, Mattings, Window Shades 
and Brass Rods. Mattresses Made to Order 

914 FOURTH ST. SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 

G. W. FOX 

Marin Electrical Works 

Estimates furnished on all kinds of Electrical Work, 
Electrical Supplies, Batteries, Chandeliers, Motors, 

Electric House Wiring, Electric Bells 
Electrical Repairing Work 
Fourth St., San Rafael Telephone Black 781 



ADVERTISEMENTS 






Y 

| 

Hotels, Restaurants and Families Supplied 



I 
I 



H. T. LEWIS 



Telephone Telephone 

Blk. 1466 Blk. 1466 



| 

A DIK.. J.'tUU D1K. J.'tUU 

J 

SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 



X 33O B Street 



Y Y 

Y A 

Y Y 

Y * 

Y A 

I High Grade Teas and Coffees 
Spices, Extracts 

A Y 

and Baking Powder 

Y Y 

Y Y 

Y Y 

Y Y 

A :*: 

A Imported Italian and A 

Y Y 

Y California Olive Oil Y 

o 

Y 

Y =============== 

Y 

AGENCY 

Singer Sewing Machine Co. 



**"**** *****~**~*~*~*~*~^**..****V^ 

^ V T^^*^^I^^^^ V V%^ V %^^^ V V%^^^*%*%^ 




VANILLA CREAM Mrs. Arthur Crosby. 

To a 1-gal. freezer, take the well beaten whites of 6 eggs, and equal 
parts of rich milk or cream, about 1 quart of each; add 1 tablespoon 
vanilla and 1 cup sugar. Taste, and if necessary add more sugar or 
extract. The freezer should be a little over % full before freezing. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

For 1 gal. of ice cream, use 1 qt. double cream or 3 pts. ordiinary 
cream. If pineapple is required, add 1 pt. can of grated pineapple to 
the cream. Yellows of 4 to 6 eggs, about a half cup of sugar and lastly 
the beaten whites and sufficient milk to fill freezer within about 3 in. 
of the top. 

For strawberry cream use 1V& cups sugar, % drawer strawberries. 
If some whole berries are liked stir them in as you remove dasher, 
after freezing. 

For peach cream use about 1 qt. prepared peaches. 

Coffee cream, put 1 pt. milk in double boiler and when hot add V% 
cup ground coffee, let stand long enough to be well drawn, strain and 
cool. Use 1 cup sugar and the other ingredients. Some may prefer 
more sugar in all of these recipes. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM Mrs. Geo. Dodgfe. 

Hull 1 quart of berries, sprinkle with about 2 cups of sugar, and 
mash them. Let stand until the sugar is dissolved, and then sqeeze 
through a cloth. Add 1 quart of cream, and if not sweet enough add 
more sugar. The pulp left in the cloth should be stirred into a little 
milk and squeezed again, in order to get all the berries but the seeds. 
Then freeze. Raspberry cream does not require so much of the fruit 
juice, as the flavor is stronger and richer. 

ICE CREAM Miss H Pregge. 

1 quart milk, % box gelatine, 1 coffee cup sugar, 1 pint cream, flavor 
to taste. Put the gelatine and milk in a double boiler, and let it dis- 
solve; then add sugar and flavoring, and freeze. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI ICE CREAM. Hoover. 

2 quarts sweet cream, 6 ounces dry granulated sugar, 8 ounces chop- 
ped glaced fruit, 1 feaspoonful extract of vanilla; mix thoroughly to- 
gether and freeze. 



142 FROZEN DAINTIES 

FRUIT ICE CREAM Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

1 quart peaches, bananas, or berries, or a grated pineapple, (1 quart 
peaches preferred) ; pass through a colander. I cup water, 2 cups 
sugar, whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff; mix and freeze. 

COFFEE FRAPPE Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 quart rich cream, 2 cups white sugar, 1 cup strong black coffee. 
Freeze the same as ice cream. 

WHITE VELVET ICE CREAM Mrs. Thos. Wintringham. 

1 cup water, 3 cups sugar, whites of 6 eggs, vanilla to flavor, % gal. 
rich cream. Boil sugar and water until it threads as for boiled icing. 
Beat the whites of eggs very stiff on a large flat platter. Pour the boil- 
ing sugar slowly over the eggs, beating until well blended. Whip into 
this the cream and beat until cold. Freeze immediately. This makes 
one gal. A sauce of hot chocolate or crushed fruit can be served with 
this cream, but delicious without sauce. 

MOUSSE. Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Whip 1 quart of rich cream and add to the whites of 6 eggs beaten 
very stiff. Sweeten amS flavor with vanilla to taste; put in mold and 
pack in ice and salt for 5 or 6 hours. If the cream is not rich enough 
to whip thick, whip it to a froth and keep skimming off the froth and 
put into a colander set in a bowl. Whip also that which drains into 
the bowl. When all is foamy, sweeten and flavor, and pack as above, 
omitting the eggs. 

GOLDEN MOUSSE Miss H. J. Trumbull. 

1 pint of cream before it is beaten; 5 eggs, yolks only, beaten stiff; 
6 tablespoons of powdered sugar; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Mix eggs, 
sugar and vanilla together; add all to the cream; put into a can packed 
in salt and ice, and let stand for 3 hours. 

MAPLE MOUSSE Mrs. Sanderson, San Francisco. 

1 cup maple syrup. Bring to a boil, take from fire and add the beat- 
en yolks of two eggs; when cold add beatep whites and 1 pt. of cream 
whipped. Pack well in freezer with ice and salt as for ice cream. Let 
stand five hours. 

FROZEN PUDDING Mrs. Sanderson, San Francisco. 

1 pint cream, 1% doz. macaroons, 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, 2 
tablespoons ground chocolate. Whip the cream, add the sugar and 
divide into three parts. To one portion add the chocolate which has 
been moistened with a very little water and stir until smooth. Add 
enough pink coloring to second portion to give a delicate pink. Flavor 
third portion with one teaspoon of vanilla. Roll macaroons, not too 
fine, and divide into three parts; take a small lard can, put in first the 



F3OZEN DAINTIES 143 

pink cream, over this lay one portion of the macaroons, next the white, 
on which spread second portion of macaroons, then add the chocolate 
cream. Cover can and pack with salt and ice as for ice cream. In 4 
hrs. turn out, cover with third portion of macaroons and serve at once. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

1 pint of cream, 2 cups milk, 1 cup of sugar, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon of 
vanilla, and a pinch of salt, 6 stale macaroons rolled -fine, 12 candied 
cherries cut in quarters and soaked in % cup sherry, ^ cup of nut 
meats (English walnuts, pecans, or hickory nuts), and a little citron. 
Scald the milk and cream, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, with sugar 
and salt. Let cool and flavor. Freeze, and when nearly frozen, add 
the beaten whites of the eggs, fruit and chopped nuts. 

ROMAN PUNCH Mrs. H. V. Robinson. 

Juice of % dozen lemons or 1 dozen limes; juice of 1 can of grated 
pineapple; 1 cup cold water; white of 1 egg beaten slightly; a wine- 
glass of Jamaica rum; 1% cups white sugar. If not sweet enough to 
suit, add more sugar and freeze rapidly to make it creamy. To be 
served before the game course. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pint of fresh, or 1 can of grated pineapple; 1 pint of white sugar; 
1 tablespoonful of gelatine soaked in a little cold water; juice of 1 lem- 
on. Pour 1 pint of boiling water over this mixture, and when well dis- 
solved, strain through a cloth and freeze. Turn the freezer rapidly 
and continuously, to insure the sherbet being smooth a^.d creamy. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET Mrs. Arthur Wellington, Ross. 

1 pt. can of grated pineapple, 2 cups sugar, 3* pints of water, 2 
tablespoons gelatine or 1 of arrowroot; juice 2 lemons, whites of 3 
eggs. Boil water and sugar together ten minutes, add 2 tablespoons 
of gelatine or one of arrowroot dissolved in water, to boiling syrup 
juice of two lemons and strain. When cold put in freezer and when half 
frozen add the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. 

ORANGE SHERBET Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Soak 1 heaping tablespoon of Knox's gelatine in *& cup cold water 10 
minutes; add % cup boiling water; when dissolved, add 1 cup of sugar, 
1 cup cold water and 1 pint orange juice; when sugar is dissolved, 
strain and freeze. 

LEMON MILK SHERBET Mrs. Thos. Wintringham. 
Squeeze the juice of three large lemons over two cups of granulated 
sugar; let stand two hours and stir until thoroughly dissolved. Put 
a qt. of rich milk in freezer and let it become chilled, then add lemon 
and sugar and freeze quickly. Particularly refreshing in warm 
weather. 



144 FROZEN DAINTIES 

COUP JACK Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Wash., D. C. 

A Coup Jack is made of the fruits of the season. If grapes are used 
they should be seeded and oranges are shredded. 

Place fruits in a jar and add to them sugar and maraschino or kirsch- 
wassen to taste. Put the jar in ice for two hours or more until perfect- 
ly chilled. Then remove and place portions of the fruit and sugar in 
glasses. Over this, filling the glasses to the top, put any sort of an ice 
one may desire, orange, lemon, or pineapple. Place on top of each 
glass a large candied cherry or strawberry. 

BAKED APPLE ICE CREAM Edythe Foster. 

Bake and sift six nice sweet apples. Add one qt. of rich cream and 
sugar to taste. When sugar is dissolved, freeze. 

MAPLE PARFAIT Mrs. W. P. Taylor. 

Beat yolks of 8 eggs until light; add 1 cup of maple syrup (made by 
adding water to the maple sugar and cooking to the right consistency). 
Place the mixture on a slow fire and stir constantly until the eggs have 
thickened enough to make a thick coating on the spoon. Turn into a 
bowl and beat it until it is cold. It will then be very light. When the 
custard is cold, add a pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. (If any 
liquid has drained from the cream do not add it). Stir lightly togeth- 
er; turn the mixture into a mold holding three pints. Pack in ice and 
salt for 4 hours. 

ANGEL PARFAIT Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

In a sauce pan put % cup granulated sugar and 5 tablespoons boiling 
water; stir until sugar is dissolved, remove spoon, and boil slowly but 
steadily until the syrup will spin a thread at least y 2 in. long. Have 
ready the whites of 3 eggs whipped to a stiff dry froth. Pour the syrup 
slowly over the whites, beating all the while until the mixture is cold, 
then add 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 pt. of thick cream whipped. Mix care- 
fully but thoroughly; turn .into mold with tightly fitted cover over para- 
fine paper. Bind the edges with a strip of muslin dipped in fat, bury in 
ice and salt for fully 4 hours before serving. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 141 

Telephone Red 786 



NEW 

MAR IN 



F. RIEDE & CO. 

Genuine Milk and Rye Bread Wedding Cakes to Order 

Orders Promptly Filled and Delivered to any part of the City 

719 Fourth Street t San Rafael 



H. A. Go r ley & Co. 

Dealers in 

Foreign and Domestic Dry Goods 

Ladies' and Gents' Furnishing Goods, Shoes, Etc. 



DRY GOODS EMPORIUM 
807 FOURTH ST. 



Cochrane-McNear Bldg., San Rafael Telephone Red I 662 



148 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



THE WORLD 

IS 

BEFORE 

YOU 

EVERY 

MORNING 



E. Q. 

Smith 

811 4th St. 
SAN RAFAEL 



JUST SO 

SHOULD 

BE A 

CUR OF 

SMITH'S 

COFFEE 



ENSIBLE Housewives pay CASH for Clean, Fresh 
Groceries. Foolish ones pay BIG BILLS. 

OST Grocers are Sane. Some Customers are 



Not. 



M 

IT costs more to sell cheap, poor Goods than it does 
First Class. 

THE Grocer who ^ants business and can't get it, usually 
starts a sample room in the rear. 

AVE you ever bought "Wishy-washy" Coffee or Tea* 
sold to you in a Handsome Package? 



H 



A A Goods 

Baking Powder (Pura) 

Bird Sssd 

1 Gravel 
Blueing, tins, big 
Cream Tartar, tins 
Carolina Rice (small) 
Corn Starch (Popcorn) 
COFFEE (Fresh) always 
Currants 
Citron Peel 



Clothes Pins 

Dried Fruits 

Fairy Soap 

Gold Dust 

Gloss Starch 

Glass Rolling Pins 

Grand Mas. Spanish Peppar 

Jellies and Jams, made at home 

Laundry Soap, all kinds 

Meat of Poultry Seasoning 

Olive Oil (Ricci) 



Extracts, XXX Concentrated, Orange Marmalade, 

Nuts (all kinds), Raspberry Syrup, Perfumes 
Spices, Pure (tins or bulk) 

TEAS 30 GRADES AND VARIETIES 

Send Six Bits in Stamps for 1 lb., Post Paid 



Qkes, (ookies, J)o(igl|n(its 



ETC. 



RULES FOR CAKE. 

Sift cream of tartar, baking powder and soda dry with the flour. 

Never dissolve soda in a liquid as it is almost sure to leave streaks,, 
and after it is dissolved the mixture cannot be as light as when fer- 
mentation takes place in the dough. 

When soda and sour milk are used always add a little baking pow- 
der, and the mixture will be far lighter and will not taste of soda as 
it is almost sure to do if sufficient soda is used to make very light. 

1 level teaspoon of soda to 1 cup of sour milk is a good rule. 

Beat eggs separately. 

Dredge fruit with flour to prevent its sinking, and always add it last. 

Bake cake slowly at first, increasing the heat of the oven when well 
risen. Layer and sponge cakes require a quicker oven than loaf or 
fruit cake. Sponge ginger bread requires a slow oven. Cookies re- 
quire a quick oven. 

WEDDING CAKE Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

(This cake was used at Mrs. Bradford's wedding many years ago.) 
5 pounds of flour, 5 pounds of sugar, 5 pounds of butter, 5 pounds 
of raisins, 5 pounds of citron, 10 pounds of currants, ^ pint of molas- 
ses, % pint of brandy, 35 eggs, 1% ounces of mace, 1% ounces of cin- 
namon, the same of cloves, 2 ounces of nutmeg, 1 teaspoon of soda. 

FRUIT CAKE Mrs. Robert Dollar. 

Flour 1 pound sifted and browned, butter 1 pound, sugar 1 pound, 
eggs 10, soda 1 teaspoon, raisins 1 pound, currants 1 pound, citron % 
pound, orange 2 ounces, lemon 2 ounces, almonds % pound, walnuts % 
pound, cinnamon 1 teaspoon, mace 1 teaspoon, cloves 1 teaspoon, all- 
spice 1 teaspoon. 

BLACK WEDDING CAKE Mrs. L. A. Lancel. 

1 pound powdered sugar, 1 pound butter, 1 pound flour, 12 eggs, 1 
pound raisins seeded and chopped, 1 pound currants washed and 
dredged, % pound citron cut into slips, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 2 teas- 
poons nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 pint brandy. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add the beaten yolks, stir well; add the flour, then the spice, 
then the whipped whites with the flour; lastly the brandy. This quatt- 



H50 'CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

tity makes 2 large cakes; bake at least 2 hours in deep buttered tins; 
'test the cakes well, and be sure they are well done before taking them 
^roin the oven; put on icing. 

FRUIT CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pound of butter, 1 pound of brown sugar, 1 pound of flour, 10 eggs. 
"2 pounds -of 'raisins stoned and chopped, 2 pounds of currants washed 
carefully and dried, 1 pound of citron sliced fine, 1 teacup of syrup, 1 
teacup of brandy, 2 nutmegs, 1 small bottle of lemon extract, 2 table- 
spoons of cinnamon, 1 tablespoon of cloves, 4 teaspoons yeast powder, 
and 1 tablespoon of sugar burned and dissolved in a tablespoon of 
water. Stir butter and sugar to a cream then add eggs well beaten, 
syrup, brandy, lemon, spices, and the fruit dredged with some of the 
"flour. This will make a large and a small loaf. The large loaf should 
bake about 3 hours in a slow oven. 

FRUIT CAKE Mrs. W. J. Dickson. 

1 pound of sugar, 1 pound of butter, 1 pound of flour, 10 eggs, 4 
pounds fruit (raisins, currants, citron), 1 wine glass of wine (sherry) 
or brandy, 1 cup of syrup, 1 teaspoon mace, cinnamon and cloves. Beat 
the butter and sugar to a cream with the hand; stir in the eggs, 1 at 
~a. time, beating well with the hand, after which add the syrup, wine 
and spices, then the fruit, and lastly the flour. Bake 1% hours in tins 
lined with buttered paper. 

MRS. HOAG'S WEDDING CAKE Mrs. F. E. Sawyer. 
1% pounds sugar, 1% pounds flour, 1 pound butter, 3 pounds raisins, 
2*4 pounds currants, 1% pounds citron, 10 eggs, 2 wine glasses brandy, 
2 glasses wine, 1 cup cold coffee, 1 tablespoon soda, 2 tablespoons 
cloves, 1 tablespoon mace, 1 tablespoon allspice, 1 tablespoon cinna- 
mon, and a nutmeg. Bake 4 hours. If you choose brown part of the 
Hour. 

FRUIT CAKE Mrs. Saunders. 

1 Ib. sugar, lib. flour, lib. butter, 10 eggs, 1 gill of molasses, 31bs. 
raisins, 3 Ibs. currants, 1 Ib. citron chopped fine, 1 gill of wine, 2 of 
brandy. 1 oz. of cloves, 1 oz. of cinnamon, % of a nutmeg, 1 teaspoon 
saleratus, % Ib. figs chopped very fine, 1 cup broken walnuts. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE Mrs. W. L. Oge. 

1 Ib. Zante currants washed and dried in oven and floured, 1 Ib. seed- 
less raisins chopped and floured, % cup of butter, 2 cups sugar, % tea- 
spoon mace, 3 tablespoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg, 1 table 
spoon ground cloves, % cup of ground chocolate, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons 
Royal Baking Powder, 3 cups flour sifted. Cream the butter and sugar 
thoroughly. Add the spice and chocolate, then the eggs beaten 
separately and sifted flour with the baking powder. Lastly the floured 
chopped raisins and currants. 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOtfGHNUTS, ETC. 151 

EGOLESS FRUIT CAKE Mrs. Chas. Simes. 

1 cup sour milk, 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, 3 table- 
spoons mixed spices, cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 
cup currants, 2 cups flour, * cup chopped walnuts and figs improves; 
it. 

BREAD CAKE Mrs. Geo. Foster. 

3 cups light dough, 3 cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon and 1 of cloves, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 2 taWe- 
spoons strong cold coffee, % cup currants, % cup raisins and a little* 
citron if liked. Add fruit last dredged with 2 tablespoons flour. Bake- 
as soon as mixed in a slow oven. 

CHRISTMAS CAKE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 qt. well risen dough, 1 cup butter, 1^ cups brown sugar, 4 eggs, 2" 
cupa seedless raisins, 1 cup currants, 1 cup candied peel, shredded, 
teaspoons mixed spices, grated rind of 2 lemons, 1 cup flour. Work 
butter into dough, add eggs well beaten and other ingredients. Read 15 
minutes, pour into buttered pans, cover and let rise in warm place untlF 
light, about % hour. Bake in moderate oven. 

RAISIN CAKE (Simple but Good) Mrs. Geo. Rodrfen. 

Cream 2 cups brown sugar with % cup of butter, yolks of 3 eggs- 
beaten thoroughly, 1 cup luke warm milk, added gradually, 2% cups- 
flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 1 small cup 
chopped raisins, % cup currants, pinch of salt, cinnamon, cloves and* 
nutmeg to taste, 1 tablespoon sherry. Stir well, add 3 wen beaten 
whites and bake in moderate oven. 

MOUNT VERNON CAKE Mrs. Fronmulfer. 

A recipe in use in George Washington's family. 1% Ibs brown sugar, 
1% Ibs. flour, 6 eggs, 1 pint sour cream, 1 teaspoon soda in the cream. 
grated rind of 2 lemons, juice of 1 lemon, 1 nutmeg, 1 Ib of raisins, 1 
Ib of currants, % Ib of citron. Bake in a moderate oven. Very good. 

CRACKER CAKE Mrs. Thos. S. Bormeau. 

V4 cup butter, 6 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup rolled crackers, 1 cup grate* 
chocolate, 1 cup chopped nuts-walnuts and almonds, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, % teaspoon each lemon and vanilla, % teaspoon each cinna- 
mon and nutmeg. Mix in the usual manner. Use large cup for- measur- 
ing. 

CRACKER CAKE Mrs. Grandjean. 

1 cup chopped nuts, 1 cup raisins and citron (together), I cup cftooo 
late, % cup butter, 1 cup rolled crackers, 2 eggs, 1% cups sugar; 41 
tablespoons milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder, mix with a little fi&ar. 



152 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

CIDER CAKE Mrs. Daniel Bradford. 

6 cups of flour, 4 cups of sugar, 2 cups of butter, 2 cups of cider, 5 
eggs, 2 teaspoons of soda in the cider, 2 nutmegs, 2 large spoons of 
cinnamon, same of cloves; cider added last. 

MRS. RADER'S POTATO CAKE Mrs. Anna McMahon, S. F. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, % cup milk, % cup choco- 
late, good measure, 1 cup chopped walnuts, 4 eggs, 1 cup mashed pota- 
toes, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon 
and nutmeg. Bake slowly. Delicious. 

ANGEL CAKE Mrs. W. G. Corbaley. 

Sift 1 cup flour 6 times, then add 1 teaspoon cream of tartar, and 
sift 4 times. Sift 1^ cups granulated sugar six times. Beat the whites 
of 12 eggs very stiff; add 1 teaspoon vanilla, and gently stir into the 
flour and sugar. Pour into a perfectly dry, ungreased pan with a fun- 
nel. Bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven; on taking from the oven 
turn the pan upside down, putting 2 sticks under the edge of each side 
of the pan to permit circulation of air. When cold remove from the 
pan. 

CHOCOLATE ANGEL CAKE Louise Meissner. 

% Ib. butter, 14 lb. sugar, 8 eggs, 14 R>. chocolate, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
% Ib. flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Cream the butter, add the 
sugar slowly then the yolks of the eggs, vanilla, chocolate (melted) 
then the flour, beat these for *4 of an hour, then add baking powder 
and the whites of 6 eggs. Bake in slow oven one hour. 

SUNSHINE CAKE Mrs. Wm. M. Harris. 

Whites of 7 eggs, yolks of 5 eggs, 114 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup 
flour, % (good) teaspoon cream tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Sift both 
flour and sugar three times, measure out necessary amount, and set 
aside. Beat yolks very hard and add sugar stirring with a spoon until 
like creamed butter. Add pinch of salt to whites of eggs before beat- 
Ing, and when beaten to a foam add cream tartar, and continue beating 
until very stiff. Add two together, also mix in flour quickly and light- 
ly. Bake in a slow oven 30 to 40 minutes. Use tube pan without but- 
tering it. 

TEA CAKE Miss H. Pregge. 

% cup butter, 1% cups white sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 teaspoons 
cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon soda, 3 cups flour, % of a nutmeg, 1 tea- 
spoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup stoned raisins. 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 15X 

SPOTTED CAKE Mrs. W. J. Dickson. 

For the white layer mix the whites of 4 eggs, 1 cup of white sugar % 
cup butter, % cup milk, 2teaspoons baking powder, and flour enough 
to make a thick batter. For the dark layer mix the yolks of 4 eggs, 1 
cup brown sugar, % cup molasses, % cup butter, % cup milk, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon and nut- 
meg; 1 eup raisins chopped fine, and flour enough to make a thick bat- 
ter. Put a spoonful of the light and dark layers alternately into the 
cake pan, and bake. 

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 cups white sugar, creamed with 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk, 3 cupa 
flour sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 teaspoons vanilla. Divide 
mixture in half and to ^ add the yellows of 4 eggs and 1 cup of cho- 
colate wet in little boiling water. To the other part add the whites of 
4 eggs well beaten. Drop alternately in pan and bake in moderate- 
oven. 

RICH POUND CAKE Louise Meissner. 

1 Ib butter, 1 Ib sifted sugar, 1 Ib flour which must be warmed before 
sifting, 10 eggs and the juice and rind of % lemon. Mix the butter and 
sugar well then add the yolksof the egj?s one at a time mixing thor- 
oughly then the lemon, next the flour, putting in spoonful by spoonfuh 
and stir % hour. Add the whites and a small teaspoon of baking pow- 
der and bake 1* hours in a slow oven. 

POUND CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 po'und of flour, 1 pound of sugar, 1 pound of butter, 12 eggs, 2" 
slightly rounded teaspoons of baking powder, 2 teaspoons extract of 
lemon or vanilla; cream the butter, and add the flour; beat the yolks, 
and. add the sugar; whip whites to a stiff froth and add this and the 
yolks gradually to the flour; add the baking powder mixed with a 
little flour, and then the extract. Bake in slow oven. Some prefer 
nutmeg for flavoring. 

POUND CAKE Mrs. David Warden. 

1 cup of butter, 1% cups of flour, 1% cups of sugar, 1 cup of eggs, *& 
teaspoonful baking powder. Beat butter and flour to a cream. Beat 
eggs and sugar very light, put all together; add baking powder last. 

WATERMELON CAKE Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Whites of 3 eggs, 1 cup white sugar, % cup of butter, % cup sweet 
milk, 2 even cups' flour, 1 teaspoon yeast powder; flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. For red part: take the white of 1 egg and the yolks of the- 
others; beat to a stiff froth; add % cup red sugar, *4 cup butter, } cup> 
milk, 1 cup flour, and 1 teaspoonyeast powder. Take % of the white 
mixture for the bottom layer; then add red mixture; lay on 2 rows of 



154 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

^seeded raisins so they will be an inch apart, then add the rest of the 
white for the top layer; bake in a loaf tin. 

CUP CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of butter creamed with 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 6 eggs, 
-4 cups of flour sifted with 3 teaspoons baking powder, 2 teaspoons 
-oxtract. 

GOOD PLAIN CAKE Mrs. H. B. Shaver. 

3 very scant cups sugar, % of a cup of butter, stir to a cream. 4 well 
"beaten eggs, % cup of milk filled up with water, *4 teaspoon soda put 
into the water, 4 level cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder 
ifted in flour. Flavor as you like. I use a large cup and make 3 
cakes. 

BRIDE'S CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

4 cups sugar, 2 cups butter, 2 cups milk, 6 teaspoons baking powder, 
"7 cups flour, whites of 20 eggs. Cream butter and sugar together; then 
slowly add the milk, flour and whites of eggs, stirring constantly; add 
taking powder in the last cup of flour. Bake 3 hours. y 2 of this re- 
cipe makes a large cake, and is always nice if stirred sufficiently and 
If the oven is right. 

VELVET CAKE Mrs. H. V. Robinson. 

1V cups powdered sugar, % cup butter creamed; yolks of 3 eggs 
broken into this and beaten well; V& cup water, % cup corn starch, 1% 
cups flour, 2 level teaspoons baking powder; then add the whites of 
-ggs beaten stiff, and flavor to taste. Bake in a long tin. 

SILVER CAKE Mrs. Fred E. Sawyer. 

% cup butter, 1* cups sugar, 2 cups flour, % cup milk, the whites 
of 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, % teaspoon soda. Cream butter 
-and sugar, beat the whites to a stiff paste, add the rest of the ingred- 
ients a little at a time, reserving a little milk in a cup in which put 
cream tartar and soda, and add to the cake last; flavor to taste, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

GOLD AND SILVER CAKE Mrs. W. P. Taylor. 

Gold Cake. % cup butter, 1 cup sugar, *' cup milk, 1% cups flour, 
grated rind 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, % teaspoon soda, 1 level 
teaspoon cream tartar, yolks of 7 eggs. Beat butter to a cream and 
gradually beat in sugar, add lemon rind and juice and 'beat well. Sift 
In soda, cream tartar and flour, together, and beat quickly 10 seconds. 
Bake in moderate oven. 

Silver Cake. Substitute the whites for the yolks, ^4 of a teaspoon 
almond extract in place of lemon rind and juice, and follow the rule for 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 155' 

Gold Cake in every particular. When you put cakes in oven, cover- 
with paper for about 15 minutes to prevent burning. 

ENGLISH WALNUT CAKE Mrs. A. F. Pacheco. 

Cream 1 cup sugar and % cup butter, add % cup sweet milk, 3 eggs 
well beaten, 1% cups flour, 1% teaspoons baking powder, then add 1 
cup walnut meats and a little nutmeg. Bake in a moderate oven about: 
% hour and serve plain or with white frosting. 

SHORTBREAD. 

Put in a bowl 1 pound flour, 14 pound rice flour, and * pound brown' 
sugar; mix well together and pour in % pound butter already melted 
in a saucepan, using a clean wooden spoon to stir the ingredients to- 
gether. Divide into 6 cakes, and knead out quickly on the board with 
the hand, using rice flour to dust the board and hands. Prick with a- 
fork all over, and slip a square of paper under each cake as it is done; 
put on the baking sheet and bake in a moderate oven until a delicate 
brown. The less kneading shortbread gets, the better; never roll it. 

SCOTH SHORTCAKE Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

4 ounces white sugar, % pound slightly salted butter, 1 pound or 
flour. Mix the flour and butter with the hands, then add the sugar, and 
work all into a smooth ball, then roll out until it is an inch thick; prick 
over with a fork, cut into squares, prick around the edges, and bake- 
for % an hour in an oven with a moderate fire. Caraway seed candies; 
are nice sprinkled on the top before putting in the oven. 

SPONGE CAKE Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

8 eggs, 1 pound sugar, ^ pound of flour, the grated rind of 1 lemon,, 
the juice of % a lemon. Beat the whites and yolks separately. Mix. 
together yolks, sugar and lemon; when well mixed stir in the whites; 
mix in the flour very gently. 

SPONGE CAKE Mrs. Oliver. 

6 eggs, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 level teaspoon baking- 
powder, a pinch of salt. Beat the yolks and sugar to a cream; then 
beat the whites thoroughly; beat 1 tablespoon of the whites and the 
flour alternately into oach other; put the salt and baking powder into- 
the last tablespoon of flour. 

WINTER SPONGE CAKE Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

4 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup- 
boiling water, 1 teaspoon lemon or vanilla flavoring; a pinch of salt. 
Beat the eggs and sugar together; add flour, baking powder and: 
flavoring; lastly add the boiling water, stirring all the time; this wl 
be rather thin but is delicious. It can be frosted with any kind of 
frosting. 



156 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

GOLDEN LETTERS Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

Bake small round sponge cakes, and when the frosting is on and 
hard, dip a small brush in the beaten yolk of 1 egg, and write a word 
or name on top. 

DOMINOES Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

Bake sponge cake in thin sheets, and cut into oblong pieces the 
shape of a domino. Frost the top and sides, and when hard, make the 
Ifnes and dots with a small brush dipped in melted chocolate. Both of 
these recipes make pretty cakes for children's parties. 

FANCY CAKE FOR ICE CREAM Mrs. G. G. Vanderiip. 

Bake a thick sponge cake. Cut into squares or cubes, scoop out cen- 
ter of each square leaving a wall of the cake. Fill with whipped cream 
and frost sides of cake. 

SPONGE CAKE OR LADY FINGERS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of sugar and the yolks of 4 eggs beaten to a cream; 1 table- 
spoon cold water or juice of % lemon; 1 cuo flour sifted with a teas- 
poon baking powder; the whites of eggs added last, beaten to a stiff 
froth; flavor to taste if you use water. This can be pinched through 
ft conical shaped paper into lady fingers, or baked in a loaf. For lady 
fingers, bake them on paper on a pan upside down. When baked, pour 
some cold water over the drain, and lay the paper on the damp place. 
As soon as the lady fingers loosen, remove from paper and place 2 to- 
gether. 

ICE CREAM CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Bake the above sponge cake in 3 layers or in muffin rings, and split 
them when baked. 

Filling Whip 1 pint of cream and add about % cup of sugar or 
to taste; flavor with vanilla. Take 1 pound of almonds, shell, blanch, 
and chop very fine, and stir into the cream, reserving some of the 
blanched almonds whole to put on top. Make soft frosting of the 
whites of 2 eggs and 4 tablespoons sugar; put the almonds on top. 

JELLY ROLL Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 

2 eggs, y 2 cup sugar, % cup flour, less than ^ teaspoon bakjng pow- 
der. Bake in a quick oven; turn out upon a cloth, spread with jelly 
and roll while warm. 

NOUGAT CAKE Mrs. J. K. Armsby. 

% cup butter, 2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, sifted 
5 times with 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon almond extract. 
Last add whites of 8 eggs whipped up very lightly. Bake in three lay- 
ers. 

Filling Add 2 cups walnut meats (blanched) to 1 cup sweetened 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 157 

whipped cream, flavor cream with vanilla. Ice the cake with boiled 
icing, with blanched almonds on top. 

WHIPPED CREAM CAKE Mrs. D. Whittemore. 
1 cup "powdered sugar, 3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), 
1% cups sifted flour, 3 large spoons cold water, melted butter the size 
of a walnut; beat well five minutes. Bake in jelly tins (three layers); 
when cold, fill with % pint cream whipped; frost with soft frosting; 
flavor with vanilla. 

CREAM CAKE Mrs. R. B. Carr. 

3 'eggs, 3 tablespoons water, 1 cup sugar, 1* cups flour, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. Mix in order given above and bake in 4 layers. Put 
together with following cream: 1 pint milk, 1 egg, 1% tablespoons 
cornstarch, 2 tablespoons sugar. Flavor when cool. Very nice, serv- 
ed warm. 

JAM CAKE Mrs. Anna McMahon, S. F. 

3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 cup jam (any berry jam), 2 cups 
flour, 1 level teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, 3 teaspoons 
sweet milk or cream, I teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % of 1 
nutmeg; bake in layers, and put together with boiled icing or with 
whipped cream. 

MAPLE AND GINGER CAKE Mrs. S. M. Augustine. 
% cup butter, creamed with 1 cup brown sugar. Add the well beaten 
yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup milk. % cup maple syrup, *4 cup molasses, 3% 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon ginger, 1 scant teas- 
poon allspice, same of cinnamon, 2 teaspoons vanilla. Lastly add two 
whites of egg, beaten stiff; reserve one for frosting. Bake in pan with 
center tube. Frost thickly with pink frosting, made by rubbing the un- 
beaten white of egg to a paste with powdered sugar, a very little va- 
nilla and enough blackberry brandy to give a pretty color. Add enough 
sugar to make a rich, creamy frosting. Let one layer dry on the cake 
and apply a second. A delicious cake which keeps well. 

SPICED FIG CAKE Mrs. A. A.-Smlth. 

Cream % cup of butter with % cup of white sugar and % cup of 
brown sugar; add the yolks of 4 eggs beaten light and mixed with % 
cup of cold water, 3 tablespoons of grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon each 
of allspice and cinnamon, and % teaspoon of cloves; the whites of 4 
eggs well beaten should be added just before the last of the flour, and 
2 teaspoons of baking powder. 

Filling for the Cake % pound of figs chopped, and ^boiled in % cup 
of water till tender; then add 1 scant cup of sugar and the juice of 1 
lemon; boil till it is thick like jelly, and spread between layers. 

FIG CAKE Lulu Stuart. 

White part: 2 cups granulated sugar, % cup butter, whites of 5 
eggs well beaten, % cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 



158 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

powder. Dark part: 1 cup brown sugar, butter the size of a walnut, 
1 cup chopped figs, V& cup milk, 1 egg, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Bake the cake in 3 layers, putting the dark one in the center. 
Frost if desired. 

SPICE CAKE Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

Yolks of 5 eggs, 2 cups of brown sugar, % pound of butter, 1 cup of 
sour cream, 2% pounds of flour, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 of cloves, 3 of 
cinnamon, 3 of allspice, 3 of ginger, 1 nutmeg; bake same as jelly 
cake; put icing between, made of the whites of the eggs. 

MOLASSES CAKE Mrs. R. B. Carr. 

1 egg, % cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 1 cup molasses, Itablespoon 
melted butter, pinch salt, spices to taste, 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
little hot water, flour to make thick batter. Mix in order given above, 
put in two tins and bake 20 minutes in hot oven. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE Mrs. Tobin. 

1 cup sugar % cup butter, % cup milk, 2 eggs, 1 heaping cup flour, 1 
teaspoon vanilla, % cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, 2 
tablespoons chocolate, % teaspoon soda. 

Frosting 1 cup sugar, % cup milk, butter size of walnut, boil 10 
minutes, then beat to a cream and pour over cake. When set pour 
over melted bakers unsweetened chocolate, as on chocolate creams. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMEL CAKE Mrs. J. Sheehy. 

1% cups sugar, 6 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1* cups flour, 1 
teaspoon almond extract, butter the size of an egg. Beat the yolks of 
the eggs and add milk and flour sifted with baking powder, mix well 
and add the well beaten whites, extract and melted butter last. Bake 
in layers, in moderate oven, about 15 minutes. 

Filling 2 cups sugar moistened with a little water and boil until it 
threads as for candy. Beat whites of eggs very stiff and pour syrup- 
into them beating rapidly. Add 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon al- 
mond extract, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Whip until cold and spread between 
layers. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

The whites of 3 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 2 large 
tablespoons of butter, 3 cups of flour, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking 
powder. Bakfe half the batter in 2 pans, and add % cup of grated 
chocolate to the remainder, making 2 layers. When baked, pile up 
alternately dark and light, with chocolate filling between. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE Louise -Meissner. 
% cup butter, 1% cups sugar, 2 cups flour, % cup milk, 3 eggs, 1 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 15* 

teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 3 tablespoons melted cho- 
colate and bake in layers. 

Filling. } cup milk, 2 cups sugar, 3 tablespoons chocolate, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla, 1 tablespoon butter. Boil these until a thread forms 
forms from the spoon. Beat in % cup chopped walnuts and 1 table- 
spoon more butter and cook to a cream. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING Mrs. Wm. L. Jones, Cloverdale. 

Boil 1* cups brown sugar with % cup rich cream until it strings 
from a spoon. Add 3 tablespoons grated chocolate, a small piece of 
butter. Remove from stove, cool a few minutes, add Iteaspoon vanilla 
and pour over cake. 

COLONIAL CAKE Mrs. C. C. Olmsted. 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour and % 
cup of chocolate mixed dry, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, pinch of 
soda. Bake in two layers. 

Frosting for same. % cup of milk, 1 cup sugar, a small piece of but- 
ter, stir well, then cook without stirring until it strings, remove from 
fire and add vanilla. Stir until it creams before spreading on cake. 

CAKE FILLING Mrs. Chas. Shaw, Cloverdale. 

* One cup cream, 1% cups sugar. Boil together until it drops from 
spoon. Take off stove and beat until creamy. Spread on cake very 
thick and when cold pour on a thin layer of melted Baker's chocolate. 

FUDGE CAKE Mrs. M. Soosar, Mexico. 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2* cups flour, 1 heap- 
ing teaspoon baking powder, 14 cup chocolate, ^ cup English walnuts 
(broken coarse). Cream butter and sugar, add milk and baking pow- 
der, then stir flour in lightly. Place chocolate in a cup and set in dish 
of hot water until it melts, then add to cake, also nuts and lastly the 
eggs beaten separately. 

Frosting 1% tablespoons butter, % cup unsweetened cocoa, 1*4 
cups confectioner's sugar, pinch of salt, 14 cup milk, * teaspoon va- 
nilla. Melt butter, add cocoa, sugar, salt and milk. Boil about 8 mln., 
remove from fire and beat until creamy, add vanilla and pour over cake 
to the depth of *4 inch. 

DEVIL'S FLOOD CAKE, WITH MARSHMALLOW FILLING Mrs. 

A. A. Smith. 

1st part 1 cup brown sugar, % cup butter, yolks of 3 eggs, % cup 
of milk. 

2nd part 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup chocolate, % cup milk. Place on 
stove to melt (do not boil), when cool add to first part. Mix with 2% 
cups flour and 1 teaspoon of soda. Bake in four layers. By the addi- 
tion of 2 cups currants, 2 cups chopped raisins, 1 cup cut citron, 2 



160 CAKES, COOKIES. DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

heaping teaspoons cinnamon, 1 of cloves, % nutmeg, you have a good 
plain fruit cake. Bake in a loaf in moderate oven. 

Marsh ma I low Filling Make a boiled frosting of 2 cups white sugar, 
% cup water and boil till it hairs from the fork, pour into the beaten 
whites of 2 eggs. .Beat till nearly cool then add % teaspoon of tartaric 
acid and 1 teaspoon of baking powder, continue beating till thoroughly 
cold. Add any flavor preferred. Spread thickly between layers. 

Marguerites Use above recipe for boiled frosting adding a cup of 
chopped walnuts. Spread between dainty chips making a sandwich to 
be served with tea. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE Mrs. Anna McMahon, S. F. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup milk, yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 2 
eggs, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 4 cups flour, 3 rounded teaspoons baking 
powder; bake in layers. For the filling, put % pound of marshmallows 
on an agate dish, and place in oven until they have melted and run 
together. Make a boiled icing with 1 cup of granulated sugar and % 
of a cup of hot water- boiled together until the syrup hisses; then pour 
it over the stiffly beaten white of 1 egg; add the melted marshmallows, 
and beat slowly 5 minutes. Spread this between the layers and on top. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

1 cup powdered sugar, 5 tablespoons butter, 1 cup milk, the whites 
4 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Frost the cake; then 
split marshmallows and place on the top of the frosting. Flavor with 
lemon. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE Miss A Gordon. 

2 cups sugar, % cup butter, % cup sweet milk, whites of 6 eggs, ? 
cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder; bake in jelly cake tins. 

Sauce for the Same Grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, yolks of 3 
eggs, % cup butter, 1 cup sugar; mix all together, set on stove, and 
cook till thick as sponge, stirring all the time; then use like jelly be- 
tween the cakes. 

ORANGE CAKE Mrs. Hoyt. 

2^ cups flour, '% cup butter, 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, li teaspoons yeast 
powder, % cup milk. Bake. 

Filling 1 cup sugar, 1 cup boiling water; let boil together; add 1 
large cooking spoon corn starch (wet up), the grated rind and juice of 
2 oranges and 1 lemon; cook until stiff; after cooling, put in between 
the layers of cake. 

LAYER CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of sugar rubbed with % cup of butter, % cup of milk, any ex- 
tract, 3 eggs, 1%! cups of flour sifted with 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
Bake in 3 layers. 

Lemon Filling 1 tablespoon corn starch wet in a little cold water; 
pour over this about 1 cup of boiling water, 1 tablespoon butter, % 



CAKES, COOKIES. DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 161 

cup of sugar, the grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, and the yolks of 2 
eggs. 

Soft Frosting Beat the whites of the 2 eggs very stiff, and gently 
sift in 4 heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar. 

MINNE-HA-HA CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Make the layer cake above, only instead of 3 eggs use the yolks of 6 
eggs for the cake. Beat the whites very stiff, and add gently 12 round- 
ed tablespoons of powdered sugar. Take % of the frosting and add to 
it 1 cup of stoned and chopped raisins for the first layer. Shell 1 lb. 
of walnuts, reserve about 1 dozen halves for the top, chop the rest and 
add to a third of the frosting for the second layer. Put the balance of 
the frosting on top, and dot the halves over. Turtles made of raisins 
and cloves are an addition on top. 

FILLING FOR NUT CAKE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 cup of milk, % cup of sugar, butter the size of a walnut, 2 tea- 
spoons corn starch, yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup of chopped walnuts. Spread 
while hot. Make soft frosting out of the whites of the eggs. 

Cream for Chocolate Cake. 1 cup sweet milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 
% cup sugar, 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 tablespoon corn starch, yolks 
of 2 eggs and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Make soft frosting of the whites. 

Banana Filling. Spread with whipped cream sweetened; over this 
put a layer of bananas cut round, with more whipped cream over the 
bananas. Soft frosting. 

Caramel Filling 2 cups brown sugar, % cup butter, % cup milk. 
Brown the sugar, stirring constantly; then add butter, and lastly the 
milk. Cook until quite thick, so it will not run. Lastly add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla, and spread while hot between the layers and over the top of 
the cake. 

Cocoanut Filling. For the cake part use the yolks of 6 eggs instead 
of 3 eggs. A fresh grated cocoanut is much nicer than any prepared 
cocoanut. Beat the whites of 6 eggs very stiff, and add 12 tablespoons 
of sugar. Spread a layer of frosting and sprinkle thick with cocoanut 
for the inside layers, reserving a good deal of frosting for the top and 
sides. When the frosting is well spread, sprinkle cocoanut over the 
top and throw it against the sides until the cake is well covered. 

PISTACHE CAKE Mrs. Geo. C. Boardman. 

1 % cups flour, 1^4 cups powdered sugar, 4 eggs. Beat eggs ten min- 
utes, add sugar and beat ten minutes more, then add flour and beat 
ten minutes longer, pour immediately in buttered cake pan and bake 1 
hour In moderate oven. When done cut off candied or hard crust, slice 
with large sharp knife into thin layers and fill with following: 

Filling %pint cream whipped stiff, 1 cup almonds chopped (not 



162 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

too fine), 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, extract of pistasche to taste, 
1 drop of coloring. 

Frosting Beat enough powdered sugar into white of one egg to 
make stiff, add extract of pistache and drop of coloring. Should not 
be eaten for twelve hours. 

PINOCHE CAKE OR BROWN LAYER CAKE Miss O. A. Gordon. 

2 cups brown sugar, ty cup butter, y 2 cup sour milk, 2 eggs, y 2 cup of 
chocolate, % cup hot water, 2% cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda. 

Filling 2 cups brown sugar, % cup of butter, y 2 cup of milk, 1 cup 
of chopped walnuts. Boil sugar, butter and milk together, until a little 
dropped in cold water will form a soft ball, take from the fire, add nuts 
and flavoring. 

NUT CAKE Mrs. Anna Stubbe, Banning. 

Beat separately the yolks and whites of 6 eggs. To the yolks add 1V& 
cups of granulated sugar, and to the whites beaten to the stiffest pos- 
sible froth, add 3 cups of finely chopped or pounded nuts, hazelnuts, 
pecans, or almonds are equally good. Mix all together lightly and stir 
in 1 teaspoon baking powder, well mixed in Itablespoon flour. This is 
to be baked quickly in layer cake tins, and when ready to serve, put 
together with whipped cream. 

AN ORIENTAL CAKE Mrs. D. R. Gale, Santa Rosa. 
(A cake of four layers.) 

For white and pink layers use: * cup butter, iy 2 cups sugar, 2 cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup milk, whites of 4 eggs. Before 
flavoring divide this dough into two equal parts. Use pink sugar to 
color one part a delicate pink, leaving the other part white. Flavor 
white part with lemon and the pink with rose extract. For brown and 
yellow layers use the above recipe, substituting the yolks of 4 eggs, in- 
stead of the whites. Also divide this into two equal parts before flavor- 
ing. Use chocolate for coloring one part a rich brown and flavor this 
part with vanilla. Leave the other part yellow as it is and flavor with 
orange extract. When all layers are baked they should be arranged in 
the following order: First yellow layer, and cover with oranges sliced 
very thin and in small pieces. Second the brown layer and cover this 
wkh either chopped raisins or dates. Third the pink layer and cover 
this with a creamy pink frosting and lastly, the white layer, upon 
which spread a creamy white frosting and sprinkle cocoanut over the 
top. This makes a most delicious as well as a very pretty cake. 

VERY FINE CAKE Mrs. Anna Stubbe, Banning. 
Moisten 1 cup bread crumbs with juice of 1 orange, 1 lemon and % 
glass brandy, add 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon cloves, y 2 cup 
grated almonds; separate 10 eggs, beat yolks with 2 cups sugar, beat 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. lli.'! 

whites to a stiff froth; mix all thoroughly. Bake in three layers. Put 
whipped cream between layers. 

GOOD CAKE FOR LAYERS Mrs. C. A. Thayer. 

!*/& cups flour, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons baking powder, a pinch of 
salt. Sift all these together; beat two eggs in a coffee cup and fill up 
with milk; add flavoring. Put eggs and milk into dry ingredients and 
beat well, add last of all eleven teaspoons of melted butter and bake. 
Very quickly made. 

ONE EGG CAKE Mrs. G. G. Vanderlip. 

1 cup granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, add 1 well beaten egg, 
1 tea cup milk, stir well together 2 cups sifted flour, 2 teaspoons bakinz 
powder; beat fast two or three minutes until very light, any desired 
flavor. Can be used as a layer or loaf cake. 

STRAWBERRY CAKE FILLING Mrs. J. A. Reeder. 

1 egg white, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup strawberries, washed and well drain- 
ed. Beat together 25 minutes. Raspberries or bananas make a very 
fine filling. 

MOCHA CAKE Mrs. R. H. Renebome. 

1 coffee cup granulated sugar beaten light with yolks of 5 eggs, \\<z 
tablespoons coffee extract (Crosse & Blackwell), 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 
onp flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Add the well beaten whites 
of 5 eggs, and bake in two sheets. 

Filling Whip 1 pint cream stiff, add % cup powdered sugar and I 1 * 
tablespoons coffee extract. 

Frosting' 1 cup powdered sugar, 1% tablespoons coffee extract and 
just cream enough to spread pretty thick. The frosting may be omit- 
ted and the whipped cream be put on top as well as between layers. 
One pint of cream is sufficient for both. The cake is better to stand 
several hours before using, even over night if kept in ice chest. 

MOCHA FILLING NO. 1 Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

% of a cup of butter, with the salt washed out, 1 cup powdered 
sugar, 1 cup of coffee boiled down to an after dinner cup, yolk of 1 egg. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add yolk of egg, pour coffee in slow- 
ly when cold. Have your cake quite cold before putting in the fillfng. 
Mocha Filling No. 2. 

Beat to a cream 2 tablespoons butter, add gradually a quarter of a 
cup of powdered sugar, drop into this the yolk of an egg; beat, add the 
second yolk and beat again, add 1 tablespoon black coffee or a tea- 
spoon of coffee extract, stand on the Ice, when the cakes are quite 
cold, spread one layer thickly with this mixture and put the other on 
top. 



164 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

VENETIAN CAKES Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, grated rind of 1 lemon, 4 eggs, 2 
cups pastry flour, 1 teaspoon vanilla, % cup almonds, blanched and 
chopped. Cream butter and sugar until very light, add yolks of eggs 
and beat five minutes. Then add flour and flavoring and last fold in 
the whites of eggs beaten very stiff and dry. Butter fancy molds or 
gem pans and fill about % full with mixture, sprinkle chopped almonds 
on top, bake in quick oven 12 minutes and serve as soon as cool. 

DOLLY VARDEN FROSTING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Yolks of 2 eggs, iy 2 cups powdered sugar. Stir until smooth. Flavor 
to taste. 

ORANGE ICING Mrs. W. T. Wheatly, Los Angeles. 

Squeeze the juice from a tart orange and stir into juice sufficient 
powdered sugar to spread but not run. Very nice for sponge or any 
plain cake. 

WHITE FROSTING Mrs, S. M. Augustine. 

To 1 unbeaten white of egg add 1 teaspoon water, and 1 teaspoon 
flavoring extract. Gradually rub into this enough powdered sugar to 
make a thick creamy mixture. Spread on the cake and let dry in a 
cool place. A simple and very satisfactory frosting. 

FROSTING Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

When eggs are dear make cake frosting by boiling 3 tablespoons of 
milk; when cool, flavor and thicken with powdered sugar; make quite 
stiff, and beat until smooth and light; dip the knife in cold water when 
spreading. 

BOILED ICING Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

Wet one cup of sugar with enough water to moisten; boil until it 
hairs from the spoon, and gradually pour it into the well beaten whites 
of 2 eggs. Beat until cold. 

CHOCOLATE ICING Mrs. Anna McMahon, S. F. 
Put into a shallow pan 4 tablespoons of powdered chocolate, and 
place it where it will melt slowly but not burn. When melted, stir in 
3 tablespoons of milk or cream, and 1 of water; mix all well together; 
add 1 scant teacup sugar; boil 5 minutes; while still hot, and when the 
cakes are nearly cold, spread on evenly, and set in a warm oven to dry. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

2 cups sugar, % cup grated chocolate, % cup sweet milk; boil all 
together for about 10 minutes; when done, add vanilla to taste, and 
stir until nearly cool, then spread on cake. This will cut nicely. 



CAKES. COOKIKS. DOUOHVL'TS. ETC. 165 

SOFT GINGER CAKE Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup boiling water, 1 cup New Orleans 
molasses, 2 eggs, 2 small teaspoons soda, 1 tablespoon ginger, flour to 
make a thick batter, or till it drops in plaits or folds from th*> spoon 
imore flour makes it too stiff). Excellent. 

SYRUP CAKE Mrs. Go. Bunn. 

! cup sour cream, 1 cup syrup, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, 
1 . teaspoon cinnamon, sufficient flour to mix pretty stiff with a spoon. 
Rake in sheets; to be eaten hot. Eggs are not needed in this recipe. 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

2 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, 2 heaping tablespoons of butter, 1 cup of 
molasses, 1 cup of sour milk, 4% cups of flour, 2 teaspoons of saleratus 
(not soda) dissolved in hot water, 2 teaspoons of ginger, 1 teaspoon 
of cinnamon, 1 pound of seeded raisins, * pound of currants. Mix mo- 
lasses, sugar, butter, and spices together; warm them slightly and beat 
until light; add the yolks when beaten, then the milk: then the flour 
p.nd saleratus: beat well 5 minutes; bake in shallow pans. 

GINGER CAKE Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 egg, 3 tablespoons of melted butter, % cup of syrup, ^ cup of 
in-own sugar, scant ^ cup of milk, 1% cups of flour, 1 teaspoon of gin- 
ger (more if liked), also cinnamon, and 1 teaspoon of yeast powder or 
soda. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

1 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 egg, 1 cup flour, 4 
tablespoons of melted butter, 8 tablespoons of boiling water, 1 tables 

s] inn of ginger. Mix quickly, and bake from 15 to 20 minutes in a hot 
oven. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD, Very Good Mrs. W. B. Bradford. 

1 cup butter, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup sour milk, 4 
cups flour, 1 level teaspoon of soda and same of baking powder. Gin- 
ger to taste. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Wash. D. C. 

Butter (or lard) % cup, flour 2% or 3 cups, sugar 1 cup, soda 2 teas- 
poons, eggs 2, ginger 2 teaspoons, N. O. Molasses 1 cup, cinnamon 2 
teaspoons, sour milk 1 cup, allspice 1 teaspoon, a little nutmeg. 

SPICED GINGERBREAD Mrs. E. O. Allen. 

% cup brown sugar creamed with % cup butter, or butter and lard, 
1 cup New Orleans molasses, 1 egg beaten light, % cup cold water, 2% 
cups flour. % teaspoon soda dissolved In a little hot water, 1 teaspoon 



16() CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS. ETC. 

ginger, % teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon cinnamon, a touch of nutmeg,. 
i/fc cup of raisins. Bake in a shallow pan. 

GINGER GEMS Mrs. Geo. Foster. 

y 2 cup molasses % cup sugar, % cup sour milk or hot water, % cup 
butter (scant), 1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 cups flour, salt, cloves, ginger 
and cinnamon to taste. A few r*aisins cut up. Bake in gem pans and 
have them hot before putting in the mixture. A strip of candied orange 
peel on top of each gem is very nice. 

GINGER SNAPS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 cups of molasses, 1 cup of butter or lard, 1 level tablespoon soda, 
2 level tablespoons ginger, a little cinnamon if liked; boil the syrup, 
butter and spices together, adding soda last when boiling; then remove 
from the fire and add about 1 quart of flour, or enough to roll. En- 
deavor to roll out without more flour; roll very thin, and bake in a 
moderate oven. When cool, pack away in tight cans to prevent getting 
soft. 

GINGER SNAPS Mrs. Wm. Alexander. 

2 cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup melted butter or shortening. 
Let the above come to a boil, then add 2 teaspoons soda, 1 quart flour, 
1 teaspoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, *4 teaspoon cloves, % tea- 
spoon allspice, 1 teaspoon salt. Dissolve the soda, and pour it into the 
molasses; pour boiled molasses, sugar and shortening into the flour. 
Roll very thin. 

GINGER SNAPS Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

2 eggs, % cup of brown sugar, % cup of syrup, a piece of butter and 
a little lard, % teaspoon of ginger, % teaspoon of soda, flour to suit; 
roll thin and bake slowly. 

GINGER COOKIES Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

1 cup of molasses, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of lard, 1 cup of boiling 
water, 1 tablespoon of ginger, 2 teaspoons of soda; % teaspoon each 
of allspice, cinnamon and cloves; roll thin, and bake in a quick oven. 

MOLASSES JUMBLES Mrs. McMahon. 

1 cup of sugar; butter size of an egg; mix to cream; add 1 cup of 
flour, and molasses enough to mix it. Drop in buttered pans and bake. 
When done and while hot, roll over a round stick the size of a broom 
handle. 

JUMBLES Mrs. Grandjean. 

1 Ib butter creamed with 1 Ib sugar, five eggs 1 at a time, 1& Ibs. 
flour. Flavor with nutmeg, drop in little heaps on baking sheet. Mod- 
erate oven. 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHN UTS, ETC. 157 

JUMBLES Mrs. Fronmuller. 

1 cup butter, 1 cup powdered sugar, 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon grated 
nutmeg, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon rose water. Cream butter and sugar, add 
beaten eggs, flavoring and flour gradually. Sprinkle board with gran- 
ulated sugar and roll out % of an inch thick. Cut with large cutter, 
put in greased pan, and bake in moderate oven, until edges are slightly 
brown. Keep in air tight box to preserve crispness. 

HERMITS Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

1% cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon sour cream, 14 of 
a teaspoon soda dissolved in a very little boiling water, 1 teaspoon 
each of cinnamon and cloves. 1 cup chopped raisins. 1 cup chopped 
walnuts, and some citron if liked. Mix with sufficient flour to roll: 
cut out as cookies, and bake in a moderate oven. Excellent, and will 
keep some time. 

HERMIT COOKIES Mrs. W. G. Corbaley. 

1 cup of chopped raisins. 1 cup of butter. 1 cup of sugar, *4 cup of 
molasses, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons sour milk, 1 teaspoon each of soda, 
cinnamon, cloves and 1 nutmeg; flour to roll. 

CROQUETS Mrs. Grandjean. 

1 lb flour, wet with milk, % tt> butter, i Tb sugar, % Ib almonds, 4 
eggs, 2 teaspoons rum or brandy. Make a smooth paste and let stand 
1 hour, then roll in strips, bake in moderate oven. Cut while hot. 

GERMAN CRISPS Louisa Meissner. 

1 cup butter, 1% cups sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, pinch of salt, after cutting 1 into shapes addinjr a little more flour 
if necessary in rolling out the dough, sprinkle with 3 tablespoons of 
chopped nuts and 1 tablespoon sugar. 

BOSTON ROCKS Mrs. Frank Hamilton, San Jose. 

1% cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 2% large cups flour, 1 teaspoon 
soda, pinch of salt, % lb seeded raisins, 1% Ibs. walnuts chopped, 3 
eggs, drop and bake on buttered paper. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES Mrs. Wm. L. Jones, Cloverdale. 

% cup brown sugar, * cup white sugar, % cup butter, 2 tablespoons 
cream or milk, 1 egg, % cup grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1V6 
cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Cream butter and sugar, add 
other ingredients, roll very thin and bake in moderate oven. Keep in 
tins. 

BELQUARDER BREAD OF ICE CREAM CAKES Louisa Meissner 
% lb almonds, % lb flour, 2 eggs, citron and orange peel and % Ib 
sugar. Beat the eggs with the sugar adding the almonds without re- 



168 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

moving their skins, then the flour, citron and orange peel. Bake in 
shallow pan, when half done cut into squares buttering the top with 
the yolk of an egg and cinnamon, put it back and bake until dry and 
hard. 

GRAHAM WAFERS Mrs. Frank Adams, Pomona. 

% cup butter, % cup sugar, 1 egg, ^ cup warm water, 1 cup white 
flour sifted with 1 large teaspoon baking powder. Mix thoroughly and 
then add sufficient graham flour to roll thin. Cut any shape, prick with 
a fork and bake until crisp. 

OATMEAL COOKIES Agnes B. James, Canada 
3 cups oatmeal, 2 cups graham flour, 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar and 1 
cup water, % teaspoon of soda or baking powder. Hake in a moderate 
oven until a bright brown color. 

OATMEAL DATE COOKIES Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Take 1 quart fine oatmeal, 2 cups flour, 2 cups brown sugar, 2 eggs, 
% cup of butter or other shortening, 3 teaspoons baking powder, a 
pinch of salt, and a little milk. Mix the oatmeal, flour, baking powder, 
salt and sugar all together, then add the butter; mix well. Add the 
eggs well beaten with just enough milk to make a stiff dough. Roll 
out half the quantity thin, have some dates stoned, and spread a layer 
on the dough; roll out the other half thin and lay on the top; roll it a 
little, cut in shapes, and bake in a moderate oven. 

OATMEAL COOKIES Mrs. Wm. M. Harris. 

1 cup shortening (% lard, % butter or omit lard), 1 cup sugar, 2 
eggs not beaten, 4 tablespoons of sweet milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, * teaspoon salt, 2 cups flour, 2 cups dry rolled oats 
(Quaker oats), 1 cup raisins. Sift salt, soda and spice into the flour^ 
Mix in order given. Drop by teaspoon on a buttered pan and bake. 

OLD POINT COMFORT CRISPS Mrs. Thos. Wintringham. 

2 teaspoons butter, %'Cup sugar, 1%, cups rolled oats, 1 egg, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, % teaspoon vanilla, a little salt. Cream butter 
and sugar, add the beaten egg. Mix the rolled oats with the baking 
powder and add to the above. Drop from a teaspoon on well greased 
tins and bake in moderate oven until the edge of cakes are a light 
brown. Do not use butter to grease pans as cakes are apt to burn on 
bottom. 

' MACAROON'S PRINCESS. 

2 tablespoons butter, 3 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 2^ cups rolled oats, va- 
nilla, salt Proceed same as recipe for crisps. For both recipes Ho 
Ho is preferable to rolled oats. 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 1H9 

NUT CRISPS Mrs. C. C. Olmsted. 

% cup sugar, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, % teaspoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2J cups dry 'rolled oats 
which have been in oven for about ten minutes to dry out a little, as it 
improves them. Drop a teaspoon of the mixture on buttered tins not 
too close together. Bake slowly until a light brown. This makes about 
three dozen cakes. Keep in tin box tightly covered. Buy oats in bulk, 
not those that come in packages. 

QUAKER OAT COOKIES Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Wash., D. C. 

Butter size of walnut, sugar 1 cup, salt % teaspoon, eggs 2, almond 
extract 1 teaspoon, Quaker oats 2 cups, chopped peanuts % cup, baking 
powder 1 teaspoon. Mix butter and sugar, beat eggs and add. Stir in 
Quaker oats slowly then add salt and nuts and baking powder and 
later the extract. Drop in small portions on buttered tins and bake in 
"hot oven quickly. 

BOSTON COOKIES Mrs. C. A. Thayer. 

1 cup butter, 1* cups brown sugar, 3 cups flour (perhaps more) 1% 
cups raisins or currants, or nuts may be used if preferred, % cup hot 
water, 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % teaspoon 
cloves. 1 tablespoon molasses. Drop with spoon. 

ECONOMICAL COOKIES Mrs. H. G. Todd. 

1 cup sugar, % cup butter, % cup sour milk, 1 egg, % teaspoon soda. 
Flour to make soft dough and flavor to taste. 

DANISH COOKIES. 

1*4 Ibs. butter, 1 Ib sugar, 2 eggs, % cup milk, flavor to taste, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, sifted with flour sufficient to make dough stiff 
enough to roll into a large sausage shape. Let stand over night in cool 
place. In the morning slice with sharp knife into cookies and bake in 
brisk oven. This is much quicker than the usual method. 

TEA C*KES OR COOKIES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

3 cups of sugar and 2 of butter worked to a cream; 3 eggs, 1 cup of 
sour milk, 1 full teaspoon soda sifted in with some flour, 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice or extract, and flour to roll out, but not too stiff. Take 
out a large spoonful at a time, roll very thin, then sprinkle over with 
sugar and a few caraway seeds if liked. Run the rolling pin over again, 
cut out, and bake in a quick oven. Very nice. 

SOFT COOKIES Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 egg, 1 cup of sugar, a piece of butter, % cup of sour milk, a few 
caraway seeds, Ity cups of flour and *4 teaspoon of saleratus. 



]70 CAKES, COOKIES, POUGHNUTS, ETC. 

"COOKIES Mrs. F. M. Angellotti. 

% cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 2 beaten eggs, 2 teaspoons of baking 
powder, 2 tablespoons milk; mix with enough flour to roll out. 

SUGAR COOKIES WITHOUT EGGS Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 
1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 5 cups flour, a little nutmeg; 1 teaspoon 
soda and 2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. Roll out not too thin, and 
bake quickly. 

COOKIES Mrs. Hoyt. 

% cup of butter, 1 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon of milk, 2 eggs, 1 heap- 
ing teaspoon of yeast powder, flavor to taste; enough flour to roll out 
very thin. 

BUTTER COOKIES Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

1 pound of butter, 3 eggs; % pound of sugar, 1 pound of flour, the 
juice of % lemon, and the grated rind. Stir the butter to a cream; add 
the sugar, eggs, and lemon gradually; after adding the flour, knead the 
dough, roll little balls, flatten them into cooky shape on the tin, mak- 
ing a little hole with the finger in the middle. Bake in a moderately 
hot oven. 

COOKIES Mrs. E. B. Mahon. 

1 cup of butter, 3 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, Vz CU P of milk, 2 teaspoons 
of yeast powder, a little nutmeg, and flour to suit. 

COCOANUT COOKIES Miss Lulu Stuart. 

1 cup cocoanut, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup butter, % cup sour 
milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 egg, flour enough to roll thin; sprinkle with 
sugar, and bake in a quick oven. 

GERMAN SPICE COOKIES Edythe Foster. 

1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 cups flour, yolks of 4 eggs. Mix butter to 
a cream add sugar slowly then beaten egg, flour. Roll in small balls 
and flatten out very thin with fingers and rub over with white of egg 
and cinnamon. 

GERMAN BISCUITS Miss O. A. Gordon. 

1 Ib of flour, % pound butter, % lb sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon soda, 1 gill of milk. Rub butter in the 
flour, mix other ingredients, roll out very thin, bake in a moderate 
oven, when cooked stick together with raspberry jam. Ice. 

CREAM CAKE WAFERS Miss H. J. Trumbull. 
1 scant cup white sugar, 2 eggs, 1 scant cup sweet cream, 1 even cup 
of flour, a pinch of salt, and 1 teaspoon of baking powder. Break the 
eggs into a cake dish, put in the sugar, next the cream and salt, and 



CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 171 

lastly the flour with the baking powder si|ted in; then beat it all to- 
gether briskly 2 or 3 minutes. Excellent for layer, loaf or drop cakes. 

WALNUT WAFERS Mrs. W. Locke. 

1 cup of brown sugar, 1 cup of walnuts broken into small pieces, 2 
eggs, a pinch of salt, 3 heaping tablespoons of flour. Drop on buttered 
tins, and bake in quick oven a few minutes. 

PEANUT WAFERS Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

% cup sugar, 2 rounded tablespoons butter, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons 
milk, % cup flour before it is sifted, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 1 
cup chopped peanuts, 1 teaspoon vanilla, pinch of salt. Drop from a 
teaspoon. 

VIENNA CAKES Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

% pound of butter, % pound of sugar, ^ pound of flour, 4 eggs, *4 
pound of almonds, cinnamon. Melt the butter and use only the clear 
part, as the sediment will spoil the cake. Stir it until cool and thick; 
add the sugar, flour and eggs; spread the dough on the tin with a knife 
as thin as possible; chop the almonds and mix them with some sugar 
and cinnamon as a flavor, and strew the mixture over the top of the 
dough. Bake in a good hot oven; as soon as done take a large sharp 
knife and cut in small squares or any other desired shape. 

CHOCOLATE NUT STRIPS Mrs. Anna McMahon, S. F. 

6 eggs, 2 cups of sugar, 5 sticks of chocolate (or a coffee cup of the 
grated chocolate), 1 pound of shelled almonds, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 
teaspoon cloves, 1 nutmeg grated, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, flour enough to roll out, and bake in sheets. When done 
cut in, strips. Reserve the yolk of 1 egg, add a little water and sugar, 
and brush with a pastry brush before baking. The dough can be rolled 
in balls, brushed with egg and baked. 

MACAROONS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Take 1 Ib of almonds, shell and blanch in boiling water, dry and put 
through nut grinder, add 1 tablespoon of fresh rose water, or use other 
extracts if preferred. Beat the whites of 3 eggs very stiff; gently add 
*& pound of powdered sugar, and then the almonds. When well mixed, 
drop from a teaspoon small parcels on baking tins rubbed with olive 
oil. Put them 2 inches apart, sift sugar over the top, and bake in rather 
a slow oven. 

CHOCOLATE MACAROONS Mrs. Anna McMahon, S. F. 

Whites of 5 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 pound white sugar, % 
teaspoon of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 2 sticks of grated chocolate, 
1 pound grated almonds; bake In a slow oven. 



172 CAKES, COOKIES, DOUGHNUTS, ETC. 

MACAROONS Mrs. Wm. Lichtenberg. 

*i pound sweet almonds, %, pound bitter almonds, % pound sugar, 3 
eggs, whites only. Grate the almonds, mix them with the whipped 
whites of eggs and the sugar. Drop a teaspoonful on cake paper, and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

MERINGUES Miss O. A. Gordon. 

4 whites of eggs, y 2 fb sugar. Cover a board with oiled paper. Whip 
whites to a very stiff froth and stir in sugar. Shape some of the mix- 
ture in a dessert spoon, scoop it out with another, and lay it on the oil- 
ed paper. Sift some sugar over each meringue, bake in a warm oven. 
Fill with whipped cream. 

KISSES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

To the well beaten white of 1 egg gently stir in 1 heaping tablespoon 
of powdered sugar, 1 of granulated sugar and a few drops of vanilla 
extract. Drop on brown paper and bake very slowly. 

CHOCOLATE KISSES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

To the white of an egg well beaten, gently stir in 1 heaping table- 
spoon of granulated sugar and the same of grated chocolate. Drop oL 
brown paper and bake very slowly. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. F. M. Angellotti. 

1 cup of milk, and butter the siz of an egg melted in; 3 eggs, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup of sugar, nutmeg, and enough flour to 
roll. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

3 eggs, 1 cup of sugar, y 2 cup of sour milk, y 2 cup of sour cream, a 
little nutmeg and salt, and flour to roll. Sift in with the flour 1 level 
teaspoon soda and the same of baking powder. Fry in hot fat, 
drain from a fork and drop on brown paper as they come from the fat. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar when cold. All milk can be used and 
butter the size of an egg. 

DOUGHNUTS Mrs. David Warden. 

1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of milk (sweet), butter size of walnut, 2 eggs, 
salt, nutmeg, 3 teaspoons baking powder, flour to roll. 

CRULLERS Mrs. Wm. Alexander. 

1 cup buttermilk, 2 cups sugar, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon soda % cup 
shortening, and flour enough to roll out easily. Cook same as dough- 
nuts. 

FRITTERS Mrs. W. Fraser. 

1 pint sweet milk, 4 eggs, 1 quart flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder; 
fry in fat and serve hot with maple syrup. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 175 

Martens' Market 

Good Things to Eat and Drink 

Agents for Goldberg, Bowen & Co.'s Goods. 

Phone, Private Exchange, "Martens" 

Cor. Fourth and D. 

., '. ALEX. SHEVITS 

Dealer in 

Ladies' and Gents' Fine Shoes. 

BDys' and Girls' Shoes a Specialty 

Fine Line Gents' Furnishing Goods 

All Goods at San Francisco Prices Corner Fourth Street, below C 

HAVE YOU A BEAUTIFUL HOME? 
IF NOT. WHY NOT? 

Perhaps its that ugly old fence that 
detracts from the beauty of your home 

The Western Fence Construction Co., 

enjoys the title of 
"HOME BEAUTIFYER" 

See our steel web Picket Fence with steel 
Rails and Posts (set in concrete) . Node- 
cay, no rust, no wear, no obstruction 
highly sanitary. If you haven't a fence 
of this kind your home is not complete. 



We Sell and Erect all kinds of Fences - 



Office, 20 Pine St., San Francisco 



176 ADVERTISEMENTS 

Telephone Black 97 Houses Rented Rents Collected 

U. S. TURLEY 

Real Estate and Insurance 

Homes Built and Sold on 

Small Monthly Payments 

406 Fourth Street San Rafael, Cal. 



Alterations Neatly Made First Class Work Guaranteed 

Eugene Van der Maelen 
MERCHANT TAILOR 

Dyeing, Cleaning and Repairing 
Ladies' and Gents' 604A Fourth St. 

Tailoring a Specialty San Rafael, Cal. 

Telephone Red 1292 



You will never learn to cook 

UNLESS 

YOU 
BUY 

FUEL 

FROM 

S. H. CHEDA & CO 

Yard and Office, Fourth Street 

Opposite Court House Telephone Main 89 




and Pies 



PASTRY Mrs. Geo. M. Dodge. 

Into 1 cup flour rub 1 tablespoon lard; then wet it with enough ice 
cold water to make a soft dough. Roll out and spread with little bits 
of butter all over. Then sprinkle lightly with flour, and fold over into 
a roll. Roll out again with rolling pin and spread again with lard. 
Then repeat as first time, and roll in bits of butter the third time. If 
this method is followed and ice water is used, and if the dough is hand- 
led lightly and quickly, a nice flaky crust will be obtained. 

PIE CRUST. Mrs. L. A. Lancel. ' 

% of a pint of flour, 2 heaping tablespoons lard, 1 teaspoon yeast 
powder, 2 eggs. Mix in a bowl with cold water until the dough is ready 
to roll out, not too stiff; roll out into a thin sheet, spread lard or butter 
over it and a little dusting of flour; then roll together; repeat this 3 
times; cover a plate, fill and bake. Spread a little lard on the top 
crust when it is put into the oven. 

LEMON PIES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 tablespoon corn starch or flour wet in a little cold water; pour over 
this about a teacup of boiling water; when clear it ought to be pretty 
thick; then add % cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, the grated rind 
and juice of 1 lemon , and the yolks of 3 eggs. Cover the outside of 
pan with rich crust and bake upside down, put baked shell inside your 
pan and pour in the filling. Beat the 3 whites to a stiff froth, add a 
few drops of lemon extract and 6 heaping tablespoons powdered sugar. 
Place in the oven for a few moments until a light brown. 

FILLING FOR LEMON PIE Miss O. A. Gordon. 

4 eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, juice and grated rind of one lemon, % 
cup of water, 1 teaspoon cornstarch (mixed with a little water). Beat 
yolks and whites, separately. Add sugar, lemon juice and rind to the 
yolks, then add the water and cornstarch, put on the stove, stir till it 
boils, beat whites stiff and add to the other ingredients. Fill the al- 
ready baked crust, put in oven and brown. 

PINEAPPLE TARTS Mrs. J. K. Armsby. 

Pour the juice off one can of grated pineapple. Add one-half cup 
water to the juice. Let it boil. Add 1% cups of sugar, 2 tablespoons 



178 ' PASTRY AND PIES 

of cornstarch in a little cold water. Add the pineapple and let it all 
cook until tender and smooth. Put in uncooked rich pastry, and bake 
in patty pans. 

PINEAPPLE PIE Mrs. F. M. Angellotti. 

1 cup grated pineapple, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon but 
ter, 3 eggs (only the yolks) ; mix and bake about 45 minutes. Use the 
whites of eggs for meringue. 

VINEGAR PIE Mrs. Prodtrottea. 

5 eggs, 2 largs cups boiling water, 5 tablespoons vinegar, about 5 
tablespoons corn starch, butter size of an egg, 1 cup of sugar. Put the 
water, sugar, butter and vinegar in a pan, thicken* with cornstarch, 
then add the beaten yolks, flavor with lemon and pour into the crust 
(bake the crust first) ; beat the whites of the eggs with 4 tablespoons 
of sugar, put over the pies, and set into the oven to brown lightly. 
This will make 2 pies. 

CUSTARD PIE Mrs. E. B. Marion. 

3 eggs, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 pint of milk, nutmeg and a pinch 
of salt. 

CREAM PIE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Line your pan with rich pastry. With an egg beater whip one cup 
cream, not too rich, until it is frothy, add % cup of sugar and the 
whites of 4 eggs well beaten, and beat all together, flavor with vanilla 
and bake until it sets. 

MOCHA PIE, (Original) Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Line deep pie pan with rich pastry. 4 eggs, 1 pint milk, % cup 
sugar, i/z cup cream, coffee and vanilla extract. Beat very light 2 eggs 
and 2 yellows, reserving the whites, add % cup of sugar and 1 pint of 
rich milk, % teaspoon vanilla and 2 teaspoons coffee extract. Beat all 
thoroughly, pour into pan and bake. Beat the 2 whites very stiff, add 
to % cup of cream whipped, sweeten and flavor with coffee extract 
and a little vanilla to taste. When the pie is cold spread over top. 
If this pie stands it will soak the crust, but it must stand long enough 
to be cool. The filling could also be used as custard, bake in granite 
pan, omitting the crust. 

SHOO FLY PIE Mrs. C- C. Olmsted. 

Make a ni^e thin lower crust. Filling 4 cups flour, % cup butter or 
lard and 1 cup sugar riveled together, keep 1 cup of these crumbs to 
sprinkle on top of pies when nearly baked and put the remainder in 
with 1 cup of molasses, 2 teaspoons soda and 1 cup of boiling water, 
put soda in half of the water then stir it in the molasses and add re- 
mainder of water. Enough for four pies. Good to carry to picnics. 



PASTRY AND PIES 17<> 

DATE PIE Mrs. G. G. Vanderlip. 

% Ib. dates, stone and cover with water; simmer till soft; then put 
through colander to remove strings and skins. Add to this mixture ^ 
cup sugar, 2 small eggs, 1 cup milk, a little salt and cloves, and 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon. Bake in flaky or rich under crust as pumpkin pie. 
This will make one pie. 

CRANBERRY PIE Mrs. Fronmuller. 

Cook 2 cups of cranberries with % cup of water, % cup of sugar for 
10 minutes. Line pie plates with good pastry and fill with mixture, 
putting strips of the pastry across the pie, and bake about 25 minutes. 
You can also bake your crust first, by covering the outside of the pan 
with crust and bake upside down, fill with mixture and ornament the 
top with fancy leaves previously baked. 

RHUBARB PIE Mrs. Chas. Shaw, Cloverdale. 

One large cup stewed rhubarb; 1 cup sugar; yolks of 2 eggs; 1 teas- 
poon flour; 1 teaspoon butter; flavor with lemon; whites of eggs 
beaten stiff; add 2 tablespoons of sugar; spread on top and brown. 
"Tse under crust only. 

BANANA PIE, NO. 1. Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Line a pan with good pastry; slice in very thinly 2 bananas; make a 
custard of 1 pint of milk, 2 well beaten eggs, a pinch of salt and 2 
tablespoons of sugar; pour over the bananas, and bake as a custard 
pie. 

BANANA PIE, NO. 2 Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Make a banana pie with a lower crust only; bake the crust first, fill 
it with sliced bananas and powdered sugar; the fruit will soften in a 
few minutes; cover with whipped cream, and eat at once. 

SQUASH PIES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Line the baking plates with nice, rich crust. Steam a Hubbard 
squash, and when done pass it through a colander. For 2 pies, beat up 
4 eggs, add 1 pint of squash, a little salt, 1 cup of sugar, 1 heaping 
teaspoon ginger, and % of a quart of milk. Bake until the mixture sets. 
1 cup of cream in place of some of the milk is a great improvement. 

SQUASH PIES Mrs. Geo. Rodden. 

Cream *4 cup of butter, beat in % cup of sugar, 4 teaspoon salt, % 
teaspoon ground mace, yolks of 3 eggs or 1 whole egg and the yolk of 
another beaten light, 2 tablespoons sherry wine, 1V4 cups, cooked and 
strained squash, and a large cup of rich creamy milk. This makes 1 
pie. Line pan with rich plain or puff paste. 



180 PASTRY AND PIES 

SWEDISH APPLE CAKE Miss A. Gordon. 

Roll out some rich pie paste, brush the edge with yolk of egg, and 
let it bake at a medium heat. Peel 6 apples, cut them into small pieces, 
and mix them with iy% ounces of sugar; cook until quite soft; mix 
with them % ounce of finely shredded orange peel, and the same of 
burnt almonds; add a little cinnamon and some grated lemon, and 
spread this mixture upon the paste. Beat up the whites of 2 eggs to 
snow. Mix in 2y 2 ounces of sugar, and put this into a conical, rolled 
paper bag; squeeze a network as well as a wreath-like edge on the 
cake; dust it with sugar, and put it into the oven until it is a pale gold- 
en color. 

ORANGE TARTLETS Mrs. H. V. Robinson. 

3 large fine oranges (juice of 3 and rind 1), 1 cup sugar, 2 dessert- 
spoons butter, juice of y 2 a lemon, 3 teaspoons cornstarch wet with 
lemon juice and 2 tablespoons of water, 1 egg; beat to a smooth cream 
and let it boil up, then pour into patty tins lined with crust, and bake. 

JESSIE TARTS Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

Line gem tins with a rich pie crust, pinching up edges so that they 
will be as deep as possible, then fill them with the filling and bake in 
a moderately quick oven until brown and firm. 

Filling Yolks of 4 eggs beaten with 1 cup of sugar, 4 tablespoons 
water, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon vanilla extract, % cup 
dessicated cocoanut. 

BANBURY TARTS Mrs. L. Hunt, Niles. 

From rich pastry cut circles 5 in. in diameter, wet % of the edge. 
put 2 teaspoons of the mixture on one side, fold the other over it and 
pinch the edges well together, making little scallops. 

Filling 1 package of raisins and 1 piece of citron chopped together 
very fine, mix this thoroughly with a large cup of sugar and the juice 
of 4 lemons and the grated rind of 2 lemons. This will make about 27 
or 28 tarts. 

COTTAGE CHEESE CAKE, ENGLISH Mrs.Fronmuller. 
2 cups cottage cheese, 4 eggs, 14 cup thick cream, % cup sugar, 1 
cup dried currants, % cup candied peel, 14 teaspoon salt, juice and 
grated rind of 1 large lemon. Rub the cottage cheese through a fine 
sieve, add beaten eggs and other ingredients and mix thoroughly. Line 
patty pans with good rich pastry, fill % full with cheese mixture and 
bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. Serve cold. 

LEMON HONEY Mrs. Fronmullio. 

% cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 3 eggs, juice of 2 large lemons and grated 
rind of 1. Melt butter in double boiler. Mix together lemons, sugar 
and well beaten eggs and add to butter. Cook until smooth and the 
consistency of honey. Sealed this will keep six months. Nice for 
lemon tartlets or layer cake. 



PASTRY AND PIES 181 

FIG PUFFS. Miss Margaret Bremner. 

1 pound figs cut in small pieces, 1 cup of water, % cup of sugar; boil 
the figs until tender; add the sugar while boiling; let cool; make a 
good rich pie crust, roll out a piece, spread the figs on, then roll out 
another piece about the same size and thin, and turn over the figs cut 
in bars 1% inches wide and 4 inches long; bake in a quick oven. These- 
are very good. 

MINCE MEAT Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

(From an old English recipe handed down in the Morris family.) 
1 beef's tongue well boiled, skinned and chopped fine; 2 pounds of 
beef suet and 8 pounds of tart apples, both chopped fine; 1 pint of 
molasses, 3 pounds of sugar, 4 tablespoons of cinnamon, 2 nutmegs, 2" 
tablespoons cloves, a little salt sprinkled on the tongue; 1 quart of 
rich boiled cider (which sftould be boiled down till it is as thick as 
syrup) 1 quart after boiling. Put everything together and set over a 
kettle of boiling water till the suet melts; then add 4 pounds of raisins; 
stoned, % pound of citron cut very small, and 2 pounds of currants. 
Wine or brandy if you like, and more sugar if you like it sweeter. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING MINCE MEAT. 
Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Boil 1 fresh beef tongue and 1 beef heart until tender, in as little- 
water as possible, and salt well when half done. Lean beef can be- 
used, but it is not so nice, for it is apt to be fibrous. Prepare the heart 
and tongue, and chop very fine. Measure, and use twice as many 
chopped apples as meat, and % as much chopped suet as meat. I 
quart of boiled cider, or 1 gallon of cider boiled down to a quart, 1 
quart syrup from sweet pickles, that from clingstone peaches is best; 
1 pint of best brandy; 1 pint sherry; the grated rind and juice of S" 
lemons and 2 oranges, 2 nutmegs, 2 tablespoons cloves, 2 tablespoons 
cinnamon, salt, 4 pounds seeded raisins, 2 pounds currants washed 
thoroughly, 1 pound citron chopped fine; brown sugar and syrup to 
taste. Cook altogether in a preserving pan, stirring frequently. If too- 
dry, add more syrup. More spices can also be added if liked. Put hot 
in fruit jars and this will keep indefinitely. When making the pies, 
add a tablespoon of brandy or wine to each pie. Jelly is a great im- 
provement and the skimmings from jelly will do just as well and" 
serves to make it rich. I have used a qt. to this quantity and then less 
sugar is required. Chopped figs, dates and walnuts may be added and" 
sometimes a part of the stock In which the meat was cooked. 

MINCE MEAT WITHOUT MEAT Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Take 2 Ibs. finely chopped suet, 4 Ibs. grated bread crumbs, 4 Ibs. 
currants, 4 Ibs. raisins, 5 Ibs. brown sugar, 1^6 Ibs. peel, lemon, orange 
and citron, shaved fine, 6 Ibs. of chopped apples weighed after being 



182 PASTRY AND PIES 

chopped; 2 tablespoons cinnamon, 2 of cloves, 1 of mace, 1 of salt and 
3. quarts of boiled cider. The ingredients are blended without cooking, 
and put away in jars set in a cool place. This mince will keep all 
winter. 



184 ADVERTISEMENTS 



E. B. MARTINELLI 

ATTORNEY 
NOTARY PUBLIC 

OFFICE WILKINS BLOCK SAN RAFAEL 



JAMES W. COCHRANE 

ATTORNEY AT LAW 

7O7 FOURTH STREET. SAN RAFAEL 

AND 

111-112 SIXTH FLOOR CROCKFR BUILDING. SAN FRANCISCO 
Telephone Main 32 

JOHNSON HARDWARE CO. 

Ranges, Hardawre, Paints, 

AND SEWING MACHINES 

408 B Street . San Rafael 

E. H. CONWAY 

PLUMBING 

Phone Red 21 306 B STREET San Rafae 1 

HANSEN & LUND LUMBER CO. (Incorporated) 

Dealers in all kinds of 

Lumber, Windows, Doors, Blinds, 

Hardware, Sewerpipe, Lime, Plaster, Cement- 
Pure Prepared Paints, Oil and Leads, and everything in the Building Line 

Office on A St.. opp. Narrow Gauge Depot 
Telephone Ren 71 San Rafael, Cal. 



pickles, Qtsd ps, Ftc. 



OIL CUCUMBER PICKLE Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

100 small cucumbers the size of a finger, sliced across in quarters; 1 
quart small onions ( 1 inch in diameter) sliced very thin. Put the above? 
into a colander in layers, sprinkling in Vi pint of salt. Put on them a 
heavy weight and let drain 6 hours. Put into a large pan the following: 
S tablespoons of olive oil, 1 tablespoon of celery seed, 1 dessertspoon of 
black pepper; mix well, toss in the cucumbers and onions, and mix 
again. Pack in Mason jars, fill with cold vinegar, and seal (without 
cooking). Makes about 5 pints. 

OLD OLIVE OIL PICKLES OR CUCUMBER MANGOES Miss C. T- 

Hoag. 

Place cucumbers in salt and water and keep well covered 10 days. 
Throw into fresh water for 1 night. The next day fill a large kettle 
with alternate layers of cucumbers and cabbage or grape leaves, with- 
a small piece of alum placed on the cucumbers. Cover with cider vine- 
gar and steam well, never allowing them to boil. Take out the seeds, 
and stuff, tyfng the two halves together. Place in jars or crocks. Pour 
over fresh cider vinegar, just brought to a boil, adding 4 or 5 Ibs. or 
brown sugar to 1 gal. of vinegar. 

Proportion for Stuffing for 200 Pickles. 

1 head cabbage, 1 doz. onions, 2 teaspoons cloves, 6 teaspoons mace. 
4 teaspoons allspice, 4 tablespoons coriander seed, 4 tablespoons black, 
mustard seed, 4 tablespoons white mustard seed, 2 tablespoons celery- 
seed, 7 teaspoons turmeric powder, 1 cup brown .sugar, 1 cup olive oiL 
1 small tumbler grated horse-radish. To every jar add a little olfve oir. 

FOR TWO GALLONS OF PICKLES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Put 2 gallons of small cucumbers in salt and water for 3 days; then 
wash thoroughly, and put in a jar. Boil 2 quarts of vinegar with a 
teacup of whole mustard, a handful each of cloves, allspice and black 
pepper, and a teacup of broken cinnamon all tied In a thin bag; to this- 
add 1 pound of brown sugar. With the pickles put a few pods of red 
pepper and roots of horseradish; pour the vinegar over the pickles, and 
if It does not cover them add more vinegar and let the bag of spices, 
remain in the jar. Scald the vinegar every day for 5 days; then pour 1 
coffee cup of molasses over the top and let it gradually settle down. 



S6 PICKLES, CATSUPS, KTC. 

RAINY DAY PICKLES Mrs. Thos. Wintringham 

6 doz. good sized cucumbers. 3 doz. small silver skin onions, 1 Ib 
-white sugar, y 2 gal. cider vinegar, 15 cents worth ground horseradish. 
14 IT) English mustard seed, 4 tablespoons turmeric, 4 tablespoons 
ground mustard, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon cloves, 2 table- 
spoons mace, 3 tablespoons celery seed. Peel onions, peel and slice 
cucumbers. Salt well, mix and put in bag to drain over night. Squeeze 
bag slightly next morning, then pack in pint jars. Boil vinegar, sugar 
and all spices, etc., pour over pickle and let moisture soak well 
through it, seal while hot. 

MUSTARD PICKLES Miss Tena Bremner. 

1 quart large cucumbers chopped, 1 quart small ones left whole, 1 
quart large onions chopped, 1 quart small ones whole, 1 large cauliflow- 
er pulled apart, 3 strong peppers chopped fine, 3 small ones left whole. 
Put all in separate dishes and cover with hot brine; cover closely to 
Tteep steam in; let stand over night; in the morning drain them and 
put all together, adding 3 cups sugar, y 2 gallon vinegar, % pound white 
mustard, *4 ounce celery seed; put all in kettle and scald them. Make 
a paste of % cup of flour, 3 ounces yellow mustard, */& ounce turmeric 
powder mixed with a little vinegar; turn this in slowly, stir briskly and 
let it boil up; then bottle. 

SWEET PICKLES Mrs. Geo. Bunn. 

3% pounds brown sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 2 tablespoons each of 
cloves, allspice and cinnamon in small bags. Boil the syrup and spices; 
when boiling hot pour it over 7 pounds of fruit; let stand_ 24 hours; 
pour off, boil again, and scald again as many times as necessary, ac- 
cording to size of fruit; for peaches about 4 times is sufficient; for 
smaller fruits, such as grapes or plums, 2 or 3 times will answer. 

STUFFED PEACHES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Remove pits from firm peaches, breaking as little as possible. Chop 
qual parts of raisins, dates and nuts, mix thoroughly. Stuff peaches, 
tie well, and simmer in syrup like any sweet pickle. Seal in jars. De- 
licious. / 

BRANDY PEACHES Mrs. Southard Hoffman. 

Use Morris' white peaches, if possible. Peel carefully and throw in- 
to cold water to keep them white. To 6 Ibs. of prepared fruit, allow 
same weight of sugar. Make a syrup of 2 Ibs. of the sugar, and cook 
peaches in this very slowly, until tender. Lay peaches on platter to 
cool. Add remainder of sugar to syrup and make a rich syrup and re- 
move from fire and when a little cool add 1 cup of white brandy to 2 
cups of syrup. Put peaches in jars and pour syrup over them. 

SOUTHERN WATERMELON SWEET PICKLES Mrs. C. B. Cornell. 

Pare the rind In convenient sizes and cover with cold water for 24 

Tiours. Drain and weigh. To every 4 pounds of rind put 4 pounds of 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 1ST 

white sugar, 4 or 5 pieces of white ginger, 1 tablespoon (full) of cinna- 
mon bark, one even tablespoon of mace, 1 nutmeg, a few cloves. Make 
the 4 pounds of sugar into a syrup using 1 pint of water, put in the 
ginger to boil tender. As soon as the syrup has boiled put the rind in 
and let it boil until tender and clear. Then take the ginger out and 
slice thin then put back and add all the rest of the spices. Boil a little- 
longer then add 1 pint of vinegar, and let boil up once. Put in air tight: 
jars. 

SWEET PICKLES OF CANTALOUPE Mrs. Southard Hoffman. 

For 5 gals of pickles buy 12 cantaloupes. Cut in strips about the- 
size served at table and peel carefully and place in stone jar and pour 
over them sufficient boiling cider vinegar to cover them. Scald vinegar 
every other day for 9 days and let stand 3 days, on the fourth make a 
syrup of 3 Ibs. of cube sugar and one qt of vinegar to every 7 pieces 
of melon. Boil syrup % hour and add 4 sticks of cinnamon broken In 
2 in. pieces, 6 roots of ginger, 1 pinch of whole mace, 1 tablespoon 
whole cloves. Drain melon and throw away any that are soft, then 
boil slowly * hour in syrup. Put melon in jar and boil syrup % hour 
and pour over fruit. Unless you put at once in mason jars the syrup 
must be scalded alternate days for 9 days. Do not use for 2 weeks. 
Use only cider vinegar, cube sugar and firm ripe melons. 

CHOW-CHOW Mrs. Robert E. Neil. 

12 large cucumbers, 4 large or 8 medium onions, 2 heads cauliflower. 
% peck green tomatoes cut in small pieces, 1 quart string beans (white 
wax beans are best) string as for cooking, and break once; 3 large 
red peppers cut in strips, 50 small cucumbers about 2 inches long used 
whole, 2 quarts small silver onions, peeled and used whole. Pack all 
down in salt over night. In the morning wash off the salt, and drain 
well in a colander. Then boil in 1% gallons of good cider vinegar, ad- 
ding 1 pound brown sugar, 2 ounces white mustard, 1 ounce celery seed" 
whole. Into 1 pint cold vinegar thoroughly mix 1 small box yellow 
ground mustard, 4 tablespoons ground black pepper, 1 horseradish root 
grated, and 2 ounces turmeric; add to the boiling liquid; and boil air 
together from 2% to ?, hou-s. Put into glass or stone jars, while stilF 
warm. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE Mrs. Thos. Menzies. 

4 quarts green tomatoes after having been chopped; 2 roots horse- 
radish, 1 small teacup salt, 1 teacup black mustard seed, 1 teacup white 
mustard seed, 2 tablespoons black pepper, 2 red peppers, (without 
seeds), 2 or 3 celery stalks, 1 cup onions (or same of nasturtiums), 1 
teaspoon each of cloves, mace and cinnamon, 2 cups brown sugar, $ 
pints strong vinegar. Chop the tomatoes, sprinkle with salt called for 
in recipe, and drain for 12 hours; if onions are used, let them drain 



188 PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 

with tomatoes. Boil for 1 hour; add the horseradish and celery later 
*o that they only boil % hour. Before closing the jars, fill to the brim 
-with hot vinegar. 

CHOW-CHOW Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

1 pk. green tomatoes and 1 doz. green cucumbers, sliced and sprink- 
led with about 2 cups of salt; let them stand over night; in the morn- 
ing wash thoroughly and cook until tender in equal parts of vinegar 
and water; when tender drain, and throw away the liquid. Slice 1 doz. 
large dry onions and 1 dozen bell peppers, and put them to cook in .] 
quarts of vinegar; when tender drain off the vinegar, and return to the 
stove for the sauce. To the vinegar add * cup of ground mustard, 2 
tablespoons of black pepper, 1 cup of flour wet in a little of the vfne- 
gar, 4 cups of brown sugar, 1 tablespoon celery seed. Cook all until 
the sauce thickens, and pour it over the chow-chow. Put in the jars 
while hot, and seal. In this way it keeps for years. Delicious. 

PICCALILLI Mrs. W. J. Wickman. 

1 peck green tomatoes, 8 large onions chopped fine, 1 cup of salt, well 
stirred in. Let it stand over night and in the morning drain off all the 
liquor, add 2 quarts of water and 1 quart of vinegar; boil all together 
"20 minutes. Drain all through a sieve or colander, put it back into the 
kettle again, turn over it 2 quarts of vinegar, 1 pound of sugar, % pint 
of white mustard seed, 2 tablespoons of ground pepper, 2 of cinnamon. 
1 of cloves, 2 of ginger, and 1 of allspice, and V z teaspoon of cayenne 
pepper. Boil all together 15 minutes or until tender. Stir it often to 
prevent scorching. Seal in glass x jars. A good relish with meat or fish. 

PICKLED EGGS Mrs. W. J. Wickman. 

3 dozen eggs boiled hard; drop in cold water, remove the shells, and 
-pack them when entirely cold in a wide-mouthed jar large enough to let 
them in or out without breaking. Take as much vinegar as will cover 
them entirely, and boil In it white pepper, allspice, and a little root 
-ginger; pour this over the eggs in the jar, occasionally putting In a 
tablespoon of white and black mustard seed mixed, a small piece of 
race ginger, a garlic if liked, horseradish ungrated, whole cloves, and a 
very little allspice. Slice 2 or 3 green peppers and add in very small 
quantities. They will be fit for use in 8 or 10 days. 

TOMATO KETCHUP Mrs. J. Sheeny. 

Select 1 pk. of solid tomatoes, wash thoroughly, cut in halves and 
put in porcelain lined kettle. Add Y* oz. whole cloves, 1 oz allspice, a 
doz. small bird peppers crushed, 7 bay leaves, 3 tablespoons whole mus- 
tard, 6 in. stick cinnamon broken, 1 oz. ginger root, pounded fine, five 
large finely chopped onions, 7 cloves of garlic, sliced. Simmer gently 
for % of an hour and pass through sieve. Return to fire and cook quick- 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, ETC. 189 

ly until very thick, add 1 pt. of vinegar and cook 15 rain, longer. Then 
add 4 level tablespoons salt, 1 level teaspoon white pepper, % teaspoon 
cayenne. Wash and scald beer bottles and fill with hot ketchup. 

TOMATO CATSUP Miss Parsons, Tamalpais. 

2 quarts of tomatoes skinned and chopped, 1^ pints vinegar, % 
pound brown sugar, % pint New Orleans molasses, 1 teaspoon red pep- 
per, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 onions (2 inches in diameter) chopped fine, 3 
tablespoons winter squash steamed and mashed. Mix all together and 
boil down to % the original quantity. Excellent. Makes about 3 
quarts. 

TOMATO CATSUP Mrs. A. A. Smith. 

Scald and strain tomatoes through a sieve to remove seeds and 
skins; then add to each gallon of juice 3 tablespoons of salt, 4 of 
ground 'mustard, 3 of black pepper, 2 of allspice, 2 of cinnamon, 1 of 
cloves, 1 teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 1 pt of white wine vinegar; sim- 
mer slowly for 4 hours, bottle and cork tight. 

APPLE CATSUP Miss Tena Bremner. 

Stew apples in as little water as possible, and to 7 cups of pulp add 
1% cups sugar, 1 teaspoon pepper, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, 1 teaspoon ginger, and 2 medium-sized onions chopped very fine. 
Beat well together, and then add 1 teaspoon salt and 1 cup vinegar. 
Stir well until all the ingredients are blended, then boil 1 hour and 
bottle while hot. Fill top of jar with vinegar to exclude air and pre- 
vent mould 

CHILI SAUCE Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

8 large tomatoes, 4 large Chili peppers, 4 red peppers, 1 large onion, 
1 tablespoon of sugar, 1 of ginger, 1 of cloves, 1 of allspice, 1 of salt, 2 
cups of vinegar. Boil down to half the quantity. 

CHILI SAUCE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

12 large ripe tomatoes pared, 2 large onions, 4 bell peppers, 1 Chili. 1 
tablespoon salt, 4 tablespoons sugar, and 2 teacups vinegar; chop the 
onions and peppers fine, put all together in a kettle, and let them sim- 
mer about 2 hours when it should be quite thick. If one likes a hotter 
sauce, use more Chilis. 

SPICED CURRANTS Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

1 5 pounds picked currants, 4 pounds sugar, 1 pint vinegar, ^ table- 
spoon ground cloves, % tablespoon allspice, % tablespoon cinnamon, 1 
dozen whole cloves. Put all together and boil % of an hour. This 
strained makes soy. 



190 PICKLES, CATSUPS, RTC. 

TO PICKLE OLIVES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Dissolve a 1-pound can of Babbitt's Potash in 5 gallons of water. 
Wash the olives and put in only enough to have the lye simply cover 
them. Stir every few hours and taste. When the bitter is almost gone 
(the time varying from 24 hours to 9 days), pour off the lye and soak in 
clear cold water 24 hours, changing frequently, but the olives must not 
get soft or mushy. Make a brine of 14 ounces of salt to a gallon of 
water, and pour it cold over the olives. Change this brine several 
times until the lye taste is gone. Bottle cold, filling the bottles welL 
I have excellent results preserving ripe olives by this recipe. 



192 ADVERTISEMENTS 



Y 

> 

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
A 



I SAN RAFAEL | 

SKATING RINK | 

Third Street, below A. 



Open 10 to 12 a. m , 2 to 5 p. m. and 8 to 10:30 p. m. 



PRICES OF ADMISSION X 

Morning and Afternoon 10 cts. X 

Evening 15 cts. 
Y Skates Morning and afternoon ... 15 cts. 

X Skates Evenings 25 cts. -X 

** Commutation Tickets, good for ten admissions, with 

! use of skates $2 50 .'. 

x t 

X Instructors always in attendance, morning and afternoon. X 

| CLOSED ON SUNDAYS t 

y T 

'f&'l"tt'*t"l"M~l"i"l"M"i"M^ 

V V 

Marin County Tocsin | 

Established 1879 f 

I 
PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY 

. I 

i 



SOCIETY PRINTERS 

Mercantile Printing of every description 
Book, Brief and Transcript Printing a specialty. 

TOCSIN PUBLISHING CO. 

i 

Over Hotaling Bank, San Rafael. X 

^X^X^><X*X'i'X*X*X'XH'X M X*X >< X* < H'* 



Jellies and 




.Make all jellies or preserves in granite or porcelain pans. 
Fruit for jelly should not be quite ripe. 

Fill the jars, run a knife to the bottom and then around the edge, 
that the air bubbles may rise. 

Have the fruit hot, fill the jars full, screw the covers tight (the rub- 
ber rings must be new each year) ; to test the tightness of the covers, 
turn the jars upside down and let them so remain for several hours. 

Boiling jelly after the sugar is in makes it dark in color. 
Fruit steamed in the jar, and a syrup poured over it afterwards, is 
nicest. 

CURRANT JELLY Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cook the currants on the stems, after they have been carefully 
washed; put in a bag and let drain; measure and return to the fire and 
boil 15 minutes; then add an equal quantity of granulated sugar warm- 
ed in the oven, and boil 5 minutes longer; pour in glasses. If the 
flavor of raspberries is liked, cook with the currants about 2 little bask- 
ets of raspberries to 1 small drawer of currants. After using the juice 
that drained off, squeeze the bag and make jelly which will not be so 
clear but does well for puddings and cakes. Skim thoroughly as it 
boils. Can also be made without cooking. Mash and strain currants, 
htir in an eoual quantity of sugar, pour in glasses and set in sun. 

QUINCE JELLY Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Wipe the quinces carefully, then quarter them, removing nothing but 
the blows or any imnerfect part, put on in just sufficient cold water to 
cover the fruit; cook until tender, stirring from the bottom carefully, 
but do not break the fruit, or the juice will not run. Drain through a 
bag and squeeze (for this jelly will be clear if squeezed and much 
more juice will be obtained) ; measure, put through a second bag and 
return to fire and boil from % to 1 hour according to whether the juice 
is watery or rich; add an equal amount of sugar which has been heat- 
ed in the oven, and boil until it begins to jelly around the pan or drops 
from the spoon. Skim carefully. Jelly can be made from the cores 
and rinds left from making preserves. In making preserves steam the 
fruit until a little tender, then pour the syrup over, and the fruit will 



194 JELLIES AND FRUITS 

not be leathery. If late in the season add the juice of 4 lemons to a 
large pan of jelly to insure success. 

GRAPE JELLY Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Wash the grapes (Isabellas are the best) ; pick from the stem, and 
proceed as in currant jelly. To prevent crystals forming after the jelly 
gets a little old, cook a small proportion of juicy apples, as you cook 
quinces, and add their juice to the grape juice. The apples also help 
to make a firmer jelly. Proceed as in other jelly, cooking about 1 hour 
before adding the sugar. To make jelly from most berries it is neces- 
sary to use apples. 

APPLE AND STRAWBERRY JELLY Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cook sufficient tart, partially ripe apples to make about 3 quarts rich 
juice. Boil 15 to 20 minutes and stir in 4 quarts hot sugar. Stir until 
well dissolved, then pour in 1 drawer of small tart strawberries and 
boil gently from 5 to 10 minutes. When the jelly begins to cool, press 
down the berries as their tendency is to float, If preferred without the 
whole berries cook and strain them. Most berries require apple juice 
to make them jelly. 

PINEAPPLE AND APPLE JELLY Mrs. Geo. Rodden. 

Prepare about 3 quarts of thick apple juice, add an equal quantity of 
sugar and when about to jelly, add the pineapple, prepared as follows: 
The long pineapples are best. Peel 1 pineapple, remove all eyes, slice 
thin and quarter each slice, sprinkle over it a cup of sugar and let it 
stand over night. Cook in the jelly until it becomes clear and tender. 

TO KEEP JELLY FROM MOULDING Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Melt in a sauce pan some paraffine and pour over the jelly to the 
depth of a quarter of an inch. 

QUINCE HONEY Miss A. Gordon. 

5 nice quinces pared and grated, 1 pint of water, 5 pounds of granu- 
lated sugar; stir the grated quinces into the boiling sugar and water; 
cook 15 minutes, pour into glasses, and let cool before covering. 

RHUBARB SAUCE Miss H. Pregge. 

Cut up the rhubarb into small pieces, leaving all tendeer skin on; 
then pour into double boiler with sugar enough to sweeten, and cook 
until tender. This is very nice. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Put 1 quart of well picked cranberries into 1 pint of boiling water, 
and boil rapidly until done; then press through a colander, return to 
the fire, add 2 cups of sugar, and cook a short time. The flavor is more 
delicate when it is brought to a half-jellied consistency. 1 cup cf water 
will make it a stiffer jelly. 



JELLIES AND FRUITS 195 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. Carter P. Pomeroy. 

Slice 1 dozen oranges, skins and all, with a potato slicer (the kind 
that comes for Saratoga potatoes); weigh the sliced fruit, and to each 
pound add 1% pints of water and boil for % of an hour; then let it 
stand for 24 hours; weigh it again, to each pound add 1^ pounds of 
sugar and the juice of 1 lemon, and boil for 25 minutes, not longer. 
Use common sour oranges, taking out the seeds as you slice them. 
Delicious and very easy to make. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

2 dozen juicy oranges, grate the rind of half of them and pare the 
other half. Cook the parings until tender, in plenty of water, throwing 
away the water. Carefully separate the seeds and white part from the 
juice and pulp. When the skins are well cooked, remove all the white 
coating inside, and clip the rind with scissors into fine strips. Meas- 
ure or weigh both the rind and pulp, and put it on to boil for about an 
hour; then add the same amount of heated sugar, and let this boil un- 
til the right consistency is reached, stirring constantly. It can be 
tested by putting a little in a saucer on ice or in any cool place. If 
lemons are liked, add about 6 to this recipe. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. E. O. Allen. 

(Requires about 2% large juicy oranges to a pint). With a sharp 
knife carefully shave off the yellow portion of the skin of ^ the or- 
anges. Peel off the white, leaving the clean pulp. Peel the remaining 
%. Put through a meat chopper the yellow shavings of skin, and the 
pulp of all the oranges, peeled clean of white. Add % as much water 
by measure. Boil about an hour or until the water boils away, leav- 
ing the amount of the original pulp. Add an equal amount of granulated 
sugar, by measure. To every dozen oranges add the juice of 4 lemons. 
Let stand 24 hours. Boil gently, stirring constantly for about 45 min- 
utes. Put in pint jars and seal. 

ORANGE MARMALADE Mrs. Orey J. Short. 

Slice 1 dozen Naval oranges thin, through skin and all. Weigh fruit 
and to every pound add a quart of water. Let stand 24 hours. Then 
boil 15 minutes. To every pint of fruit and juice, add a pound of sugar. 
Let boil 2 hours steadily. Just before taking off, add juice of 6 lem- 
ons. Pour In glasses and let stand several days before covering, as it 
takes some time to thicken. This is an excellent marmalade and very 
inexpensive. 

GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE Miss O. A. Gordon. 

Slice fruit finely. To every lb of sliced fruit, add 1% pints of water, 
let It stand over night. Boil next morning till the chips are tender, al- 
most 1 hour. To every lb of pulp add 1 lb of sugar or a little less. 
Boil until it jellies. 



190 JELLIES AND FRUITS 

CURRANT MARMALADE Mrs. Frances C. White. 
2 qts. currants, 1 qt. sugar, 2 cups seeded raisins chopped, juice and 
pulp 2 oranges, rind of 1. Boil 15 min. 

APPLE GINGER Mrs. J. A. Reeder. 

6 ounces white ginger (bruised), 4 pints cold water, boiled slowly 
until ginger is soft. Drain off the liquid and add 6 pounds nice apples, 
peeled, cored, and cut in lengthwise pieces and 6 pounds sugar. Boil 
the whole slowly adding no more water than that poured off the ginger. 
Shake often to prevent burning and cook until a pretty transparent 
brown color. 

EAST INDIA PRESERVES Mrs. Thos. S. Bonneau. 

7 Ibs pears, same of sugar, pears not too ripe, cut in thin slices and 
boil till tender. Outer rind 2 lemo.ns first boiled till tender in water, 
add juice 1 lemon to pears, 1 large cup of finely cut preserved ginger, 
add to pears, when pears are done skim out same leaving syrup to boil 
down to desired thickness, then replace fruit in syrup for a few min- 
utes before removing from stove. If pears are boiled too long in syrup 
they become tough. 

PEARS WITH GINGER Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

As you prepare your syrup break up a few pieces of dried ginger root 
and cook in the syrup, then add pears, cook until clear and when bot- 
tling put about 2 pieces of ginger into each jar. 

FIG JAM Mrs. Southard Hoffman. 

6 Ibs. figs, 3 Ibs. sugar, 2 lemons sliced, % cup sliced green ginger 
root. BOH rf hours. 

APRICOT JAM Mrs. H. M. Jones, Pomona. 

5 Ibs. fruit pitted and peeled, 3% Ibs. white sugar. Put in alternate 
layers and let stand over night. Cook slowly, stir carefully until thick 
and smooth. Blanch and chop fine % Ib almonds and the kernels from 
12 apricots and add shortly before bottling. 

FOUR FRUIT JAM Mrs. H. M. Jones, Pomona. 

Press the juice from 6 Ibs. currants, add same weight of stoned cher- 
ries, whole strawberries and raspberries. Add 2 Ibs. less sugar than 
you have prepared fruit. Skim and boil from 10 to 15 min. 

PRESERVED WATERMELON RIND Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Soak strips of watermelon in alum water slightly sour, for 24 hrs. 
Wash well, drain and add to the following syrup: To 1 Ib of melon 
allow 1 Ib of sugar and sufficient water to cover and ginger root to 
taste. Cook slowly until the melon strips become transparent. 



JKL I.IKS AND FRUITS 1!>" 

PRESERVED TOMATOES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Peel tomatoes, weigh and allow Ib for Ib of sugar sprinkling in al- 
ternate layers, and let stand over night. Pour off juice and boil until 
<iuite thick, then add tomatoes and cook until clear and rich. Slice 
lemons thin and add to taste, about 4 or 5 to a good size pan of pre- 
serves. Remove the seeds and some prefer cooking the lemons sllgnny 
in a little water to prevent their hardening, but as they are seldom 
aten and it is only the flavor required, I cook them with the tomato 

PRESERVED LOGANBERRIES Mrs. O. J. Short. 

Cook one drawer of loganberries with a little water until soft, then 
strain and add another drawer of berries and as many cups of sugar 
as you now have berries and juice. Boil slowly for 20 mrnwws. Tne 
result will be firm berries in a jelly. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES OR BERRIES Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Prepare good firm berries and to each Ib of fruit allow % of a Ib of 
white sugar, sprinkled in alternate layers and let stand over night. 
In the morning boil 20 min. and bottle. Any berry is better if allowed 
to stand over night in sugar. Raspberries require about % of a Ib of 
sugar. Loganberries require Ib for Ib and blackberries about % Ib to 
a Ib of fruit. A very nice combination is equal parts of Logan and 
blackberries, the combination resembles wild blackberries. Putting ber- 
ries into syrup hardens the seeds and if cooked before the sugar is ad- 
ded they are mushy. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 199 

The JORDAN HOUSE 

SAN RAFAEL, CAL. 

FIRST CLASS BOARDING HOUSE 

SIXTH ST., HEAD OF B. 

Beautiful Views ^ Fine Grounds 

MRS. J. F. JORDAN, 

Proprietress 

San Rafael and San Francisco Express 

AND ROSS VALLEY 
Express, Furniture, Baggage, Pianos and Freight 

Carefully and PrDmpt'y Delivered Betw^n 
San Francis:o, San Rafael and Ross V 
WAGONS MAKK T.Tk'OirOII TRIPS DAILY 

San Rafael Office: 819 Fourth St. Sai Frai-iscD offics: 

Phone Main 26 Ferry Building 

Phone Temporary 129 

FRED N. ELLIOTT, Manager 

Telephone Black 526 

SAN RAFAEL BAZAAR 

E. W. DuBOIS Proprietor 
BOS FOURTH ST.. COCHRANE-MCNEAR BUILDING 

Fine Stationery, Office Supplies, Notions, 

Sporting Goods, Magazines and Periodicals 

DO YOU KNOW THAT 

GRANDMA'S SPANISH PEPPER 

The delicious Spanish Seasoning, received a silver medal for purity 
and excellency at the California State Fair, and also a silver medal 
at tne Lewis and Clark Exposition, Portland, Oregon? 

It is a delicious seasoning for any kind of cooking. 

DIRECTIONS FOR USE WITH EACH CAN. 

Try It. Sold by all Grocers 

Factory, SACRAMENTO, CALIF. 



200 ADVERTISEMENTS 



QOTfi HOOVER'S 



FOR 4 



FINE CANDIES 



I 



I 
X 



Ice Cream Soda 
A Specialty 



r 
r 

T 
T 

i 

I 



Salted Almonds 



Fruit Ices to Order 







FONDANT FOR CREAM CANDY Mrs. O. J. Short. 

2 cups finely granulated sugar, % cup hot water, pinch cream tartar. 
Place on back of stove and stir until all granules of sugar are melted. 
Place on hot fire, boil briskly, do not stir. Stir a teaspoon of the syrup 
in a saucer. If it becomes creamy, so that it can be formed into a 
ball, remove syrup from fire and turn into a large flat platter. When 
lukewarm, beat until thick and creamy. Then knead until cold. It is 
now ready for flavoring and may be made into any desired form. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS Mrs. Orey J. Short. 

Divide the fondant and add different flavorings to each part vanilla, 
strawberry, coffee, almond and cocoanut. Mold into any shaped balls 
desired and let stand over night. Place a small piece of unsweetened 
chocolate in a small vessel, add a bit of butter and small piece of 
paraffine; place in a pan of boiling water. When melted, by using a 
hatpin, dip the cream balls into this mass; place on oil paper and let 
stand for two days. 

COCOANUT BARS Mrs. Orey J. Short. 

To some fondant, add as much shredded cocoanut as will stir in 
easily; then divide in halves. To one half add vanilla and mold into a 
bar. To the other half add a little pink coloring extract and raspberry 
flavoring and mold into bar. When firm, slice. 

CREAM CANDIES Miss Durbrow, San Francisco. 

2 cups of granulated sugar, % cup milk. Boil 5 minutes (exactly) 
without stirring from the time it starts to boil well, then remove from 
fire and stir in % tablespoon of glucose and from 10 to 15 drops of oil 
of peppermint. Stir rapidly or beat with egg beater until mixture be- 
gins to cream, then quickly drop from spoon on paraffine or buttered 
paper. Color pink and flavor with 20 to 25 drops oil of wintergreen. 

CREAM CANDY Miss Tena Bremner. 

2 cups granulated sugar, % cup cold water, *4 teaspoon cream of 
tartar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, almond, or any flavoring desired. Boil sugar, 
cream of tartar and water together until it hairs from the spoon; add 
the flavoring; set it in a cool place, and when nearly cold beat it until 
light and creamy; when cold enough to handle, mold into any shapes 
desired; place on a platter to harden. Melt unsweetened chocolate in a 



202 CONFECTIONERY 

double boiler, and with a long pin dip the creams into the chocolate- 
and set aside to cool. A nice variety may be made by removing the 
pits from dates, and filling with plain cream shaped to fit, or with 
cream into which chopped nuts have been mixed. Almonds blanched 
and placed on the creams before they are quite cool, or walnuts halved 
and creams put between them, make a variety. 

MAPLE CREAM Mrs. J. L. Tharp. 

2 cups of maple sugar, ^ cup of cream, 14 cup almonds blanched and 
chopped. Boil until crisp in water. Put in the nuts after taking from 
the fire, stirring until cool. 

MAPLE SUGAR NUT CANDY Miss Augustine. 

1 cup cream or milk, 1 cup maple syrup, 2 cups granulated sugar, 
butter the size of two walnuts. Boil to the "soft ball" stage, add 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla and 1 cup chopped walnuts. Take off the stove immedi- 
ately and stir vigorously until it begins to resist the spor. r ar 
once on a greased platter, flatten into shape and when slightly cooled, 
cut into squares. Almonds may be used with lemon flavoring. 

PEANUT CANDY Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Prepare 1 pint of shelled peanuts in a square pan, rubbing off all the 
skins. Put 2 cups of granulated sugar over the fire dry, and stir con- 
stantly until melted; then pour it over the candy. Great care must be 
used to prevent the sugar from burning. 

PANOCHE CANDY Mrs. Oliver. 

4 cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk, the meats of 2 pounds of walnuts 
broken, 1 large tablespoon vanilla; boil all together over a slow fire till 
it sugars around the edge of the kettle; stir constantly; pour into a 
buttered dish, and cut into squqares while warm. 

PANOCHE CANDY Miss Saunders. 

4 cups brown sugar, 1 cup milk (% cup cream and % cup of milk), 
butter size of walnut, 1 cup of walnuts (chopped), 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Boil sugar, milk and butter over a slow fire, stir constantly. When 
near done stir in nuts and vanilla ; pour into buttered pan and cut into 
squares while warm. 

PANOCHE Mrs. W. F. Jones. 
To the above recipe add 1 cup chopped figs, as well as the nuts. 

TOFFEE CANDY Miss Agnes I. Menzies. 

2 cups of sugar, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, 1 tablespoon water, 1 
tablespoon any flavoring preferred. It is done when it has boiled 20 
minutes. 



CONFECTIONERY 203 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS Miss Mary Dollar. 

1 cup of molasses, ^ cup of white sugar, 14 pound of chocolate. 1 
heaping tablespoon of butter; boil until hard, then pour into buttered 
plates, and when hard, cut into squares. Stir while boiling. 

VANILLA CHOCOLATE CARAMELS Mrs. Bernhard Johnson, S. F. 

% cup of chocolate, 2 cups of molasses, % cup of milk, 2 cups of 
granulated sugar, piece of butter the size of an egg, tablespoon vanilla 
added when cooked. Chopped nuts may be added when ready to pour 
into pan. Try in cold water and it is done when it forms a hard lump. 
Mark in squares when nearly cold. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS Mrs. A. F. Fechteler, Washington, D. C. 

Brown sugar 3 Ibs, cream of tartar 1 teaspoon, butter % Ib, para- 
ffine size hickory nut, milk 1 pint, vanilla 2 teaspoons, chocolate 'Bak- 
er's % Ib. Melt chocolate over tea kettle. Put butter, sugar and milk 
in a sauce pan and let it come to a boil. Add the melted chocolate. 
Stir enough to prevent burning. Add cream of tartar dissolved in a 
little hot water. Put paraffine in before it comes to a boil. Add flavor. 

COFFEE CARAMELS Mrs. E. Q. Smith. 

In a saucepan put 2 cups dark brown sugar, 1 cup clear strong cof- 
fee, % cup cream, 1 tablespoon butter. Boil slowly until it snaps 
when tested in cold water. Pour into greased pans, and when slightly 
cool mark in squares. Before pouring into pan add 1 teaspoon coffee 
extract and a few drops of vanilla. 

DIVINITY CANDY Mrs. Francis C. White, Everett, Wash. 

2 cups granulated sugar, 1 cup walnuts, sliced fine with a knife, % 
cup of thick cream and % cup of golden drip syrup, 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Boil sugar, cream and syrup together until you can make a soft ball. 
(Try in cold water). Add last when cooked, walnuts and vanilla. Beat 
hard for several minutes and pour on buttered pan and when nearly 
cold cut in small blocks. 

FUDGE Mrs. O. J. Short. 

1 cup brown sugar, 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 cup rich milk. Let 
mixture come to a boil, add lump of butter size of an egg and one 
square of chocolate grated. Boil. Try as for fondant. Stir until a thick 
cream that will pour, flavor with vanilla and turn into buttered tin. Cut 
into squares. 

MOLASSES TAFFY Hoover's. 

2 Ibs brown sugar, 1 Ib white sugar, % pint New Orleans molasses, 
and a little water, place in a kettle; add to this 2 teaspoons of vinegar, 
^nd 2 ounces of butter; set the kettle on a moderate fire and stir and 
cook the batch to a slight crack; pour out on buttered platter or a 



204 CONFECTIONERY 

marble slab and let it become cool enough to handle; then pull the 
batch, when it will be ready for use. 

TURKISH DELIGHT (Candy) Miss O. A. Gordon. 

Soak one package of Gelatine in a cup of cold water for twenty min- 
utes, then add 1% cups boiling water, 2 pounds granulated sugar, boil 
twenty-five minutes; when you take off fire add flavoring, pour on dry 
plates; when cold and set, cut in strips; roll in powdered sugar, cut in 
squares, again roll in sugar. 

VANILLA CREAM TAP FY Hoover. 

"vYie.igh 4 pounds cf white sugar; place it in a kettle; add to this 2 
tablespoons of vinegar, 1 pint of rich cream and 2 ounces of butter; 
set the kettle on a moderate fire, and stir and cook the batch to a 
slight crack; pour out on buttered plates or a marble slab, and let it 
become cool enough to handle; then pull the batch, and flavor with 1 
teaspoon of vanilla extract, when it will be ready for use. 

TAFFY Miss Agnes I . Menzies. 

3 cups brown sugar, 1 tablespoon molasses, 1% tablespoons butter, 1 
tablespoon cream, a pinch of cream of tartar; flavor with vanilla; put 
iu a buttered pan large enough to make the candy thin. Stir all the 
time. 

TO PREPARE SALTED ALMONDS Miss A. Gordon. 

Blanch them by pouring hot water on them. When they are blanch- 
ed and dry, measure them, and over each cupful of nuts pour 1 table- 
spooja of best olive oil; then sprinkle with a tablespoon of salt for each 
cup of nuts, mixing: thoroughly. Put in not too hot an oven for about 
10 minutes, or until they are nicely browned. 

SALTED ALMONDS Mrs. Fronmuller. 

Pour boiling water over almonds and remove skins, cook for 15 min. 
in strong salt water, drain and dry and fry in hot olive oil until brown 
and drain on cheese cloth. Pecans, filberts or peanuts are prepared 
the same. Salt water is 1 cup salt to 3 cups water. Fat can be used 
instead of olive oil. 

SALTED ALMONDS Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Heat a little olive oil in a very small saucepan, drop a few almonds- 
in and fry them as you would doughnuts. When brown, skim them out, 
throw on brown paper and sprinkle with salt. As long as the olive oil 
is not burned, it can be used again by adding a little more oil to it. 

STUFFED DATES Mrs. Orey J. Short. 

Chop walnuts and almonds and add to vanilla fondant. Remove the 
stones from firm dates; stuff with this nut cream and sprinkle with 



CONFECTIONERY 20.') 

I>owdered sugar. A little grated cocoanut may be added to the cream 
if desired. 

STUFFED BRANDIED DATES Helen Walker. 

Stone 2 tbs. of dates and soak 12 hours in 1 qt. of best brandy. 
Blanch 1% Ibs. of either wainuts or almonds and chop. Remove dates 
from brandy, stuff and roll in powdered sugar. 

CANDIED POP CORN Mrs. W. F. Jones. 

Cook 1 cup pulverized sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, 3 tablespoons 
water until it hardens when dropped in cold water. Have about 3 qts. 
pop corn in pan, pour mixture over slowly, stirring briskly. Nuts 
may be added to the pop corn. By two working, the corn can also be 
made into balls, if preferred. 

Pop Corn Have Dutch oven hot, put in a tablespoon of good drip- 
pings. 1 teaspoon salt and a saucer of pop corn. Cover and shake pot 
constantly until corn is popped. Good even fire is required. 





. 





ADVERTISEMENTS 207 

For the Fine Receipts 
in this book use the 
Finests of Materials.... 

Burnett's Extracts 
Burnett's Color Pastes 
Folger's Golden Gate Spices 
and the Best Flour 

GROSJEAN & CO.. 

717 FOURTH ST. 



COCHRANE RROTHERS 
* 

:| Practical 

Horseshoers 



Particular attention given to Quarter- 
crack, Corns, Overreaching, Interfering 



Cor. C and Third Sts. San Rafael, Cal. 

** 

Adjoining Murray's Stables 

****** * *t^^^^^m^^^^^^*^^*^f*t,*t,*u*ff*t,*f*t,*e^^^^^u*f,*f,*^At,*t*u*^*t**\^*** 
^^^^^4^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^+^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^rV 



208 ADVERTISEMENTS 



The Standard of Excellence 

IN 



(ocoa and 




WALTER BAKER & CO.'S Ltd. 

Established 1780 

HAVE HELD THE MARKET 125 YEARS 

FOR ALL PURPOSES 




The Johnson-Locke Merc. Co. 

SAN FRANCISCO 
PAC. COAST AGENTS 



J)rioks. 



BOILED CLARET PUNCH Mary F. Foster. 

1 qt. claret, 4 tablespoons rum, 2 oranges, % Ib cut sugar, 1 lemon, 
1 glass water. Rub 7 lumps of sugar on the oranges to get orange 
taste. Put all sugar and glass of water on stove and cook until melted. 
Add juice of lemon. Then add claret. Let it come to a good boil, skim 
off scum; strain and add rum. Bottle. 

FRUIT PUNCH Mrs. Fronmuller. 

6 oranges sliced and seeded, 6 bananas sliced thin and 1 can of 
shredded pineapple. Strawberries, grapes and cherries when in sea- 
son Maraschino cherries and liquor, 3 cups of sugar boiled in 1 cup 
of water, one cup of lemon juice, add cold tea or any kind of wine. It 
should be made some time before serving. Good. 

PUNCH Helen Walker. 

1 pt. uncolored Japan tea, cold, 1 qt. Reisling, 3 wine glasses Jan^a- 
ica rum, % wine glass Grenadine, ^ wine glass Maraschino, 4 wine 
glasses brandy, juice of 6 lemons and 2 oranges, 2 cups sugar. Let 
stand several hours. When ready to serve add sliced pineapple, a 
little sliced orange, some Maraschino cherries and 1 pt. champagne 
and a large lump of ice. 

AUSTRIAN COFFEE Edythe Foster. 

To be served in the afternoon. Cold coffee creamed and sweetened 
poured into tall glasses and a tablespoon vanilla. Ice cream put on 
top just before serving. 

ORANGEADE Hoover. 

To 1 quart of iced water add 4 ounces of dry granulated sugar, the 
juice of 2 lemons and 3 oranges; mix thoroughly together until all the 
sugar is dissolved, when it will be ready to serve. A good summer 
drink. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB Mrs. J. E. Alexander. 

Cover the raspberries with best vinegar and let them lay over night. 
In the morning mash the berries and squeeze through a coarse bag. 
To every pint of juice add 1 pint of sugar. Boll 20 minutes. When 
cool, bottle. This will make quite a thick syrup, which must be diluted 
when drank. 



210 DRINKS 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Put 4 quarts of red raspberries into an earthen or granite vessel; 
cover with good vinegar; and let stand 24 hours; scald and strain; 
add 1 pound of sugar to every pint of juice; boil for about 20 minutes; 
skim well and bottle. 

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY SYRUP Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Take 8 pounds of very ripe red currants, pick off all the stems, and 
put them in a wide earthen pan; then squeeze them until the juice is 
all crushed out; leave them in the pan with the juice for 24 hours. Put 
2 pounds of raspberries in a saucepan with 2 teacups of water, and boil 
them for a few minutes until they are all crushed; then squeeze all 
through a jelly bag or hair sieve, pressing well to get all the juice out; 
weigh the juice, and for every pound put 2 pounds of loaf sugar brok- 
en into pieces. Put the sugar into a preserving kettle with 1 pint of 
water, pour all the juice on it, let it boil for y 2 hour, stirring frequent- 
ly; then put it into small bottles and cork it for use. 2 tablespoons in 
a glass of water makes a very refreshing drink in summer. Cherry 
syrup may be made in the same way with Morella cherries. 

NECTAR CREAM Miss L. P. Trumbull. 

2 quarts boiling water, S 1 /^ pounds white sugar, 4 ounces tartartic 
acid, whites of 6 eggs, 2 ounces wintergreen essence or any other pre- 
ferred. Put sugar in water, and boil 10 minutes, then the acid and let 
it boil up; let it stand till milk-warm; beat the eggs stiff, stir them in 
with the wintergreen, and put in bottles; Mix 2 tablespoons of this 
cream in a glass of water, with a wee bit of soda; beat and drink. 

RHUBARB WATER Mrs. J. M. Dollar. 

Cut up about 6 or 8 sticks of rhubarb without peeling (wash well 
first), put into a stewpan, add 1 quart water, and boil for about IS 
minutes; then strain into a pitcher, and add sugar and lemon juice. 
When cold it is fit for use. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL Mrs. R. E. Neil. 

2 quarts blackberry juice, 2 pounds granulated sugar, 14 ounce cin- 
namon, % ounce cloves, % ounce allspice; simmer 20 minutes; when- 
cold add 1 pint of the best brandy; then bottle and seal tight. 

CHOCOLATE Miss H. Pregge. 

With 4 tablespoons of grated chocolate mix 1 of sugar, and wet with 
1 of boiling water; rub this smooth with the bowl of the spoon, and 
then stir it into 1 pint of boiling water; let this boil up once; then add 
1 pint of good milk; let this boil up again, and serve. A spoonful ot 
whipped cream put on top of each cupful is quite an improvement. 



1 It), of coffee will serve 30 people. 



212 ADVERTISEMENTS. 

Gun and Locksmith. Sewing Machines Repaired. 

A. I. THAYER & SONS 

Bicycle and Automobile Repairing 

Saws, Razors, Knives and Lawn Mowers Sharpened. 

Any article broken or out of order repaired 

906 Fourth St. SAN RAFAEL Phone Red 1691 



'";~.".~.";";~";~;~.";"".";"^^ 

I 
I 

Oldest and Best Established 1861 X 

The News of Marin County Reliably Told 

I 
. . I 

T 

I 

The Marin Journal 

S. H. OLMSTED f 

C. C. OLMSTED * 

The Republican Paper of the County 



y 
X 

FINEST JOB PRINTING 

I 

730 Fourth St. San Rafael, Cal. X 

y 

* 

: ^ ! 



pood for % JJ)ick. 

BEEF TEA Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

Rules 1. Never let beef tea boil. 2. Always begin with cold waters 
3. The finer the beef is cut the better. 4. There should be no fat;, 
gristle or bone. 5. The proportion of beef and water is 1 pint of water- 
to 1 pound of meat. 6. After being carefully made, remove all fat from* 
the surface after it gets cold. 

Put 1 pound of beef into a glass fruit jar with 1 pint of cold water; 
let it soak for 2 hours; screw on the top and then set the jar into a 
vessel of boiling water, and boil for 3 hours; strain and salt to taste. 
The last vestige of fat can be removed with a piece of white Wotting: 
paper. 

MUTTON BROTH Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1% pounds lean mutton, 1 quart of cold water, salt to taste. Cut the- 
mutton into thin slices, let it simmer in the cold water for 1 hour; then 
let it boil for 1 hour longer, and strain the broth through a sieve. This 
may be thickened with a little sago, if desired; or may be eaten with- 
toasted crackers. This broth is more nourishing than beef tea. 

OATMEAL GRUEL Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 cup oatmeal, 2 quarts water, % teaspoon salt. Boil slowly until 
reduced to 1 quart; strain, and thin with milk if desired. 

CORN MEAL GRUEL Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

1 cup corn meal, 1 quart water, 1 pinch of salt. Make a thin paste of 
cornmeal, mashing out all the lumps; stir it into the boiling water, antf 
let it boil % of an hour, being very careful it does not burn. Corn meaT 
gruel must always be well cooked. 

ALBUMEN WATER Mrs. D. Whittemore. 

% pint of cold water, whites of 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon sugar of nrflk. 
Drop the whites of the eggs into the water, stir gently until well mixed, 
then sweeten; give cold. A valuab!e aid in nourishing a child when- 
sick with diarrhea. 

UNLEAVENED WAFERS Mrs. D. Whittemore. 
Mix 1 quart of flour into a stiff dough with sweet milk into which 
little salt has been stirred; roll out very thin, cut into round cakes; rolfi 



214 



FOOD FOR THE SICE 



these out again very thin; bake quickly. 
digested and are very delicate. 



These wafers are easily 



TONIC Miss Kate O'Neill. 

Yolk of 1 egg, 1 dessertspoon of best brandy, % glass of barley 
water, white of 1 egg. Beat well together the yolk of the egg and the 
dessertspoon of brandy; add % glass of barley water (boiled and 
strained), and season to taste. Then stir in slowly the well beaten 
of the egg. Take a wineglassful night and morning. 



216 ADVERTISEMENTS 



Boarding and 
Sale Stable.... 

McPHAIL, - Proprietor 



SPECIAL ATTENTION 
PAID TO TRANSIENTS 



Phone, Red 62 714-716 Fourth St. 

SAN RAFAEL, 

CALIFORNIA 




A NOVEL STICKING MEDIUM. 

I have found that often in a household there is need of a simple andl 
effective glue that is colorless and odorless. By accident I found that 
the ordinary tapioca is splendid. Cover a small quantity level over 
with water, put over the fire and stir, adding water as it boils, just 
enough to keep it to a paste. Apply with a brush or cloth. I have used 
it effectively in gluing wood, leather, paper or cloth on glass, and eve 
rubber. It is fine for household scrap-books and kodak pictures, taking 
care to use only the thin paste for anything of that kind. 

BOSTON HARD SOAP. 

5 pts. melted grease strained, 1 Ib Babbitt's Potash, 1 pt. boiling 
water poured slowly over the potash, 1 qt. cold water added to the 
above. W'hen the potash cools, pour the grease into it, stir until thick, 
then set away until the next morning. Set it on the stove, and add 5 
qts. of hot water; when melted add % cup of powdered borax and same 
of sugar; let it simmer % hour; pour into dishes and let it stand until 
the next morning; then cut the soap into pieces and put away in a dry 
place until very hard. In saving grease, save all kinds. Very good. 

LINIMENT Mrs. Robert Dollar. 

Equal quantities each of ether, oil of juniper, spirits of camphor 
and hartshorn. 

TO REMOVE GRASS STAINS. 

Dip the stained part in kerosene oil, and rub well between the fing- 
ers; then rub in clear cold water until the stains disappear. 

TO REMOVE MILDEW. 

1 ounce soap, 1 ounce starch, 1 ounce salt, the juice of 1 lemon; dip 
the spots in this mixture and lay on the grass in the sun. 

TO REMOVE IRON RUST 

Wet the spots in lemon juice and salt, and lay in the sun. Repeat 
until the iron rust disappears. 

TO REMOVE INK STAINS 
Use oxalic acid and put in sun. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

To remove fruit stains. Pour boiling water over until stain dis- 
appears. 

To prevent gloves ripping and wearing at finger tips, put a wee piece 
of cotton in the end of each finger. 

To remove "blood. Wash in cold water. 

1 teaspoon pulverized alum added to stove polish gives fine lustre. 

Wipe porcelain tubs with soft cloth wet in kerosene. 

Saturate vaseline stains with ether, cover with cup to prevent too 
rapid evaporation. Use ether with every care. 

A teaspoon of vinegar put in lard will prevent doughnuts from ab- 
sorbing fat and make them crisp. 

A small piece of charcoal put into the pot of boiling cabbage will 
absorb the odor. 



Uable of Wetabts or Measures. 

(Selected.) 

1 quart of sifted flour (well heaped) weight 1 pound- 

1 quart of unsifted flour weight 1 pound 1 ounoe> 

3 coffeecups sifted flour (level) weight 1 pound 

4 teacups sifted flour (level) 1 " 

1 pint soft butter (well packed) " 1 

2 teacups soft butter (well packed) " 1 " 

1% pints powdered sugar " 1 

2 coffeecups powdered sugar (level) 1 

2% teacups powdered sugar (level) " 1 

1 pint granulated sugar (heaped) " 14 ounces 

1% coffeecups granulated sugar (level) " 1 pound 

2 teacups granulated sugar (level) " 1 " 

1 pint best brown sugar " 13 ounces 

1% coffeecups brown sugar (level) " 1 pound 

2% teacups brown sugar (level) " 1 " 

2 tablespoons (well rounded) powdered sugar or flour. " 1 ounce 

1 tablespoon (well rounded) soft butter " 1 " 

3 tables sweet chocolate, grated " 1 

3 teaspoons sweet chocolate, grated " 1 " 

2 teaspoons (heaping) flour, sugar, or meal, equal 1 heaping tablespoon: 

Xiqutfcs. 

1 pint contains 16 fluid ounces (4 gills). 

1 teacupful equals 8 fluid ounces or 2 gills. 
4 teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful. 

2 teaspoonfuls equal 1 dessertspoonful. 
4 teacupfuls equal 1 quart. 

A common sized tumbler holds about % pint. 



Uo ur IReafcers. 

We would call attention to the advertisements that appear on these 
"pages. Let us show these firm's our appreciation by giving them, in 
, our patronage. 

FINIS. 




Page. 

Bread . .... 9-15 

Soups ... . f . 21-27 

Fish and Shellfish .... . 31-38 

Meats ...... . 45-67 

Vegetables ....... 73-80 

Salads ....... 85-92 

Cheess ... . ... 95-99 

Eggs ... . . . ' 103-106 

Puddings ... . ... 109-120 

Light Dessert . . ... 125-136 

Frozen Dainties . - . . . . 141-144 

Cakes Cookies, Doughnuts, etc. ... . 149-172 

Pastry and Pies .... . . 177-182 

Pickles, Catsups, etc. . . . ... 185-190 

Jellies and Fruits ... . 193-197 

Confectionery ..... 201-205 

Drinks ... ... 209-210 

Food for the Sick . . . . 213-214 

Miscellaneous . . .... 217-218 

Weights and Measures 219 



222 ADVERTISEMENTS 



RESIDENCE 

FUNERAL 

PARLORS 



All the Comforts' and 
Conveniences of a Home 



F. E. SAWYER 

Funeral Director and Embalmer 



Residence Phone, Black 746 
Office Phone, Main 1 10. 



917 Fourth St. - San Rafael, Cal. 



HOTEL KAFAEL 



SAN RAFAEL, CAL 




FIFTY MINUTES FROM SAN FRANCISCO 

The Only First Class Hotel 
left in the vicinity of the city 



European and American Plan 

XXX 

FIRST CLASS STEAM LAUNDRY. 
CLEANING AND DYEING A SPECIALTY 

R. V. HALTON, Proprietor 




VACATION 

"Vacation" is issued annually by the 



PICTURESQUE ROUTE OF CALIFORNIA 

and is the standard publica- 
tion on the Pacific COM* for 
information regarding 

8SRIpfG UCftOlfra, 

HOMES AND FARMS 
SUMWIEII BOARDERS 

YAICf, AND SELECT 

iOTS, 

"Vacation for 1906" contain over 00 
pages, beautifully illustrated, and if 
complete in its detailed information at 
to location, accommodations, ftttrae* 
lions, etc,, wtb tnn from |7.00 per 
week up. 

TIBURON PERRY, 
Foot of Market Street, San Francisco 
by mail will receive tantMttit* rtfpoace. 

JAS. AGLER, Qen'i Manager. 
R. X. RYAN, Qtn'l Pa'r Agt, 



