












: : ■• .:.- 


■- 


.1 


■ 


.. 


VsM 


.- 


";ij 

.-:•• 




• .'.':-= : 


' ■ . . 








rj'H ; 


'..[-'■ 






.- 



■■ : .■■■■■■.■- x.-v ,..;.• I - . ;:■■::::!■:!; 






^.^: ;■■:■ I." 






: ■■■■ 



" ■ 



■--•'- : -. ■ •.::;:, . ■ ■ ■ .■■•-. ■ ■. . ; 







BlkKELCV 

LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITf Of 
CALIFORNIA 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

AGRICULTURE 
BEQUEST 

OF 

ANITA D. S. BLAKE 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2006 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/bookofcaloricfirOOcalorich 



THE AUTO-COOK 



Book of ^*™i Recipes 



A COMPILATION OF 



More Than Three Hundredu Superior Recipes of All 

Kinds, Meats, Game, Poultry, Fish, Cereals, 

Vegetables, Soups, Puddings, Fruits, 

Sauces, Desserts, Breads, Etc. 



Especially Adapted to the New Caloric 
Fireless Cookstove, 



GRAND RAPIDS, MICH. 

CALORIC FIRELESS COOKSTOVE COMPANY 

Price $1.00 



Copyright, 1906 
By Caloric Fireless Cookstove Co. 

Copyright, 1908 

By Caloric Fireless Cookstove Co. 

All rights reserved. 



AGRICU1TURE 



GIFT 



XJ/s 



AGR1C. 
LIBRARY 



PREFACE. 

THE recipes, explanations and directions, together with 
other useful hints and suggestions pertaining to the cul- 
inary art, contained in this volume were written and prepared 
primarily for the benefit of users of the Caloric Fireless Cook- 
er. It should, perhaps, be explained here that the word "fire- 
less" is a misnomer. The proper word is "recalorator," which 
literally means the conserving of heat, just as '"refrigerator" 
means the conserving of cold. In both instances, the initial 
calor (heat) and frigidity (cold) must be provided. 

In the "hay-box," the predecessor of the Caloric cooker, 
the initial heat was supplied by the large body of water or 
liquid in which the food to be cooked was placed and brought 
to the boiling point, the insulation of the hay keeping the 
surrounding atmosphere from equalizing and thus dissipating 
this heat, just as the charcoal and air chamber insulation of 
the refrigerator keeps the surrounding warmer temperature 
from rapidly melting the ice, and thus lowering the tempera- 
ture of the food chambers. For boiling, steaming (to a cer- 
tain extent) and stewing, the boiling liquid or water was 
adequate to complete the cooking. But, of course, the tem- 
perature could not be raised above 212 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Inasmuch as there are certain foods which cannot be cooked 
properly by boiling or stewing, in a liquid, the primitive "hay- 



136 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

box" and its commercial successor, the original Caloric Fire- 
less Cookstove, was not a real cookstove — it could neither 
bake nor roast. To supply this deficiency comes the New 
Caloric, which, with its genuine steatite radiators, furnishes 
sufficient stored heat to raise the temperature in the Caloric 
insulated oven and insulated compartments to over 400 de- 
grees Fahrenheit. Inasmuch as the baking heat is only be- 
tween 325 and 350 degrees, it will be readily appreciated that 
the New Caloric really does BAKE and ROAST, as well as 
boil, steam and stew — literally cooking anything required for 
the table. 

That this method of cooking is superior in results, from 
every standpoint, we need not explain — it is too well under- 
stood. 

The first requisite is to acquaint ones self thoroughly 
with the New Caloric. Therefore we request all housewives 
to study carefully the directions for use. 

While the time and the ingredients required for cooking 
are stated, nevertheless a little experience will determine that 
these can be regulated according to the tastes of the individ- 
ual. It will take a little time for the thoughtful housewife 
to master all the advantages of the Caloric. There are count- 
less arrangements and advantages which time and use will 
reveal, not mentioned iri the directions and cookbook. 

Pains have been taken to make the book international 
and, in so far as possible, to please the varied tastes. It should 
be understood at the beginning, however, that any recipe 
can be cooked in the New Caloric. For this reason, the more 
common recipes, such as bread and pies, are not included, 

10 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

else there would be no end to the list. After some practice 
according to the instructions of this book any woman in 
any land or country will be able to prepare whatsoever she 
has been accustomed to or might desire. It has been the 
purpose of this book to embody principally the method of 
preparing food. Formerly many ingredients were added 
to the dish while cooking, whereas now all the details are 
attended to beforehand, and the viands when done are the 
same as heretofore. 

CALORIC FIRELESS COOKSTOVE CO. 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. 



11 



CONTENTS. 

PAGE 

Directions for Using the New Caloric 15 

The Caloric from a Social Standpoint 20 

Vegetables • • 25 

Meats 35 

Veal 45 

Lamb and Mutton 51 

Pork 58 

Game and Wild Fowl 63 

Fish 66 

Mixed Dishes 68 

Soups 74 

Caloric Specialties 81 

Cereals 86 

Salads 90 

Puddings and Sauces 94 

Fruit Stewed no 

Fruit Sauces 112 

Souffles 115 

Cakes , 117 

13 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

PAGE 

Pastry 121 

Breads 123 

The Cooking of Vegetables 125 

A Useful Table 128 

One Hundred Hints Worth Knowing 129 

With the Fireless Cooker 135 

Index to Recipes 141 



14 



DIRECTIONS FOR USING THE NEW CALORIC. 

The principle of fireless cooking, as exemplified by the 
Caloric fireless cooker, is that of recaloration, or the retention 
of heat previously generated, through complete insulation. 
In cooking, ordinarily, we heat food to a certain temperature ; 
then we leave it over the fire, not to get hotter — that would 
be impossible — but to keep it at that degree of heat. The 
equalization of the surrounding temperature compels us to 
keep on supplying heat, to cause the cooking food to continue 
at the cooking temperature. If, once the food is made hot, 
we insulate it so that the heat cannot escape, the cooking 
will go right on just as if we continued to supply fresh heat. 
A method has long been sought by which the heat energy 
once generated might be conserved without having to add 
constantly thereto, both for hygienic as well as economic 
reasons. Hygienic, because it is admitted by all that any food 
cooked comparatively slowly in an even temperature is not 
only more nutritious, but also more palatable than that cooked 
fiercely over, on or in, the hottest possible temperature. The 
Caloric was the first to practically utilize this principle in the 
making of a commercial fireless cooker. This was three years 
ago. Now, the Caloric has made another great stride forward, 
in the evolution of the New Caloric, which has literally per- 
fected the art of fireless cooking, not alone in the boiling, 

15 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

steaming and stewing feature, but also it has rendered possi- 
ble baking and roasting as well. Of coarse, for baking and 
roasting, some heat must first be placed in the oven, besides 
that contained in the food itself, and this is done by means of 
steatite radiators. With this heat the New Caloric econom- 
ically and amply accomplishes anything which is possible on 
a large range or gas stove. 

THE HEATING OF RADIATORS. 

The steatite radiators can be heated on gas, denatured 
alcohol gas, oil, electric, coal or wood stoves or ranges. It 
will not hurt the radiators to put them on red hot coals. The 
time required to give the radiators the desired temperature 
is from seven to fifteen minutes, depending, of course, on the 
size and intensity of the blaze used. The radiators are tested 
as one would test a sad iron. When using two radiators, 
for baking or roasting, a good way is to heat both over one 
blaze, one above the other, changing them at intervals of 
about five minutes. About twenty minutes will heat both 
plates over a single blaze. 

COOKING. 

For boiling, steaming or stewing, only one radiator is 
used. This is heated and placed at the bottom of the recepta- 
cle, on one of the asbestos mats. The food having been pre- 
pared and placed in one of the Caloric utensils is set on the 
radiator, after first having been brought to a boiling point 
over a flame stove, and the aluminum cover clamped down. 

16 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

The cover to the Caloric partition is then quickly closed and 
fastened. With the use of one steatite radiator, the food will 
be thoroughly cooked in about one and one-quarter the time 
that would have been required over a flame stove. But even 
if it be left in the Caloric for a much longer time it is not 
harmful to the food, inasmuch as there is no evaporation what- 
ever, and no consequent scorching or burning. The food will 
keep hot for at least ten hours. It is not absolutely necessary 
to use the radiators in boiling, steaming or stewing, but in 
that case twice the time that is required for cooking over an 
ordinary flame stove should be allowed in the Caloric. If the 
radiators be not used, the food is simply brought to a boiling 
point over a flame stove, the aluminum cover clamped down 
and the vessel directly removed to the Caloric, and the lid 
closed down and fastened. The Caloric should never be 
opened during the period required to complete the cooking. 

ROASTING. 

Two steatite radiators are used for baking and roasting, 
one at the bottom and one suspended in the rack in the place 
of the regular cover of the large utensil. Every roast— beef, 
veal, lamb, poultry or game — should be heated before putting 
into the Caloric. As no liquid evaporates in the Caloric, 
very little need be added. For this reason, no basting is re- 
quired, and, of course, the Caloric is not to be opened while a 
roast is being cooked — it is not necessary. The top radiator 
supplies the necessary top heat for the roast. It requires only 
a little more time to roast in the Caloric than in an ordinary 
oven, after the roast has been browned or seared. For in- 

17 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

stance, a roast of veal that would require three-quarters of an 
hour in an ordinary oven will be roasted most beautifully in 
one hour in the Caloric, or even in a little less time. But, 
for the reasons previously mentioned, it does not injure the 
roast if it is permitted to remain longer in the Caloric, as it 
will not burn or dry, and become tasteless, if left for twice or 
three times the period actually required for cooking. 

BAKING. 

Baking naturally requires the more careful attention, but 
the results are most pleasing and surprising. Practically 
everything can be baked in the Caloric, cakes, pastry, bis- 
cuits, bread, puddings, beans, potatoes, apples — and all baked 
fruit for that matter. Some practice, a little attention at first, 
and success is assured. Two radiators are used in baking, 
and these may be heated while preparing the batch for bak- 
ing. With both radiators sizzling hot, it requires only about 
the same time to bake as would be required in an ordinary 
range oven, with a moderate baking heat. A little experience 
will determine just the necessary time for baking. One radia- 
tor is placed at the bottom, and the other resting on the rack. 
The radiators should be heated slightly longer than for roast- 
ing or boiling, inasmuch as the dough is cold when put in. 
The Caloric vessel or the tin, if it be placed in a tin for bak- 
ing, should be slightly warmed before putting in the dough, 
but care must be taken that it is not made hot. While baking, 
the Caloric should not be opened. 

The sectional view of a No. 2 New Caloric illustrates the 
the arrangement for baking and roasting, as well as boiling 

18 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 



and steaming, in the smaller compartment. In the No. 4 and 
No. 5 New Calorics, the large oblong oven permits the use 
of ordinary 
baking tins. 
But in the Nos. 
1, 2, 3, and 6, 
the baking and 
roasting is done 
in the larger 
Caloric utensil, 
or in a baking 
tin that will fit 
therein. The 
steatite radia- 
tor a is heated 
and placed in 
the bottom of 
the larger com- 
partment, on 

the asbestos mat. Whatever is to be baked or roasted is 
placed in a baking tin or directly in the Caloric vessel. Both 
tin and contents should be also heated (except in case of 
dough for cakes, bread or biscuit — the tin itself only need 
be warmed) and the heated steatite radiator b suspended in 
the nickeled rack in lieu of the cover to the utensil. When 
boiling, steaming or stewing, only one radiator need be used, 
as c. 




19 



THE CALORIC FROM A SOCIAL STANDPOINT. 

Noteworthy is the great value this new invention of 
fireless cooking, as exemplified in the Caloric, has already 
proved to be in household social life. The housewife is above 
all called and obligated to notice, test and use the new in- 
ventions in the technical field, as far as they pertain to house- 
hold matters. A woman may avoid a great deal of trouble, 
but she may also create it. The progressive or non-progres- 
sive management by the wife in the household, no matter how 
small, is of such importance to domestic life, that it should 
be given more attention than is generally the case. Why 
does the husband often become estranged from home and 
family? It is repeatedly said that the wife does not under- 
stand how to bind the husband to the hearth and family 
and, indeed, evidence seems against her. The wife does not 
find the time to give the necessary attention to the husband, 
who comes home from his business tired and hungry. She 
does not find the time to give the needed care to dinner, 
lunch or supper, the care which the husband should reason- 
ably expect by virtue of his calling, and must lay claim to 
from a health standpoint. The wife is taxed and worried 
by the numerous kinds of work in the home, which diminish 
her strength, so that she cannot do her best in any line. The 
children, both large and small, the care of the home, the 

20 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES, 

washing, the sewing, the cooking — everything has to be over- 
seen or executed by her; what is there left for the home- 
coming husband? Discontent in all directions. How much 
of the stated conditions can be changed, modified — even 
avoided — by saving time for the harrassed wife ? The Caloric 
literally saves hours. How much irritation and worry can be 
avoided and how many pleasant things can be had by this 
economy of time, to say nothing of the money saved ! 

And then the saving in the cost of cooking fuel, fully 
seventy-five per cent. The time and money thus saved by 
the use of such a fireless cooker as the Caloric is of ines- 
timable benefit to the whole family. 

The education of the children is the principal mission of 
the wife. Where the mother herself can do the training, 
can do it in quiet and peace, there the little ones fare well. 
We call the twentieth century the century of the child. Never 
before has there been so much consideration given to the 
physical and moral development of the child as now. But 
who, above all others, is called to the exalted mission of giv- 
ing strength and energy to the development of the child, 
if not the mother herself? 

Too often the family income will not permit the mother 
to devote herself to the proper oversight of the education 
and the physical welfare of her children. There are so many 
other things which have to be done. Again, it is the new 
fireless cooker, the Caloric, which comes to her aid, which 
enables the mother to procure for herself several hours spare 
time which she may spend with her children. She can go out 
with them and teach them so many things about nature. 

21 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

And after one comes home from such agreeably spent hours, 
one opens the little "fairy box," as the Caloric has been 
named, and quickly places the hot and perfectly cooked meal 
on the table. What a different, happy atmosphere will the 
returning husband and father find, compared with that of 
past times, when the harrassed wife wished she might post- 
pone her husband's home-coming, even if only for a few min- 
utes. And how eagerly the children will look through the 
cookbook and pick out all the good things they would like 
to have their mother put into that "fairy box" for the coming 
day! 

Many women are compelled to share in the wage-earn- 
ing with their husbands. For these women who are employed 
during the day, the Caloric should be of exceptional value. 
The wife can put the food into the cooker before going to 
work. Almost any food may be left a long time in the 
Caloric without being impaired thereby. One can also regu- 
late it well. With dishes which need to stay in the cooker a 
longer time, one heats the radiators only a little. Then at 
noon v when the children return from school and the husband 
and wife come home from work, they find the meal all ready. 
How gladly will the husband come home for each meal 
when he knows that he can have good, nourishing and warm 
things to eat. The children require good, regular meals 
to keep them healthy and robust; then they go satisfied 
and gladly to school, with a double zeal for learning. And 
the money that is saved, through this new household inven- 
tion, can it not be laid aside as a saving for hard times, sick- 
ness, or being out of work? Or it can be used in part for 

22 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

moderate, health-giving pleasures. For the bachelor — man 
or girl — compelled to patronize restaurants or the typical 
boarding house for their meals, should by all means make 
themselves acquainted with the Caloric. By the use of even 
the smallest size, with a small gas or denatured alcohol gas 
stove to start the things and heat the radiators, they could 
prepare for themselves a nourishing meal with little trouble 
and slight expense. They could put the things into the cooker 
mornings and noons, and so would twice a day be glad to 
return to their lonely home. There are so many simple dishes 
which every young lady and young man, too, even if they do 
not know much about cooking, can prepare. The preparation 
of the food would soon become a pleasure, and what a variety 
of dishes one can have as compared with the sameness of 
things in restaurant or boarding house ! 

SOME SUGGESTIONS. 

Before putting things into the cooker be sure they are 
heated through. It takes longer to heat a larger piece of meat 
through than a smaller one. Whole potatoes, apples and 
other fruit require more time to heat through than those that 
are sliced. It takes longer to heat a kettle which is full than 
one which is only half filled. So use your own judgment. 

If dinner is to be served at night, all of the preliminary 
cooking can be done at noon and placed in the Caloric until 
evening. 

Dried apples or prunes may be cooked in the cooker 
over night. They will be done the next morning. Previous 
to cooking they should be soaked in cold water from five to 

23 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

twelve hours. Always use the water they have been soaked 
in for cooking in. 

Saurkraut will be tenderer and better flavored if it is 
placed in the cooker the day before intended for use. 

Meats and poultry which are somewhat tough may be 
made tender by leaving it in the cooker a longer time. 

The Caloric is an excellent thing for a family whose 
members can not have meals at the same time. One can take 
out part of the food and put the rest back and it will keep 
hot for hours. 

The Caloric is a great economy in the use of seasoning. 
Half, and indeed sometimes a third and fourth part of what 
one would use ordinarily, will be sufficient. In using the Cal- 
oric nothing evaporates — all the delicious and delicate flavors 
stay in the food. Therefore, be careful in the use of your 
seasoning. 

There is one Caloric kettle for each compartment of the 
stove, (except the oblong oven of the No. 4 and No. 5,) 
but it is sometimes very convenient to have two shal- 
lower kettles which will fit well on top of each other. This 
will enable one to cook two different dishes in one compart- 
ment at the same time. Only one radiator on the bottom of 
stove is required in such cases. The kettle with the dish 
which requires the most heat should be placed at the bottom. 

It is immaterial whether the kettles are filled, half filled; 
or only a quarter. If you wish to prepare very small quanti- 
ties use small kettles with tight-fitting covers that will go 
inside the regular Caloric utensils. 



24 



VEGETABLES. 

The Caloric is particularly good for the cooking of any 
and all kinds of vegetables. For those boiled or cooked in 
water, the same recipes apply as in an ordinary range or 
stove. It is only necessary in such cases to bring the vege- 
tables to a boil on a flame stove, and then remove with cover 
clamped down to the Caloric, using only one steatite radia- 
tor. In the case of vegetables requiring an exceptionally 
long time, as, for example, beets and cabbage, it is advisable 
to continue the heating on a flame stove for a quarter of an 
hour, before removing to the Caloric. However, a little ex- 
perience will determine the exact time required by each house- 
wife. In baking vegetables, as baked potatoes, baked apples, 
etc., both radiators are used, and it is well to simply heat 
the vegetables before placing them in the Caloric. For bak- 
ing ordinary sized potatoes it requires from three-quarters 
to an hour, in the Caloric. But at first, until you have be- 
come familiar with the use of the Caloric, it is advisable to 
make the time longer rather than shorter, inasmuch as no 
matter how much longer they are left in the Caloric they will 
not become burned. 

String Beans — Snap rather than eat the beans into small 
pieces of about one-half inch and, unless they are very fresh, 

25 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

it is well to soak them in ice water one hour before cooking. 
Then throw them into boiling water and cook five minutes; 
drain and cover with boiling milk ; season with salt and pep- 
per and a little butter. Cover the dish and let come to a boil 
and place in the Caloric and leave two hours or more. Serve 
in warm dishes. 

Peas — Shell and throw into boiling salted water. Boil 
for ten minutes and by that time the water you have put in 
should be nearly boiled away. Then cover with milk, add 
butter, salt and pepper. Cover and bring to a boil and place 
in the Caloric, leaving for two hours or more. Have a hot 
dish to serve them in. 

Beets — Wash and scrub, but do not cut the beets. Lay 
them in boiling water and boil, covered, ten minutes. Place 
in the Caloric and allow to remain two hours or more. When 
taken out put them in cold water for a minute and slip the 
skins off. Cut in slices and pour over a sauce made with two 
tablespoons of butter, four tablespoons of lemon juice or vin- 
egar, one-half teaspoon salt and a little pepper. Bring the 
sauce to a boil and pour over the beets just before serving. 

Green Corn — Husk and put in a kettle of boiling water, 
add two tablespoons of sugar. Boil for five minutes covered 
and then place in the Caloric for two hours or more. Serve 
hot, rolled in a napkin. 

Asparagus — Cut off tough ends. Cover with boiling 
water, boil five minutes. Drain off the water. Cover with 
boiling water, boil three minutes. Remove to the Caloric for 

26 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

one hour or longer. Drain off the water; cover with milk; 
season with butter, salt and pepper ; heat and serve. 

Summer Squash — Remove skin and seeds. Cut in small 
pieces, cover with boiling water. Boil five minutes and re- 
move to the Caloric for two hours. Drain, mash and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper. 

String Beans — Take one tablespoon of lard and one of 
flour, put in kettle and brown. Then add the beans, cut in 
small pieces, stir well. Then cover with boiling water. Put 
in Caloric kettle, boil five minutes. Remove to the Caloric 
for three hours. Season with salt and pepper. If there is 
too much juice, reduce on fire for a few minutes. 

Onions — Cover onions with cold water and peel. Cover 
with boiling water, and boil ten minutes. Drain the water off, 
cover again with boiling water and boil five minutes. Remove 
to Caloric for two hours. When ready to serve, drain and 
cover with hot milk. Season with salt, pepper and paprica, 
thicken with a little flour. 

Carrots — Pare and cut into small cubes; cover with boil- 
ing water, and add two tablespoons of sugar. Boil five min- 
utes. Remove to the Caloric for three or more hours. When 
ready to serve, drain and cover with milk. Thicken with 
flour and season with salt, pepper, paprica and butter. 

Potatoes Boiled — Pare and cut potatoes in quarters if 
large. Cover with boiling water. Boil five minutes and re- 
move to the Caloric for iy 2 hours. Potatoes can be left in the 
Caloric five or six hours without becoming soggy. 

27 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Potatoes Boiled (Unpeeled) — Put the thoroughly cleaned 
potatoes into boiling water and boil them five minutes. Put 
the covered kettle into Caloric. Time of cooking depends 
on season of the year and kind of potato, 50 to 60 minutes. 

Boiled Potatoes — Pare the potatoes, cut them into pieces 
and put them into fresh water. Put them with salt into boil- 
ing water and boil for five minutes. Put the covered kettle 
into Caloric. Time of cooking 40 to 50 minutes. 

Potatoes Roasted in Butter — Pare 10 or 12 potatoes, cut 
them into discs or slices. Brown butter and put potatoes 
into it with salt and let them roast for five minutes, turning 
them all the time. Put the covered kettle into the Caloric 
50 minutes. 

Stewed Potatoes With Parsley — Cook two tablespoons 
butter or fat together with four to five tablespoons of flour 
until light yellow. Stir smooth with water or rather stock 
(or hot water and extract). Add salt, pepper, one table- 
spoon finely chopped parsley and let it boil up. Slice 12 to 
15 raw, pared potatoes. Put them into the gravy and let 
boil for five minutes. Put covered kettle into Caloric. 

Stewed Potatoes, Hungarian — Cut 12 to 15 medium sized 
raw potatoes into small cubes. Heat two tablespoons of 
butter and put potatoes into it. Add salt, one-half teaspoon 
paprica and one large finely cut up onion. Stir through. Add 
stock enough that potatoes are covered nicely and let boil 
for five minutes. Put the covered kettle into the Caloric 
30 minutes. In taking up potatoes stir as little as possible. 

28 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Escalloped Potatoes — Peel and slice one quart raw pota- 
toes, take kettle and put one layer of potatoes and small pieces 
of butter, salt and pepper, and slice one small onion until 
required quantity is prepared. Then sprinkle bread crumbs 
over top, pour one pint milk over top, heat hot, place in Cal- 
oric and bake 2.y 2 hours, using both hot radiators. These are 
delicious. 

Escalloped Potatoes, No. 2 — Slice cold, boiled potatoes 
into kettle, season well, thicken one pint milk and pour over 
top and bake two hours in Caloric, using both hot radiators. 

Mashed Potatoes — Cut 12 to 15 raw pared potatoes into 
pieces. Cook them in salt water as directed in above recipe. 
When done, pour off the water and mash potatoes fine. Add 
as much boiling milk as necessary. Put them into a potato 
dish and pour browned butter or fried bread crumbs over 
them. 

Mashed Potatoes With Apples — Pare and cut up potatoes. 
Pare also good cooking apples, take out core. Have equal 
parts of apples and potatoes. Put them into boiling water 
and let them boil for five minutes. Put kettle into the Cal- 
oric 45 minutes. When done pour off the liquid and mash 
potatoes and apples. Stir in a few tablespoons of hot butter 
and put kettle back into the Caloric. This is a very piquant 
side dish for well spiced meats. 

Potato Stew — Lay three slices of salt pork, fat and lean, 
in the stew kettle, and let it fry. Pour off part of the fat if 
too much. Slice an onion and fry with the pork. When it 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

browns, put in the potatoes, sliced not too thin, and boiling" 
water just enough to cover. Remove to Caloric kettle and 
boil five minutes without lifting the cover; remove to the 
Caloric for two hours. When ready to serve, season with but- 
ter, pepper, paprica, and one cup of cream, heat and serve. 

Macaroni Plain — Boil one-half pound of sticks well broken 
up for five minutes, with one-half teaspoon of salt. Without 
lifting the cover remove to the Caloric for two hours. Drain, 
and thicken two cups of milk with flour. Season with butter, 
pepper and salt and paprica. Drop in the macaroni. Heat and 
serve at once. 

Macaroni and Cheese — Cook the macaroni as for plain. 
Place a layer of macaroni in pudding dish, cover with layer of 
white sauce covered with a layer of grated cheese. Alternate 
until the dish is filled. Put layer of bread crumbs on top 
with bits of butter, and bake one-half hour. 

Vegetable Oysters — Scrape two pounds of vegetable 
oysters clean, put them immediately into water, so that they 
stay white. Heat two tablespoons of butter until it com- 
mences to bubble. Add three or four tablespoons of flour, 
stir until flour is pale yellow and stir smooth with stock. 
Put vegetable oysters, cut up in finger long pieces, into gravy, 
add salt and, if gravy be too thick, a little stock. Put the 
covered kettle into Caloric. (Two and one-half hours.) 

Boiled Cauliflower — Remove the outer leaves and cut off 
the stem close to the flowers. Do not break the cauliflower, 
but wash thoroughly in cold water. Then soak in 

30 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

cold, salted water, top downward, for one hour, allow- 
ing one tablespoon of salt to one gallon of water. Drop 
the cauliflower into the kettle of boiling water, salt 
slightly, cover closely, cook for five minutes and place in 
the Caloric for two hours. When done, lift it from the 
water, stand it in a round dish, with the flowers up, pour 
cream sauce over it, and serve. 

Cauliflower, Different Way — Divide the head into small 
parts and cook these for one-half hour in the cooker. Pro- 
ceed the same as directed in first recipe for cauliflower. 

Leave the head whole and cook the same as directed in 
recipe No. i. When done take it out of the liquid, put it on 
a platter and pour browned butter or bread crumbs browned 
in butter over it. One may in addition sprinkle on a little 
lemon juice. 

Peas (Puree) — Bring scant quart of water to a boil, put 
one pound of peas into it and let them boil for ten minutes. 
Put the covered kettle into Caloric two hours. When done 
take them out and rub them through a colander (after tak- 
ing the peas out of, the Caloric, close cover of the Caloric 
again, in order to retain the heat). Brown four or five table- 
spoons of flour with butter or fat and stir smooth with cold 
water. Stir this through the peas and put them back into 
Caloric for keeping them hot. 

Peas, a Different Way — Brown (not too dark) four or 
five tablespoons of flour together with three tablespoons of 
fat, or butter, stir smooth with cold water. Into this put 
one pound of peas, salt and, if necessary, some more water 

'31 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

and let cook for ten minutes. Put the covered kettle into 
Caloric 2 l /± hours. When peas are done, rub them through 
a colander and add a little meat extract. 

Pumpkin — The hardest part of preparing a pumpkin for 
stewing is the taking off the rind and in the case of new 
pumpkin when the rind is free from decay it is worse than 
wasted labor, for the nearer the rind the sweeter the meat. 
Cut the pumpkin into strips and then into pieces as usual 
and stew rind and all. Of course, you have thoroughly washed 
your pumpkin before cutting; when stewed and cool, rub 
through a colander, which takes out all the bits of rind, leav- 
ing a rich, sweet residue. 

Potatoes in Butter, No. 2 — They are prepared the same 
as directed above, except that one selects small potatoes, 
leaving them whole. (1% hours.) 

Sliced Potatoes With Bacon — Pare potatoes and cut them 
into slices. Fry piece of bacon in a little lard until light 
yellow. Put the potatoes with a little salt into this and let 
them fry for a few minutes without turning them. Put the 
covered kettle into the Caloric one hour. When the potatoes 
are done, turn them out of the kettle on to the platter so 
that the yellow fried side comes on top. 

Potatoes With Fried Sausage — Pare and slice potatoes. 
Fry sausages quickly brown. Heat plenty of butter ; put layer 
of potatoes into it, then some fried sausages, then potatoes 
and then sausages, etc., letting potatoes be the top layer. 
Put some butter and sprinkle some salt and pepper on each 

32 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

layer. Let the whole roast for a few minutes without turn- 
ing it. Put the covered kettle into the Caloric i% to \]/ 2 
hours. Nice served with sauerkraut. 

Potatoes With Parsley — Pare 10 to 12 large potatoes, 
slice them very thick and divide slices into long narrow 
pieces. Heat 1^ tablespoons of butter. Put the potatoes with 
salt into it. Add one tablespoon of chopped parsley and let 
potatoes cook for a few minutes, stirring them. Put the 
covered kettle into the Caloric forty-five minutes. 

Potatoes With Ham — Are prepared as in above recipe. 
Instead of frying sausages take smoked ham cut up small. 
One serves lettuce or sauerkraut with them also. 

Potato Dumplings of Boiled Potatoes — Grate 18 to 20 
potatoes which have been boiled the day before. Mix them 
with one cup of flour and one egg, salt, four tablespoons of 
cream of wheat, so that it makes a pretty stiff dough, and 
then form into medium sized balls. Put into boiling water, 
slightly salted, for ten minutes. Put the covered kettle into 
the Caloric one hour. 

Macaroni With Tomatoes — Place a layer of sliced toma- 
toes in pudding dish, then an inch of macaroni previously cook- 
ed in the Caloric. Season with salt, pepper, butter and 
paprica; cover with another layer of tomatoes and macaroni, 
seasoned as before ; sprinkle the top with cracker crumbs 
and bits of butter, and place in Caloric using both hot stones. 

French Macaroni — Put one tablespoon of butter in a fry- 
ing pan, add one cup of boiled macaroni, (previously cooked 

33 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

in the Caloric), and one cup of grated cheese. Cook until the 
cheese is melted, then add two well beaten eggs, season with 
salt, pepper and paprica. When smooth, serve at once on hot 
toast. 

Minnesota Spaghetti With Tomato Sauce — Break a half 
package of Minnesota Spaghetti into boiling water and boil 
for 30 minutes, or until tender, strain and cover with cold 
water while you prepare your tomato sauce. When sauce is 
ready, throw the spaghetti into a frying pan with brown but- 
ter for a few minutes, pour tomato sauce on spaghetti and 
serve hot. Grated cheese may be sprinkled on it if desired. 
Try this recipe for your tomato sauce: One can tomatoes, 
one small onion sliced, one clove of garlic, three whole cloves, 
ten whole allspice, six whole peppers and a pinch of baking 
soda. A few stalks of celery may be added if handy. Boil; 
put in the. Caloric until thoroughly cooked and strain through 
a cheese cloth. Thicken with a tablespoonful of potato flour 
dissolved in cold water ; add butter the size of an egg ; season 
with salt and red pepper and boil five minutes longer. 

Sauerkraut — Take one quart of sauerkraut and two 
pounds of fresh pork. Cut the pork in slices and mix with the 
kraut in the kettle. Cover with boiling water and boil ten 
minutes without lifting the cover. Remove to the Caloric 
for six to eight hours, using one radiator. A little salt should 
be added before cooked, if needed. Drain, and serve on hot 
platter. 



34 



MEATS. 

Meat, although one of our most important foods — and 
certainly the most expensive — is too frequently ruined in the 
cooking. Often all the rich, juicy nutriments are cooked out 
of it, leaving the hard, leathery fibre. It should be born in 
mind that the most expensive meats are not necessarily the 
most nutritious. If one thoroughly understands the right way 
of preparing the cheaper kinds, and is provided with the 
auto cook — the Caloric Fireless Cookstove — it is possible to 
have a tender and juicy piece of meat at a comparatively small 
cost. As Marion Harland says : "The secret of making tough 
meats tender is the slow cooking, especially by braising, boil- 
ing and stewing. The toughest fowl can be reduced to tooth- 
some tenderness is steamed in a closed kettle or boiled or 
braised in a covered roaster for several hours." The Caloric 
is especially adapted for cooking in all these ways. Any 
meats cooked in the Caloric will be found superior in every 
way to those cooked entirely on a flame stove. 

Boiled Beef — If you wish to keep the meat juicy, pal- 
atable, and nutritious put it into boiling water. If you wish 
to have a nourishing soup put the meat over the fire with cold 
water. Put kettle with water over the fire and bring to boil. 
The amount of water of course depends on the size of the 

35 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

piece of meat and on the quantity of soup desired. Put the 
meat in the water, add salt and seasoning (as onions, vege- 
tables, etc.), desired. Let it boil tightly covered from 12 to 
15 minutes. Do not skim, if .you did so you would throw away 
some of the most nutritious parts. Put kettle in the Caloric. 
Cooking time two hours, two pounds of beef. 

Boiled Beef — The brisket or piece of round is good for 
this. Put the suet nad trimmings of the meat in the kettle 
and try out the fat. Then throw in the meat and sear quickly 
on all sides. Remove the cracklings from the fat and cover 
the meat with boiling water; bring to the boiling point quickly 
and boil hard for five minutes. Add a little pepper and boil 
gently for half hour. Without removing cover place in Caloric 
and leave three hours or more, using one radiator. Then re- 
move to a hot platter, salt well, garnish with cress or boiled 
cabbage. The liquor should be saved for stock and sauce. 

Stewed Beef — Take 2*4 pounds of meat from the under 
part of the round and rub it with salt and pepper. Let it stand 
from 30 minutes to one hour. Melt one tablespoon of butter in 
the kettle, put in meat, add some sliced carrot, and a piece of 
bay-leaf. Let it cook for 10 or 12 minutes occasionally turn- 
ing the meat and adding a tablespoonful of water. Have ready 
one or two tablespoons of flour dissolved in desired quantity 
of water. Add this to the meat and let the whole boil up. Put 
cover on kettle and place in Caloric. Cooking time two hours. 

Beef Stew — Any of the cold bits can be used for this nicely 
or the round or any of the cheap cuts. Cut all the fat from the 
meat; the lean cut in small pieces. Fry the fat in a kettle 

36 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Then add meat seasoned 
well with salt and pepper, and brown. Cut a slice or two of 
onion, turnip or carrot and three or four potatoes into small 
pieces and add to pan. Boil five minutes with cover on. Then 
place in Caloric, and leave two hours or more. Remove 
from Caloric to fire and thicken stew with one tablespoon of 
flour rubbed to a paste in a little milk. Serve on large platter. 

Corned Beef — For cold corned beef the plate piece is the 
best; while for hot the brisket is to be preferred. Always 
have a good layer of fat around it. Place in cold water and 
bring slowly to a boil and boil thirty minutes, skimming well 
the first few minutes. Have cover tightly closed before remov- 
ing to Caloric and leave six or eight hours, using one radiator. 
Cool in stock ; press between plates, and serve in thin slices. 

Rolled Beefsteak — Have a steak cut from the round one- 
half inch thick. Remove center bone and surplus fat. Over 
this steak spread a dressing made of one cupful of soft bread 
crumbs, one rounding tablespoon of butter melted, one level 
teaspoon of poultry seasoning, or sweet herbs, one-half tea- 
spoon of salt, one-half teaspoon white pepper. Press this 
dressing down firmly, then roll compactly and tie securely 
with twine. Into a cast iron skillet, put one fourth cup of beef 
drippings or butter, and place over fire. When hot put in the 
beef roll. Turn until it is a delicate brown. Remove to Cal- 
oric kettle. Add to the fat remaining in the skillet one-fourth 
cup of flour, when thoroughly blended add one pint of boiling 
water. Season with salt and pepper. Pour over the beef roll 
and boil fifteen minutes. Remove to the Caloric without re- 
moving the cover for three or four hours, using one radiator. 

37 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

When done remove the strings and serve on platter. Add a 
little onion juice to gravy and pour over roll. 

Beef a la Mode — Take four to six pounds from the under 
part of the round of beef cut thick. Wipe and trim off the 
rough edges. Put in a deep earthen dish. Pour over it spiced 
vinegar, made by boiling for five minutes one cup of vinegar, 
one onion chopped fine, three teaspoons of salt, and one-half 
teaspoon each of mustard, pepper, cloves and allspice. Let 
the meat stand several hours, turning it often. Then lard it 
with ten or twelve strips of salt pork, cut one-third of an inch 
wide. Remove from spice and brown in hot fat in which two 
onions and one-half a carrot have been fried. Remove the beef 
to Caloric kettle, and add to fat enough boiling water to nearly 
cover the beef. Boil twenty minutes. Put in small bag of 
mixed herbs, and remove to the Caloric for five or six hours, 
using one radiator. When ready to serve add more seasoning 
and thicken with flour. Boil five minutes, strain over the meat, 
and garnish with potato balls and small onions. 

Stewed Beef With Ham — Rub three pounds of meat (filet- 
piece is best) with salt and pepper. Let it stand for one-half 
hour. Melt and heat in kettle two tablespoons of butter. Put 
meat in it and add one-fourth pound smoked ham (cut up in 
little slices) one large sliced onion, a carrot, two or three 
cloves, and one bay-leaf. Turn meat several times. Then add 
one-half cup of stock and let it boil 12 or 15 minutes. Dis- 
solve two tablespoons of flour in some water or stock and stir 
it in. Let boil a minute and close the kettle. Put into Caloric. 
(Two hours). 

38 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Brown Beef Stew — Cut two pounds of beef into cubes 
of one inch. Roll them in two tablespoons of flour. Put two 
tablespoons of suet in sauce pan, shake it over the fire until it 
is well melted. Remove the cracklings and throw in the meat. 
Shake until it is slightly browned. Draw the meat to one 
side of the pan, add two tablespoons of flour to the fat. When 
smooth, add one quart of stock, one teaspoon of salt, one 
onion, one bay leaf, one small carrot, one saltspoon of pepper, 
one teaspoon of kitchen boquet. Put all together in Caloric ket- 
tle, boil very slowly for thirty minutes. Without removing the 
cover, remove to the Caloric for three hours, using one radia- 
tor. 

Beef Stewed in Vinegar — Rub about three pounds of beef 
with salt, pour good vinegar over it and let it stand at least 
over night. When ready to use melt and heat i*^ tablespoons 
of butter, put meat into it, turn several times. Add two 
sliced onions, one carrot, a piece of bay leaf, two cloves and a 
pinch of sugar. Then add part of the vinegar the meat has 
stood in and let it boil for 15 minutes. Dissolve ^2 table- 
spoons of flour in sour cream (if cream is too thick dilute with 
water or vinegar). Add this to the meat stirring some all the 
time, and let it come to a boil. Cover kettle and put into 
Caloric. Allow two hours. 

Filet Roast — Rub a piece of filet with salt and pepper and 
let it stand for one hour. Heat plenty of butter and brown 
the meat in it, on all sides. Put without the cover on kettle in 
the Caloric. Place the crossbar over open kettle and the sec- 
ond hot radiator on top. Time for roasting one hour. 

39 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Filet Roast Steamed — It is advisable to take a large piece 
because it keeps juicier. Rub meat with salt and pepper and 
let it stand for one hour at least. Put plenty of butter in the 
-kettle and heat it. Put in the meat and brown it. In turning 
meat be careful not to prick with fork lest some juice escape. 
Now add one little onion sliced, one teaspoon of capers. Let it 
cook from 10 to 12 minutes. Dissolve one tablespoon of flour 
in three-fourths tablespoons water. Pour it in and let boil 
for a moment. Close the kettle and put into the Caloric. 
Cooking time two hours. 

English Roast — For this take rib piece (loin), have the 
ribs taken out. Prepare the same as filet roast. Cooking time 
iy 2 hours. 

Filet, Austrian Way — Cut off all the fat and skin from a 
piece of fillet, pound it flat, after it has been rubbed with salt 
on both sides spread it out on a meat board. Chop one-fourth 
pound of bacon (fat) and three or four boned sardines and mix 
with pepper, a pinch of ginger, and some tablespoons of bread 
crumbs. Spread this dressing evenly on the meat, roll it up 
and tie it. Heat a piece of butter, or fryings, in the kettle, put 
in the meat and brown it on all sides. After this add five or 
six tablespoons thick sour cream and keep it a few minutes 
longer over the fire. Put kettle into Caloric without the cover, 
using one hot stone underneath and one on top. When done 
pull out the strings, slice meat and pour the strained gravy 
over it. 

Beef Roularde — Cut 2^ pounds of lean beef in five or six 
equally thick slices with salt and put one on top of the other 

40 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

and let them stand so for one-half hour. Make following 
dressing. Chop one-fourth pound of bacon with two small 
onions, mix with large pinch of white pepper. Divide it in 
five or six equal parts and spread each part on a slice of meat. 
Roll up each slice and wind with thread. Turn each little 
meat roll in flour until they are white all over. Put them into 
a kettle with hot butter and fry them to a nice yellow all 
around. Then add three tablespoons sour cream, the juice of 
one-half lemon, a pinch of sugar and one-half cup of stock. 
Let them smother (kettle cover on) for 10 minutes and after 
this put them into Caloric. Time V/ 2 hours. 

Steamed Ribroast — Cut a roast in such pieces that a rib 
is on every piece. Rub the parts both sides with salt and 
pepper. Heat two tablespoons of butter, or fryings in kettle, 
put the meat in it adding right away one large thinly sliced 
onion. Brown meat and onion. In order to keep the onion 
soft, add off and on one tablespoon of water to which has been 
added a little beef extract. When meat is nice and brown put 
cover on kettle and put in cookstove. Cooking time, one hour. 

Oxtail — Cut the thick part of the tail in pieces, (cutting 
through the joints) and sprinkle them with salt. Chop the 
following articles : A small onion, a carrot, a parsley root, a 
piece of garlic and celery root, fry this nice and yellow in 
one-half tablespoon of butter. Put into this the pieces of 
oxtail and fry them brown on all sides. Dissolve one table- 
spoon of flour in some water and add this to the above and let 
it soak a few moments. Put on kettle cover and place in 
cookstove. One serves potato salad with it. Cooking time 
two hours. 

41 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Beef a la Venaison (like game) — Rub 2}4 pounds of beef 
(lower part of round or loin) lightly with salt and put in good 
vinegar for three or four days. Take it out and drain it a 
little. Cut very fat bacon in thin threads about a little finger 
long and with a large needle sew several rows through the 
meat. Now get ready the following ingredients: Two large 
sliced onions, one little yellow carrot, piece of lemon peel and 
one bay leaf, 12 to 15 peppercorns, large pinch of sugar and 
several cloves. Heat piece of butter in kettle, put in the meat 
and brown it lightly. Then add part of the vinegar (the meat 
was kept in) and the seasoning. Let the whole boil for 15 
minutes. Dissolve two or three tablespoons of flour in cold 
water and add this to meat. Let the whole boil again for a 
moment. Place the kettle with cover on tight in the Caloric 
two hours. 

Filet Slices in Butter — Take three or four slices about 
one-half inch thick from the thick part of the beef tenderloin. 
Rub them with salt and pepper.* Brown ij4 tablespoons of 
butter in kettle. Put the slices of meat into this and fry them 
on both sides to a nice brown. Put cover on kettle and place 
in Caloric forty-five miutes. They are nice to serve with 
cauliflower or asparagus. 

Pickelsteiner Meat from Beef Tenderloin — Cut 2}4 
pounds of beef tenderloin in medium sized cubes. Get ready 
one-fifth of a pound of bacon, piece of butter broken up in 
little pieces, 10 or 12 pared raw potatoes (cut up in cubes) the 
following vegetables: A handful of parsley, piece of garlic, 
one onion, two or three carrots. Cut all those vegetables 

42 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

fine, melt in your kettle a piece of butter, put in a layer of 
potatoes, a layer of vegetables and a layer of meat. Sprinkle 
salt and paprica sparingly between each layer. Put bacon and 
butter on top of potatoes. Put in this way until everything is 
used up. At last add one cup of water, or better, stock. Now 
put the kettle on a blaze or range and heat through for five 
minutes or longer. Close kettle and place in Caloric forty-five 
minutes. 

Beef Roll — Take a large slice of round steak, make a 
dressing of bread crumbs seasoned well with salt, pepper and 
sage and one egg, all moistened with water until sticky, spread 
on roll, tie up tight with cloth around. Put into Caloric for 
two hours to steam, then bake one hour in Caloric. This can- 
not be beaten. 

Beef Loaf, No. i — Three pounds of beef, one-half pound 
salt pork chopped fine, three slices of stale bread rolled fine, 
three eggs, salt and pepper to suit, one small onion, mix well 
and bake three hours in Caloric. 

Beef Loaf, No. 2 — Three pounds raw beef, one-half pound 
raw ham, three eggs well beaten, three soda crackers rolled 
fine, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, three table- 
spoons cream, six hard boiled eggs, mix very thoroughly 
and cover and put into Caloric two hours. Uncover and 
bake one hour in Caloric, using both hot radiators. 

Gaulaulsh Stew — Cut a two pound flank steak in small 
dice. Chop one onion and fry in two tablespoons of butter. 
Brown the steak in the butter and cover with cold water 

43 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

or stock. Boil slowly for 20 minutes. Season with salt, pep- 
per and paprica, and thicken with a little flour. Boil three 
minutes. Without lifting the cover, place in the Caloric for 
three or four hours, using one radiator. 

Pot Roast — For four or five pound rump roast of beef. 
Place in iron kettle two tablespoons of suet. When melted, 
brown the roast in the fat. Remove the meat to the Caloric 
kettle and cover with boiling water. Boil slowly thirty 
minutes, with a little salt. Without removing the cover, place 
in the Caloric for four hours using one radiator. Add a 
little of the liquor to the fat, and place the meat in and brown 
for a few minutes over flame stove. Thicken the gravy with 
flour. The liquor can be used for soup. 

Boiled Tongue — Wash a fresh tongue of about three 
pounds and place in a kettle of slightly salted boiling water. 
Boil gently 30 minutes, skimming the scum, and for the last 
15 minutes keep the cover on tight. Then remove to Caloric, 
and allow it to remain six or eight hours, using one radiator. 
It is a good plan to prepare it before retiring and let it remain 
in the Caloric over night. In the morning remove from liquor, 
press between plates and peel the skin off and serve in slices 
on platter. If the tongue is corned, it should be well soaked 
for several hours in cold water before boiling. 

For Roast Beef, Veal or Mutton — Follow the recipe for 
roast lamb. 



44 



VEAL. 

Veal Rolls — About a pound and a half of veal steak off 
the ham, less than one-half inch thick, cut in pieces four inches 
square. Season with salt and pepper. A sufficient quantity of 
salt pork, cut in strips about the size of little finger and wrap 
veal around it, fasten with a tooth-pick, roll in flour, brown in 
butter. Add to butter left in pan, flour to thicken, and about 
one pint of milk. Let it boil up, and then pour over the rolls, 
which have already been placed in one of the Caloric kettles. 
Let it heat, and put away in the Caloric for about four hours. 
Mushrooms can be added to gravy when ready to serve, and 
makes a very delicious dish. 

Curry of Mutton or Veal — Fry one large onion cut fine,, in 
one heaping tablespoon of butter. Mix one tablespoon of 
curry powder, one teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of flour, 
and stir into the butter and onion. Add gradually one pint 
of hot water or stock. Cut two pounds of lean mutton in 
small pieces, and brown them in hot fat. Add them to the 
sauce, and boil them altogether five minutes. Remove to the 
Caloric for four or five hours, using one radiator. Place the 
meat on a hot platter and arrange a border of boiled rice. 

Roasted Leg of Veal — Rub veal (from leg) with salt 
and pepper and let it stand for half an hour. Heat in kettle 

45 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

two tablespoons of butter into which put the meat. Brown it 
on all sides. To this add two or three tablespoons of water 
or stock. Put kettle without cover into Caloric using hot 
stones underneath and on top of kettle. (One hour.) 

Veal Roast Larded — Rub veal with salt and pepper and 
let it stand for half an hour Then lard the meat nicely with 
thin strips of fat bacon. Heat a piece of butter in your kettle 
into which put the meat. Brown it on all sides. Dissolve a 
little flour in water. Add this to the meat and let it boil to- 
gether for five minutes. Put in the Caloric without cover on 
kettle but using the two hot stones. (One hour.) 

Veal Roast With Sweet Cream Gravy — Rub quite a piece 
of veal with salt and pepper. Heat piece of butter in your 
kettle. Into this put several large slices of bacon. Put meat 
on top of these, let it fry from eight to ten minutes without 
turning it, until the bacon becomes light yellow, but not 
brown. Dissolve one tablespoon of cornstarch in one cup of 
sweet cream. Add this to the meat and let cook together for 
five minutes. Place kettle without cover in Caloric and use 
two hot stones. (One and one-half to two hours.) 

Veal Roast (back or breast piece) — Rub meat with salt 
and pepper and let it stand for one hour. Brown it in butter 
on all sides. Add a few tablespoons of water. Put into 
Caloric and use both hot stones. (One and one-half to two 
hours.) 

Veal in Caper Gravy and Cream — Rub 2>4 to t, 1 A pounds 
of veal with salt and pepper. (Shoulderpiece or leg.) Melt 

40 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

two tablespoons of butter or meat fryings in your kettle, put 
in the meat and turn it several times but do not let it get 
brown. Then add one teaspoon of capers. Dissolve one 
tablespoon of flour in one-half cup of thick sour cream, pour 
this on the meat and let it boil five minutes. Put the kettle 
with cover on into the Caloric. (i^4 hours.) 

Rolled Calfs Breast — Have all bones taken out of the 
meat arid rub it with salt and pepper. Prepare the following 
dressing: Grind one-half pound of veal, one-fifth pound of 
fat smoked ham, a medium sized onion, four or five boned 
sardines, and parsley. To this add one egg, two tablespoons 
sour cream, and five or six tablespoons of bread crumbs. Mix 
well. Spread this dressing evenly on the meat, roll up same 
and tie it well. Brown meat in butter. Add one-half cup 
stock. Put into Caloric two hours. Use two radiators. 

Steamed Calfs Breast — Rub 2^4 to 2>Va pounds of veal 
with salt and pepper and let it stand for half an hour. Roll it 
thickly in flour. Fry it in kettle with hot butter to a light 
yellow. Add one-half cup of hot water. Place kettle without 
cover in Caloric, using two hot radiators. (Cooking time ij4 
hours.) 

Veal in Highly Seasoned Gravy — Divide 2*4 to 334 
pounds of veal in four or five parts and rub them with salt 
and pepper. Heat in your kettle 1 to 1/2 tablespoons of 
butter or meat fryings. Put meat into this and let it become 
nice and yellow. To this add several tablespoons of either 
sour or sweet cream, three finely chopped sardines, three tea- 
spoons of French mustard, one-half teaspoon sugar and if one 

47 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

likes it, a piece of lemon rind. Cover the kettle and let the 
whole cook for ten minutes. Put into the Caloric. (One hour.) 
Serve macaroni with it. 

Veal in Light Gravy with Parsley — Rub veal with sait 
and pepper. Melt in your kettle piece of very fresh butter. 
Put meat into this and turn several times. Now add right 
away one cup of stock or cup boiling water with some meat 
extract. Then add one teaspoon chopped parsley and one- 
half tablespoon of flour dissolved in water. Boil a moment 
and put in Caloric, with cover on kettle. (One to one and one- 
half hours.) 

Veal with Tomatoes — Cut about three pounds of veal in 
several pieces and rub them with salt. Heat one or two table- 
spoons of butter or meat fryings in kettle, put in the meat 
and turn it once, now add one onion, three or four tomatoes, 
one carrot, and a piece of celery root. (All those things must 
be cut up.) Add three or four tablespoons of sour cream and 
a little vinegar, and let the whole cook for five minutes. Place 
the closed kettle in the Caloric one hour. Before serving 
add one tablespoon of flour dissolved in sour cream. 

Veal Gulash — Cut 2}4 pounds of veal in cubes and salt 
them. Heat in kettle some meat fryings or butter, to which 
add two large sliced onions, cook these for a few minutes, they 
must stay white. Now put in the meat, one teaspoon of 
paprica and stir through well. Let it cook for five minutes. 
Sprinkle a little flour over the meat and add several table- 
spoons of water. Put closed kettle into the Caloric. (45 min- 
utes.) 

48 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Veal Loaf, No. i — Three pounds of veal chopped fine, 
mix four crackers rolled fine, butter the size of an egg, three 
eggs, three tablespoons sweet milk, one large tablespoon salt, 
one-half teaspoon pepper, one tablespoon sage, mix all to- 
gether and form into a loaf. Bake three hours in Caloric, 
using both hot radiators. This makes a nice loaf and is fine 
either hot or cold. 

Veal Loaf No. 2 — iy 2 pounds of veal chopped fine, one- 
fourth pound of pork chopped fine, ten crackers rolled fine, 
three eggs well beaten, cream or milk enough to moisten, salt, 
pepper and sage to suit. Bake 3^ hours in Caloric, using 
both hot radiators. 

Veal Loaf, No. 3 — Three pounds lean veal, ij4 pounds raw 
ham, three eggs well beaten, three soda crackers rolled fine, 
one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon pepper, three tablespoons 
cream, three tablespoons boiling water, mix all thoroughly, 
grease a pan well, pack and press well, cover and bake two 
hours in Caloric. Uncover and bake one hour. Serve either 
hot or cold. This will serve eight people and is delicious. 

Veal with Rice — Boil one-half cup of rice in salt water 
till soft (one can do this the day previous). Cut 2}4 to 3% 
pounds of veal in cubes. Heat in kettle two tablespoons of 
butter, to this add the meat and a sliced onion. Leave it 
until nice and yellow. Now add the rice, which has been 
thinned with six tablespoons of water to which is added meat 
extract. You way add a little grated parmesan cheese. Let 
the whole cook for a few minutes. Put the closed kettle in 
Caloric. (45 minutes.) 

49 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Veal with Mustard Pickles — Cut into small pieces 2% 
pounds of veal (bones left on) salt them a little. Heat in 
kettle a piece of butter or meat fryings, but be careful not to 
get it brown, to this add a sliced onion and two or three 
tablespoons of flour. Cook this until yellow stirring it all the 
while. Now put in the meat and let it cook five minutes, 
turning it occasionally. Pour to it i 1 /^ or 2 cups of stock, or 
hot water with some meat extract. Add one bay leaf, pinch 
of pepper and one cup of mustard pickles cut in cubes, let 
the whole cook for five minutes. Put the closed kettle into the 
Caloric. (1% hours.) 



50 



LAMB AND MUTTON. 

Roast Lamb — Take a small leg of lamb, sear all over in 
hot skillet. Place in oven in roaster; season with salt and 
pepper. Have the oven hot and turn often and roast for ten 
minutes. Place in Caloric kettle and remove directly to Cal- 
oric, using both hot radiators. Thicken liquor in roasting 
pan with flour for the gravy. 

Lamb With Dressing — (Take the forequarter.) Make a 
dressing as you would for veal or fowl. Part the meaty skin 
from the ribs, and fill the space with dressing, sew up the 
opening. Before putting in the dressing, rub salt and pepper. 
Brown the meat in plenty of butter. In doing this be careful 
that the side that has the dressing does not burst open. When 
meat is brown, put that side up. Put the open kettle into 
the Caloric, using both hot radiators, two hours. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb — Put the leg into kettle, cover with 
fast boiling water slightly salted and boil hard for ten min- 
utes. Skim the scum that rises and then reduce heat to just 
a boil and boil gently for 20 minutes more. «Then place in 
Caloric without lifting cover, using one radiator. In three 
hours it will be nicely cooked. Remove from liquor to hot 
plate; run knife through to let blood escape, and it is ready 
to serve. A mint or caper sauce should be served with it. 

51 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Braised Mutton Chops — Heat two tablespoons of drip- 
pings in frying pan and fry a slice or two of onion, celery or 
carrot. Then brown the chops quickly on each side; place 
onions on rack and lay the chops on top. Pour over fat from 
pan. Add two cups of boiling water and bring to a boil for 
five minutes. Place in Caloric and leave one and one-half 
hours or more, using one radiator. Serve on hot platter, gar- 
nish with parsley. 

Roast Lamb — Cut meat into small pieces and rub with 
salt and pepper and let them stand for half an hour. Brown 
the meat in plenty if butter. Put the open kettle into the 
Caloric, using both hot radiators 1^2 hours. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton — Should be boiled the same as a 
leg of lamb, placed in the Caloric without removing cover 
and left to cook there two or three hours and then served on a 
hot plate. The knife should be run through before serving 
to allow the blood to escape. 

Lambs Tongues Boiled — Put six tongues in salted water, 
with the juice of a lemon. Boil five minutes. Remove to the 
Caloric for six or eight hours. Serve cold, with tarter sauce. 

Sheeps Tongues Braised — Wash, dredge with flour and 
salt, and brown in salt pork fat, with one or two minced 
onions. Put them in a pan with water or stock to cover. Add 
one sprig of parsley, a little salt and pepper. Cover and boil 
twenty minutes. Remove to the Caloric for four hours, using 
one radiator. Remove the skins, trim neatly at the roots. 
Place a mound of spinach in the center of the dish. Arrange 

52 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

the tongues around the spinach. Alternate with diamonds of 
fried bread. 

Gulash Made of Lamb — Cut two pounds of meat from the 
leg into cubes, mix salt with them and let stand for 15 minutes. 
Sprinkle two tablespoons of flour over the meat and shake it 
well. Cook two large, thinly sliced onions in one tablespoon 
of butter until they are yellow. Into this put the meat, with a 
half teaspoon of paprica, and a little white pepper, and cook 
for a few minutes. Put the tightly covered kettle into the 
Caloric one hour. Serve mashed potatoes with it. 

Lamb Roast — Rub with salt. Brown it in butter or meat 
fryings. Add several tablespoons of water and two onions (if 
desired), stir occasionally and let it cool till the juice and onion 
make a somewhat thick gravy. Put kettle into the Caloric 
using both radiators, two hours. You may put eight or ten 
small raw potatoes around the meat when you put it in the 
Caloric. 

Boiled Lamb — Put lamb (leg or shoulder piece) into two 
quarts of boiling water. Add salt, and let it boil for ten min- 
utes. Then put the tightly covered kettle into the Caloric one 
and one-half to two hours. 

Leg of Lamb a la Venaison — Cut off all the fat from a leg 
of lamb and rub it with salt and pepper. Put it in vinegar to 
which have been added the following ingredients: pepper- 
corns, some cloves, two sliced onions, one carrot, one bay leaf, 
several slices of lemon, and a little sugar. Leave the meat in 
this for four or five days. When ready to use take it out, drain 

53 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

well and lard thickly with bacon. Brown it in butter. After 
this add a small portion of the spiced vinegar, two large 
onions, (not those already used in the vinegar) a few juniper- 
berries and a few capers. Cook the meat now for one-fourth 
of an hour and during this time add at intervals (one by one) 
five or six tablespoons of sour cream. Dissolve two table- 
spoons of flour in some of the spiced vinegar and pour this 
slowly to the meat; you may add a little more sugar if you 
like the taste. Put the tightly covered kettle into the Caloric 
and cook two to two and one-half hours. 

Stewed Lamb Chops — Rub with salt and pepper lamb 
chops. Heat two tablespoons of butter. Into this put the 
chops (also, if desired, two large, very thinly sliced onions) 
and let the chops steam in their own juice, turning them oc- 
casionally, for eight or ten minutes. Should the onions stick 
to the kettle, sprinkle a little water over them. Place one-half 
tablespoon of flour over the chops and turn them once more. 
Put the tightly covered kettle into the Caloric one hour. 

Lamb in Light Gravy — Cut two pounds of lamb (back) in 
pieces and rub them with salt and pepper. Just melt one 
tablespoon of very fresh butter. Put meat into it and turn 
once. Add right away one cup of broth, which may be made 
of water and meat extract. Mix two tablespoons of flour in 
four tablespoons of sour cream and pour this slowly to the 
meat. Let it boil a second. Put the tightly closed kettle into 
the Caloric one and one-fourth hours. 

Another Recipe for Leg of Mutton — That very homely 
dish, a boiled leg of mutton, is excellent cooked in the Caloric. 

54 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

washed several times in cold water, three to four tablespoons 
of strained, stewed tomatoes and enough water, to which has 
been added meat extract, so that the meat and rice are covered 
nicely. Let the whole cook five minutes more. Put this into 
the Caloric using one hot stone. (45 minutes.) 

Veal Croquettes — Put two pounds of veal in kettle with 
enough boiling water to cover. Boil five minutes. Remove 
to the Caloric for three hours. Chop fine and season highly 
with salt, pepper, celery salt, paprica and lemon juice. Use 
one and one-half cups of veal with one cup of thick cream 
dressing. Shape in cylinders. When cool roll in egg and 
bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 



55 



PORK. 

Roast Pork — Rub pork with salt and pepper. Heat one 
tablespoon of butter in your kettle and in this brown the meat 
from all sides, turning it occasionally, for 10 to 15 minutes. 
During this time add once in a while a tablespoon of water. 
Put the kettle into the Caloric using both stones. (Cooking 
time depends on the size of meat, from 1^2 to 3 hours.) 

Pork Ham with Cream Gravy — Remove all the skin and 
fat from a piece of pork ham. Rub it with salt and pepper and 
let it stand in some good vinegar for 24 hours. When ready 
take it out and drain. Brown it lightly in kettle in iy 2 table- 
spoons of butter. Add part of the vinegar, a large sliced 
onion, 10 or 12 peppercorns, carrot, teaspoon of capers, a little 
sugar and 2^4 tablespoons of sour cream. Let it stew with 
kettle covered for 15 minutes. Put into Caloric using two 
hot stones. In fixing the gravy after the meat is done add 
thickening of one tablespoon of sour cream. Add also a little 
meat extract. (Cooking time two hours.) 

Pork with Rice and Tomatoes — Cut 2^ pounds of pork 
(from ham) into large cubes, sprinkle salt over them and turn 
them in flour. Heat in vessel piece of butter or meat fryings. 
Then put in the meat and let it cook a few minutes, turning 
it occasionally. Now add one cup of rice which has been 

56 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Trim the leg well and put it into the big kettle of boiling 
water. Let it boil about ten minutes, then add one tablespoon 
of salt and two or three peppercorns. If you like the flavor, 
a tiny piece of mace, of bay leaf and two or three cloves may 
be added. Now put kettle into Caloric, using one hot stone. 
In three or four hours it should be ready to be served with 
caper sauce. 

Pigs Feet — Use the hocks, singe them, scrape and wash 
them thoroughly. Cover with cold water. Boil five minutes, 
then remove to the Caloric for eight hours. When done take 
one-half pint of vinegar, one small onion, one bay leaf, a few 
whole cloves, and boil 15 minutes, and add to the pigs feet. 
Heat all together. They are ready to serve. 



57 



CHICKEN. 

Roasted Chicken — Rub the inside and outside of the chick- 
en with salt and let it stand for half an hour to an hour. Brown 
one tablespoon of butter in a kettle or basin. Brown the 
chicken in this on all sides. Should the butter become too 
brown, sprinkle a little water over it, this will evaporate 
quickly and will hinder it from burning. You may repeat this 
a few times. Put the chicken into the Caloric using both 
radiators i^4 hours. 

Roasted Chicken Highly Seasoned — Rub chicken with salt. 
Heat butter, brown the chicken in this on all sides. Add the 
juice of half a lemon, a pinch of sugar, one teaspoon of capers, 
several tablespoons of sour cream, and let it cook for five 
minutes. Put the open kettle into the Caloric and use both 
radiators i^ hours. 

Boiled Chicken — Wipe chicken, singe and cut for serving. 
Place in kettle of slightly salted boiling water. It is nice to 
boil a small piece of fat bacon with the chicken. Boil for ten 
minutes and skim all the scum that rises. Then add a hand- 
ful of rice and a cup of milk and more salt if needed. Boil 
gently for one-half hour, with cover on. Place in Caloric 
without removing cover and allow it to remain two hours 
if the chicken is young, or three or four hours if it is an old 

58 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

one, using one radiator. Serve on platter with a gravy made 
from liquor and seasoned with chopped parsley, celery or 
thyme and hard boiled eggs. 

Fricasseed Chicken — Dress, clean and cut for serving. 
Flour and salt slightly. Brown quickly in butter over a hot 
fire; cover with boiling water and boil gently for one-half 
hour. Then place in Caloric without removing cover and 
leave for three hours. Take from Caloric and make gravy 
with liquor by adding one tablespoon of flour, rubbed smooth 
in one-half cup of milk ; salt and pepper to taste. Let it come 
to a boil on stove and serve at once with hot biscuit. 

Simple Chicken Fricassee — Cut the chicken into six or 
eight parts and salt these lightly. Melt one tablespoon of 
butter. Put the chicken into the butter when it commences to 
bubble. Turn meat but once and add at once one cup of 
broth (this may be made of water and meat extract.) Then 
add one teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, (a piece of lemon 
peel if so desired), lj4 tablespoons of flour stirred up in cold 
water. Put the tightly covered kettle into the Caloric one 
hour. 

Cream Chicken — Take one large chicken, or six pounds, 
and four sweet-breads. Cover with boiling water, boil 15 
minutes. Remove to the Caloric for three hours, using one 
radiator. If chicken is old leave longer. Remove meat from 
the bones and skin from sweet-breads. Cut into small cubes. 
In a double boiler put one quart of cream. In a small sauce 
pan put four tablespoons of butter and five even ones of flour. 
Stir until blended, and add to cream; when it thickens, sea- 

59 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

son with salt and pepper and paprica and a little onion juice, 
if desired. Add salt and pepper to the meat and put with the 
cream with one can of mushrooms. Put in baking dish, cover 
with bread crumbs and bits of butter, bake 20 minutes in oven, 
or haif an hour in Caloric, using both hot radiators. 

To Fry Old Chicken — Singe and cut up in small pieces. 
Place in Caloric kettle. Cover with boiling water, add a little 
salt and boil five minutes. Remove to the Caloric for four 
or five hours, or over night. Leave in liquor until ready to 
serve, then brown in butter, season with salt and pepper. 
Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Chicken Pie — Take one chicken and two pounds of veal, 
cover with boiling water; boil 15 minutes. Then remove to 
Caloric for five or six hours. When done remove the bones 
and cut into rather small pieces. Put in baking dish, cover 
with the gravy, which has been thickened and seasoned with 
salt, pepper and paprica. Cut into slices two or three hard 
boiled eggs and put in with the meat. Cover with a rich bis 
cuit crust and bake in oven, or in Caloric, using both stones 
sizzling hot. 

Cream Chicken Stew — Singe, clean, and cut up ready to 
serve a three pound chicken. Cover with boiling water and 
boil slowly for 20 minutes. Remove the chicken, and add to 
the liquor one cup of sweet cream; season with salt, pepper 
and paprica, and thicken with a little flour; add the chicken 
and boil three minutes. Remove to the Caloric for two or 
more hours, using one radiator. When ready to serve add a 
little chopped parsley. 

GO 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Chicken Curry — Clean, singe, and cut three pound chicken 
for serving. Put one-third cup of butter in a hot frying pan. 
Add the chicken and cook ten minutes. Chop the giblets, 
and two small onions. Add two teaspoons of salt, one tea- 
spoon vinegar, one tablespoon of curry powder. Add to- 
gether, and cover with boiling water. Boil five minutes with- 
out removing the cover. Place in the Caloric for four hours, 
using one radiator. When ready to serve, remove the chicken. 
Thicken the liquid with flour. Strain, and pour over the 
chicken. Garnish with border of rice. 

Chicken Southern Style — Clean, singe, and cut in pieces 
for serving, two young chickens. Season with salt and pepper 
and fry in butter. Remove seeds from eight red peppers. 
Cover with boiling water and cook until soft. Mash and rub 
through a sieve. Add one teaspoon of salt, one onion, two 
cloves of garlic finely chopped. Add this to the chicken and 
cover with boiling water. Boil five minutes without lifting 
the cover ; remove to the Caloric for two hours or more, using 
one radiator. When ready to serve remove the chicken and 
thicken with three tablespoons of butter and flour rubbed to- 
gether. 

Pickled Chicken — Boil two chickens in Caloric until ten- 
der enough for the meat to fall off the bones. Put the meat 
into a stone jar and pour over it one pint and a half of good 
cold cider vinegar with which has been mixed half of the 
water in which the chickens were boiled, add a few whole 
spices if desired. This will be ready in two days and is good 
for luncheon or supper. 

61 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Boiled Turkey — An old turkey may be cooked in from 
six to eight hours. If especially old it may be taken out and 
re-heated after about four hours. In this case the seasoning 
may be added at the second heating. The turkey should be 
stuffed as usual, then put into the kettle and boiling water 
poured upon it until it is completely covered. Then take it 
out and replace the boiling water with tepid water and put 
the turkey in — heat slowly and when boiling put it into the 
Caloric. When re-heating, add one tablespoon of salt and a 
few peppercorns. When tender, put on a platter, spread all 
over with butter and put into the oven until butter is melted. 
Serve with a drawn butter sauce filled with oysters, or with 
the liver and giblets chopped fine. Caper sauce is delicious 
with boiled turkey. 

Caper Sauce — Two tablespoons of butter, three table- 
spoons of flour, one-quarter teaspoon each of salt and paprica 
and one-half teaspoon of onion juice. When this is cooked 
add iy 2 cups of boiling water, one tablespoon of butter cut into 
bits, one tablespoon of parsley and four tablespoons of capers. 

Fricassed Turkey — The remains of cold roast turkey are 
cut into neat slices. Place the bones and trimmings in a Calo- 
ric kettle with a bunch of savory herbs, an onion, a little 
lemon peel, pepper and salt, and one pint of water. Put on 
the stove and boil five minutes. Remove to the Caloric for 
two hours, using one radiator. Then strain and lay in the 
pieces of turkey. When warmed through, beat the yolk of an 
egg with two tablespoons of cream. Add slowly to the mix- 
ture, and when it thickens it is ready to serve. 

62 



GAME AND WILD FOWL. 

Partridge — Dress and wash, rub with salt. Heat two 
tablespoons of butter and brown the fowl on both sides in 
this. Should the butter become too dark, sprinkle a little 
water over it. After the partridges are brown, add several 
tablespoons of broth. Put open kettle into Caloric and use 
both hot stones. If fowl is young allow one hour, otherwise 
one and one half cooking. 

Pigeons Roasted Hunter's Style — Rub three or four pig- 
eons with salt. Tie a piece of bacon over breast. Heat in 
kettle two tablespoons of butter and brown the pigeons on all 
sides (if necessary sprinkle a little water over the butter while 
browning). Put the kettle into the Caloric using both hot 
stones 1^2 hours. 

Pigeons, Roasted, Stuffed — Rub the pigeons inside and 
outside with salt and let them stand for half an hour. Make 
a filling. (This recipe is for two pigeons.) Stir one table- 
spoon of butter together with one egg, add salt, pepper, nut- 
meg, finely chopped parsley, (lemon peel if you like it) and 
three or four tablespoons of cracker crumbs. Let this stand 
for eight or ten minutes. Add milk enough to make a light 
dressing. The dressing will be improved by adding finely 
chopped giblets. Fill the pigeon with this dressing. For do- 
es 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

ing this reach under the skin at the neck down to the breast 
and put in the filling with a teaspoon. Tie securely with 
twine. Heat butter in the kettle and brown the pigeons on all 
sides. This must be done carefully ; should the butter become 
too dark sprinkle a little water over it, this hinders the butter 
from burning and may be repeated a few times. Be careful not 
to prick the part which is filled with the dressing. Put the 
kettle into the Caloric using both hot stones 1^4 hours. 

Pigeons a la Venaison — Rub the pigeons with salt and 
soak them for 24 hours in vinegar and water (half and half). 
Drain them and tie slices of bacon all around them. Heat in a 
small kettle butter and brown pigeons in it on all sides. Then 
add a little vinegar and water, they were soaked in, one large 
sliced onion, carrot, bay leaf, lemon peel, peppercorns, pinch of 
sugar. Mix some flour with sour cream and stir this slowly 
into the boiling gravy. Put the tightly covered kettle into 
the Caloric one hour. 

Pigeons Cooked in Vinegar — Cut the pigeons in half and 
salt them lightly. Bring vinegar with onions, peppercorns, 
and cloves to a boil. Into this put the pigeons and let them 
boil a moment. Time same as in previous recipe. 

Fricasseed Venison — Into a sauce pan put one tablespoon 
of butter. Let it melt and brown. Slowly add one tablespoon 
of flour, stir until perfectly smooth. Add to this one table- 
spoon each of celery, onion, tomato, and one pint of stock, 
one pound of venison steak cut in narrow strips. Let the 
whole boil twenty minutes. Remove without lifting the cover 
to the Caloric for five or six hours, using one radiator. When 

64 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

ready to serve, season with salt, pepper and paprika and Wor- 
cester sauce. 

Escalloped Chicken — Remove the meat from one chicken 
well cooked and place alternately in layers bread crumbs and 
mashed potatoes and pour hot milk, one-half pint if neces- 
sary, and put into Caloric 1V2 hours, using both hot stones. 
This is fine. 

German Fireless Cookstove's Household Fare — Make a 
noodle dough of three eggs and the necessary flour. Divide 
into three or four parts and roll out each part, not too thin. 
When dough is dried off, cut it into strips a finger broad. 
Cut one pound of beef filet or else one pound of lean, tender 
pork into cubes. Chop coarsely two or three parsley roots, 
a few yellow carrots, one medium sized onion. Cut about 
two ounces of bacon into little cubes and some butter into 
tiny pieces. Bring water to a boil. Into this put the noodles, 
with some salt, and let them boil for ten minutes. Strain off 
the water and let them cool. Grease a kettle thickly with 
butter; into it put a layer of meat, layer of vegetables, layer 
of noodles, etc., until all is used up. Sprinkle salt, paprica, 
a few bacon cubes and pieces of butter on each layer. Pour 
one-half cup of water over it and let boil for five minutes. 
Put the covered kettle into Caloric with one hot radiator 
underneath. This dish is very piquant and healthy. Cook- 
ing time V/2 hours. Before serving stir through very care- 
fullv. 



05 



FISH. 

Fish is a food that may be cooked easily over a blaze, but 
this is for such cases when one wishes to find the meal ready 
when arriving home. Fish does not become soft nor fall to 
pieces by standing a considerable length of time in the Caloric. 

Boiled Fish — Roll the fish in cheese cloth and tie the 
ends. Lower into a Caloric kettle of boiling water, to which 
has been added the juice of half a lemon and a little salt. 
Boil five minutes. Remove to the Caloric for two or three 
hours. Drain and unroll from the cloth on to a platter. Gar- 
nish with parsley and slices of lemon, and serve with drawn 
butter sauce. 

Cod Fish Balls — Shred one cup of cod fish. Pare and cut 
into cubes one pint of potatoes. Put potatoes and cod fish in 
kettle together, cover with boiling water, boil five minutes. 
Remove to Caloric for three hours. Drain well, mash and beat 
until very light. Add two teaspoons of butter, one egg 
well beaten, one-fourth saltspoon of pepper, more salt if 
needed. Drop by tablespoonfuls in hot fat. 

Escalloped Salmon — Take one can salmon, place in a bak- 
ing dish one layer of salmon, then sprinkle about one table- 
spoon of flour, small pieces of butter, dash of pepper and salt, 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

and then another layer of fish and so on until the dish is 
full, cover with cracker crumbs and heat and place in Caloric 
about one hour using hot radiators. This is very fine. Try it. 

Escalloped Salmon No. 2 — Take one-half pint of milk 
and thicken quite thick, season well with salt, pepper and 
butter and place alternately a layer of fish, then dressing, 
sprinkle toasted bread crumbs on top and place in Caloric 
one hour to bake, using both hot stones. 

Escalloped Oysters — Take one pint oysters, one quart 
of milk, place on stove and let come to a boil, then thicken and 
season well, then put into Caloric and place small biscuit on 
top and bake one-half hour with both hot radiators. This is 
very delicious. 

Egg Sauce for Fish — Melt in a sauce pan one heaping 
tablespoon of butter. Blend with this one tablespoon of flour. 
Then add gradually one cup of boiling water. Cook, stirring 
briskly until sufficiently thick. Add salt, pepper and paprica 
to taste. When ready to serve, cut into the sauce one hard 
boiled egg. 

Drawn Butter Sauce — Melt three tablespoons of butter; 
add three tablespoons of flour; add slowly one and one-half 
cups of hot water until the sauce boils. Season with one-half 
teaspoon of salt. Serve with fish or lobster. 



67 



MIXED DISHES. 

The so-called mixed dishes, where meat is cooked together 
with vegetables, potatoes, etc., are especially suitable for the 
Caloric. 

Veal Gulash With Potatoes — Cut veal (from hind leg) 
into cubes, salt them and sprinkle 1^2 tablespoons of flour over 
them. Heat two tablespoons of butter. To this add (if de- 
sired one thinly sliced onion and pinch of paprica,) and let 
it cook for a few minutes. Drop the meat in, also eight or 
ten raw potatoes cut up in small pieces ( if potatoes are very 
small leave them whole.) Stir well. Place the covered kettle 
into the Caloric one and one-fourth hours. 

Mutton With Onions and Potatoes — Rub three pounds of 
mutton chops with salt and pepper. Brown them in i 1 /* table- 
spoons of butter. Then add one large, sliced onion, and let 
it cook until the onion is yellow. Cut into cubes eight or ten 
raw potatoes and add these to the meat. Mix everything well 
and lastly add two tablespoons of water and let the whole 
cook for five minutes. Place the covered kettle into the 
Caloric one and one-half hours. 

Boiled Mutton and Potatoes — Wash 2.y 2 pounds of mutton 
from shoulder or leg and be careful to remove all the little 

68 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

bone slivers that may stick to it. Bring two quarts of water 
to a boil, salt it for ten minutes. Add plenty of chopped 
carrots, celery, onions, pinch of pepper and 15 or 18 sliced 
raw potatoes and let it boil a moment. Large bones, those 
from which one need not fear any little bone splinters, may be 
cooked in the soup. Put covered kettle into the Caloric. Be- 
fore serving, take out the meat and cut into slices. Crush the 
potatoes a little so that the whole makes a rather thick soup. 
1^2 to 1^4 hours. 

Mutton With Turnips — Cut the turnips lengthwise into 
narrow strips. Heat in kettle two or three tablespoons of fry- 
ings or butter, add several teaspoons of sugar, brown this, 
stirring it all the while. Drop in the turnips, add salt and 
one-half cup of stock (which may be made of water with meat 
extract) let it boil a moment. Sprinkle over it two or three 
tablespoons of flour, stir thoroughly and add a little more stock 
or water. Put in the meat and cook for ten minutes. Place 
covered kettle in Caloric one and one-half hours. 

Beef Tenderloin With Potatoes — Rub two pounds of beef- 
tenderloin with salt and pepper. Brown it in two tablespoons 
of butter. Add eight or ten raw potatoes which have been cut 
into little strips or dices, the necessary salt, stir up and let 
it cook for five minutes. Put tightly covered kettle into the 
Caloric one hour. 

Hungarian Sauerkraut — Cook one small cup of rice in 
water until soft. One may do this the night before. Make a 
paste out of the rice, one pound of ground pork, one pound of 
ground beef, one egg, one onion, (cut up fine and cooked in 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

grease) salt and pepper. Heat three tablespoons of flour and 
cook until yellow. Into this put the sauerkraut, turn it several 
times and pour the necessary amount of water over it. Put 
the tightly covered* kettle into the Caloric. After Ij£ hours, 
take kettle out and put it over a blaze. Heat the steatite 
radiator again. Make little oblong rolls from the meat paste. 
Then spread out the sauerkrout in kettle in such a way that 
you can fold the meat rolls entirely within the same. Put the 
tightly covered kettle into the Caloric. (Second cooking time 
one-half hour.) 

Smoked Meat With Lentils— Wash and drain one pound 
of lentils. Cook two tablespoons of butter with flour until 
light yellow. Stir it smooth with stock, which may be made 
of water and meat extract. Into this put the lentils, with 
one-half quart of water, salt and also two or three pounds of 
smoked meat. One may add a little vinegar, if desired. Put 
the tightly covered kettle into the Caloric two hours. 

Smoked Tongue or Corned Tongue — This is prepared 
the same as the smoked meat in the previous number. Time 
of cooking, 2$£ hours. 

Chicken With Asparagus — Cut a young chicken into six 
or eight parts and salt these. Melt and cook until it com- 
mences to bubble one tablespoon of butter. Into this drop the 
meat with some pepper, turn pieces once and right away add 
one-half cup of stock. When it boils, add the tips of one 
pound of asparagus, (the lower part can be used for soup) let 
boil for five minutes. Put the tightly covered kettle into the 
Caloric. Before serving add a little flour mixed with sweet 

70 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

milk, put kettle over blaze and let it come to a boil. Cooking* 
time in Caloric ij4 hours. 

Veal With Onions, Paprica, Potatoes and Cfeam— Rub 

two pounds of veal (from hind leg) with salt. Heat two table- 
spoons of butter in which cook two large, thinly sliced onions 
and one-half teaspoon paprica for a few minutes. The onions 
must remain light and soft. Add two tablespoons of thick 
sour cream and bring it to a boil. Cook the meat in this for 
five minutes turning occasionally. Add eight or ten raw pota- 
toes, cut up into cubes, and a little salt. Put the tightly cov- 
ered kettle into the Caloric for i l /\. hours. 

Veal With Vegetable Oysters — Cook one pound of vege- 
table oysters in salt water, and lay them aside. Melt two 
tablespoons of butter. Into this put two pounds of veal, turn 
it several times, but do not brown it. Add one-fourth quart 
of water or stock, mixed with 2 l / 2 tablespoons of flour, the 
vegetable oysters and let cook for five minutes. Put the tightly 
covered kettle into the Caloric iji hours. 

Veal With Asparagus — This is prepared like vegetable 
oysters, except that one boils the asparagus only fifteen min- 
utes beforehand. Cooking time in Caloric 1% hours. 

An Old Fowl With Vermicelli — Divide a fowl into two or 
four parts. Bring iy 2 quarts of water to a boil, into which put 
the meat, salt and vegetables for seasoning. One may also add 
a little piece of soup meat and some bones, let boil for 15 min- 
utes. Put the tightly covered kettle into the Caloric for three 
hours. After this, take out the meat, strain the soup, put it 

1\ 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

over the blaze again and cook vermicelli in it. Put meat back 
into soup again and keep hot in Caloric. 

Old Fowl With Rice — The process is the same as in pre- 
vious recipe. After cooking the rice in the soup, heat the 
radiator for the Caloric again. Put soup with rice and chicken 
back again for 45 minutes. 

CJricken With Peas — Divide the young chicken into six 
or eight parts and salt these. Take two handfuls of young, 
tender peas in the pods and cut these into diagonal pieces. 
Heat slightly i 1 /* tablespoons of butter into which put meat 
and peas and let cook a few minutes. Mix iy 2 tablespoons of 
flour with broth and pour this over meat. Put the tightly cov- 
ered kettle into Caloric one hour. 

Chicken With Mushrooms — Is prepared the same as 
chicken with peas. Cut the mushrooms into fine pieces. 

Boiled Dinner — Place in kettle three pounds of corned 
beef or ham. Cover with cold water. Let it boil slowly for 
20 minutes. Then add a small head of cabbage, a few carrots, 
turnips and potatoes. Boil five minutes. Without removing 
the cover, place in the Caloric for four hours or more, using 
one radiator. 

Boiled Beef Tongue — Wash the tongue thoroughly, rub 
off with salt and wash it again. Bring water, to which have 
been added vegetables and salt for seasoning, to a boil and let 
the tongue cook in it for 15 minutes. Put the tightly covered 
kettle into Caloric 2,y 2 hours. When tongue is soft, take out 

72 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

of the liquid and remove the skin. It is very good to serve 
thinly sliced with any kind of vegetables. 

Beef Tongue Boiled and Browned — Boil tongue as des- 
cribed in previous number. Skin and slice it (slice must not 
be too thin). Heat butter in a shallow spider and brown the 
slices quickly on both sides in it. 

Boiled Calf's or Swine's Tongue — Put the thoroughly 
cleansed tongue into boiling water with salt and vegetables 
for seasoning. Let boil for 10 minutes. Put the tightly cover- 
ed kettle into Caloric i^ hours. Use tongues the same way 
as beef tongues. 

Meat Dumplings. With Beans — Chop one-half pound each 
of beef and pork. Beat well together one tablespoon of butter 
and one egg, add sliced onion cooked soft in butter, salt, 
pepper, and one cup of bread crumbs and mix well with the 
meat.' Cut one and one-half pounds of young, green beans 
into little diagonal pieces. Heat in kettle two tablespoons of 
butter, put beans into it with a little salt and summer savory. 
Cook them a few minutes, stirring them constantly. Add some 
stock and a little vinegar to taste. Sprinkle two or three 
tablespoons of flour over beans. After they have boiled a few 
minutes, push beans all into the center of the kettle. Form 
little oblong rolls of the dough and put these all around the 
beans. Let boil five minutes. Put covered kettle into Caloric 
with one hot stone underneath. (1^2 hours.) In serving, 
arrange dumplings all around the beans on a platter. 



73 



SOUPS. 

The foundation of all soups is the juice or extract of meat, 
poultry, game, fish or vegetables. The bones of meat are 
especially rich in nutriment that goes to make up a whole- 
some and palatable soup. The meat or bones for soup cost 
but little and by using the Caloric the real expense of the dish, 
the long cooking over the fire, is done away with and it be- 
comes one of the most economical as well as nutritious of 
foods. 

Stock — Take two pounds of the hind shin of beef. Wash 
and cut in small pieces. Add three quarts of cold water, six 
whole cloves, six pepper corns, one bay leaf, one sprig of pars- 
ley, one small onion, small piece of turnip and carrot. Put on 
the stove and boil fifteen minutes slowly. Then remove to the 
Caloric for six or eight hours. Strain through a colander. 
When cold remove every particle of fat. Use this stock for 
making different kinds of soup. It will keep several days. 

Mutton Broth — Select the neck for the broth; wash well 
in cold water; cut in pieces and put in kettle with two quarts 
of water. Bring slowly to a boil, skim and boil gently for 
fifteen minutes. Add an onion, turnip, celery, carrot, bay leaf 
and pepper. Boil ten minutes longer with cover on ; then place 
in Caloric without lifting cover and leave four hours or more, 

74 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

using one radiator. ' Strain, season with salt and pepper. 
Barley or rice can be served with this soup by adding four 
tablespoons of either after skimming the scum off at first. 

Chicken Soup — Save the liquor in which a chicken has 
been boiled. The following day take the carcass and crack in 
pieces. Place in kettle with liquor and add any gravy, dressing 
or trimmings that may be left from the fowl. Add four table- 
spoons of rice and bring slowly to a boil. Boil gently covered 
ten minutes ; place in the Caloric and leave four hours or more, 
using one radiator. Strain, season with salt and pepper and 
serve. 

Vegetable Soup — Take one small onion, one-half a carrot, 
small piece of turnip, small bunch of celery. Chop all fine, and 
add one cup of strained tomatoes, i l / 2 pint of stock, and one 
cup of water. Boil for five minutes, and remove to the Caloric 
for two hours, using one radiator. Season with salt, pepper 
and paprica and serve without straining. 

Corn Soup — Put one can of corn in kettle, with one quart 
of milk. Boil five minutes. Remove to the Caloric for two 
hours or more. Fry one tablespoon of chopped onion in three 
tablespoons of butter. Add two tablespoons of flour and cook 
until smooth. Strain, and pour on this. Season with salt, 
pepper and paprika. Put in double boiler to keep hot, and just 
before serving add the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 

Puree Du Barry — Chop six almonds fine, add to them 
a pint of potatoes cut in small cubes, two tablespoons of 
onion, two tablespoons of mashed rice, one teaspoon of parsley, 

75 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

one teaspoon of grated nutmeg. Place the mixture in the 
Caloric kettle. Thicken with one tablespoon of flour. When 
well mixed, add three quarts of stock. Boil five minutes. 
Without lifting the cover, remove to the Caloric for two hours. 
Rub through a sieve. Reheat, add a teaspoon of salt, two 
cups of hot milk and serve. 

Turtle Soup — Thoroughly clean the turtle. Put in kettle 
and cover with cold water. Let it come to a boil and skim. 
In a small bag tie one tablespoon of Tythme Marjory, and 
sweet basil; let it boil with the meat slowly for twenty 
minutes. Remove to the Caloric for five or six hours. Re- 
move meat from the bones, and when cold cut in dice and 
return to the stock. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Brown some flour in oven, blend with butter and thicken the 
soup to the consistency of cream. 

Boullion — Take three pounds of lean beef, cut in cubes, 
two quarts of cold water, one-half small onion, two bay leaves, 
a little celery. Boil five minutes. Remove to the Caloric for 
five or six hours. When cold remove fat. Before using drop 
in a little bag of cinnamon and cloves. Season with salt and 
pepper, and color with a tablespoon of caramel. Heat and 
serve. 

Chicken Jelly or Broth — Clean a small chicken, disjoint 
and cut in small pieces. Remove the fat. Break or pound the 
bones. Dip the feet into boiling water, scald until the skin and 
nails will fall off. The feet contain gelatine, and when well 
cleaned may be used for jelly. Cover the meat, feet and bones 
with cold water. When it comes to a boil, boil ten minutes. 

76 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Without lifting the cover ,remove to the Caloric for six 
hours, using one hot radiator. When cool, remove the 
fat. Season with salt, pepper and lemon juice. Add the 
shell and white of an egg. Put it over tne fire and stir 
well until hot. Let it boil five minutes. Skim and strain 
through a fine napkin. Pour into small cups and cool, when 
intended for jelly. Serve hot, if intended for broth. 

Green Pea Soup — Barely cover with boiling water one 
cup of fresh shelled peas ; boil ten minutes and add two cups 
of boiling milk, one teaspoon of butter blended with one of 
flour. Salt and pepper, cover and bring to a boil. Place with- 
out lifting cover, in Caloric and leave two hours or more. Re- 
move from box, strain through sieve. Add one cup of cream 
and serve. 

Bean Soup — Wash and soak over night one quart of white 
beans. In the morning drain and place in a kettle with one 
and a half quart of boiling water, a few bits of fat meat, lean 
or salt pork, and one teaspoon of salt. Boil gently for five 
minutes. Place without lifting cover in Caloric and leave to 
develop four hours without radiator. Take from box, strain 
through fine sieve with one small onion cut up in small pieces 
and serve. 

Cream of Celery Soup — Take three or four heads of celery, 
cut in small pieces, cover with cold water; bring slowly to a 
boil. Boil gently ten minutes covered, then without lifting 
the cover place in Caloric and leave two hours. Take from 
Caloric and drain. Take two tablespoons of butter and four 
tablespoons of flour ; place on the stove and blend thoroughly. 

77 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Add three-fourths pint of cold milk and cook. Then add 
drained celery water and if stronger flavor is desired, press 
the cooked .celery through a sieve. Season with salt and 
pepper. 

Cream Chicken Soup — Take two quarts of chicken stock. 
Add one cup of chopped mushrooms, one tablespoon of 
chopped parsley; boil fifteen minutes slowly. Thicken with a 
little flour, season with salt, pepper and paprika, and just be- 
fore serving add slowly one cup of rich cream. 

Cream of Wheat Soup — Bring i l / 2 quarts of stock to a 
boil. Add slowly, stirring constantly one-half cup of cream 
of wheat and let boil for a few minutes. Put covered kettle 
into the Caloric. Just before serving you may stir in a yolk 
of an egg. This, however, is not necessary. Cooking time 
one hour. 

Rice Soup — Bring to a boil two quarts of stock, add three- 
fourths cup of good rice and let boil for five minutes (rice 
should be washed in cold water several times. It is not neces- 
sary to scald good rice). Put the covered kettle into the 
Caloric one hour. 

Rice Soup With Green Peas — Cut a piece of bacon into 
small cubes, fry them in a small piece of butter until light 
yellow. Add some chopped parsley and onion, and cook for 
a few minutes. Then add half a cup of fresh green peas and 
half a cup of washed rice, and i l / 2 quarts of stock and let boil 
for five minutes. Put the covered kettle into the Caloric one 
hour. 

78 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Rice Soup With Tomatoes — Take the seeds out of sev- 
eral tomatoes and stew them in very little water with one 
sliced onion. Rub them through a colander. Heat slightly 
two tablespoons of butter, put tomatoes and three-fourths cup 
of washed rice into this and let it cook for a few minutes, 
stirring all the time. Then add iy 2 quarts of stock. Let boil 
five minutes. Put the covered kettle into the Caloric one hour. 

Asparagus Soup — Clean one pound of asparagus and cut 
in half finger long pieces. Melt I to 1/2 tablespoons of but- 
ter. When it commences to bubble add three tablespoons 
of flour, stir and add immediately as much stock as is wanted. 
Into this put the asparagus and boil five minutes. Put the 
covered kettle into the cooker iy 2 to 1^4 hours. When soup 
is done stir in yolk of an egg. Little cubes of bread toasted 
in butter put into the soup when it is served are nice. 

Vegetable Oyster Soup — Is prepared the same as aspar- 
agus soup in above recipe. 

Potato Soup With Curly Cabbage — Cut one slice, about 
one-third of an inch thick, of bacon into cubes, cut 10 to 12 
raw potatoes into pieces, cut up fine one small head of curly 
cabbage, several carrots and celery. Bring two quarts of 
water to a boil, add the bacon, the cut vegetables, the neces- 
sary salt and let boil for five minutes. Time in Caloric 1*4 
hours. 

Spanish Soup — Melt one tablespoon of butter, put in 
about two ounces of bacon cut up in cubes and fry until yel- 
low. Add a few pinches of paprica, salt, one chopped onion, 

79 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

a little chopped parsley, cup of tomatoes, from which skins 
and seeds have been removed, a little chopped parsley root 
and celery. Stir well and let cook for five minutes. Add 
one-half pound each of raw mutton and beef, cut up into cubes, 
and let cook again for five minutes. One may also add half 
a chicken cut in small pieces. Then add hot water, stirring 
constantly. The amount of hot water depends on the quan- 
tity of soup one wants. Put covered kettle into Caloric one 
hour. 

Apple Soup — Pare five or six good mellow cooking 
apples, take out core and cut them into small pieces. Bring 
to a boil i]/ 2 quarts of water. Put into this the apples, three- 
fourths cup of washed rice, sugar to taste, pinch of salt, piece 
of lemon peel and cinnamon bark. Let boil for five minutes. 
Put covered kettle into Caloric \y 2 hours. When soup is done 
rub it through a coarse colander. 

Cream of Wheat Soup With Raisins — Bring to a boil 
\y 2 quarts of water, into which stir very slowly one-half 
cup of cream of wheat, add handful of raisins, piece of cin- 
namon bark, sugar to taste, pinch of salt, one tablespoon of 
butter; let it boil up. Put the covered kettle into the cooker 
one hour. 

Soup of Rice and Milk — Bring to a boil ij4 quarts of 
milk, add one cup of rice, piece of cinnamon bark, sugar 
to taste, pinch of salt and let it boil for five minutes. Put 
the covered kettle into Caloric iy 2 hours. If soup is too 
thick add a little milk before serving. 

80 



CALORIC SPECIALTIES. 

The following dishes are specialties of the fireless cook- 
stove : 

Boiled Ham — Cover ham with cold water, let it came to 
a boil and boil thirty minutes. Add a wine glass of sherry, and 
remove to the Caloric for six or eight hours, using one radia- 
tor. Take from the water, cut off the rind, stick whole cloves 
all over and bake one-half hour. Can be served without 
baking. 

Roasted Veal With Asparagus — Boil eight or ten stalks 
of pared asparagus in salt water for 15 minutes. Take aspar- 
agus out and set it aside. Rub two pounds of veal, any kind 
of a piece, with salt and pepper. Heat in kettle two table- 
spoons of butter and brown the veal in it on all sides. If butter 
should become too brown, sprinkle a little water over it. 
Put asparagus beside or all around the meat. Put kettle into 
Caloric with one hot stone underneath and one on top. \y 2 
hours baking time. In serving, put asparagus around the 
meat. 

Roasted Veal, Pork or Lamb With Potatoes — Heat in 
basin butter. Into this put the previously salted meat. Brown 
it, sprinkle a little water over it from time to time. Add 

81 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

eight or ten raw, pared, whole, not too large potatoes. Let 
stew for a few minutes. Put into Caloric with one hot stone 
underneath and one on top. In serving put potatoes around 
the sliced roast. Bake one and one-half to two hours. 

Veal With Green Peas and Dumplings — Stir together 
one tablespoon of butter and two eggs. Add salt, two table- 
spoons of milk, and bread-crumbs to make a light dough. 
Put aside. Rub two pounds of veal with salt and pepper. 
Heat one tablespoon of butter in kettle, into which put the 
meat, turn it once and add immediately one cup of stock. 
Stir three tablespoons of flour smooth in water and add this 
slowly to the liquid. Let boil up. Shape little round dump- 
lings of the paste you have put aside. Put these into the 
boiling liquid. Sprinkle one-half cup of green peas over the 
dumplings and let the whole boil a few minutes. Put the 
covered kettle into Caloric with one hot stone underneath. 
Before serving slice the meat and pour peas and dumplings 
.over it. i% hours cooking time. 

Veal Gulash With Butter Dumplings — Stir well together 
two tablespoons of butter and three eggs. Add salt and 
enough flour to make a light dough and then set aside. Cut into 
cubes two or three pounds of veal (from shoulder, back or hind 
leg). Sprinkle salt and flour over meat. Melt two tablespoons 
of butter. Into this put one large, very finely cut up onion 
and one-half teaspoon of paprica, cook for a few minutes. 
Onion should stay white and soft. Add the cut up meat, 
stir through well and let the juices draw out for ten minutes. 
Add several tablespoons of stock or water. With a teaspoon 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

put little dumplings (of the dough that was set aside) into the 
liquid and let boil for five minutes. Put the covered kettle into 
Caloric with one hot stone underneath. Put Gulash and 
dumplings on one platter. One hour cooking time. 

Veal (Piquant) With Bread Noodles — Make a dough 
of one egg and the necessary flour. Roll it out not too thin. 
After it has dried cut it into strips, the width of a finger. 
Rub moderately with salt two or three pounds of veal (shoul- 
der piece or back). Heat in kettle i l / 2 tablespoons of butter. 
Put meat into this and fry until yellow, turning it several 
times. Add two or three tablespoons of vinegar, one teaspoon 
of capers, pinch of pepper and sugar. Thicken with flour 
stirred up in cold water. Put noodles carefully on top of 
meat and let boil for ten minutes. Put covered kettle into 
Caloric with one hot stone underneath, (i^ hours.) 

Roasted Chicken With Asparagus — Clean eight or ten 
stalks of asparagus, boil in salt water for 15 minutes. Take 
out of the water. Heat one tablespoon of butter in kettle 
and brown chicken in this on all sides. Sprinkle a little water 
over it from time to time to prevent the butter from burning. 
Put asparagus beside the chicken. Put kettle into Caloric 
with one hot stone underneath and one on top. Bake for 
iy 2 hours. 

Chicken, Piquant With Butter Dumplings — Prepare a 
dough as directed in the third last recipe. Heat slightly 
in kettle one tablespoon of butter; into this put the chicken, 
cut up in two to four parts, turn it several times without 
browning it. Add three or four tablespoons of vinegar, a few 

83 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

capers, little piece of lemon peel, one sliced onion, and pinch 
of sugar. Thicken with two tablespoons of flour stirred up in 
water. With spoon put little dumplings (of the dough that 
was put aside) into the boiling gravy. Let boil for five min- 
utes. Put the covered kettle into Caloric with one hot stone 
underneath. (134 hours.) In serving, put chicken on a plat- 
ter with dumplings all around. Pour strained gravy, to which 
has been added some meat extract over all. 

Mutton Roasted in Browned Butter — Pare and cut into 
little long pieces five or six white turnips. Brown together 
one tablespoon of butter and two teaspoons of sugar. Put 
turnips into this. Turn them a few times and add one-half 
cup of stock or water, and salt. Sprinkle two or three table- 
spoons of flour over them and let them boil up. Put aside. Heat 
one tablespoon of drippings or butter. Put in two pounds of 
mutton from the leg, which has been rubbed with salt and pep- 
per, and brown this on all sides. To this add the turnips and let 
the whole boil for five minutes. Put the covered kettle into 
Caloric with one hot stone underneath. (Two hours.) 

Tomato Sauce for Meat — Take one-half pint of stewed 
and strained tomatoes, one onion, one bay leaf, and a little 
parsley. Cook 15 minutes. Melt two tablespoons of butter, 
add two tablespoons of flour, when bubbling, add tomato 
slowly. Season with one-half teaspoon salt, sprinkle of pep- 
per, a little paprica. Cook until smooth and glossy. 

Mushroom Sauce — Melt two tablespoons of butter, add 
two tablespoons of flour. When bubbling, add slowly three- 
fourths cup of milk, one-fourth cup of mushroom liquor. Sea- 

84 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

son with salt, pepper and paprica and add one-fourth cup of 
chopped mushrooms. Heat and serve with steak. 

White Sauce — Heat one pint of milk in double boiler. 
Put two tablespoons of butter in a sauce pan and stir until it 
melts and bubbles; be careful not to brown it. Add two 
tablespoons of flour and stir until well mixed. Pour in slowly 
the milk, stirring vigorously till perfectly smooth. Season 
with salt, pepper and paprica. 

Omelette — Fry five or six very thin omelettes. Put on 
each a little melted butter, bread crumbs fried in butter, 
raisins, sugar and cinnamon. Roll up each omelette. Pour 
one-half cup of cream or milk over them and let them boil 
carefully for a few minutes. Put basin into the Caloric, and 
use one hot radiator underneath and crossbar with other hot 
radiator on top. (One hour.) 

Omelette With Apples — Are prepared as described in 
above recipe. Before rolling up the omelette put on each one 
sliced apples stewed in sugar. 

Omelette Noodles — Bake very thin omelettes and cut 
these into strips about a finger broad. Heat piece of butter 
in a basin. Put in strips of omelette, sprinkle sugar and cin- 
namon and pour one cup of milk over them. Let boil for a 
minute. Put basin into the cooker with two hot stones. Time 
three-fourths to one hour. 



85 



CEREALS. 

The value of cereals as an article of food is admitted both 
from the standpoint of economy and nutrition. As a matter of 
fact, served with milk and sugar, they have the same food 
value as meat, but up to the present, however, the chief draw- 
back to the more general use of cereals is the fact that they are 
generally not perfectly cooked. Almost without exception, the 
directions accompanying prepared cereals give too short a 
time for the cooking — it requires several hours to properly 
cook most cereals and make them digestible. For obvious 
reasons, however, on an ordinary flame stove, it is impracti- 
ticable, and indeed almost impossible, to cook them the re- 
quisite length of time. In this one particular, the Caloric 
Fireless Cookstove is worth infinitely more than its cost. 
The Caloric thoroughly cooks every kernel, rendering them 
soft as jelly, yet preserving each perfectly whole. These gen- 
eral directions should be observed in cooking cereals, namely : 

It is preferable to cook them in a double boiler, that is one 
vessel set in boiling water in a regular Caloric vessel ; salt the 
water in the inner vessel, placing same directly over the fire. 
Stir in the cereal slowly and cook for five minutes ; then place 
this vessel in the regular Caloric vessel, which should be well 
filled with boiling water, and continue the cooking a minute 
or two covered ; then place the Caloric vessel enclosing the 

86 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

inner one, in the Caloric without using a steatite radiator and 
leave for four hours or more. It is then ready to serve. 
Cereals for breakfast may be prepared just before retiring and 
left in the Caloric over night. They will ordinarily be suffi- 
ciently hot for serving for breakfast, but if not, they may be 
placed over the fir^e a minute or two, until the water in the 
outer vessel boils. 

Quaker Oats — One small cup of oats, two and one-fourth 
cups of boiling water, one teaspoonful of salt. Have the salted 
water boiling directly over the fire. Stir the cereal in slowly 
with a fork; cook five minutes. Then place in boiler of hot 
water, cover, and cook a minute or two. Place in Caloric and 
leave four or five hours or more. If not sufficiently 
hot just before serving place over fire till the water boils and 
the cereal is steaming. Then serve with cream and sugar. 

Rolled Wheat — One small cup of wheat, two and a half 
cups of water, one teaspoon of salt. Cook the same as 
Quaker Oats. 

H. O. — One small cup of H. O., two and one-half cups 
of water, one teaspoon of salt. Cook the same as Quaker Oats. 

Cream of Wheat — One small cup of wheat, four and one- 
half cups of water, one and one-half teaspoons of salt. Cook 
the same as Quaker Oats. 

Cornmeal Mush — One small cup of meal, three and one- 
half cups of water, two teaspoons of salt. Mix the meal first 
with cold water till smooth, then add boiling water and cook 
the same as Quaker Oats. 

87 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Old Fashioned Oatmeal — One small cup of oatmeal, three 
and one-half cups of water, one and one-half teaspoons of salt. 
Cook the same as Quaker Oats. 

Oatmeal Gruel — Add one-half cup coarse oat meal, and 
one-half teaspoon salt, to three cups of boiling water. Boil 
five minutes, remove to the Caloric for six hours. Force 
through a strainer, dilute with milk and cream. Reheat and 
serve. 

Rice Boiled — Take one cup of washed rice, and four cups 
of boiling water, add one-half teaspoon of salt. Boil five min- 
utes and remove to the Caloric for two hours. If cooking 
a small quantity, put rice in smaller vessel with boiling water 
around it. 

Rice Cooked in Milk — Bring to a boil one quart of milk 
into this put iy 2 cups of washed rice, pinch of salt, piece of 
cinnamon bark, sugar to taste. Let boil for five minutes. 
Put the covered kettle into the Caloric i^ hours. Before 
serving, sprinkle sugar and cinnamon or mace over the rice. 

Rice Cooked in Milk With Filled Apples — Cook one cup 
of rice in about three-fourths quart of milk, without season- 
ing, as directed in above recipe. When it is cooled off 
add sugar, lemon peel, pinch of salt, three-fourths tablespoon 
of flour, two eggs and, if necessary, a little more milk. Grease 
a basin thick with butter and put rice into it. Have pre- 
pared beforehand 12 to 15 apples, remove the core, in such a 
way that apples stay whole at the lower end, hole filled with 
preserved fruit. Place apples side by side in the rice and 

88 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

sprinkle sugar over them. Put the open basin into Caloric, 
with one hot stone underneath and one" on top. Bake i 1 /* 
hours. 

Rice Cooked in Milk With Apples, a Simpler Way — Half 
of the cooled of! rice mixed with the same ingredients as 
given in above recipe is put into the basin greased with 
butter. Put layer of sliced apples, mixed with sugar, over 
the rice and put other half of the rice over the apples. Bake 
as directed in above recipe. 

Postum Cereal — Postum cereal is made from wheat, and 
when properly cooked is a most wholesome beverage. It is 
only by using the Caloric that the best results are 
obtained. Place the cereal in a percolator or cheese cloth bag. 
For every pint of water use four heaping teaspoons of cereal. 
Place cereal in kettle, pour over it the boiling water, boil five 
minutes and remove to the Caloric for five or six hours. If 
used for breakfast, do the preliminary cooking before retiring. 
Next morning strain cereal to coffee pot, and heat to boiling 
point. 

Coffee — For each person use one level tablespoon of coffee 
and one cup of water. Use the Caloric kettle. Place on the 
stove with cold water, and mix with coffee a little egg. Allow 
the coffee to boil five minutes, then remove to the Caloric and 
leave over night, or several hours. When ready to serve, 
strain to coffee pot and heat to boiling point, but do not boil. 
Reduce with boiling water if too strong. 



89 



SALADS. 

Celery Salad — Remove the little roots from two or three 
celery bulbs and wash bulbs very clean. Put them, with a 
little salt, into boiling water and let them boil for five min- 
utes. Put the covered kettle into the Caloric i to i J / 2 hours. 
When done let them cool off and scrape off skin, cut them 
into slices into a salad bowl. Pour over them vinegar, oil, 
sugar, salt, pepper and mix very carefully. 

Potato Salad — Boil potatoes in the Caloric. When done 
and quite warm still, remove skin and slice them fine. Pour 
over them vinegar, oil, finely cut onion, salt and a pinch of 
sugar and mix carefully. 

Potato Salad With Bacon — This is prepared as above 
recipe, except that the oil is omitted. Instead of that, cut 
some bacon into small cubes and fry those w r ith a little butter 
until yellow. Add this when lukewarm to the potatoes. 

Potato Salad With Cucumbers — Slice warm potatoes. 
Pare a fresh green cucumber and cut it into very thin slices. 
Mix carefully with potatoes. Make a dressing with a finely 
cut onion, salt, pepper, vinegar, oil and three or four table- 
spoons of thick sour cream. Mix this lightly with the pota- 
toes and cucumbers. A mayonnaise dressing is also nice. 

90 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Bean Salad — Cut one pound of young green beans into 
little diagonal pieces. Put them with a little salt and sum- 
mer savory into boiling water. Let boil for five minutes. 
Put the covered kettle into the Caloric i 1 /* hours. When 
beans have cooled, mix them with vinegar, oil, salt, pepper 
and a pinch of sugar. 

Bean Salad Mixed With Cucumbers — Prepare salad as 
directed in above recipe. Add thinly sliced fresh, green 
cucumbers. 

Beet Salad — Wash the beets, being careful not to break 
the skin. Put them into boiling water without salt and let 
them boil for 15 minutes. Put the covered kettle into the 
Caloric two hours. When done and still hot, remove and skin 
them. Slice thin, put them into a crock, pour vinegar over 
them to which has been added one teaspoon annis seed. Kept 
in a cool place they will be good for quite a while. 

Cauliflower Salad — Divide a large head of cauliflower 
into little parts. Peel the lower part of skin off the stems. 
Cook them as described in recipe for cauliflower under veg- 
etables. Dress them like other salads. 

Asparagus Salad — Cut up two pounds of asparagus. Put 
it into boiling water with a little salt and a pinch of sugar. Let 
boil for five minutes. Put the covered kettle into Caloric two 
hours. When done, put the asparagus carefully on to a 
platter. Let it become cold and pour vinegar and oil over it. 

Red Cabbage Salad — Bring to a boil water with vinegar. 
Shave a medium sized head of red cabbage very thin. Put 

91 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

it with a little salt into the boiling vinegar-water and let it 
boil for five minutes. Put the covered kettle into Caloric 
i to i^ hours. When cold dress with vinegar, oil, salt, pep- 
per and sugar. 

Nantese Salad — Peel three medium sized Spanish onions, 
scoop out a teaspoonful of the center of each and put in the 
hollow a bit of butter sufficient to half fill it. Add a slight 
seasoning of pepper and salt, place in a baking pan and then 
in Caloric, using both hot stones until they are brown. When 
cold cut into quarters and place on a bed of watercress. Skin 
and bone six sardines, cut into halves and lay on the pieces 
of onion. Pour over some mayonnaise to one cupful of which 
one teaspoonful of curry powder has been added. Garnish 
with slices of hard boiled eggs and sprinkle over a mixture 
of finely chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil. 

Asparagus Salad — Line a fancy border mold with aspic 
jelly and ornament with quarters of hard boiled eggs and 
asparagus tips; fill with more jelly. When set, turn out and 
fill the center with boiled heads of asparagus, pour over a 
good mayonnaise dressing and arrange round the base slices 
of tomatoes that have been seasoned with a little salad oil, 
tarragon vinegar and cayenne pepper. 

Mint Jelly — Mint jelly is taking the place of sauce to 
serve with lamb and makes a pretty and dainty dish. Break 
enough leaves of tender mint to make one cupful when press- 
ed ; cut or chop, cover with a pint of boiling water and steep 
for half an hour; then strain, pressing hard. Soak a half 
package of gelatine in a half cupful of cold water and stand 

92 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

over hot water until dissolved. Add to the mint water one 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar and three tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice or vinegar. Tint slightly with green coloring 
and pour into wetted molds, placing on ice until firm. 

Fishes, Meats and Their Appropriate Sauces — Roast beef, 
grated horseradish, tomato catsup, Worcestershire sauce ; boil- 
ed mutton, caper sauce; roast mutton, stewed gooseberry; 
roast lamb, mint sauce ; roast pork, apple sauce ; roast turkey, 
cranberry sauce, celery sauce ; roast chicken, plum or grape 
catsup, currant jelly; boiled turkey, oyster sauce, roasted 
venison or duck, black currant jelly; broiled steak, mushrooms 
or fried onions ; roast goose, stewed gooseberries, apple sauce ; 
broiled mackerel, stewed gooseberries ; fried salmon, egg sauce, 
cram sauce, stewed tomatoes ; boiled or baked fish, white 
cream sauce, old Zealand sauce, drawn butter sauce; boiled 
or baked cod, egg sauce, tomato sauce. 

Beef Tea — Remove all fat from one pound of round steak. 
Cut in one-half inch cubes, and put in glass fruit jar. Pour 
one cup of cold water over it and let soak one-half hour. Set 
in a Caloric kettle of cold water and heat gradually. When 
water reaches boiling point, remove to the Caloric five hours, 
without using radiator. Strain, heat over hot water, add a 
little salt and serve. 



93 



• PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

For the steamed puddings, the rice and the fruit pud- 
dings that require long and slow cooking, the Caloric is inval- 
uable. In no other way can the old-fashioned creamy rice 
puddings of our grandmothers be so delicately prepared. All 
steamed puddings must be poured into a mold, placed in the 
Caloric kettle carefully and securely, so as not to be upset. 
Have the water come at least two-thirds of the way up the 
mold; cover the kettle and steam over the fire a few min- 
utes, having the water boiling gently. Then lift gently from 
the flame stove, place in the Caloric and leave several hours. 
Serve hot. Puddings to be baked should be prepared as for 
ordinary cooking, and the pudding dish must be of earthen- 
ware. The pudding is heated for five minutes or so over 
the flame stove, and then placed on one hot steatite radiator, 
and the other hot radiator placed on top of the pudding dish. 
Puddings should be baked in the Caloric for about one hour 
longer than would be required in an ordinary oven. But if 
left a longer time they will not brown or scorch. The Caloric 
is the nearest modern approach to the old brick oven of our 
ancestors. It gives just the right finishing touch to the old- 
time dishes, as New England Indian Pudding, Boston brown 
bread, Boston baked beans, etc. 



94 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

New England Indian Pudding — Pour two quarts of sweet 
milk, scalding hot, over 21 even tablespoons of corn meal, 
moistened with molasses. Let this cool one-half hour, then 
add one pint cold milk, salt to taste. Place in Caloric, using 
both hot radiators, and bake for four or five hours, or until 
it is jellied and red. 

Boston Brown Bread — One quart of sour milk or warm 
water, one tablespoon soda, one teaspoon salt, one cup dark 
molasses, one quart corn meal, one quart rye meal or graham 
(graham can never give just the right flavor, but it is the best 
one can do in the West). Pour into buttered mold and, after 
heating through, place on hot steatite radiator, with the other 
hot radiator resting on top of mold. Leave in Caloric five or 
six hours. When brown bread was in the making, great- 
grandmother always prepared 

Apple Coddle — A pudding dish was filled with apples, 
cored, pared and sliced, over them was spread a thin layer 
of brown bread batter. This was put into the brick oven 
to bake very slowly, until the apples were red. When the 
pudding was removed from the oven the brown bread crust 
was chopped down into the apple, and eaten with cream and 
cheese. This is a favorite with children. It has such a nutty 
flavor. Instead of placing in the brick -oven, place, after 
heating through, on the hot radiator, with the other hot radia- 
tor resting on the top of the pudding dish, and leave in the 
Caloric about three hours. 

Brown Bread Toast — This is a delectable dish not used 
to any extent in the west. Place a whole loaf of brown bread 

95 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

to toast before the fire. Heat milk, butter and salt as for 
ordinary cream toast. When the end of the loaf is toasted, 
cut off the thin skin of toasted bread and put into the hot 
milk. Again place the loaf before the fire, and continue to 
remove the thin layers of toast until you have enough to sat- 
isfy the demands of your family. The process can be has- 
tened by placing several half loaves on the toaster at once. 
It is related that, once upon a time, a little girl of the fam- 
ily called out to the hired man : "Oh, John ! what do you 
'spose we are going to have for breakfast?" <r Vittles, I ex- 
pect," was the gruff reply. "No siree," said the little maid, 
"brown bread toast." 

Rice Pudding — For small pudding, beat one egg, and add 
two cups of cold boiled rice, one cup of milk, two tablespoons 
of sugar, a quarter of a cup of stoned raisins. Place in small 
vessel with boiling water around. Let it boil five minutes on 
the stove without lifting the cover. Place in the Caloric 
for one hour or longer. Serve with hard sauce. 

Rice Pudding, No. 2 — Place on stove three cups water; 
let come to boil, add one-half teaspoon salt, then add 1^2 
cups rice. Do not stir, put in double boiler for ten minutes, 
then place in Caloric for three hours. This will be found de- 
licious to be eaten with cream and sugar. 

Rice Pudding, No. 3 — After rice is cooked in Caloric as 
in No. 2, beat three eggs thoroughly, stir in rice and add one 
cup sugar, piece of butter size of walnut, season with nutmeg, 
add milk sufficient to thin, re-stir and heat, then place in 
Caloric about 1^2 hours. This is very fine. 

96 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Chocolate Pudding — Cream one egg with one-half cup of 
sugar. Add one-half cup of milk and two teaspoons of baking 
powder, and flour to make as stiff as cake. Melt i 1 /* squares 
of chocolate with two tablespoons of butter. Stir into cake. 
Place in pudding dish. Set in kettle of hot water. Let it boil 
for 30 minutes, remove to the Caloric for two hours or longer. 
Serve with a clear sauce flavored with vanilla. In the sum- 
mer fresh berries can be used instead of chocolate. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding — Pick over and wash three- 
fourths of a cup of pearl tapioca. Pour three cups of boiling 
water over it. Boil five minutes and remove to the Caloric 
for two hours. Core, and pare seven apples. Put them in a 
round baking dish, and fill the cores with sugar and lemon 
juice. Pour the tapioca over them and bake until the apples 
are soft. Serve cold with whipped cream and sugar. 

Date Pudding — Take one-half pound of dates, stone them 
and add three-fourths cup of sugar and one cup of boiling 
water. Cook to a paste, add more water if needed. When 
cool, add two cups of cold boiled rice. Beat together with 
fork, and serve with whipped cream. Figs can be used in- 
stead of dates. 

Steamed Plum Pudding — Crum two cups of bread fine 
and dry; add one cup of sugar, one cup of flour,' one-half 
cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one-half cup of suet, one 
cup of seeded raisins, chopped, one cup of currants washed 
and dried, quarter pound of citron sliced, one ounce of can- 
died orange peel minced, one-half teaspoon of mace and cin- 

97 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

namon, one small teaspoon of soda dissolved in a little hot 
water. Mix with the milk and add three eggs beaten light. 
Dredge the fruit well with flour and put in last. Beat hard 
and pour into buttered mold or pudding dish. Steam over 
the fire one hour and place in Caloric without removing cover 
and leave five hours. When ready to serve, turn out and 
pour brandy over and light. Serve with liquid or hard sauce. 

Steamed Brown Pudding — Beat one egg well ; add two 
tablespoons of melted butter, two tablespoons of sugar and 
one-half cup of molasses. Dissolve one teaspoon of soda in 
one tablespoon of hot water; then add i l / 2 cups of sifted 
flour and one-half cup of boiling water. Put into greased 
mold or pudding dish, and place in kettle of boiling water 
and steam 30 minutes with cover on. Remove to Caloric 
without lifting cover and leave three hours. Serve hot with 
the following sauce: One-half pint of whipped cream, into 
which beat the yolks of two eggs and one cup of fruit sugar. 
This pudding can be kept several days and warmed by steam- 
ing just before serving. 

Fresh Fruit Pudding — Cream one-quarter cup of butter, 
add one-half cup of sugar and the yolk of one beaten egg. 
Clean and dredge in flour two cups of fresh fruit — currants, 
cherries, gooseberries or raspberries — and have them dry. Now 
add to the sugar and butter mixture, a little at a time, alter- 
nately, one cup of milk and two cups of flour. Two scant 
teaspoons of baking powder and one-half teaspoon of salt 
should have been sifted with the flour. Now fold in the egg 
white, turn into a buttered mold and put cover on very tight, 

98 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

and plunge into boiling water in bottom of kettle. Put on 
cover and let boil about ten minutes, then put into Calorie 
for four or six hours. When serving the pudding, pass a 
cold boiled custard or a hot sauce if the day be chilly. 

Raspberry Pudding — To three cups of milk add three 
eggs beaten well ; four cups of flour or enough to make a good 
batter. Mix two teaspoons of baking powder with the flour 
and a pinch of salt. Stir into milk and eggs and then add 
three cups of berries well dredged with flour. Turn into a 
greased mold or pudding dish ; place in a kettle of boiling 
water and steam 30 minutes. Then place in Caloric and leave 
three hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Cup Custard — Take three cups of rich milk and heat 
without scalding; add three small tablespoons of brown sugar 
and a pinch of salt. Beat well one large or two small eggs. 
Pour milk on to egg and beat. Pour into custard cups and 
grate a little nutmeg on top of each cup. Place in a Caloric 
kettle of warm water. Bring slowly to a boil and boil gently 
ten minutes. Then place in Caloric without lifting cover and 
leave three hours. Then place on ice to set. 

Brown Betty — Take two cupfuls of tart apples peeled, 
cored and minced, and mix with iy 2 cups of fine bread crumbs. 
Add three eggs beaten light, one-half teaspoon of mace and of 
cinnamon. Turn into a buttered mold or pudding dish. Place 
in a Caloric kettle of hot water and steam 20 minutes over 
the fire. Then place in Caloric and leave three hours. Serve 
with liquid sauce. 

99 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Cabinet Pudding — Take two cups of stale cake and crum- 
ble. Beat two eggs light and add two cups of milk, two 
tablespoons of white sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla and one 
saltspoon of salt. Cleanse two tablespoons of currants; add 
two tablespoons of sultana raisins and cut two tablespoons of 
citron into shreds. Grease the pudding dish or mold and fill 
with alternating layers of fruit and crumbled cake. Moisten 
each layer of cake with milk and egg. If the pudding still 
seems dry, add a little more milk. Place in kettle of water 
and steam over the fire five minutes. Place in Caloric with- 
out lifting cover and leave two or three hours. 

Custard Sauce — Two cups of milk scalded, pour upon 
one cup of powdered sugar ; add the yolks of two eggs beaten 
light. Season with nutmeg, and cinnamon, and stir till slight- 
ly thick. Remove from fire and whip in the beaten whites. 
Set in boiling water to keep warm and just before serving add 
one teaspoon of vanilla. 

Chocolate Bread Pudding — Soak two cups of bread 
crumbs in four cups of scalded milk for one-half hour. Melt 
two squares of bakers chocolate over hot water. When melted 
add enough of the milk taken from the bread to make of a 
consistency to pour. Add to the bread two-thirds cup of 
sugar, the chocolate, one-fourth teaspoon of salt, one tea- 
spoon of vanilla and two slightly beaten eggs. Turn into 
a buttered pudding dish. Stand in a kettle of hot water and 
boil ten minutes; without lifting the cover remove to the 
Caloric for three hours or more. Serve with whipped cream 
or hard sauce. 

100 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Old Fashioned Rice Pudding — Wash one-third cup of rice 
and put into a dish with one quart of milk, one-third cup of 
sugar, one-half teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of butter, 
grated rind of one lemon. Pour in pudding dish and place in 
kettle of hot water. Let the water boil ten minutes, and 
without lifting the cover remove to the Caloric for three or 
more hours. 

Fig Pudding— Mix together one cup of molasses, one cup 
of chopped suet one pint of chopped figs one teaspoon 
of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of nutmeg. Dissolve one tea- 
spoon of soda in a little hot water, add one cup of milk. Beat 
two eggs light and stir into the mixture. Add two and one- 
fourth cups of flour. Beat all thoroughly. Fill well buttered 
mold three-fourths full, place in Caloric kettle with boiling 
water around and steam 30 minutes. Then remove to the 
Caloric for five hours or more. Serve with wine sauce. 

Apple Roll — Make a crust of two cups of flour, one-half 
cup of milk, one teaspoon of baking powder, a pinch of salt, 
one level teaspoon of butter, and one egg well beaten. Roll 
out very thin and cover with thin slices of apples. Make 
into a roll and place in a pudding dish. Set in boiling water 
in the Caloric kettle. Steam on the stove for ten minutes. 
Then remove to the Caloric for three or more hours, using one 
hot radiator. Serve with sweetened milk. 

Sweet Pudding of Milk Rolls — Cut up five to six milk 
rolls. Pour one-half pint of milk over them and let them soak 
for one-half hour. Cream together two tablespoons of butter, 
three tablespoons of sugar and yolks of four eggs. Add this 

101 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

with some grated rind of lemon and a handful of dried cur- 
rants to the soaked rolls. Fold in lightly the beaten whites 
of the four eggs. One may also add a little baking powder. 
Put batter into pudding form and boil on stove for 15 min- 
utes in kettle with boiling water. Put covered kettle into 
Caloric two hours. Hard or any other kind of sauce may be 
used. 

Vanilla Pudding — Blanch and chop five ounces of al- 
monds. Cream together three-fourths cup of sugar and yolks 
of six eggs, add three tablespoons of biscuit crumbs, one 
tablespoon melted butter, one package of vanilla sugar, and 
the almonds. Mix well. Fold in the beaten whites of the 
six eggs, add one-half teaspoon baking powder. Fill into 
pudding form and boil for 15 minutes on stove in kettle with 
boiling water. Put covered kettle into Caloric two hours. 

Lemon Pudding — Is prepared the same as vanilla pud- 
ding. Omit vanilla and use grated rind and juice of one-half 
lemon instead. 

Chocolate Pudding, No. 2 — Ingredients are the same as 
in recipe for vanilla pudding. Omit vanilla and use one-fifth 
pound of grated chocolate instead. 

Chocolate Pudding, No. 3 — Melt one-half cup of butter 
and stir in as much flour as butter will take up. Cook to- 
gether until light yellow. Add five ounces of grated choco- 
late and stir well. Bring to a boil scant half pint of sweet 
cream, stir this slowly into the butter, flour, etc., and cook 
together until thick. Put it into a dish and let cool off. 

102 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

When cold, stir in yolks of five eggs and three-fourths cup 
of sugar. Fold in the beaten whites of the five eggs. Fill 
into pudding form and boil for 15 minutes on stove in kettle 
with boiling water. Put covered kettle into Caloric two hours. 

Almond Pudding — Beat together light five whole eggs 
with two-thirds cup of sugar, add three tablespoons of bread 
crumbs (which have previously been moistened with water), 
four ounces of chopped almonds, i l / 2 ounces of finely cut 
citron and stir for 15 minutes. Then add one-half teaspoon 
of baking powder. Fill into pudding form and boil for 15 
minutes on stove in kettle with boiling water. Put covered 
kettle into Caloric two hours. Hard or soft sauce. 

Fine English Pudding, No. 1 — Grate off crust from six 
or seven stale milk rolls, and soak these in cold milk for half 
an hour. Wring them out. Cream together three tablespoons 
of butter and yolks of four eggs, and add this to the soaked 
rolls. Add also 20 to 30 blanched and chopped almonds, piece 
of citron cut up fine, a little grated rind of lemon, a handful 
of currants and raisins, three or four tablespoons of sugar and 
mix well. Fold in the beaten whites of the four eggs and fill 
batter quickly into a pudding dish. Proceed as directed in 
above recipe. 

English Pudding, Different Way, No. 2 — Chop one-fifth 
pound of suet very fine, mix and rub well with one-half cup 
of sifted flour (good measure). Add one-third cup of gran- 
ulated sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons sweet cream, one 
tablespoon rum and mix well. Also add a little nutmeg, 

103 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

pinch of cloves and cinnamon, a little salt, two ounces of 
currants, two ounces of raisins and blanched, chopped al- 
monds, piece of finely cut up citron and three or four very 
finely cut up apples. When mixed well put into pudding form 
and boil for 15 minutes on stove in a kettle- with boiling 
water. Put covered kettle into Caloric two to three hours. 
Serve hard or liquid sauce. 

Rice Pudding, German — Boil one-half pound of rice soft 
in one quart of milk. (This may be done the night before 
it is wanted or early in the morning.) Beat together two 
tablespoons of butter and yolks of four eggs. Add this with 
sugar to taste, pinch of salt, some grated rind of lemon and 
cinnamon to the rice and mix well. Add one-half teaspoon 
of baking powder and the beaten whites of the four eggs. 
Put into pudding form and boil this on stove for 15 minutes 
in a kettle with boiling water. Put covered kettle into Caloric 
two hours. Serve vanilla or wine sauce with this pudding. 

Rice Pudding With Apples — Is prepared the same as des- 
cribed in above recipe. Stir in five or six very tender apples. 

Rice Pudding With Cherries — Prepared as directed in 
first recipe for German rice pudding, adding one pound of 
large red cherries. 

Cream of Wheat Pudding — Stir into one pint of boiling 
milk very slowly one cup of cream of wheat, add two or 
three tablespoons of butter and boil five minutes. When 
cream of wheat has cooled off add yolks of four eggs, two 
ounces of chopped almonds, four tablespoons of sugar, a lit- 

104 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

tie vanilla, and grated rind of lemon. Fold in the beaten 
whites of the four eggs and add a little baking powder. Put 
into pudding form and boil for 15 minutes on stove in a kettle 
with boiling water. Put covered kettle into Caloric two hours. 

Cream of Wheat Pudding With Raisins, No. 2 — Is pre- 
pared same as directed in above recipe, adding handful of 
currants and raisins. 

Cream of Wheat Pudding With Apples — Is prepared as 
directed in first recipe for cream of wheat pudding. Add 
four or five finely cut up tender apples. Fruit or wine sauce 
is nice with cream of wheat puddings. 

Biscuit Pudding — Beat well three whole eggs, two yolks 
and three-fourths cup of sugar. Add one scant cup of flour, 
grated rind of lemon and the beaten whites of the two eggs 
and one-half teaspoon baking powder. Put dish into Caloric 
cooker. Use both hot stones according to directions. Baking 
time iy> hours. 

Calf's Sweetbread Pudding — Boil sweetbread in salt water 
for a few minutes. Put on platter, let cool and cut it into 
pieces size of a nut. Grate off the crust from six milk rolls 
and let these soak in milk for half an hour. Wring them out 
well. Cream one-fifth pound of butter, add gradually to this 
six yolks of eggs, salt, the soaked bread and the sweetbread. 
(If you choose, you may also add a few very thinly sliced 
mushrooms.) Fold in the whipped whites of egg. Put bat- 
ter into form. Boil for 15 minutes over blaze, in kettle with 
boiling water. Put covered kettle into Caloric two hours. 

105 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Serve butter gravy with one teaspoon of chopped parsley 
with this pudding. 

Spinach Pudding — Wash one-half pound of spinach and 
put it into boiling water. Boil a few minutes. Strain off the 
water. Pour cold water over spinach and wring it out and 
chop it. Have three large thick slices of bread soaked in 
milk. Wring these out and add to the spinach. Add also 
chopped meat remnants, one small onion, cut up and stewed 
in butter or fat, and a little chopped parsley. Beat to a foam 
four yolks of eggs with three tablespoons of butter, and add 
to the paste. Also salt, pepper and a little nutmeg. Stir well. 
Fold in the beaten whites of the four eggs. Put batter into 
form and boil this on stove in kettle with boiling water for 
15 minutes. Put the covered kettle into Caloric 2^ hours. 

Asparagus Pudding — Clean one pound of asparagus and 
cut it in very small pieces. Do not use the bottom ends. 
Cream two tablespoons of butter, add gradually four yolks 
of eggs, one cup of flour and stir well. Add one-fifth pound 
chopped ham, salt, pepper, and milk enough to make a light 
dough. Fold in the whipped whites of four eggs and pieces 
of asparagus. Put batter into pudding form and boil on stove 
for 15 minutes in a kettle with boiling water. Put covered 
kettle into Caloric. When pudding is done and turned out 
on platter, pour melted butter over it. Very nice served with 
lettuce or cucumber salad. 

Pudding of Mixed Meats — Grind one-half pound each 
of beef, veal and pork. Beat two tablespoons of butter with 
the yolks of four eggs until foamy. Add four tablespoons 

106 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

of crumbs, the ground meat, chopped parsley, salt, pepper 
and nutmeg (if you choose), mix well. Fold in the whipped 
whites of four eggs. Put batter into form and boil this for 
15 minutes on stove in a kettle with boiling water. Put the 
covered kettle into Caloric 2J/2 hours. Nice served with 
potato salad or lettuce. 

Fish Pudding, English Way — Remove bones and skin 
from about two pounds of haddock, chop meat fine. Beat two 
tablespoons of butter with yolks of four eggs until foamy. 
To this add: Three thick slices of bread previously soaked 
and wrung out of milk, one thinly sliced onion stewed in 
butter, a scant half pint of milk, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Fold 
in the whipped whites of the four eggs and the chopped fish. 
Put into pudding form and boil on stove for 15 minutes in 
a kettle with boiling water. Then place in Caloric two hours. 

Simple Bread Pudding — Cut fine six or seven large, thick 
slices of stale bread. Pour cold milk over this and soak for 
half an hour. Cream two tablespoons of butter, to which add 
gradually three whole eggs, salt, pepper and some chopped 
parsley. Crush soaked bread well with spoon. Add these 
to the butter and eggs and stir well. Lastly, add one tea- 
spoon of baking powder. Place in pudding dish and proceed 
as was directed in previous recipes. (Two hours cooking 
time.) This pudding may be served with any sauces, or 
dressing . 

Fine Bread Pudding — Cream two tablespoons of butter. 
Add gradually the yolks of four eggs and stir well, then five 
or six tablespoons of bread crumbs, one teaspoon chopped 

107 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

parsley, salt and nutmeg (if one chooses). Mix well. Fold 
in the whipped whites of the four eggs and one-half teaspoon 
baking powder. Put batter into pudding dish and boil in 
kettle with boiling water on stove for 15 minutes, {i 1 /* hours 
in Caloric.) 

Macaroni Pudding— Break one-half pound of macaroni 
into small pieces, boil in salt water until tender, then run cold 
water over until cold, drain in a colander. Melt scant one- 
fourth pound of butter to which add three tablespoons of 
flour and a little chopped onion, let roast until light yellow, 
and then stir smooth with one-half pint milk. Add four whole 
eggs, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and the macaroni. Fill 
pudding form and boil for 15 minutes in kettle with boiling 
water on a stove. Put covered kettle into Caloric ij4 hours. 

Pudding of Noodles — Make a noodle dough of two eggs 
and the necessary flour. After it has dried, cut the noodles 
into narrow strips and cook them in one pint of milk for 10 
minutes. Let them cool off. Beat two tablespoons of butter 
with three yolks until foamy, add this to noodles with some 
salt and mix well. Fold in the whipped whites of the three 
e gg s - Proceed as directed in above recipe. 

Hungarian Pudding — Make a dough of scant one cup 
of flour, scant half cup of butter and half a cup of sugar. Put 
it into one pint of boiling milk and cook until thick, stirring 
it constantly, put into a bowl to cool. Add to it gradually 
yolks of six eggs, a little grated lemon peel and three-eighths 
cup of sugar, a little baking powder and fold in the beaten 
whites of the six eggs. Put into pudding form and boil this 

108 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

on stove for 15 minutes in a kettle with boiling water. Put 
covered kettle into Caloric two hours. 

, PUDDING SAUCES. 

Hard Sauce — Cream one-fourth cup of butter in a warm 
bowl. Add gradually one-half cup of powdered sugar. Then 
the flavoring. Either brandy, vanilla or lemon. Place in a 
fancy dish and grate nutmeg on top. 

Wine Sauce — Wet one tablespoon of corn starch in cold 
water, and stir in one cup of boiling water. Boil ten minutes. 
Rub one-fourth of a cup of butter to a cream. Add gradually, 
one cup of powdered sugar, one egg, well beaten, and one salt- 
spoon of grated nutmeg. When the corn starch has cooked 
ten minutes, add one-half cup of wine and pour the whole 
into the butter, sugar and eg^g, stirring until well mixed. 

Vanilla Sauce — Cream one-half cup of butter, add one cup 
of powdered sugar and cream again. Put bowl into boiling 
water and keep the water boiling while you add one-half cup 
of rich milk or cream. Beat until smooth and creamy, then 
take from fire and add one tablespoon of vanilla. 



109 



FRUIT STEWED. 

The fireless cooker is especially good for fruit which 
should stay whole when cooked. No burning is possible, so 
that no stirring is necessary, which leaves the fruit in its 
original shape. If one is very careful in taking out the fruit 
one will be able to bring it to the table in fine shape. 

Apples Stewed Whole — Pare apples and remove core. 
Bring to a boil water, just enough so that the liquid comes 
up to not more than one inch in the kettle. Set the apples 
into this, one beside the other, and sprinkle sugar over them. 
One may put in two or three layers of apples. Let thera 
boil for a moment. Put the covered kettle into Caloric i to 
\V 2 hours. 

Apples Stewed Whole and Filled — Pare apples and re- 
move core in such a way that the apple will stay whole on 
the lower end. Fill the hole with preserves, as raspberries, 
currants, etc. They are stewed as directed in above number. 

Stewed Quinces — Pare fine ripe quinces, cut them into 
four or five parts and put them into cold water. Bring a little 
water to a boil, put quinces with sugar and a little lemon 
juice into it and let it boil for five minutes. One may use 
white wine or vinegar instead of lemon juice. Put the cover- 
ed kettle into the Caloric \y 2 hours. 

110 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Pears Stewed Whole — Pare the pears, leaving stems on. 
Put them into cold water immediately, so that they remain 
white. Then they are stewed in water as directed in first 
recipes for apples, I to Ij£ hours. 

Apricots, Peaches or Plums Stewed Whole — Put them 
side by side into the kettle, one may put in two or three 
layers. Sprinkle sugar over them and add only a little water. 
They are cooked as apples and pears. 

Stewed Apples — Pare apples, cut them up and remove 
core. Bring a little water to a boil. Into this put the apples 
with sugar. Let them boil up. One may add cinnamon bark 
and a few raisins to taste. Put the covered kettle into the 
Caloric. Cooking time depends on kind and size, one-half 
to one hour. 

Pears Stewed — Are fixed the same as apples. They gen- 
erally require a longer time for cooking. 

Stewed Apricots — Apricots should not be too ripe. Pare 
them and remove stones. Bring to a boil just a few table- 
spoons of water. Put apricots into this and sprinkle sugar 
over them. Let them boil up. Put the covered kettle into the 
Caloric one hour. 



Ill 



FRUIT SAUCES. 

Apple Sauce — Wash, core, but do not pare the apples. 
Put them into a kettle with just enough water to cover them. 
Bring to a boil and place at once in the Caloric and leave for 
two hours. When you remove, add sugar to taste and strain 
through a sieve. Cool and serve. 

Rhubarb Sauce — Wash and cut in small one inch pieces, 
but do not peel. Put into kettle with plenty of sugar and a 
little water. Not much is needed, as the rhubarb is very 
watery. Bring to a boil. Then place in the Caloric at once 
and leave for two hours or more and then it is ready to serve. 

Stewed Prunes — Wash the prunes and cover with cold 
water, and soak over night. The next morning put them with 
the water in which they were soaked on the stove and boil 
five minutes. Sweeten to taste. Remove to the Caloric with- 
out removing the cover, for five or six hours. When done, 
remove prunes to dish and boil syrup ten minutes, and pour 
over the prunes. 

Jellied Prunes — Pick over and wash one-third of a pound 
of prunes. Soak for several hours in two cups of cold water. 
Put on the stove; boil five minutes. Remove to Caloric for 
three hours. Skim prunes from the juice, stone and quarter. 

112 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half cup of cold water 
and add to juice. Add one cup of sugar and one-fourth cup 
of lemon juice. Strain, add prunes and pour in molds. When 
cold serve with whipped cream and sugar. 

Dried Apricots, Apples, Peaches or Pears — Soak over 
night in cold water. Drain and boil over the fire for five min- 
utes in just enough water to cover. Then place in Caloric 
and leave two hours. Boil sugar down to a syrup and serve 
the fruit in it. 

Cranberry Sauce — Wash and put one quart of berries in 
pan. Add two cups of sugar and one cup of water. Cover 
and boil slowly over the fire for five minutes. Then place in 
the Caloric and leave two hours. They are then ready to 
serve. 

Wine Pudding — Beat six whole eggs and five heaping 
tablespoons of sugar until very foamy. Add one-half tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, pinch of cloves, grated rind of lemon and 
bread crumbs to make a thin batter. Stir well. One may 
also add one-half teaspoon baking powder. Put baking dish 
into Caloric with one hot stone underneath and one on top. 
After the baking, turn pudding on to a platter and pour over 
it one pint white wine, which has been boiled up with sugar 
and piece of lemon rind. It may be served warm or cold. i l / 2 
hours baking time. 

Wine Pudding With Raisins and Candied Lemon — Beat 
together eight whole eggs and three-fourths cup of sugar un- 
til foamy. Add handful of raisins,, 134 ounces of candied 

113 



CALORIC ROOK OF RECIPES. 

lemon cut up fine, some cinnamon, pinch of cloves, grated 
lemon rind and bread crumbs to make thin batter. Stir well. 
One may add some chopped almonds. Add also one-half tea- 
spoon of baking powder. Put form into Caloric with one hot 
stone underneath and one on top. After the baking pour 
boiling white wine over pudding. Some sugar should have 
been added to the wine. iy 2 hours baking time. One serves 
wine dressing with this pudding. 

Cherry Pudding — Beat three-fourths cup of sugar and 
five whole eggs until very light. Add six tablespoons of 
bread crumbs, some cinnamon, pinch of cloves, grated lemon 
peel and one pound of cherries, previously gotten ready (stems 
removed, wash and dried). Put pudding dish into Caloric, 
one hot radiator underneath and one on top. One may serve 
this pudding with boiling wine poured over it or without. 
Baking time two hours. 



114 



SOUFFLES. 

Souffles may be made in a shallow basin or dish that will 
fit in the large Caloric vessel. They must not be turned out 
of the dish, but be taken to the table in the dish they are 
baked in. Here is a hint not very well known, but through 
which one may produce a great many variations. Put only 
half of the batter into the dish. Cut a piece of baking wafer 
to the exact size of the dish, and put this on top of the dough. 
Put canned fruit (without juice), preserves, or fresh stewed 
fruit (without juice) on top of sheet of baking wafer. Put 
another sheet on top of the fruit, and then the other half of 
the batter. The baking wafer will become soft and will mix 
during the baking with the batter and the fruit, so that it 
can not be detected after the baking. Such a filled souffle 
is very fine. With each Caloric comes an iron crossbar on 
which the second radiator rests. For baking, as previously 
mentioned, heat the stones a little longer. The form in which 
the souffle is baked should be well greased with butter. 

Lemon Souffle — Beat yolks of four eggs together with 
three tablespoons of sugar until very foamy. Add a little 
lemon juice, grated lemon rind, four tablespoons of flour, a 
little baking powder and fold in the beaten whites of the 
four eggs. Fill into basin or dish. Put into Caloric with both 
radiators 1^2 hours. 

115 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Bread Grumb Souffle — Beat together four tablespoons 
of sugar and four whole eggs until very foamy. Add four 
tablespoons of bread crumbs, pinch of cinnamon, allspice or 
cloves, one-half teaspoon baking powder. Put dish into Cal- 
oric with both hot stones 1^2 hours. 

Bread Crumb Souffle, No. 2 — Beat well together four 
tablespoons of sugar and yolks of four eggs. Add juice of 
half a lemon, some grated lemon rind, vanilla, 30 to 40 blanched, 
chopped almonds and four or five tablespoons bread crumbs. 
Fold in the beaten whites of the four eggs and add a little 
baking powder. Proceed according to previous directions. 

Almond Souffle — Chop 5 J/2 ounces of almonds. Beat to- 
gether yolks of six eggs and not quite three-fourths cup of 
sugar. Add to it the chopped almonds, two tablespoons of 
bread crumbs, some grated rind of lemon, pinch of cinnamon 
and mix well. Fold in beaten whites of the six eggs. Put 
the form into Caloric with two hot stones, (one underneath 
and one on top), 1^4 hours. 

Apple Souffle — Soak four or five stale milk rolls in milk 
and wring them out after half an hour. Cream together two 
tablespoons of butter and yolks of four eggs, add sugar to 
taste, the soaked milk rolls and five or six finely cut, nice, 
tender cooking apples. One may also add vanilla or grated 
lemon rind. Fold in the beaten whites of the four eggs and 
fill into dish. Put dish into Caloric, using both hot stones, 
two hours. 

Cherry Souffle — Is prepared as apple souffle. Use one 
pound of large solid cherries instead of apples. 

116 



CAKES. 

Different cakes require different heat, which can be learn- 
ed only by experience. A batter with butter in it requires 
more heat than a light batter without butter. One must 
consider this fact in heating the radiators. After a little prac- 
tice one will soon learn. Only a few recipes for cakes are 
given as your own favorite recipes can be used with little 
change. 

Punch Cake — Cream 1% cups of butter with iy 2 cups 
of sugar and yolks of seven eggs. To this add two ounces of 
chopped almonds, a little grated rind of lemon and scant 
three cups of flour. Mix well. Fold in the beaten whites of 
the six eggs and put batter into a tin which will go into the 
larger Caloric utensil. Put into Caloric and use two hot ra- 
diators according to directions. Two hours baking time. 
When cake is cold spread frosting on top. 

Bread Cake — Beat one cup of sugar and eight whole eggs 
until very light. Add one ounce of candied orange and one 
ounce of candied lemon cut up very fine, 3^ ounces of al- 
monds chopped with the skin, a little cinnamon, some cloves 
and two ounces of finely rolled bread crumbs which have 
previously been moistened with milk or water. Stir batter 
for at least half an hour until it is thick and foamy. Put 

117 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

into a tin and then into the Caloric and use two hot radia- 
tors. Two hours baking time. When cake is cold spread 
icing on top or sprinkle sugar over it. 

Plain Almond Cake — Beat iy 2 cups of sugar and yolks 
of seven eggs together until very light. Add 5% ounces of 
blanched, chopped almonds, three tablespoons of bread crumbs, 
a little grated rind of lemon and some vanilla. Fold in the 
beaten whites of the seven eggs and fill into tin. Put tin into 
Caloric and use both hot stones according to directions. Bak- 
ing time 1^4 hours. 

Sand Cake — Cream scant three-fourths cup of butter with 
three-fourths clip of sugar, add gradually yolks of four eggs, 
a little grated lemon rind and \y 2 cups of very dry flour. Fold 
in the beaten whites of the four eggs. Put tin into Caloric, 
using both hot stones according to directions. 

Biscuit Cake — Beat three-fourths cup (good measure) 
of sugar together with yolks of eight eggs until very light. 
Add a little grated lemon rind, juice of half a lemon and 
scant iy 2 cups of flour (very dry flour), stir well and fold in 
the beaten whites of the eight eggs. Put into Caloric accord- 
ing to directions. Baking time Ij4 hours. 

Orange Cake — Cream scant 1%. cups of butter, \ l / 2 cups 
of sugar and yolks of six eggs together. Add 1^4 ounces 
chopped almonds, a little grated orange peel, 2^2 cups of flour 
and mix well. Fold in the beaten whites of the six eggs and 
fill into tin with removable sides. Put form into Caloric. 
Use both hot stones. The baking time is 1^ hours. 

118 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Chocolate Cake — Cream together one-half cup of butter 
and good half cup of sugar. Add gradually the yolks of six 
eggs and stir well. Add two ounces of grated chocolate, 23^ 
ounces of chopped almonds, one-half cup of flour, the beaten 
whites of the six eggs and one-half teaspoon of baking powder. 
Put into Caloric according to directions. ij£ hours baking 
time. 

English Cake — Cream iy 2 cups of sugar, i 1 /^ cups of but- 
ter and yolks of six eggs together. Add one good ounce of 
blanched, chopped almonds, 1% ounces each of finely cut up 
candied orange and candied lemon, a little grated lemon 
peel, vanilla and 2]/^ cups of flour. Mix well. Lastly, add 
beaten whites of the six eggs and one-half teaspoon of baking 
powder. Put tin into the Caloric. Use both hot stones. Bak- 
ing time 134 hours. When cake is cold, sprinkle lemon juice 
and then sugar over it. 

Apple Cake — Make a dough of two cups of flour, two- 
thirds cup of butter, good one-third cup of sugar, one egg 
and a little grated rind of lemon. Line cake tin with dough. 
Pare nice, tender cooking apples, cut them in halves, take out 
the core and slice them thin. Put apples on top of dough 
and sprinkle them thick with sugar. Put tin into Caloric. 
Use both hot stones according to directions. iy 2 hours baking 
time. 

Apple Cake With Lattice Work — Pare five or six apples, 
cut them, remove cores, stew them in sugar and very little 
water, rub them through a colander and put them aside. Pre- 
pare a dough according to directions in first recipe for apple 

119 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

cake. Put into tin that will go into Caloric vessel. A small 
part of the dough is kept back. Roll this out, not too thin. 
Cut with pastry wheel little strips of dough and put these 
in lattice shape on top of dough in tin and one long strip 
around the edge. Put tin into Caloric according to direc- 
tions. Baking time I 1 /* hours. When cake is cold fill lattice 
work with the apples. 

Raspberry Cake With Lattice Work — Is prepared the 
same as apple cake. Take well cooked-down raspberries 
instead of apples. 

Fruit Marmelade Cake — Beat yolks of four eggs to- 
gether with four tablespoons of sugar until very light. Add 
four tablespoons of flour, one-half teaspoon baking powder 
and the beaten whites of the four eggs. Put into Caloric 
according to directions. When cake is cold spread any kind 
of fruit marmelade on it. 

Cherry Cake — Cream one cup of sugar, one-third cup 
of butter and yolks of two eggs together. Add vanilla, two 
tablespoons of milk, scant two cups of flour and lastly the 
beaten whites of the two eggs and one-half teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder. Fill batter into baking tin. Put solid cherries 
on top of batter, one close beside the other. Sprinkle sugar 
over cherries. Put tin into Caloric with one hot stone under- 
neath and one on top. i^ hours baking time. 

Loaf Cake — Cream one cup of sugar, scant one cup of but- 
ter and yolks of six eggs. Add a little grated rind of lemon, 
four ounces each of raisins and currants. One pound of flour 

120 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

and scant one-half pint of milk are added alternately. Fold 
in the beaten whites of the six eggs and add finally two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Put into Caloric with one hot stone 
underneath and one on top. 2^ hours baking time. 

PASTRY MADE OF YEAST DOUGH. 

It is taken for granted that every housekeeper has exper- 
ience in preparing yeast dough. Herewith are given three 
kinds of yeast dough which are chiefly used for this kind 
of pastry. 

Simple Yeast Dough — Ingredients: Scant two quarts of 
flour, two tablespoons of butter, one egg, one tablespoon 
of sugar, salt and milk as much as necessary, two ounces of 
compressed yeast. * 

Short Yeast Dough — Ingredients: Scant two quarts of 
flour, four tablespoons of butter, three eggs, four tablespoons 
of sugar, lemon to taste, salt and milk as much as necessary, 
two ounces of compressed yeast. 

Short Yeast Dough With Different Ingredients — Scant 
two quarts of flour, four tablespoons of butter, four table- 
spoons of sugar, three eggs, grated rind of lemon, handful 
each of currants and raisins, about two ounces each of can- 
died lemon and orange, six or eight chopped, bitter almonds, 
salt and milk as much as necessary, scant 2^2 ounces of com- 
pressed yeast. 

Steam Noodles — Prepare yeast dough as for simple yeast 
dough. Let it rise well. The dough should be very spongy. 

121 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

After it has risen sufficiently, remove with a spoon little 
pieces of dough on a well floured molding board. Shape 
each little piece lightly into a round ball, and let these rise 
for one-quarter to one-half hour. Put milk about a finger 
high into the Caloric kettle. Add a little vanilla, one table- 
spoon of sugar and a piece of butter. Bring to a boil. Put 
the pieces of dough into this, one beside the other. Cover 
vessel and let contents boil over a very low fire for just a few 
moments. Put basin into Caloric with one hot stone under- 
neath. Baking time i% hours. Before serving turn on a 
platter. 

Apple Noodles — Prepare yeast dough. After it is risen 
roll it out and divide it into seven or eight parts. Let these 
rise. Then roll out each part, spread melted butter on each 
and put finely cut up apples, some currants, sugar and cin- 
namon on them. Roll up and arrange these noodles in a 
spiral shape in well greased tin. Put tin into Caloric with one 
hot stone underneath and one on top. 2*4 hours baking time. 

Plain Noodles — Prepare short yeast dough as in recipe. 
Let rise. Lift with floured spoon not too large pieces on 
the molding board. Shape them as desired. Cover over with 
a cloth and let them rise half an hour. Proceed as directed 
in previous recipe. 

Loaf Cake of Short Dough — Add to yeast dough double 
the amount of butter, use six eggs and regulate the amount 
of milk. Baking time three hours. 

Loaf Cake — Prepare short yeast dough. Put it into bak- 
ing tin and let rise in it. Put tin into Caloric with one hot 

122 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

stone underneath and the second hot stone over it. (2^ , 
hours.) 

Yeast Dough With Fruit — For this prepare simple or 
short yeast dough. Let it rise. Roll it out thin and let it rise 
again a little. Put it into a basin or tin lined with buttered 
paper. Put thinly cut up apples, plums, cherries, etc. on it 
and sprinkle sugar over fruit. Bake for one and one-half to 
two hours. 

BREADS. 

Steamed Graham Bread — Mix three cups of graham flour, 
one cup of white flour, one teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons 
of soda, one cup of molasses, 2,y 2 cups of sour milk ; mix and 
cook the same as Boston brown bread. 

Boston Brown Bread, Fine, No. 2 — One cup rye meal, 
one cup corn meal, one cup graham flour, two teaspoons soda, 
one teaspoon salt, two cups sour milk, three-fourths cup 
molasses, mix thoroughly and steam four hours in Caloric. 
Then remove from mold and bake one-half hour. This is fine. 

Boston Brown Bread, No. 3 — Two cups graham flour, one 
cup wheat, one-half cup sour cream, one teaspoon soda, one- 
half cup molasses, salt and buttermilk to make thick batter. 
Put into Caloric and steam three hours. 

Boston Brown Bread, No. 4 — One cup butter milk, one cup 
sweet milk, one cup molasses, one cup corn meal, two cups 
graham flour, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt. This will 

123 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

make four small loaves. Put into Caloric and steam $y 2 
hours. 

Old Fashioned Corn Pone — In one pint of boiling water, 
scald one teacup of corn meal; add cold water to make luke 
warm, then add two teacups corn meal, one even tablespoon 
salt, and one sugar, beat briskly ; let stand over night in warm 
place. Then add teacup flour, and one tablespoonful molasses. 
Put in some deep, well greased vessel, or Caloric vessel, let 
raise one hour and bake in Caloric, using both hot stones, 
one on top, two or three hours. When done turn upside down ; 
let cool, so as to come out easily. Double amount if large, 
pone is desired. 

Baked Beans — Wash and pick over one quart of white 
beans. Soak over night. In the morning let them come to a 
boil, add a pinch of soda and drain. Put them into a kettle 
with one-half pound of salt pork, slash the rind and cover 
with boiling water. Boil five minutes and remove to the Cal- 
oric for five or six hours. Remove the beans to a baking 
dish. Cut the pork in slices and lay over the top. Season 
with salt, pepper and four tablespoons of molasses or brown 
sugar. Place in Caloric, using both hot radiators, four or 
five hours. 



124 



THE COOKING OF VEGETABLES 

Temperature of Water in Which Vegetables are Set to 
Cook — All vegetables are set to cook in water that is boiling 
at the time they are put into it. 

All wilted vegetables should be revived in cold water 
before cooking. 

All dried vegetables should be soaked in cold water sev- 
eral hours, or over night, before cooking. 

A knowledge of the composition of a vegetable gives the 
key to the way in which it is to be treated during cooking. 

Compounds in Vegetables — Starch is the dominant prin- 
ciple in most vegetables, though protein, sugar, fat, mineral 
matter and water (one or all) are combined with the starch. 
In some vegetables the starch is largely in the form of cellu- 
lose or woody tissue, but, in whatever form it may be, starch 
must be thoroughly cooked or it is unwholesome. 

Vegetables With Only Slight Trace of Starch— Vegeta- 
bles, like lettuce, endive, celery (inner blanched stalks), toma- 
toes, -cucumbers, and small, quickly-grown radishes contain 
but a slight trace of starch. They are composed largely 
of water and mineral salts, both of which would be lost 
during cooking, unless the cooking be done at a gentle simmer, 
and the water be retained as food. These vegetables, then, 

125 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

might be exempt from cooking, save for variety. When 
cooked, no more water should be used than can be served with 
them, and the cooking should be at a gentle simmer. 

Vegetables Containing Protein, Sugar and Some Starch 
— Green peas and asparagus contain so much starch that 
cooking is a necessity, but, to retain the sugar and other com- 
pounds, the cooking should be done in the Caloric, where there 
is no violent boiling as on a flame stove, and in a small measure 
of water, and the water should form a part of the finished 
dish. The same is true of spinach; the water that clings to 
the leaves in washing being sufficient for the cooking. 

Vegetables With Starch as Cellulose — Parsnips, salsify, 
carrots and turnips contain but little starch, other than that 
found in their cellular structure; this fiber, like animal fiber, 
is hardened by high heat, and cooking should not be carried 
on at a temperature higher than the boiling point of water. 
The cooking should be prolonged until the fiber is tender, 
but no longer. 

Vegetables With Much Starch — Potatoes, breakfast cer- 
eals, rice, samp, macaroni, noodles and other pastes, used as 
vegetables, are rich in starch. A good potato, properly cooked, 
is mealy. A potato, no matter how good it may be, cooked in 
simmering water is water-soaked and soggy. If potatoes be 
cooked in furiously-boiling water, the outside becomes soft- 
ened and washed away, while there is "a bone in the center." 
To cook in perfection, keep the water just at the boiling point 
until the process is finished, which can be done best in the 
Caloric, where the temperature is maintained at exactly the 

126 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

boiling point, with one hot radiator, for three hours. The 
same is true, practically, in respect to the cooking of other 
starchy vegetable products. 

When to Use a Large Quantity of Water — Some varie- 
ties of onions are strong flavored ; when such, and also mem- 
bers of the cabbage family, are to be cooked, the use of a large 
quantity of water will insure a more delicate flavor. 

Use of Salt and Soda — Hard water has a tendency to 
harden cellulose or woody fiber, and thus keeps sweet juices 
or other valuable compounds within the article cooked; soft 
water acts in the opposite way. Salt added to water makes 
it hard, raises the boiling point a little, and intensifies the 
color of green vegetables. Soda softens water and causes 
green vegetables to assume a faded look. As the appearance 
of food has much to do with our taste or distaste thereof, 
certainly, for aesthetic reasons, the use of salt in the cooking 
of green vegetables would be a gain. Again, as green veg- 
etables contain little woody tissue, but often sugar that we 
wish to retain in the article, the cooking of these in salted 
water would seem advisable. In general, salt should be added 
to the water in which all vegetables, except those containing 
much cellulose, are to be cooked. Potatoes and onions never 
taste just right unless the water in which they are cooked be 
salted. A teaspoon of salt to each generous quart of water will 
be found about right. Soft water is called for when the cel- 
lular structure of dried peas, beans and lentils is to be made 
tender. If such water be not available, a teaspoonful of bi- 
carbonate of soda, added to each two quarts of water in which 
the vegetable is to be cooked, will soften the water. 

127 



A USEFUL TABLE. 

Sixty drops equal one teaspoon. Three teaspoons equal 
one tablespoon. Four tablespoons equal a quarter of a cup 
or half a gill. Eight rounded tablespoons of dry material 
equal one cupful. Sixteen tablespoons of liquid equal one cup- 
ful. One cupful of liquid equals two gills or half a pint. One 
heaping tablespoon of sugar equals one ounce. One heaping 
tablespoon of butter equals two ounces. One cup of butter or 
sugar equals one-half pound. Two cups of flour equals one- 
half pound. One rounded tablespoon of butter, one ounce. 
One rounded tablespoon sugar, one ounce. Two rounded 
tablespoons flour, one ounce. Five medium sized nutmegs, 
one ounce. Two rounded tablespoons of ground spice, one 
ounce. One quart sifted pastry flour, one pound. One pint of 
granulated sugar one pound. One pint of butter, 
one pound. One pint of ordinary liquid, one pound. 
One solid pint chopped meat, one pound. One cupful rice, 
half a pound. One cupful Indian meal, six ounces. One cupful 
stemmed raisins, six ounces. 

Proportions — One heaping teaspoon baking powder to 
two cups flour. One teaspoon cream of tartar and half tea- 
spoon soda to two cups flour. One level tablespoon soda to 
two cups molasses. Four heaping tablespoons corn starch 
to one quart of milk. A little over an ounce of gelatine to a 
quart of liquid. 

12S 



ONE HUNDRED HINTS WORTH KNOWING. 

Soak your hair brushes when washing them in ammon- 
iated water. This will prevent the bristles from coming out and 
hardens them. 

If your gown has become stained with lemon juice or 
rind, apply ammonia to the spot and it will restore the gown 
to its natural color. 

A teaspoon of flour of sulphur dissolved in hot milk and 
slowly sipped is very good in case of sore throat. 

Try ground carawayseed as flavoring for a simple cake; 
the ground spice being preferred by many in place of the 
seeds. 

To preserve maps, brush over each a solution of gutta- 
percha, which is quite transparent. This may be applied to 
both sides. 

Milk cans, whether for kitchen or table use, should 
always be wide enough at the top to allow the hand to pass 
through to clean them. 

If raisins and currants are rolled in flour before putting 
into a cake, they will not sink to the bottom. 

When cutting fresh bread, dip the knife in hot water. 

Scatter a few drops oil of lavender in your bookcase 
before shutting it up for the summer and you will find no 
book mold. 

129 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

When using valuable vases for table decoration, fill one- 
fourth full of sand to prevent being knocked over. 

Moisten grease spots with cold water and soda before 
scrubbing, as it lightens the task. 

Soak your new brooms in strong hot salt water before 
using them ; it toughens the bristles and the broom will last 
longer. 

When laundering lace curtains and a creamy shade is 
wanted, add clear strong cofTee to the starch. 

Wash your challies in rice water made by using one 
pound of rice to five quarts of water, strain and cool. 

Apply common mud to a bee sting and the pain will dis- 
appear. 

Scrape raw potatoes and apply to a burn. It will give 
immediate relief. 

Try cucumber peelings for cockroaches ; they will act like 
poison to them. 

The whites of eggs beaten up with salt to the consis- 
tency of frosting and applied to a sprain will give you great 
relief ; renew as it becomes dry. 

Put a pinch of salt in the whites of eggs to make them 
whip better. 

Keep your salt pork in a brine made of salt and water; 
it improves it greatly. 

To take the white spots from varnish, hold a stove cover 
over them and they will quickly disappear. 

If grease is spilt on the kitchen floor, pour cold water 
on it immediately. This will harden it and prevent it from 
soaking into the floor. Scrape with a knife. 

130 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

To remove ink stains on clothing, soak the spot in sour 
milk. 

Put a little turpentine in the boiler in which your clothes 
are boiled; it will whiten them. 

Stains on knives, however obstinate, will disapppear if 
rubbed with a piece of raw potato. 

Try soft tissue paper for cleaning or polishing your mir- 
rors. 

Celery, eaten abundantly, is good for neuralgia. 

Try putting a pinch of ginger in your doughnuts and 
they will not absorb the fat or grease. 

If potatoes are pared and laid in cold water just before 
boiling, they will be much whiter. [ 

Try laying thin slices of potatoes across the forehead 
when you have the headache. 

Never bite thread with the teeth; it damages them. 

Save your celery stalks; dry them and use for flavoring. 

When you buy carpets for durability, choose small figures. 

Never use soap and water on varnish work. 

Spring Tonic — Halve your food, double your drinking 
water, treble your consumption of pure air, and quadruple youi 
laughter. 

Throw a little powdered charcoal in your sink to disin- 
fect it every little while. 

To prevent flies from entering the house brush the screen 
doors with kerosene. 

If a drawer sticks, rub a little fresh lard on it. 

Sprinkle the cellar often with chloride of lime and it will 
be kept free from rats. 

131 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

The best lamp oil is that which is clear and colorless 
like water. 

If your child gets a bump, butter the spot well and it will 
not turn black and blue. 

A few drops of kerosene added to the starch will make 
the ironing easier. 

A piece of camphor kept where extra silver is will pre- 
vent it from tarnishing. 

Egg shells crushed up, will clean your water bottle and 
vinegar cruet beautifully. 

A little boiling water added to an omelet will keep it from 
being tough. 

The tops of worn out boots or shoes make excellent iron- 
holders. 

To clean your straw mattings, wash them with soft water, 
changing the water often. 

A faded dress may be made perfectly white by boiling 
in cream of tartar water. 

A gold chain may be made to look very bright if dipped 
in a cup containing one part ammonia and three parts water. 

Keep an apple in your cake box and it will keep your cake 
fresh for a long time. 

If a little kerosene is added to the water in which you 
wash your windows the effect will be much brighter. 

A hot cloth around the jelly mold will help the jelly or 
ices to come out without sticking. 

Lettuce has a soothing effect on the nerves and is ex- 
cellent for sufferers from insomnia. 

Scour your kitchen knives with moistened ashes. 

132 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

A gargle of salt and water is a good remedy for sore 
throat. 

Burn an orange peel on the stove instead of coffee, for 
disagreeable odors — the effect is pleasanter. 

A few drops of oil of lavender poured in a glass of hot 
water and set in a sick room will purify it greatly. 

Boiled flaxseed juice flavored with lemon is excellent to 
stop coughing.. 

Clean your irons on emery paper; it is excellent. 

To remove the smell of paint from a room, leave over 
night in it a bucket of water with three or four sliced onions 
in it. 

To remove mildew stains, use lemon juice. 

Put a pinch of salt in the water in which you put cut 
flowers and they will last longer. 

Give your plants a tonic of cold coffee or tea every other 
day or so. 

An egg put in the morning coffee is best remedy for clar- 
ifying the coffee, besides being much more strengthening. 

When you refill your fountain pen, before screwing 
down the cap, let some cold water run down through the 
pen, it cleans it all out fresh. 

Field violets may be gathered and dipped in a syrup of 
boiled sugar and water and become candied; these are used 
as lovely decorations for a cake. 

Salt and vinegar will be the best thing for scouring cop- 
per kettles. 

Keep an oyster shell in your tea kettle to prevent the 
forming of crust. 

133 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Straw matting will last longer if given a coat of varnish. 

Polish tan shoes with melted bees wax. 

Kerosene poured down the sink and boiling water imme- 
diately after will clean out a stopped up drain pipe. 

A little butter added to cake frosting greatly improves it. 

Give your canary a little lettuce now and then ; it will 
improve its song. 

Dredge your cake tins with flour and your cake will not 
stick to the pan. 

When laundering battenberg pieces, put a teaspoon of 
borax in the rinsing water and there will be no need of starch. 

A cure for hiccoughs is to take a long breath and hold it. 

Never put strawberries in tinware. 

Polish your dining table with melted bees wax, rubbed on 
with a soft cloth. 

When you plant sweet peas, have them running north 
and south ; they bloom better. 

Salt and sugar mixed together will sometimes stop cough- 
ing. 

Steam your fruit cake and dry off in the oven for fifteen 
minutes and see how moist your cake will be. 

Never leave matches where rats can eat them. 

Give pussy some sulphur in her milk once in a while; 
it is good for her. 

Dried orange peel makes excellent fire kindlers. 

Dressmakers always shrink spools of thread before using. 

Make a short cake of pressed fruit and see how nice it 
/will be. 

Wooden spoons are the best to use when making cake. 

134 



WITH THE FIRELESS COOKER. 

By Linda Hull Lamed, editor (Jood, Housekeeping. 

My fireless cooker has become a valuable member of the 
working force of my household. In fact, it has responded to 
our needs so quickly and so capably that we almost feel that 
it is human, and now, often, we call it "she." 

The cooker saves time and worry, for while things are 
cooking you do not have to watch them to prevent their burn- 
ing or to see if they are done. The cooker rarely overdoes 
its part, even though the contents be forgotten for several 
hours. It saves fuel and an over-heated kitchen, and it re- 
duces the butcher's bill, because in using it one does not buy 
so many chops and roasts and steaks, which are all expensive. 
Cheaper cuts of meat may be used to advantage. Moreover it 
is certainly a most helpful companion for the working woman, 
the one who goes out to business every day. She may cook 
her entire dinner while getting her breakfast; and last, but 
far from least, it will help to solve the great problem of who 
shall do the cooking, for if the housekeeper will only learn how, 
the greater part of the burden may rest upon the fireless 
cooker. 

An important detail in using the fireless cooker is the 
amount of water to be used in the large kettles. When the 
inner pail is used, the water in the kettle surrounding it 
should be about two inches below the top of the pail, else, 

135 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

when briskly boiling, it might "boil in ;" when using the steam- 
er basin, the same precaution is necessary. It must be remem- 
bered that water does not evaporate in the cooker, so the 
amount to be put on the food to be cooked should be just 
enough to cover, or what is required for gravy. 

The following recipes are reliable; they are the result 
of experiments, adapting ordinary recipes to the peculiar needs 
of fireless cooking. 

Boiled Dinner — The rump piece of beef selected was 
only slightly corned, as too much corning renders the best 
beef tough. It was bought the day before it was needed, and 
early in the morning it was put in one of the large kettles, 
well covered with cold water and allowed to boil about fif- 
teen minutes. It was then put in the cooker (this was at 
nine o'clock), and at two o'clock potatoes, onions and tur- 
nips were prepared and placed in various receptacles in the 
other kettle: a wire basket, an enameled basin and a shallow 
enameled pan that rests on top of the basin. The onions and 
turnips, with salt for seasoning, were put in the bottom of 
the wire basket to boil, and the potatoes, dusted with salt, 
were placed in the basin to steam. One other vegetable, or 
even a pudding, could have been put in the pan on top, also 
to steam, had we had the forethought to prepare it. While 
these vegetables were boiling the kettle containing the beef 
was again placed on the stove to boil its contents. After 
fifteen minutes' further brisk boiling of the meat, the two 
kettles were ready to be put in the cooker together. The 
dinner, all except the dessert and soup, was then left to take 
care of itself. 

136 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

As the dessert was a cold one, prepared in the morning, 
and the soup all ready to be reheated at the last moment, the 
kitchen was left to its own devices until time for serving the 
dinner. It was a simple matter for the housekeeper to don 
a big apron over her afternoon dress, open the cooker and 
take out the dinner. It was found to be perfectly cooked: 
the meat tender and juicy, the vegetables done to a turn 
and all of the delicious flavor ; but, best of all, there were no 
odors whatever, save those that were acceptable to a hungry 
family. 

Soup Stock — The day before the soup was to be used 
a soup bone was put in the kettle in cold water, and when 
briskly boiling, put into the cooker. This was done in the morn- 
ing. Towards night it was taken out and put immediately 
over the fire, and salt and a soup bouquet of herbs and sea- 
sonings were put in. After ten minutes boiling, the kettle 
was put back into the box to be left until morning. It was 
then taken out, the soup was strained, and, when cold, the 
fat was skimmed off. About two o'clock some of the jellied 
stock was put into the small pail ; carrots, turnips, beets, cel- 
ery, onions and potatoes all cut into dice were put into the 
stock. When boiling, the pail was plunged into the kettle of 
boiling water, the cover put on, and when the water was 
again briskly boiling the whole was put into the cooker, not 
to be taken out until dinner time, when the soup was found 
to be quite hot enough to be sent directly to the table. 

Irish Stew — This was made of lamb, cooked a few hours 
first in the cooker, then cooked with the vegetables on the 
range, and again put in the cooker. The lamb, cut in pieces, 

137 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

was put into boiling water at ten o'clock, reheated at two 
o'clock and taken out just before six. The meat and vegeta- 
bles were then skimmed out on to a hot platter, the gravy- 
thickened and dumplings were made. The vegetables used 
were onions, carrots, turnips and potatoes, all cut in rather 
large dice, and there were about two cups. The amount of 
water used was just enough to cover the meat, and this made 
a rich gravy. The gravy was thickened with two teaspoons 
of flour, rubbed smooth in two or three tablespoons of water 
and allowed to simmer while the dumplings were being pre- 
pared. The dumplings were made thus: One cup of flour, 
1^2 teaspoons of baking powder, one tablespoon of melted 
butter and enough milk to make a thick batter. They were 
just soft enough to be dropped from a spoon into the gravy, 
and were cooked about five minutes. 

Beef a la Mode — Five pounds of round of beef, larded, 
were used. Cook this in a spider, searing it all over quickly 
in the fat from a quarter of a pound of pork cut in slices with 
two onions, one carrot cut in dice, four cloves, two pepper- 
corns and a bay leaf. Cook this ten minutes, then transfer the 
whole contents of the spider to the kettle, cover with three 
pints of boiling water; when boiling put on cover, and after 
five minutes put quickly into the cooker. At one or two 
o'clock take the kettle from the box and let its contents boil 
on the stove fifteen minutes or twenty minutes, adding one tea- 
spoon of salt and a dash of pepper. Return kettle to cooker 
and fifteen minutes before dinner, take meat out on to a hot 
platter and boil the gravy in the kettle, keeping the meat hot 
meanwhile. Now skim the fat from the gravy, strain it into 

138 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

a boat and serve with the meat. There should be enough 
gravy to cover whatever is left of the meat, as it comes from 
the table, for this left-over is very good served cold, cut in 
slices for the next day's luncheon, especially if the meat be 
cooled in the bath of gravy. 

Corned Beef Tongue — A slightly corned beef tongue may 
be cooked all day and night, then reheated to serve for din- 
ner at night. Skim carefully and use with hot tomato sauce. 
While making the sauce, the tongue may be put in a hot oven 
and then sliced for serving. 

Fricasseed Chicken — The chicken is cut up and each piece 
sauted in a little butter. Then it is covered with boiling 
water and put into the large kettle of the cooker, and after it 
has boiled ten minutes it is put in the cooker. This should be 
done about twelve o'clock for a six o'clock dinner. If the 
chicken seems at all tough it should be taken up at three 
or four o'clock and boiled on the stove ten or fifteen minutes, 
then returned to the cooker until dinner time. When ready to 
serve it is again put on the stove just long enough to thicken 
the gravy. The seasoning is put in at the second cooking. 

Boiled Ham — A ham weighing six pounds was put into 
the kettle at nine o'clock in the morning. It was well cover- 
ed with cold water and allowed to boil briskly fifteen minutes, 
then was put in the cooker. The cover should always 
be put on the kettle when its contents begin to boil, and 
not removed until the kettle is taken out of the cooker. The 
transit from stove to cooker must be as rapid as possible and 
the cover must be put down quickly. At two o'clock the ket- 
tle was taken out and put on the stove for another fifteen min- 

139 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

utes of boiling, and at this time a few cloves, two or three 
peppercorns and a bay leaf were put in for seasoning. At 
five-thirty the ham was taken out, put in a pan, the fat side 
up, well sprinkled with bread crumbs, stuck full of cloves 
and, with a slight dusting of sugar, baked in the oven until 
quite done. 

Boiled Fish — Two pounds of halibut were rolled in a 
piece of wet cheese cloth, dredged lightly with flour. Just 
enough water put into one of the kettles to cover the fish, 
and when it was nearly boiling, the fish was put in, resting 
on the rack in the bottom of the kettle. Three tablespoons 
of vinegar, one of salt and two or three peppercorns were put 
in, the cover put on and, when the water was boiling, the 
kettle was hurried into the cooker and the cover put down. This 
was done at two o'clock; at six o'clock a sauce was made, 
the fish taken out, the skin removed, and the water was 
drained off, when it was found to be quite hot enough to 
serve. The sauce was made as follows: Two tablespoons 
of butter in a saucepan, three tablespoons of flour, then ij4 
cups of hot milk, and when boiling one tablespoon of minced 
parsley, one of capers, one-half teaspoon of salt, a dash of 
pepper, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, chopped, and the 
whites of the eggs in rings. This, when boiling hot and 
thoroughly beaten with a whip, was poured over the fish. 



140 



INDEX TO RECIPES. 

Apple Coddle 95 

Apple Roll 101 

Asparagus 26 

Baked Beans 124 

Beef — 

A la Mode 38 

A la Venaison 42 

Boiled 35 

Brown Stew 39 

Corned 37 

Loaf 43 

Roast 44 

Roll 43 

Roularde 40 

Stewed 36 

Stewed in Vinegar 39 

Stewed with Ham 38 

Beefsteak, Rolled 37 

Beef Tongue, Boiled 72 

Beef Tenderloin with Potatoes 69 

Beef Tea 93 

Boiled Tongue 44 

Beets 26 

Boston Brown Bread 95 

Brown Bread Toast 95 

Brown Bread, Boston 123 

Butter Sauce, Drawn 67 

141 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Cake — 

Apple 119 

Biscuit 118 

Bread 117 

Cherry 120 

Chocolate 119 

English 119 

Fruit Marmalade 120 

Loaf 120 

Orange 118 

Plain Almond 118 

Punch 117 

Raspberry with Lattice Work 120 

Sand 118 

Calf s Breast— Steamed, Rolled 47 

Calf's or Swine's Tongue, Boiled 73 

Carrots 27 

Cauliflower — 

Boiled 30 

Different Way 31 

Chicken — 

Boiled 58 

Cream 59 

Cream Stew 60 

Curry Gl 

Escalloped 65 

Fricasseed 59 

Pickleti 61 

Pie 60 

Piquant with Butter Dumplings 83 

Roasted 58 

Roasted, Highly Seasoned 58 

Roasted with Asparagus 83 

Southern Style 61 

To Fry Old 60 

142 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Caper Sauce 62 

Chicken with Asparagus 70 

Chicken Jelly or Broth 76 

Chicken with Peas 72 

Chicken with Mushrooms 72 

Cod Fish Balls GQ 

Coffee 89 

Cornmeal Mush 87 

Cream of Wheat 87 

Cup Custard 99 

Custard Sauce 100 

Dough, Yeast 121-2-3 

Egg Sauce for Fish \ 67 

English Roast 40 

PMlet, Austrian Way 40 

Filet Roast 39 

Filet Slices in Butter 42 

Fireless Cookstove's Household Fare, German 65 

Fish, Boiled 66 

Fowl, Old with Rice 72 

Fowl, Old with Vermicelli 71 

Fruit Stewed — 

Apples 110 

Quinces 110 

Apples, Apricots, Peaches, Pears, Plumbs Ill 

Prunes 112 

Gaulaush Stew 43 

German Fireless Cookstove's Household Fare 65 

Graham Bread, Steamed 123 

Green Corn 26 

Ham, Boiled 81 

H. 87 

143 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Lamb — 

Boiled Leg of 51 

Chops Stewed 54 

Gulash Made of 53 

In Light Gravy 54 

Leg of, a la Venaison 53 

Roast 51 

Roasted with Potatoes 81 

Tongue 52 

With Dressing 51 

Macaroni — 

And Cheese 33 

French 33 

Plain 33 

With Tomatoes 33 

Meat Dumplings with Beans 73 

Mint Jelly 93 

Mutton Chops, Braised - 52 

Mutton, Curry of 45 

Mutton, Boiled and Potatoes 68 

Mutton, Another Recipe for Leg of 54 

Mutton Roasted in Brown Butter 84 

Mutton with Onions and Potatoes 68 

Mutton with Turnips 69 

Mushroom Sauce 84 

Noodles 121 

Oatmeal 88 

Old Fashioned Corn Pone 124 

Omelette 85 

Onions 27 

Oxtail 41 

Oysters, Escalloped 67 

Partridge 63 

144 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Pigeons — 

A la Venaison 64 

Cooked in Vinegar 64 

Roasted Hunter's Style 63 

Roasted, Stuffed 63 

Peas 26, 31 

Pickelsteiner Meat from Beef Tenderloin 42 

Pigs Feet 57 

Pork — ' 

Ham with Cream Gravy 56 

Roast 56 

Roasted with Potatoes 81 

With Rice and Tomatoes 56 

Postum Cereal 89 

Potatoes — 

Boiled 27 

Escalloped 29 

In Butter 32 

Mashed 29 

Mashed with Apples 29 

Roasted in Butter 28 

Sliced with Bacon 32 

Stew 29 

Stewed, Hungarian 28 

Stewed with Parsley 28 

With Fried Sausage 32 

With Ham 33 

With Parsley 33 

Potato Dumplings of Boiled Potatoes 33 

Pot Roast 44 

Prunes, Jellied 112 

Pudding — 

Almond 103 

Apple Tapioca 97 

Asparagus 106 

145 

10 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Puddings — 

Biscuit 105 

Bread 107 

Brown Betty 99 

Cabinet 100 

Calf's Sweetbread 105 

Chocolate 97 

Chocolate Bread 100 

Chocolate 102 

Cherry 114 

Cream of Wheat 104 

Custard 99 

Date . i 97 

English 103 

Fish, English Way 107 

Fresh Fruit t 98 

Hungarian 108 

Lemon 102 

Macaroni 108 

New England Indian 95 

Old Fashioned Rice 101 

Of Noodles 108 

Of Mixed Meats 106 

Raspberry 99 

Rice 96 

Rice with Apples 104 

Rice with Cherries 104 

Rice, German 104 

Spinach 106 

Steamed Plum 97 

Steamed Brown 98 

Sweet, of Milk Rolls 101 

Vanilla 102 

Wine 113 

Pumpkin 32 

146 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Quaker Oats 87 

Red Cabbage 91 

Rice, Boiled 88 

Rice Cooked in Milk 88 

Rice Cooked in Milk with Filled Apples 88, 89 

Rolled Wheat 87 

Salad — 

Asparagus 91 

Bean 91 

Beet 91 

Cauliflower 91 

Celery 90 

Nantese 93 

Potato 90 

Salmon, Escalloped 66 

Sauce — 

Apple 112 

Appropriate for Fishes and Meats 92 

Egg, for Fish 67 

Hard 109 

Rhubarb 112 

White 85 

Wine 109 

Vanilla 109 

Sauerkraut 34 

Sauerkraut, Hungarian 69 

Sheeps Tongues, Braised 52 

Smoked Meat with Lentils 70 

Smoked Tongue or Corned Tongue 70 

Souffle — 

Almond, Apple, Cherry 116 

Bread Crumb 116 

Lemon 115 

Spaghetti, Minnesota, with Tomato Sauce 34 

147 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Soup — 

Apple 80 

Asparagus 79 

Bean 77 

Boullion 76 

Chicken 75 

Corn 75 

Cream or Celery 77 

Cream Chicken 78 

Cream of Wheat 78 

Cream of Wheat with Raisins 80 

Green Pea 77 

Mutton Broth 74 

Potato with Curly Cabbage 79 

Puree Du Barry 75 

Rice 73 

Rice with Green Peas 78 

Rice and Milk 80 

Rice with Tomatoes 79 

Spanish 79 

Stock 74 

Turtle 76 

Vegetable 75 

Vegetable Oyster 79 

Steamed Ribroast 41 

Stewed Fruit — 

Apples , 110 

Prunes 112 

Quinces 110 

String Beans 25, 27 

Summer Squash 27 

Swine's or Calf's Tongue, Boiled 73 

Tomato Sauce for Meat 84 

Turkey — Boiled, Fricasseed 62 

148 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES. 

Veal— 

Croquettes 55 

Curry of Mutton or Veal 45 

Gulash 48 

Gulash with Butter Dumplings 82 

In Caper Gravy and Cream 46 

In Highly Seasoned Gravy 47 

In Light Gravy with Parsley 48 

Loaf 49 

(Piquant) with Bread Noodles 83 

Roast 44 

Roasted with Asparagus 81 

Roast Larded 46 

Roasted with Potatoes 81 

Roasted Leg of 45 

Roast With Sweet Cream Gravy 46 

Rolls ? 45- 

With Green Peas and Dumplings 82 

With Mustard Pickles 50 

With Rice 49 

With Tomatoes 48 

Veal Gulash with Potatoes 68 

Veal with Asparagus 71 

Veal with Onions, Paprica, Potatoes and Cream 71 

Veal with Vegetable Oysters 71 

Vegetable Oysters 30 

Venison, Fricasseed 64 



149 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
NEW ONES TO TRY. 



151 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
NEW ONES TO TRY. 



152 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
NEW ONES TO TRY. 



153 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
NEW ONES TO TRY. 



154 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
NEW ONES TO TRY. 



155 



CALORIC BOOK OF RECIPES 
NEW ONES TO TRY. 



156 



RETURN 

TO — ► 



MARIAN KOSHLAND BIOSCIENCE AND 
NATURAL RESOURCE LIBRARY 

2101 Valley Life Sciences Bldg. 642-2531 



LOAN PERIOD 

7 DAYS 



ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS. 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW. 


DUE 






\N U 3 ?007 






-UdJECTTOREC/ 


!L 




















































FORM NO. DD 8 UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
24M 4-00 Berkeley, California 94720-6500 



U.C.BERKELEY LIBRARIES 






:-■.:*■ 



'.':.;'■ 





■?:[$■:■■■■ ■ 




.' :■ 


•_:'■;: 


/i' ; -i--:i;ij:i 




|:;;ii^'' : ;-: ; 




■' :_■-■. \i 


• "* : 




.-: 















• ' ■■■■! -. .::■ 












a^aip 



» ' :. 




