



6 




COMPLIMENTS OF 

A. F. JOHNSTON & CO. 

Dealers in 

Staple and Fancy Groceries 

1412 Third St. 
Santa Monica, Cal. 

Phones | Horned" 831 






! 

a 

- 



< c 



58 



S 

' 







THE LIBRARY 
OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



EX LIBRIS 

Jones Family 



For Flavoring 

Co*tnis, 

Jelliei. STTUI* t 



c * to - 




FLAVOR 
tTRITY 

For Flavoring: Ic * C***- Cai **- 

Puddings. Custards. 3no. 

Jellies. Syrups, etc 

PRICE FIMOBIMEITBICT CO 



NEW T0< 



C-t'UM 



55th Edition 
COPYRIGHT, 1904 



DR. PRICE'S 
DELICIOUS DESSERTS 



CONTAINING 



PRACTICAL RECIPES 



Carefully Selected and Tested 



EXCELLENT SIMPLE DELICATE 



PRICE FLAVORING EXTRACT CO. 



CHICAGO 



Seat Free to any one sending their Name and Address in full. 



Df"% Delicious Flavoring 

r. rnce s Extracts 



have been in use for nearly half a century. They have acquired 
a world-wide popularity, due entirely to the care exercised in their 
manufacture, every stage of which is under the supervision of an 
experienced chemist. The aroma of every flavor is developed 
to its full extent by a process known only to ourselves. Their 
high degree of strength makes them unexcelled for economical 
cookery. The fruits from which they are made are selected with 
care, and all objectionable substances removed. Chemical com- 
pounds, natural to all fruits, which disguise the true flavor, are 
eliminated by our process, thus producing an extract many times 
stronger, more durable and delicious than any other in the market. 
In consequence of the high degree of purity attained, Dr. Price's 
Delicious Flavoring Extracts can be carried in stock indefinitely 
without any loss of strength or change in flavor. Their freedom 
from ethers, poisonous oils, coal-tar substances, and artificial 
coloring removes all danger from chemical reaction, assuring their 
healthfulness and wholesomeness. 



List of Dr. Price's Extracts 



Vanilla, Ideal, Zephyr, Lemon, Orange, Almond, 
Rose, Celery, Coffee, Chocolate, Ginger, 

Nutmeg, Clove, Allspice, 

Essence Wintergreen, Essence Peppermint, Essence Anise, 
Essence Cinnamon, Onion Relish. 

Dr. Price's Aromatic Essence of 
Jamaica Ginger 

Prepared from the genuine Jamaica Ginger Root, free from 
cayenne pepper, artificial oils, colorings, or any adulterants. 



The Responsibility 



responsibility for inferior flavoring extracts often rests 
with the consumers themselves, as they seek the cheapest r 
irrespective of quality. This desire to purchase cheap commodi- 
ties has greatly promoted food adulteration. Just so long as we 
are constantly striving to purchase for five cents that for which 
we ought to pay ten, the manufacturers will cater to our wishes and 
put upon the market something that can be sold for five cents. 
Imitations are often proclaimed to be superior to the genuine, and 
humanity goes bravely on hoping for the realization of the impos- 

s 

sible and an opportunity to get something for nothing. Good goods 
cost money; poor stuff can be had at any price. Is there any 
economy in a cheap flavoring extract of which you must use double 
the quantity at a quarter less in cost ? Pure food and good health 
accompany each other and are worth your careful consideration. 



Delicious Desserts 

Dinner 



THANKSGIVING PAGE 

Fruit Pudding 27 

Pumpkin Pie 25 

Coffee Ice Cream 37 

Peppermint Drops 43 

Roman Punch 39 

Chocolate Wafers 19 

Mince Pie. Assorted Cakes. 
Nuts. 

CHRISTMAS 

Christmas Plum Pudding 27 

Peach Ice Cream 37 

Angels' Food 15 

Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream 33 

Almond Jumbles 19 

Fruit Cake 11 

Fig Cake 12 

Cream Walnuts 41 

Claret Punch 39 

Mince Pie. 



NEW YEAR PAGE 

Fig Pudding 29 

Lemon Pie 24 

Italian Tutti-Frutti 37 

Maple Creams 40 

Fruit Sherbet 39 

Almond Cookies 20 

Apple Pie 23 

Peppermint Drops 43 

FruitCake ..11 



EASTER 

Queen of Puddings 28 

White Lady Cake 14 

Almond Drops 22 

Lemon Ice 38 

Spice Drops 22 

Plum Pie. Candies. 



Dr. Price's Ice Cream Sugar 

The heart of your household is your table. Every housewife 
who has the welfare, of her table at heart will not fail to read this 
article. 

By the use of Dr. Price's Delicious Ice Cream Sugar she can, at 
a moment's notice, place before her family an Ice Cream remarkable 
for smoothness, palatableness, and purity. It is always ready for 
immediate use, no flavoring, color or cooking necessary. Simply 
add the contents of one package to one pint of mUk and one pint 
of cream, dissolve and freeze. Ice Cream Sugar is without a 
parallel in the facility and quickness with which it is made into a 
delicate, delicious dessert. It is one of the very latest additions 
to the many superior articles produced by Dr. Price, the house- 
wife's friend and pure food expert. 

Ice Cream Sugar is the mixture of the very same wholesome 
ingredients you would use in home-made ice cream, prepared by 
us ready for freezing. It will not only save the trouble of prepara- 
tion, but does so at a jnaterial less expense to you. 

Every ingredient is added by exact weight and perfectly mixed 
by machinery, thus always insuring absolute uniformity in flavor, 
color, and composition. It is made from the purest materials that 
can be produced. Contains no vanillin, coumarin, aniline colors, 
or other coal tar derivatives, and is absolutely free from every sub- 
stance injurious to health. 

Its simplicity to prepare for serving makes it an especially 
ideal article to have in every home, as with the least possible labor 
and time you can take care of an emergency with satisfaction to 
the most fastidious taste. If you are in doubt or in any way 
question this, why not obtain a package of your grocer, and demon- 
strate yourself the truthfulness of above. 

LIST OF FLAVORS 
Vanilla, Lemon, Orange, 
Maple, Strawberry, 
Pistachio, 
Peach. 
4 



Introduction of Dr. Price's 
Harmless Food Colors 



\ 



There has never been a time like the present, when house- 
keepers gave so much attention to the appearance as well as to the 
palatableness of household cookery. 

Cooking is a domestic science and a culinary art. Housekeep- 
ers hail with delight any invention or device which will aid in the 
improvement of home-made dishes. A love of daintiness is inher- 
ent in the heart of every true housewife, and when this can be 
gained without loss of health or comfort, a great boon has been 
conferred. 

Color schemes enter largely into all forms of entertainment 
to-day, and in order to meet these requirements, a fine line of 
exquisitely prepared liquid colors has been placed on the market by 
Dr. Price, who, after years of careful experiment, has succeeded in 
obtaining from vegetable sources, colors which possess the perfect 
fruit tints without aniline, coal tar dyes, or any other substance 
detrimental to health. These colors will meet the requirements of 
the food laws of any country in the world. They can be used fear- 
lessly to color cake, frostings, ices, sherbets, and creams. 

The name of Dr. Price upon the label is a guarantee of their 
strength, efficacy, and purity. 

% 

List of Colors 

Fruit Coloring, Strawberry Red, 

Lemon Yellow, Chocolate Brown, 

Purple Violet, Blood Orange, 

Apple Green. 

Decorative Dishes, pages 44 and 45. 



VANILLA Prime Mexican vanilla beans only should be used 
in the manufacture of food preparations. They are cultivated in 
the province of Vera Cruz, Mexico. The beans are from seven to 
nine inches long, and of a dark brown color. The production is not 
large, and consequently held at a very high price. It is this high 



price that induces manufacturers to use the inferior grade of beans, 
such as Bourbon, South American, Tahiti, wild vanillas, and the 
substitute Tonka, or snuff bean, as well as the artificial prepara- 
tions of vanillin, coumarin, etc., with aniline coloring (coal tar 
derivatives). These inferior bean substitutes and artificial prepa- 
rations enter wholly or are component parts of many alleged 
vanilla extracts. Thousands of pounds of the finest quality of 
Mexican vanilla beans are consumed annually by the Price Flavor- 
ing Extract Company, more than by any other makers of flavoring 
extracts in the world. It is in the use of such beans, properly 
cured and aged, and by an original process, that Dr Price's Deli- 
cious Flavoring Extract of Vanilla obtains its rare excellence of 
flavor and natural color. 

LEMON AND ORANGE Familiar as we are with these fruits, 
we have probably little considered their analogy. In their culti- 
vation, the conditions of soil, climate, and entire surroundings, 
though identical still they produce two deliciously opposite flavors. 
The active flavoring principle of each is contained in the rind or 
peel (not in the pulp) as an essential oil. It is in Sicily, as in no 
other place, that these fruits grow nearer to perfection, and it is 
from the fruits of this country that the most valuable oils are 
obtained. The process of extracting the oil is entirely by hand 
It is very laborious and expensive, as it requires two days labor 
and one thousand lemons or oranges to produce one pound of oil. 
On account of the expense attached to hand-pressed oil, it is often 
mixed with the inferior grade, as well as grossly adulterated with an 
entirely foreign substance, such as oil of turpentine. 

In a pure extract of lemon or orange, the hand-pressed oil 
combined with the peel should only be used. 

6 




SCENE IN MEXICO. 
Gathering Vanilla Beans for Dr. Price's Flavoring Extracts. 



WHAT IS DR. PRICE'S JELLY 
SUGAR DESSERT? 



Dr. Price's Jelly Sugar Dessert is ^ new food product. It is a 
combination of refined sugar, refined gelatine, and lemon acid. 

It is prepared by Dr. Price, a physician and chemist, whose 
name has never been associated with any food product that was 
other than pure, wholesome, and nutritious 

Jelly Sugar Dessert is flavored with Dr. Price's Delicious Flavor- 
ing Extracts, and colored with Dr. Price's Harmless Food Colors, 
and not with the usual aniline or coal tar dyes. In the matter of 
color alone it is a safe dessert 

Jelly Sugar Dessert is a handy article for the busy housewife, as 
it makes a delicious attractive jelly pastry with little trouble and no 
' loss of time. 

Success of the menu is lacking v/hen the dessert is unpalatable 
and unattractive. Jelly Sugar Dessert is both temptingly attract- 
ive and. beneficial to the appetite of the invalid as well as gratifying 
to the palate of the healthy. 

Numerous combinations can be made with Jelly Sugar Dessert, 
". a few of which we submit on pages 36 and 37. 

LIST OF FLAVORS. 

Orange, Lemon, Cherry, 
Strawberry, Raspberry, Pineapple, 

Peach, Mint. 
Pistachio Chocolate 



DELICIOUS DESSERTS. 

TEA OR LUNCHEON. 

o PAGE 

SPRING. SUNDAY Lemon Jelly , 35 

Gold Cake 14 

MONDAY Floating Island 33 

Chocolate Cake 15 

TUESDAY Sliced Oranges. 

Philadelphia Jumbles 20 

WEDNESDAY Boston Cream Cakes 22 

THURSDAY Currant and Raspberry Tarts 

with whipped cream 25 

FRIDAY Cup Custard 33 

Fruit Cookies 20 

SATURDAY Baked Sweet Apples with 

whipped cream. 

Clove Cake 12 

SUMMER. SUNDAY Cream Pie 24 

MONDAY Strawberries and Cream. 

TUESDAY Cream Tarts. . , 25 

WEDNESDAY Raspberries and Cream. 

Cheese Cakes '26 

THURSDAY Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream 33 

Sponge Cake 14 

FRIDAY Spanish Cream , 34 

SATURDAY Orange Jelly 36 

Tea Cakes 20 

AUTUMN. SUNDAY Blanc Mange 32 

Delicate Cake 13 

MONDAY Lemon Pie 24 

TUESDAY Sliced Peaches. 

WEDNESDAY Cream Puffs 22 

THURSDAY Sliced Oranges and Bananas. 

White Mountain Cake 14 

FRIDAY Bavarian Cream 33 

SATURDAY Rice Pudding 28 

WINTER. SUNDAY Macaroon Custard 32 

Ginger Bread 21 

MONDAY Sweet Potato Pie 25 

TUESDAY Apple Sauce. 

Molasses Cookies 20 

WEDNESDAY Snow Pudding 28 

Roll Jelly Cake 17 

THURSDAY Frozen Peaches 39 

Dew Drops 22 

FRIDAY Cocoanut Tarts 26 

SATURDAY Cream Fritters 30 

Lemon Sauce 31 

9 



DELICIOUS DESSERTS. 

DINNER. 

O PAGE 

SPRING. SUNDAY Italian Cream 35 

White Sponge Cake 14 

MONDAY Brown Top Pudding 30 

TUESDAY Baked Apple Dumpling 26 

WEDNESDAY Graham Pudding 27 

Lemon Sauce 31 

THURSDAY Fruit Charlotte 34 

Pink and White Layer Cake. ... 16 

FRIDAY Malborough Pie 24 

SATURDAY Almond Custard 33 

Lemon Cookies 20 

SUMMER. SUNDAY- Fruit Cream 37 

Angels' Food 15 

Roman Punch 39 

Almond Drops 22 

MONDAY Cherry Pie 25 

TUESDAY Peach Cottage Pudding 29 

Hard Sauce 31 

WEDNESDAY Strawberry Shortcake 26 

THURSDAY Strawberry Sherbet 39 

White Pound Cake 14 

FRIDAY Charlotte Russe 34 

Ring Jumbles 19 

SATURDAY Peach Pie 25 

AUTUMN. SUNDAY- Peach Ice Cream 37 

Caramel Cake 13 

MONDAY Railroad Pudding 28 

Foaming Sauce 31 

TUESDAY Custard Pie . . 24 

WEDNESDAY Velvet Blanc Mange 32 

Sugar Cookies 20 

THURSDAY Pumpkin Pie 25 

FRIDAY Cocoanut Pie 24 

SATURDAY Apple Fritters 30 

White Wine Sauce 31 

WINTER. SUNDAY Steamed Berry Pudding 30 

Hard Brandy Sauce 31 

Wine Lemon Jelly 35 

Cream Walnuts 41 

MONDAY Indian Pudding 29 

TUESDAY Tipsy Pudding 28 

WEDNESDAY Victoria Pie 24 

THURSDAY Delmonico Pudding 29 

FRIDAY Neapolitan Blanc Mange 32 

SATURDAY Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream 33 

10 



CAKE. 



GOOD cake depends quite as much upon the way of putting 
it together as it does upon the quantity and quality of the 
ingredients used. Careless mixing will spoil the best reci- 
pes. Always cream the butter and sugar; beat the whites 
and yolks of eggs separately; mix the yolks with the butter and 
sugar; add the milk; sift 'the baking powder with the flour, and 
stir in a little at a time; then the whites of the eggs; lastly, the 
flavoring. No cake, pudding, custard or cream will taste good if 
flavored with a poor, cheap extract. Always use the best. Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts are prepared from fruits that 
yield the finest flavor. None of greater strength. None of such 
perfect purity. Always certain to impart to Cakes, Puddings, 
Sauces, Ice Creams, etc., the natural flavor of the fruit. 

Black or Wedding Cake. One pound of brown sugar, one 
pound of butter, one and one-half pounds of flour, twelve eggs, one 
pound of currants, dredged; two pounds of raisins, seeded; one- 
half pound of citron, cut thin; one-half pound of figs, chopped; one 
pound of almonds, blanched and chopped; one glass of jelly, one 
wineglass of brandy, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of 
Cinnamon, one teaspoonful of Cloves, two teaspoonfuls of Nutmeg. 

Mix all well, the whites of the eggs and brandy last. Bake in 
two loaves for four hours, or longer if not cooked through. Will 
keep well for one year. 

Mottled Cake. One pound of sugar, one-naif pound of butter, 
whites of twelve eggs, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; take 
one-half of the batter and stir in one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Fruit Coloring; fill the buttered cake pan by putting in one spoon- 
ful of white, then one of pink until all the batter is in. 

Plain Fruit Cake. One cup of butter, one of brown sugar, one 
of molasses, one of sweet milk, three cups of flour, four eggs, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two pounds of raisins, seeded; one teaspoonful each of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Rose, Cinnamon, Nutmeg, and one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Cloves; one-half wineglass of brandy. 

Every housekeeper, after a trial of the Extracts, will endorse 
their claims for strength, delicacy of taste and purity. 

11 



Fig Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
cold water, three cups of seeded raisins, one pound of figs, chopped 
fine; three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
egg. Bake slowly. 

Cup Cake. One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, four eggs, one-half cup of milk, two teaspoorffuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon or White 
Rose. 

Citron Cake. One quart of flour, one cup of butter, two cups 
of sugar, twelve eggs, one cup of cream, one glass of wine, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond, one cup of chopped citron. 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake. One pint of flour, two cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, five eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one cup of grated cocoanut, one-half teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. One cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
melted butter, three-fourths cup of milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; yolks of eight eggs, 
white of one; grate one-quarter of a cake of Baker's chocolate into 
one-half cup of the milk and boil until thick. Flavor with Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla and mix into the batter. 

Coffee Cake. One cup of coffee or two teaspoonfuls of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Coffee, one cup of molasses, one cup of butter, 
one cup of sugar, one of raisins, one of currants, four cups of flour, 
one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinna- 
mon, one half teaspoonful cloves, four eggs, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in hot water. 

Clove Cake. One cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of sour cream, 
one teaspoonful cf soda, one-half cup of flour, a pinch of salt, one 
teaspoonful of cloves. 

Spice Cake. One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, two of soda, 
and one-half teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's Extract of Clove, 
Allspice and Cinnamon. One-half cup of strong boiled coffee, flour 
enough to make a stiff dough. 

Hickory-Nut Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
three cups of flour, one cup of milk, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one cup of nut meats cut fine, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts are natural fruit fla- 
vors, and contain no poisonous oils, ethers, cheap substitutes, or 
artificial colors. 

12 



Delicate Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of flour, one-half cup of corn starch sifted with the flour, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, whites of six eggs, two 
teaspoonf uls of baking powder : flavor with one-half teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Washington Cake. One cup of butter, three cups of brown 
sugar, one cup of milk, four eggs, one cup of seeded raisins, three 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
each of Dr. Price's Extract of Clove, Nutmeg and Cinnamon. 

Marble Cake. WHITE PART. One-half cup of butter, one and 
one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of milk, two and one-half cups 
of flour, whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. DARK PART. 
One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of molasses, two cups of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of sour milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
two cups of flour, yolks of four eggs, one teaspoonful of extract 
of clove, one of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon; put into well- 
buttered pan, one teaspoonful of white, one of dark, until all is used. 

Chocolate Marble Cake. Whites of six eggs, one cup of but- 
ter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla, one-quarter cake of chocolate grated 
and mixed into one-half of the batter; put into the cake pan in 
layers of dark, then white. 

Quick Sponge Cake. Three eggs, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one- 
half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Lemon. 

Caramel Cake. One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, one cup of cornstarch, 
whites of seven eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; bake in long* pan. One- 
half pound of brown sugar, one-half pound of chocolate, one-half 
cup of milk, butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla; boil until thick enough to spread, spread 
over the top and sides of cake. Or two cups of brown sugar, one 
cup of sweet cream, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, butter the size of 
an egg ; boil until it sugars ; spread over top and sides. 

These Delicious Flavoring Extracts are just as represented. 
No deception in quantity or quality. 

13 



Pound Cake. One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, twelve eggs, beaten separately very light, one wine- 
glass of brandy. 

Lunch Cake. Four cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one- 
half cup of milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Gold Cake. One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
cup of milk; yolks of six eggs, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Lemon. 

Silver Cake. One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups 
of sugar, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, the whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Orange. 

Bride's Cake. Three cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, 
one of sweet milk, four cups of flour, one-half cup of cornstarch, 
whites of twelve eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful each of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla and Lemon. 

White Pound Cake. One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, 
one pound of butter, whites of sixteen eggs, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 
Bake it in a slow oven. Will keep one year. 

White Lady Cake. One and one-half cups of flour, one cup 
of sugar, one-half cup of butter, whites of four eggs, one-half cup 
of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder; flavor with Dr. Price's 
Extract of Almond. 

White Mountain Cake. One pound of sugar, one and one-half 
pounds of butter, one pound of flour, whites of ten eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

White Cream Cake. Four cups of flour, one cup of butter, 
one cup of sweet cream, three cups of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, whites of ten eggs; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of White Rose. 

Cream Sponge Cake. Two cups of sugar, one of cream, two 
cups of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Bake quickly. 

White Sponge Cake. One and one-half cups of powdered 
sugar, one cup of flour, a pinch of salt, whites of eleven eggs, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Vanilla. 

Nice delicacies are improved by the use of Dr. Price's Extracts, 
because of their natural fruit flavor. 

14 



Angels' Food No. I. One and one-half tumblers of granulated 
sugar, one tumbler flour, each sifted seven times; in the last sifting 
put in one even teaspoonful of cream of tartar; whites of eleven 
eggs; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Almond or Vanilla. 

Angels' Food No. 2. One and one-half tumblers of sifted pow- 
dered sugar, one tumbler of flour sifted four times, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, whites of eleven eggs, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla; beat the eggs stiff, add sugar, then flour 
and. baking powder. Do not butter the pan. 



LAYER CAKES. 



Almond Cake. Two cups of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, whites of six eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon. Bake in jelly tins. 

FILLING. Two pounds of blanched almonds, pounded fine; 
two eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract 
of Vanilla. Spread between the layers and frost. 

Orange Cake. Make cake part the same as for lemon cake. 

FILLING. Whites of two eggs, three cups of sugar, the grated 
rind and juice of one orange, half the juice of one lemon, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Orange. Spread between layers. 

Chocolate Cake. Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one-half 
of milk, three of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

FILLING. Boil two ounces of chocolate, one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, 
until thick; let cool and spread. 

FILLING No. 2. Whites of three eggs, one cup of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla. Mix smooth and spread. 

Cocoanut Cake. Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, three and one-half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, whites of four eggs, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. Bake in jelly tins. 

FILLING. One grated cocoanut, whites of two eggs, one cup 
of sugar, spread between layers and on top of cake. 

We are receiving daily testimonials from persons of intelligence, 
endorsements of the high standard of all articles bearing the name 
of Dr. Price. 

15 



Cream Cake. One cup of sugar, one-quarter of a cup of but- 
ter, one-half cup of milk, the whites of two eggs, one and one-half 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. 

FILLING. Yolks of two eggs, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonf uls 
of cream, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. Spread. 

Apple Jelly Cake. Make any good white cake and bake in 
jelly tins. 

FILLING. Pare and grate three apples, two-thirds of a cup of 
sugar, one beaten egg, mix all and cook, stirring while cooking; 
flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

Fig Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup of milk, three cups of flour, whites of six eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

FILLING. Boil fifteen minutes one pound of chopped figs, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of water. Spread between layers. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half 
of butter, one-half of milk, two and one-half cups of flour, three 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. One cup of sugar, one egg, grated rind and juice of 
one lemon, one tablespoonf ul of water, one teaspoonful of flour. 
Boil until it thickens; cool and spread between the layers. 

Pink and White Layer Cake. One cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, one of corn starch, two cups of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of six e^gs; separate enough 
batter to make two layers, and add one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Fruit Coloring. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. Make a boiled frosting; flavor with Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Almond; color one-half with Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring. 
Spread white frosting on pink layer, pink frosting on white layer. 

Minnehaha Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Almond, whites of six eggs. Bake in long pan. 

FILLING. One cup of sugar, one-quarter cup of water; boil 
until brittle; take from the stove and stir in the white of one egg, 
well beaten; one cup of seeded raisins, chopped; one of hickory 
nuts, chopped. Spread between layers. 

Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon is prepared from the flavoring 
principle obtained from the rind of the lemon. No turpentine, no 
poisonous oils. 

16 



* 

-8 



-5 Q 
^ 



ts 

I 




1 



4 



4 




Hickory-Nut Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, three-quarters cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, 
whites of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Ideal. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. Whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one cup of chopped nut meats, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Lemon. 

Metropolitan Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, four cups of flour, whites of eight eggs, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon. Take out enough of this batter to fill three 
jelly tins; bake. Add to the remaining batter one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful each of 
cloves and allspice, ground; one-quarter pound each of raisins, 
seeded, and sliced citron. Bake in two layers; put together with 
frosting, alternating light and dark. 

Pineapple Cake. Whites of six eggs, one cup of milk, one and 
one-half cups of sugar, two and one-half of flour, one-half cup of 
butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Rose. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. Whites of three eggs, one cup of powdered sugar, 
one can of grated pineapple. Spread. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. Two cups of sugar, two cups of sifted 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, six eggs; beat all together 
quickly, bake in quick oven; when done spread quickly with jelly, 
roll carefully and wrap in napkin. 



ICINGS FOR CAKE. 



Boiled Frosting. One pint of granulated sugar with enough 
water to dissolve it. Let it boil until it threads from the spoon. 
Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and pour the boiling sugar into it, 
beating all the time. 

Cream Frosting. Take the whites of two eggs, add an equal 
measure of cold water, stir into this confectioners' sugar until of 
the right consistency to spread. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

Dr. Price's name has become historic, standing second to none 
as the originator of high-grade articles for domestic use. 

17 



Soft Icing. Ten teaspoonfuls of sugar to one egg; beat twenty 
minutes. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. 

Almond Icing. Three cups of sugar, one pound of almonds, 
blanched and pounded to a paste; beat the whites of three eggs, 
and stir in the sugar and almonds. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Almond. 

Water Icing. Two cups of sugar, water enough to make a 
thick paste, a small pinch of cream of tartar. Beat well; if not stiff 
enough add more sugar. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Rose. 

Chocolate Icing. Melt three ounces of chocolate in a little 
water, boil in two cups of sugar ; stir the whites of three well-beaten 
eggs. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

NOTE. Where variety of color for children's parties is desired, 
divide the frosting into four parts, and color with Dr. Price's Food 
Colors Green, Violet, Brown and Orange. 



SMALL CAKES. 



Scotch Cake. Rub three-quarters of a pound of butter into 
one pound of sifted flour, mix into it one pound of granulated sugar 
and one large tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon; mix it into a 
dough with three well-beaten eggs; roll out into a sheet; cut into 
round cakes and bake in a quick oven. They will require but a 
few minutes. 

Anise Drops. Three cups of sugar and six eggs beaten together 
one-half hour; add one quart of flour, one-half teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Essence of Anise. Grease the pan with beeswax, and drop 
the mixture from a spoon. 

The Best Cookies. Two cups of powdered sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, flour enough to make a soft batter. Bake in patty 
tins. Beat the batter hard for ten minutes before putting into 
tins. When cold, ice with soft white icing made with the whites 
of four eggs and powdered sugar enough to make them stiff. 

Purity and wholesomeness should enter into our daily food. 
Both qualities are found in Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring 
Extracts and Telly Sugar Desserts. 

18 



Lemon Jumbles. Take one egg, one cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, three teaspoonfuls of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Lemon; flour enough to mix stiff, cut thin. 

Almond Jumbles. One pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
flour, one-half pound of butter, one teaspoonful of sour milk, five 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of White Rose, three- 
quarters of a pound of almonds, blanched and chopped fine; one 
teaspoonful of soda. Mix well, adding the whites of eggs beaten to- 
a stiff froth, last. Drop on buttered paper, bake quickly. 

Chocolate Wafers. One cup of brown sugar, one cup of gran- 
ulated sugar, one cup of butter, one egg, one cup of grated chocolate, 
one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, enough flour to 
make stiff (about one and one-half cups) ; roll very, thin, cut with 
little square cutter or tin lid; bake a very short time. 

Ring Jumbles. One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, four 
eggs, one pound of flour or. enough to make soft dough, three tea- 
spoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. Mix all together, adding 
the well-beaten whites of eggs last. Line shallow tins with but- 
tered paper. Bake quickly, and sift fine sugar over them as soon as 
you take them from the oven. With a teaspoon form rings of the 
dough. 

Doughnuts. One pound of butter, one and three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar, one quart of sweet milk, four eggs, one-half a cake 
of yeast dissolved in a cup of lukewarm water, one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon. Mix together butter, sugar, 
milk, yeast, and one quart of flour. Set to rise over night. In the 
morning add the eggs, well beaten, then the flavoring, and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough; let rise three hours; roll thick and 
fry in hot lard. 

Fried Cakes No. i. Take three eggs, one cup of brown sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three 
tablespoonfuls of hot lard, one quart of flour, one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon. Fry in hot lard. 

Fried Cakes No. 2. One quart of flour one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of milk, one-half cup of cream, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cin- 
namon. Fry in hot lard. 

If you desire something delicious, palatable and attractive, try Dr 
Price's Jelly Sugar Desserts. 



19 



Philadelphia Jumbles. Take one pound of sugar, one-half 
pound of butter, eight eggs beaten light, flour enough to enable you 
to roll them out ; stir the sugar and butter to a light cream, then 
add the well-whipped eggs, the flavoring, and the flour; mix well 
together ; roll out in powdered sugar in a sheet a quarter of an inch 
in thickness, cut into rings with a jagging iron, and bake in a quick 
oven on buttered tins. 

Tea Cakes. Put upon a pie board one pound of flour which 
you have previously sifted, make a hole in the center, in which 
place one-half pound of butter, six ounces of powdered sugar, and 
four eggs. Mix all well together and roll out your paste extremely 
thin ; cut it out in rounds or squares, put in a pan which has been 
buttered slightly, brush your cakes with beaten eggs, sprinkle on 
top one-half pound of currants; put in the oven, and when colored 
a bright yellow, remove them and serve as needed. 

Lemon Cookies. Beat six eggs, whites and yolks separately; 
one cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon. Flour to make stiff enough to mold. 
Roll thin, bake in quick oven. 

Sugar Cookies. One cup of sugar, three-fourths cup of butter, 
one-quarter of a cup of sweet milk, two eggs well beaten, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a pinch of salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon, and add grated nutmeg 
if desired; flour enough to roll; cut into round cakes, sprinkle 
with sugar, and bake in a quick oven. 

Almond Cookies. One cup of butter, two and one-half cups 
of sugar, two eggs, one cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; flour enough 
to roll. Do not roll too thin. 

Fruit Cookies. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two cups 
of chopped raisins, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sour milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Nutmeg, Clove, and Cinnamon; flour enough to roll; bake; 
in quick oven. 

Molasses Cookies. Two cups of molasses, one cup of butter, 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, 
one-half teaspoonful of cloves, flour to mix soft, roll thick, bake 
in moderate oven. 

No Tonka Beans, Vanillin, Coumarin, or artificial color used in 
Dr. Price's Vanilla, which has a delicate aroma and promotes diges- 
tion. 

20 



The Best Ginger Bread. One and one-half cups of molasses, 
one-half cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful each of 
Dr. Price's Extracts of Ginger and Cinnamon. Bake in shallow 
pans. 

Ginger Snaps. One and one-quarter cups of flour, one-quar- 
ter cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half pint of 
molasses, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three tablespoonfuls 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Jamaica Ginger. 

Ginger Cookies. Two cups of molasses, one cup of lard, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of sour cream, one tablespoonful of 
ground ginger, two eggs, three and one-half teaspoonfuls of soda; 
flour to roll thick. Bake in quick oven. 

Ginger Bread. One cup of molasses, one-half cup of hot water, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the water, one tablespoonful 
of butter, one egg, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Jamaica 
Ginger, two and one-half cups of flour, a pinch of salt. 

Sponge Ginger Bread (Eggless). Five cups of flour, one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus dissolved in 
hot water, two teaspoonfuls of Dr ; Price's Extract of Ginger, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon; beat very light 
and bake in broad, shallow pans. Half a pound of seeded raisins, 
cut fine, added to this will make a delicious tea bread. 

Fruit Ginger Bread. Two pounds of flour, three-fourths of a 
pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of raisins, seeded and 
chopped; one pound of currants, two cups of molasses, one-half cup 
of sour cream, six eggs, one heaping teaspoonful of soda, two table- 
spoonfuls of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence 
of Cinnamon; mix well. Add the fruit last, well dredged with flour. 
Beat well and bake in tin pans. 

Bread Cake. On baking day take from your dough when ready 
for baking, two cups of dough, add two cups of white sugar, one cup 
of butter, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, one-half 
pound of currants, dredged, and one and one-half teaspoonfuls of 
Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon; beat hard for five minutes; put 
into two buttered pans and let raise for twenty minutes. Bake 
one-half hour. 

Beauty, economy and taste follow the use of Dr. Price's Ice 
Cream Sugar. 



21 



Cream Puffs. One-half cup of butter melted in one cup of hot 
water; set on the stove to boil; while boiling stir in one cup of flour; 
when cool, stir in three eggs, one after the other, without beating; 
drop on hot tins and bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

FILLING. One cup of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of sugar; 
boil and thicken with corn starch, flavoring with one teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

Boston Cream Cake. One-half pound of butter, three-quarters 
of a pound of flour, eight eggs, one pint of warm water; stir butter 
and water into a saucepan and boil slowly; while it boils stir in the 
flour, then boil one minute, stirring all the time. When cool stir 
in the eggs, beaten separately. Drop on buttered paper; bake ten 
minutes. 

FILLING. One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
two eggs, two cups of sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; boil the milk and add the 
sugar and butter, beat the eggs and take a little of the cool milk and 
corn starch, and stir to a smooth paste, add this to the boiling mix- 
ture, then boil all ten minutes. Split the cakes with a sharp knife 
and fill with the cold cream. 

Ginger Drops. One cup of molasses, one-half cup of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Ginger and Cinnamon; two teaspoonfuls of soda in one 
cup of hot water, three cups of flour, two eggs. Bake in drops on 
buttered tins. 

Almond Drops. -Six eggs, one pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one cup of cream, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 
Drop from spoon on buttered paper. 

Spice Drops. Yolks of three eggs, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of molasses, one-half cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; spice with ground nutmeg, 
cloves, cinnamon, and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon; drop on tins lined with buttered paper. Cover 
with icing colored with Dr. Price's Lemon Yellow. Bake quickly. 

Dew Drops. Two cups of powdered sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
flour enough to make a soft batter. Bake in patty tins, and ice 
v/hen cold with frosting colored with Dr. Price's Apple Green. 

Dr. Price's Food Colors are in liquid form convenient for use. 

22 



PASTRY. 



In making pastry, care should be taken to handle it as little as 
possible. The surest way to make good crust is to chop it together 
without putting the hands into it. The water, butter, or lard 
should always be cold. 

Pie Crust No. I. To one pint of flour add one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, mix in one cup of butter or lard; wet with ice water. 
Will make two pies. 

Pie Crust No. 2. Three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, a pinch of salt, one cup of cream, one-half cup of 
butter. Roll thin. 

Pie Crust No. 3. Four cups of flour, one cup of butter, one 
cup of lard, a pinch of salt, one cup of water. Chop together and 
roll thin. 

Pie Crust No. 4. One quart of flour, one-half cup of lard, 
one-half cup of butter, a pinch of salt, ice water to wet. Chop 
together and roll thir^, 

Puff Paste No. I. One pound of flour to be mixed with ice 
water, roll and spread with one pound of butter. Fold over and 
roll until butter is all mixed in. 

Puff Paste No. 2. Three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, a pinch of salt, one egg; mix flour and egg with ice 
water; roll out and put on butter in small bits, fold over and roll. 
Put on ice for twenty minutes. Roll thick. 

Apple Pie. Peel and slice very thin apples enough to fill a pie 
tin; line pan with crust, put in the apples, cover with sugar and 
ground cinnamon; cover with crust; bake. 

Cream Pie No. I. Three glasses of milk, three tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch, yolks of three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon, a pinch of salt; boil until thick; pour into a 
baked crust; whip the whites with one cup of sugar and spread on 
top. Brown. 

Color schemes enter largely into all forms of entertainment. Dr. 
Price's Harmless Food Colors can be used for this purpose with 
perfect safety. 

23 



Cream Pie No. 2. Stir to a cream one-half cup of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter, add two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, two cups of milk, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Orange. Pour into pans lined with crust; bake. 

Lemon Pie. Grate the rind of one lemon and use the juice, or 
two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, one cup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, four eggs; 
mix; pour into pans lined with crust and bake. When done, 
spread the top with white of one egg, one-half cup of sugar; 
brown. 

Lemon Cream Pie. Boil one pint of milk, add three teaspoon- 
fuls of corn starch; when boiled take from stove and stir in the 
yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cup of sugar, 
the juice of two lemons and rind of one grated; pour into rich crust; 
bake twenty minutes. Whip the whites of four eggs with one cup 
of sugar. Spread over the top and brown. 

Custard Pie. One quart of milk, five eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 
Baked in pans lined with plain crust. 

Chocolate Pie. Four tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one 
pint of water, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar, boil until thick ; add one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; bake the crust, pour in the chocolate. 
Beat the whites of the eggs with one cup of sugar, spread over top 
and brown. 

Marlborough Pie. Six macaroons, roll fine; one cup of stewed 
apples, three eggs, one-half pint of cream, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Almond, two teaspoonfuls of chopped citron; 
mix. Line deep pan with crust, pour in the mixture; bake. 

Cocoanut Pie. One-half pound of sugar, one-quarter pound 
of butter, three eggs, one-half pound of grated cocoanut, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Rose; mix; pour into pan lined 
with crust; bake. 

Victoria Pie. Steam six apples until tender, press through a 
sieve, and mix a tablespoonful of butter with them while hot; let 
stand to cool. Add the yolks of four eggs, the juice of one lemon, 
one cup of sugar and one of cream. Line pie pans with plain paste; 
fill with the mixture; bake in a quick oven; cover tops with me- 
ringue. 

Dr. Price's Ice Cream Sugar will revolutionize the making of 
Ice Cream in every home where it is tried. 




Dr. Price s Personal Announcement 

For nearly three generations I have been known among grocers as 
a pioneer ia the scientific manufacture of pure foods. Dr. Price's 
Cream Baking Powder and Delicious Flavoring Extracts, the two 
articles bearing my name, are staples upon the shelves of grocers of 
two continents, and seven out of ten housewives acknowledge my pro- 
ducts as the world s standards. 

Those house-wives who have not used my Delicious Flavoring 
Extracts I respectfully ask to try them, feeling certain that they 
will be found just as represented, the natural flavor of the fruit, 
uniform strength and pertect purity. 

Yours very truly, 

DR. V. C. PRICE 





FRUITS USED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF 




'RICE'S DELICIOUS FLAVORING EXTRACTS 




SICILY 
GATHERING LEMONS FOR DR. PRICE'S DELICIOUS FLAVORING EXTRACTS 



Cherry Pie. Line the pan with good crust and fill with ripe 
cherries, stoned; regulate the quantity of sugar you scatter over 
them by their sweetness. Cover and bake. When cold sift pow- 
dered sugar over upper crust. 

Blackberry, Raspberry and Plum pies are made in the same way. 

Pumpkin Pie. One-half cup of pumpkin, one cup of milk, / 
sugar to taste; one egg, one teaspoonful extract of ginger, one-half 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoonful of cloves, one 
tablespoonful of whisky or brandy, enough for one pie. 

Sweet Potato Pie. One pint of mashed sweet potatoes, one 
cup of sweet milk, one cup of butter, one cup of sugar, four eggs, 
one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 
Pour into pan lined with crust; bake. 

Mince Pie Meat. Boil two pounds of good meat tender; chop 
fine when cold; one-half pound of suet, chopped fine; one table- 
spoonful of ground cloves, one of nutmeg, one tablespoonful each 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Cinnamon and Ginger, two cups of sugar, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of wine, one of brandy, two pounds of 
seeded raisins, two pounds of currants, one pound of citron chopped 
fine, two pounds of tart apples chopped fine, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of ground mace, one of allspice; mix well; put in 
stone jars and cover. Will keep all winter. 

Peach Pie. Line a pie tin with crust, slice the peaches and put 
sugar enough over to sweeten, allow three peach kernels to a pie, 
add a little water; bake with cross bars of crust across the top. Can 
be made from canned peaches. 

Currant and Raspberry Tart. Three cups of currants, one 
cup of raspberries, one and one-half cups of sugar; bake with under 
and upper crust. 

Tarts. Use the best puff paste for tarts, roll thick and bake in 
small pans; fill with jam, jelly or cream. 

Cream Tarts. Fill tart shells with whipped cream; put a spoon- 
ful of jelly on top of cream. 

Tart Shells. Roll thin good puff paste, cut out with a glass, 
then with a wineglass cut out the center of small ones, lay on top 
of each other and bake. Fill with jelly or jam. 

Almond Tarts. Beat to a cream the yolks of three eggs and 
one-quarter of a pound of sugar; add one-half pound of pounded 
almonds; one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; put in 
tart tins lined with paste; bake ten minutes. 

Dr. Price's Harmless Food Colors and Fruit Coloring are the 
only colors in the market that are safe to use. 

25 



Cocoanut Tarts. Dissolve one-half pound of sugar in one-half 
pint of water, add one pound of grated cocoanut, boil; when cool 
add the yolks of three and the white of one egg; mix and pour into 
tart tins lined with crust; bake. 

Cheese Cakes. One cup of grated cocoanut, one cup of milk 
curds, one cup of cream, yolks of five eggs, one cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; boil until thick; pour 
into tart tins lined with puff paste; bake ten minutes. Orange or 
lemon can be used in place of cocoanut. 

Strawberry Short-Cake. One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of butter and milk to make a soft dough; bake in 
two layers, one on top of the other, with butter between; when cool, 
slit open with a knife and cover with berries sprinkled with sugar, 
put other layer of crust on top and cover with berries. 



DUMPLINGS. 



Steamed Apple Dumplings. Make a good baking powder crust; 
peel and core tart apples, fill the cavity in apples with sugar, wrap 
each in the dough, and steam one hour. Serve with butter and 
sugar sauce. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. Make as for steamed dumplings; 
put in pan so as not to touch; bake brown. Serve with cream sauce. 

Peach Dumplings. Make the same crust as for apple dum- 
plings. Use canned peaches, put a little piece of butter with same, 
and a little sugar, cover in dough and bake. Serve with foaming 
sauce. 

Barberries. Make a crust as for pie, roll out quite thin and 
cut in rounds with the top of a pint pail, if you are not fortunate 
enough to have a cutter the requisite size. On these rounds pour a 
good tablespoonful of this mixture: One coffee cup of stoned and 
chopped raisins, one piece of citron about the size of a trade dollar, 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one egg, one cup of sugar 
and a pinch of salt; mix all well. After putting it on the paste, 
wrap it together, thus making a sort of a little turn-over. Do not 
cut any vent in the dough, but press the edges so firmly together 

If something pure, nice, and delicate is wanted, use Dr. Price's 
Jelly Sugar Desserts. 

26 



that not a drop can escape. When all are laid side by side in a pan 
or baking tin, wet them over with milk in which a little sugar is 
dissolved; this gives them a lovely brown. 



PUDDINGS. 



Christmas Plum Pudding. One pound of suet chopped fine, 
one pound of sugar, one pound of grated bread, one pound of raisins, 
two pounds of currants, one glass of brandy, two teaspoonfuls of 
ground ginger, two teaspoonfuls of nutmeg, one of cloves, a pinch 
of salt, one pint of milk; beat well and steam five hours. Serve 
with rich wine sauce. 

Fruit Pudding No. I. Stew dried apricots or peaches until 
tender, and sweeten to taste. While hot pour over Boston crackers, 
split open, making alternate layers of fruit and crackers, the last 
one being a thick one of fruit. Stand away to cool, and serve with 
whipped cream. 

Fruit Pudding No. 2. One pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one of salt, one egg and milk enough to make a very 
stiff batter. Add one cupful each of raisins, currants, suet and one 
apple cut fine. Pour the mixture into a pudding bucket, and place 
in a vessel of boiling water, boiling steadily for two hours. Serve 
with foaming sauce. 

Suet Pudding. One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup 
of milk, one cup of seeded raisins, two cups of Graham flour, one 
cup of wheat flour, one teaspoonful of baking flour. Steam three 
hours. 

Graham Pudding. Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of 
molasses, one-half cup of milk, one cup of raisins, one pinch of salt, 
and one teaspoonful of soda. Steam two hours. 

Puff Pudding. Mix one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a pinch of salt, and milk enough to make a batter. Pour 
into a greased pan; put steamed apples on top, then pour on more 
batter. Steam one-half hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

Cream Pudding. Mix one-half cup of sugar and one grated 
lemon. Beat six eggs to a froth and add one pint of flour, one pint 
of milk and one pint of rich cream, a pinch of salt. Bake in a but- 
tered dish. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Dr. Price's Ice Cream Sugar is delicious, economical, &3d quick. 

27 



Tipsy Pudding. Saturate loaf of sponge cake with wine or 
brandy; make a rich boiled custard, place the cake in a deep glass 
dish and pour the custard over it. Stick the top full of blanched 
almonds and serve cold. 

Queen of Puddings. One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of 
milk, one cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Bake; 
spread with a layer of jelly fruit. Whip the whites of the eggs to 
a froth with one cup of sugar and the juice of one lemon; then 
spread on top and brown. 

Snow Pudding. One-half box of gelatine, dissolve in one pint 
of boiling hot water; when nearly cool add one cup of sugar, juice 
of one lemon, strain; add whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
beat all thoroughly and quickly; pour into a mold. Serve cold with 
soft custard made of the yolks of three eggs, one-half teaspoonful 
of corn starch stirred in one pint of boiling milk; sweeten to taste 
and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

Orange Pudding. Peel and cut up six oranges into the bottom 
of a dish; pour over them a custard. Make the frosting of the 
whites of four eggs and one-third of a cup of sugar. Spread over 
the top, brown a little and serve cold. 

Banana Pudding. Cut stale cake in thin slices and line a dish 
with slices. Cover the cake with banana sliced very thin. Over 
this pour a cupful of thin boiled custard. Make another layer of 
cake and bananas and cover with custard. Set away to cool. 

Rice Pudding. One quart of milk, four eggs, one-half cup 
rice, three-quarters cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one- 
half cup of raisins, seeded and chopped; boil the rice five minutes in 
one pint of milk. When cool, add the yolks of the eggs, also butter 
and sugar, then the pint of unboiled milk, the whites of the eggs 
and the raisins last; add one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract 
of Nutmeg. Cook one hour and eat cold. 

Cottage Pudding. One cup of milk, half cup of sugar, two 
cups of flour, one egg, one tablespoonful melted butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; 
bake one-half hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Railroad Pudding. Beat one egg, add one cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful melted butter, one and one-half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; bake. Serve with foaming sauce. 

Dr. Price's Food Colors the only colors that meet the require- 
ments of the Pure Food Laws. 

28 



Peach Cottage Pudding. Stir sliced peaches into a batter 
made of one-half cup sugar, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
one beaten egg, one cup of milk, one pint of flour, three teaspcon- 
fuls of baking powder; bake in a loaf. Serve with hard sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. Boil one pint of milk, add one-half cup of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of -grated chocolate, one large spoonful of 
corn starch; boil until thickened, then pour into a mold and place 
on ice. Serve with cream flavored with Dr. Price's Extract of 
Vanilla. 

Fig Pudding. One-half pound of figs, one-quarter pound of 
bread crumbs, one teacupful of milk, two and one-half ounces of 
sugar, three ounces of butter and two eggs; chop the figs fine and 
put in the butter, sugar, and eggs. Butter a mold and sprinkle with 
flour. Steam three hours. 

Macaroni Pudding. One cup broken macaroni, one quart milk, 
four eggs, juice and grated peel of one-half lemon, three-quarters 
of a cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of butter; boil the mac- 
aroni in one-half the milk until tender; while hot stir in the 
butter, sugar, lemon and eggs. Bake in a buttered mold one-half 
hour. 

Delmonico Pudding. One quart of milk, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch dissolved in cold milk; yolks of five eggs well beaten, 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar; boil five minutes, then pour into pudding 
dish and bake one hour; beat the whites of six eggs with sugar and 
flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; return to the oven and 
brown. 

Indian Pudding. Pour enough boiling water on two cups of 
Indian meal to wet, add one-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, a 
pinch of salt; two cups of milk, one-half cup of molasses, one 
cup of seeded raisins, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of 
Cinnamon and a little nutmeg. Bake three hours and serve with 
cream. 

Tapioca Fruit Pudding. Soak one cup of tapioca over night, 
cook soft in water, then add and cook thoroughly one pint preserved 
raspberries; cool in a mold and serve with sugar and cream. 

Delicate Pudding. One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, 
one cup of raisins, butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Steam one 
hour. 

A good appetite is essential to good digestion, and digestion is 
promoted by the use of pure food. Dr. Price's Jelly Sugar Desserts 

are pure and aid digestion. 

29 - 



Steamed Berry Pudding. One cup of sugar, two cups of flour, 
one cup of milk, two cups of berries, and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Steam two hours. 

Cup Pudding. One cup of milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
butter, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder; steam 
two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

Brown-Top Pudding. Put into a pudding dish slices of stale 
cake, pour over it a custard flavored with Dr. Price's Extract of 
Lemon; cover the top with a meringue; bake brown. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 

Boston Pudding. One cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one cup of seeded 
raisins and a pinch of salt. Boil four hours. 

Rice Meringue. Boil a cupful of rice in one quart of water 
until tender, drain in a colander, add a pint of milk, a tablespoonful 
of butter and the yolks of six eggs beaten with two cupfuls of sugar, 
with the juice and rind of a lemon ; pour in a baking dish and bake 
in a quick oven. Beat the whites of the eggs with a teacupful of 
powdered sugar, heap over the top. Set in oven to brown. 

Fritters. Four eggs well beaten, one quart of flour, two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, milk 
to make a batter; fry in hot lard; sprinkle with sugar or eat with 
syrup. 

Apple Fritters. One cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one tablespoonful of sugar; 
a pinch of salt; heat the milk and add it slowly to the yolks and 
sugar; add the flour and whites of eggs; stir well; add thin slices of 
sour apples; drop from spoon into boiling hot lard; fry light brown. 
Serve with lemon sauce. 

Peach Fritters and Pineapple Fritters made in the same way. 

Cream Fritters. Stir into one pint of sweet milk one and one- 
half pints of flour which has been previously mixed with two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls of baking powder, adding six eggs well beaten, one 
teaspoonful of salt, and lastly one pint of good sweet cream; drop 
this mixture from a tablespoon into hot lard and fry same as dough- 
nuts. 

Apple Charlotte. Butter, then flour a pudding dish; line it 
with thin slices of bread buttered on both sides; put a thick layer 
of apples cut in thin slices, sugar and a little cinnamon and a few 

The most cultivated palate is never offended by the use of Dr. 
Price's Extracts, because of their natural fruit flavors. 

30 



small pieces of butter; another layer of bread and butter, apples, 
sugar, cinnamon, and butter last. Bake slowly for two hours, 
leaving the dish covered until half an hour before serving, then let 
the apples brown on top. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Lemon Sauce. One pound of sugar, three ounces of butter, 
one-half cup of water, juice and rind of two lemons; boil and beat 
in the yolks of two eggs; when cold add the whites of two well- 
beaten eggs. 

Foaming Sauce. Beat the whites of three eggs; melt one cup 
of sugar in a little water and boil; stir in one glass of wine and the 
eggs. 

Hard Sauce. One cup of butter, three cups of sugar; beat to a 
cream and flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. In serving 
a luncheon where a certain color scheme is to be carried out, this 
hr.rd sauce may be made a beautiful addition by adding a few 
drops of any one of Dr. Price's Food Colors. 

Good Pudding Sauce. Beat together four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and four ounces of butter; stir in one cup of boiling water; 
flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Hard Brandy Sauce. Two cups of powdered sugar, one-half 
cup of butter beaten to a cream, and add one wineglass of brandy, 
half teaspoonful of extract of cinnamon. 

White Wine Sauce. Beat to a cream one-half cup of butter 
and two and one-half cups of powdered sugar, add one-half cup of 
boiling water. Stir in gradually two wineglasses of white wine and 
one teaspoonful of extract of nutmeg; put into a double boiler and 
stir until the sauce is hot, but do not let it boil. Serve cold. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND JELLIES. 

T 

Blanc Mange. In seasoning custards and blanc mange, never 
use ginger, allspice, mace, or cloves. Cinnamon and nutmeg are the 
only spices used, but the fruit essence of cinnamon is the most suit- 
able for flavoring. 

There is no Aniline or Coal Tar Dyes in Dr. Price's Jelly Sugar 
Desserts. 

31 



Blanc Mange for Summer No. i. Sweeten one quart of cream 
and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; 
dissolve one tablespoonful of gelatine in hot water and pour into 
the cream. Set on ice and serve with whipped cream. 

Blanc Mange for Summer No. 2. Take two cups of cream, 
one-half ounce of gelatine, one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; dissolve the gelatine in water; 
mix; let it come to a boil, then pour into mold. 

Neapolitan Blanc Mange. Make a corn starch blanc mange 
and separate into four parts; put the white into the bottom of the 
mold; stir into one part, while warm, one heaping tablespoonful of 
grated chocolate, and pour into the same mold on top of the white; 
color the next part with one-half teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Fruit 
Coloring and pour it on top of the chocolate; color the last part 
with the yolk of an egg and pour all into the mold. Cut into thin 
slices and serve with whipped cream. 

Velvet Blanc Mange. Two cups of sweet cream, one-half cup 
of gelatine dissolved in hot water, one-half cup of powdered sugar, 
one glass of white wine, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Almond; boil the cream, sugar and gelatine until it is smooth, then 
take it from the fire and flavor by adding the wine last. Stir well 
and pour into a mold. 

Corn Starch Blanc Mange. Dissolve three teaspoonfuls of 
corn starch in one pint of milk, add three teaspoonfuls of sugar and 
the whites of three eggs. Pour this mixture into one pint of boiling 
milk. Boil ten minutes. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Almond, and color with Dr. Price's Violet Color; 
pour into cups. Turn out when cool and serve with cream. 

Macaroon Custard. Take one quart of milk, set it on to boil; 
mix one-half tablespoonful of butter and three of flour, and stir into 
the boiling milk; beat the yolks of six eggs with one-half cup of 
sugar; stir into the milk and take from the fire to cool; flavor with 
Dr. Price's Extract of Orange; now crumble one dozen macaroons 
over the top of the dish and pile on meringue. 

Boiled Custard. One quart of milk, two eggs, one tablespoonful 
of corn starch, one teacup of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla. 

Dr. Price's Aromatic Essence of Jamaica Ginger, prepared 
from selected roots, is useful in every family. 



32 



Almond Custard. One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, one- 
quarter pound of blanched almonds, chopped; stir over the fire; add 
the well-beaten yolks of four eggs; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Rose; put into cups and pile on meringue. Color with Dr. 
Price's Fruit Coloring. 

Cup Custard. Beat four eggs with two- thirds of a cup of white 
sugar, add a quart of rich new milk; flavor with one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Almond or Vanilla; stir all together; pour 
into cups and place them in a dripping pan of water; set in an oven 
and bake with moderate heat. 

Floating Island. One quart of milk, four eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, one-half cup of currant 
jelly; heat milk to scalding, but not boiling; beat the yolks, stir into 
them the sugar, and pour upon them gradually, mixing well, a cup 
of the hot milk; return to saucepan and boil until it begins to 
thicken; when cool, flavor and pour into a glass dish; heap upon the 
top meringue of whites, whipped until you can cut it, into which 
you have beaten the jelly, a teaspoonful at a time. 

Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream. Soak two tablespoonfuls of tapi- 
oca over night in just enough water to cover it; in the morning boil 
one quart of milk with the soaked tapioca, by placing it in a tin can 
or pail set in water to boil ; add two- thirds of a cup of sugar and a 
little salt; beat the yolks of three eggs thoroughly; when the milk 
has boiled ten minutes, stir in the yolks, remove from the fire and 
stir rapidly for five minutes, so that it will not curdle; flavor with 
Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; pour into a baker or pudding dish: 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, which pour over the top 
of the cream ; sift sugar over the top and brown a few minutes in the 
oven. Serve cold. 

Bavarian Cream. One quart of sweet cream, yolks of four eggs, 
one-half box of gelatine, one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla; soak the gelatine in one cup of cold 
water twenty minutes, then pour into one pint of boiling hot sweet 
cream ; add the yolks of the eggs well beaten and heat until it begins 
to thicken, then take from the stove and while hot add the other 
pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth, and flavor wi+h Dr. Price's 
Extract of Zephyr. Mold, and set on ice until ready for use. 

A most dainty dessert can be quickly made with Dr. Price's 
Ice Cream Sugar. 



33 



Baked Custard. One quart of milk, four beaten eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and a pinch of salt. 

Fruit Charlotte. Line a mold with lady fingers and sections of 
oranges; soak one-half package of gelatine in one cup of cold water 
for one-half hour; pour in one and one-half cups of hot water 
and stir until dissolved, then add one cup of sugar and set in ice 
until it begins to thicken. Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong 
froth that does not separate ; mix lightly with gelatine ; flavor with 
Dr. Price's Extract of Orange and pour into a mold. Put into the 
refrigerator until ready for use. 

Charlotte Rus^e. One pint of rich cream whipped to a stiff 
froth, one-half cv,.- ot powdered sugar, whites of two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls ol jjr. Price's Extract of Zephyr; line a glass dish with 
lady fingers or small slices of cake, and pour on the whipped cream. 

Russian Cream. Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one quart of milk, 
one-half box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of hot water; make a 
custard of the milk, sugar and yolks of eggs; take from the stove and 
stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs, add the gelatine, and 
flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Pour into a mold and 
when cold serve with whipped cream. 

Spanish Cream. One-half box of gelatine, one quart of milk, 
yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar; soak the gelatine in the milk 
for one hour, put on the stove and stir as it warms ; beat the yolks 
and sugar together and stir into the boiling milk; flavor with Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla. Pour into mold and serve with cream. 

Swan's-Down Cream. "Whip stiff one pint of rich cream, then 
beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, sweeten with a cup of sugar, 
and flavor with two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 
Beat all together; pour into a glass dish and set into a bowl of 
hacked ice to send to the table. Eat with sponge cake. 

Almond Cream. One pint of milk boiling hot, two tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch, a small handful of almonds blanched and 
chopped fine, one cupful of sugar. When quite thick take from fire 
and pour over it the beaten whites of three eggs. Set on ice and 
serve with whipped cream. 

Apple Snow. Pare and core six good-sized apples, steam them 
in two tablespoonfuls of water with a little lemon peel till quite soft ; 
add one-fourth pound of finely sifted white sugar, the whites of 
two fresh eggs. Beat it well for three-quarters cf an hour without 
stopping, and serve heaped up in custard glasses. 

A maximum of pleasure at a minimum of cost Dr. Price's Ice 
Cream Sugar. 

34 



Italian Cream. One-half box of gelatine, one-half pint of milk; 
soak the gelatine in milk one-half hour; add a pint of milk and yolks 
of f our eggs, stir while boiling, and sweeten to taste ; take from the 
stove and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Vanilla and one wineglass of brandy; stir in the whites of eggs well 
beaten; pour into a mold to harden. 

Rice Cream. Wash half a cup of rice and cover with three 
cups of milk, steam until soft, add one pint of milk, four tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet cream, the yolks of three eggs beaten with half-cup of 
sugar. Put all in a double kettle and let it cook ten minutes. Pour 
out in an earthen pudding dish. Frost with the beaten whites of 
two eggs, to which is added four tablespoonfuls of sugar and a tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; set in the oven a few 
minutes. 

Snow Balls. Wash a cupful of rice and put in a saucepan with 
a cupful of milk; boil until tender, add a pinch of salt and put into 
small cups to cool. When cold, turn out into a dish and pour over 
boiled custard. 

Wine Jelly. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's Orange Jelly 
Sugar Dessert in one-half pint of boiling water ; stir until thor- 
oughly dissolved then add one-half pint of grape juice, p^rt, or 
sherry wine. Let it get cold. 

Chocolate Cream. Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half 
cup of warm water one hour. Add to the same one-half cup of 
grated chocolate, one-half pound of white sugar, and one pint of 
new milk; stir all together and boil five minutes by placing the ves- 
sel in another of boiling water, then add one-half pint of rich cream, 
boil one minute. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, and 
pour into molds to cool. 

Fruit Desserts. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's Lemon Jelly 

Sugar Dessert in one pint of boiling hot water ; have ready a handful 
of candied cherries, some Malaga grapes, the meat of two oranges, 
and two bananas sliced. Pour a little jelly into a mold to harden, 
then put in more fruit and more jelly, etc. When it is to be served, 
break it up and serve on a platter with a thin custard made of one 
quart of milk boiled with the yolks of four eggs and one teaspoon- 
ful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

Lemon Jelly. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's Lemon Jelly 
Sugar Dessert in one pint of boiling water, using a porcelain or enam- 
eled dish (not tin) ; stir until thoroughly dissolved, then pour into 

There is economy in strength, and there is strength in Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts. 

35 



molds or dishes that have been rinsed in cold water. Place in the 
ice box or other place to cool ; turn out so as to keep the form ; dip 
molds in warm water for an instant. This makes one pint of per- 
fectly wholesome, delicious fruit jelly. 

Orange, Cherry, Mint, Strawberry, Raspberry and Pineapple 
Jelly. Made the same as Lemon Jelly. 



SPECIAL DESSERTS. 

To be served in place of Pies, Puddings or Creams. 
Attractive, Nutritious and Wholesome. 



Fruit or Nut Dessert. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's Jelly 
Sugar Dessert, either Strawberry, Raspberry, Cherry, Pineapple, 
Peach or Orange in one pint of boiling water, placing aside to cool. 
When partly set, stir in one cup of fruit or nut meats. Pour into 
mold and set on ice. If fruit used contains much juice, use less 
water in dissolving jelly. 

Snow Pudding. Dissolve in one pint of boiling water one 
package of Dr. Price's Orange Jelly Sugar Dessert. When cold add 
the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth Beat well through 
and pour into mold. Serve cold with whipped cream and powdered 
sugar, flavored with Dr. Price's Orange Extract. 

Nut Jelly Pudding. Dissolve one pint of Dr. Price's Lemon 
Jelly Sugar Dessert in one pint of boiling water and let stand until 
cool ; then take one-half cup of blanched almonds and English wal- 
nuts cut up fine and stir well through the jelly. Then pour into 
mold and put in ice box. Serve with whipped cream, sugar and 
Dr. Price's Lemon Extract to suit taste. Something very delicious. 

Jelly Sugar Marshmallow. Dissolve a package of Raspberry 
Jelly Sugar Dessert in the regular way ; as it stiffens, put one-quarter 
pound of white marshmallow into the jelly. Mold, and when it 
becomes hard serve with whipped cream. 

Jelly Sugar Pudding Sauce. In preparing the Jelly Sugar Dessert 
use twice the quantity of water called for in directions. Let it cool ; 
then pour over pudding. Strawberry or raspberry flavor is the best. 

Cereal Jelly Pudding. One package of Dr. Price's Strawberry 
Jelly Sugar Dessert dissolved in one pint of boiling water. Pour one- 
half contents into mold and let it get stiff, then put three tablespoon- 
fuls of Dr. Price's Wheat Flake Food in and add balance of jelly. 
Serve cold with dry food over the jelly, add sugar and cream. 

Use Dr. Price's Harmless Food Colors. 

36 



ICE CREAMS, ICES, AND SHERBETS. 

Coffee Ice Cream. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's Coffee 
Ice Cream Sugar in one pint of milk, stir in one pint of cream and 
freeze. 

Ice Cream No. I. Three eggs separated, two cups of sugar 
beaten with the yolks ; add one pint of cream and one quart of milk, 
beat the whites of eggs light and mix well; flavor with one table- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's 
Chocolate Ice Cream Sugar in one pint of milk. Whip one pint of 
cream and stir into the milk. Freeze. 

Peach Ice Cream. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's Vanilla 
Ice Cream Sugar in one quart of cream. Peal six large ripe 
peaches and cut into fine pieces and mix with three tablespoonsful 
of powdered sugar. Stir into cream and freeze. 

Fruit Cream. One pint of cream, one pint of milk, one cup of 
sugar, one-half pound of figs chopped fine, one-half pound of al- 
monds, one can of peaches, one teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Orange, Vanilla and Coffee; mix well before putting 
into the freezer. 

Vanilla Ice Cream. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's 
Vanilla Ice Cream Sugar in one pint of milk. Whip one pint of 
cream and stir into milk. Freeze. Serve with strawberry, or any 
fruit preserves. 

Pistachio Ice Cream. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's 
Pistachio Ice Cream Sugar in one pint of milk. Whip one pint of 
cream and stir into the milk. Freeze. 

Italian Tutti-Frutti. Take a large form for ice cream; have 
ready as great a variety of ripe fruit as possible, watermelon in- 
cluded; seed the watermelon, cut it into lozenges or squares, put 
a layer of it into the form, sugaring it well with granulated sugar; 
then a layer of varied fruits; sugar abundantly, and proceed in this 
way until the form is packed full of fruit and sugar; cover it, set in 
double boiler just long enough for the sugar to dissolve and the 
juices to be started; then let it cool; when cold, freeze. 

Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts have the taste and 
smell of the natural fruits. 

37 



Strawberry Ice. Crush two quarts of strawberries with two 
pounds of sugar; let them stand an hour or more; squeeze them in 
a straining cloth, pressing out all juice; add to this an equal measure 
of water, and when half frozen the beaten whites of eggs in the pro- 
portion of three to a quart. 

Currant Ice. A refreshing ice is made of currants, raspberries, 
or equal parts of each. Squeeze enough fruit in a jelly bag to make 
a pint of juice; add a pint each of water and sugar; pour the whole 
boiling hot on the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, and 
whip the mixture thoroughly; when cool, freeze in the usual man- 
ner. Any juicy fruit may be prepared in this manner. 

Lemon Ice. The juice of six lemons and one large sweet 
orange, one quart of water, and two cups of sugar. Stir until dis- 
solved and freeze in the usual manner. 

Kumyss. Take seven pints of milk, three pints of tepid water, 
one-half of a cake of yeast and thirty lumps of loaf sugar; dissolve 
the yeast in part of the tepid water, dissolve sugar in the rest; when 
both are thoroughly dissolved, mix all the ingredients and let stand 
over night; in morning strain and place in bottles; bottles must be 
tightly corked and fastened; let stand for two or three days before 
using. A little less sugar could be used, if too sweet. 

Raspberry Royal. Put four quarts of berries into a stone jar; 
pour one quart of cider vinegar over them; add one pound of sugar; 
mash to a paste and let stand in the sun four hours; strain out all 
the juice and add one pint of brandy; put into bottles; seal and lay 
in the cellar; stir two tablespoonfuls into a glass of ice water when 
you wish to use it. 

Pudding Glace. Thicken one pint of new milk with two table- 
spoonfuls of arrowroot; boil three pints of milk, pour in the pint of 
thickened arrowroot, also three eggs and three cups sugar; stir in 
one-half pound each of chopped figs, raisins and citron. Flavor 
with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. Freeze. 

Frozen Peaches. One can or twelve large peaches, two coffee 
cups of sugar, one pint of water, and the beaten whites of three 
eggs ; break the peaches and stir all ingredients together. Freeze 
the whole into form. 



If health is considered, use only reliable articles like Dr. Price's 
Delicious Flavoring Extracts. 

38 



Strawberry Sherbet. One quart of berries crushed to a paste, 
three pints of water, juice of one lemon, one teaspooiiful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Orange; mix and let it stand three hours; strain 
out the juice into one pound of sugar; stir well and set on ice until 
ready to use. 

Pomegranate Sherbet. Juice and pulp of four oranges, one- 
quarter of a box of gelatine dissolved in hot water, one cup of 
sugar, one pint of cold water, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Fruit Coloring and one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Ideal. 

Orange Sherbet. Juice of six oranges, two lemons, one-half 
pint of sugar; one package of Dr. Price's Orange Jelly Sugar Des- 
sert dissolved in one-half pint of boiling water. Mix the juice with 
one pint of cold water, add the sugar and pulp of the fruit, then 
stir in the dissolved orange sugar and flavor with one teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Orange. Freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet. Dissolve one package of Dr. Price's Pine- 
apple Jelly Sugar Dessert in one-half pint boiling water ; stir thor- 
oughly. Add one teaspoonful Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Put 
into this one can grated pineapple or one pint of the fresh fruit 
and one-half pound of sugar. Mix well and freeze. 

Fruit Sherbet. Fruit sherbets are now being sold at confec- 
tioners' stores, but they can be as easily made at home. Mash 
any ripe fruit and pass it first through a coarse, then through a 
fine sieve. To every quart of juice add a quart of water, and 
sweeten with powdered sugar; when the sugar is dissolved strain 
again and keep in the refrigerator until wanted. 

Jamaica Ginger Beer. One four-ounce bottle of Dr. Price's 
Jamaica Ginger, one ounce cream of tartar, six quarts of water, 
one pound of sugar, grated rind of one lemon ; mix and heat through, 
add one-half cake yeast; bottle, tie down the corks, and lay in 
cellar. Good in four days. 

Claret Punch. One quart of claret, one-half pint of ice water; 
cover two lemons sliced thin with one-half cup of powdered sugar; 
let them stand ten minutes; add the water and wine; mix well; 
serve in glasses half full of pounded ice. 

Roman Punch. Three cups of good lemonade, one glass of 
champagne, one glass of rum, two tablespoonfuls of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Orange, whites of two eggs, one-half pound of sugar; 
mix well and serve in glasses half filled with broken ice. 

Ignorance and want of judgment lead to the injudicious use 
of extracts containing poisonous oils and ethers. 

39 



A Delightful Fruit Punch. Dissolve a pound and one-quarter 
of sugar in a quart of boiling water; add the grated rind of one 
lemon and one orange, grate only the yellow rind, the least bit of 
the white will make it bitter; stir in one package of Dr. Price's 
Cherry Jelly Sugar Dessert dissolved in one-half pint of boiling water ; 
simmer for five minutes; take from the fire, and when cool add Dr. 
Price's Extract of Orange or Lemon to suit the taste; when cold 
put in a freezer and stir until frozen; do not stir rapidly, but slow- 
ly and evenly; color with Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring (perfectly 
harmless) if desired 




CONFECTIONERY. 



Marshmallows. Dissolve one-half pound of white gum arabic 
in pint of water, strain and add one-half pound of fine sugar and 
place over the fire, stirring constantly until the syrup is dissolved, 
and all of the consistency of honey; add gradually the whites of 
four eggs well-beaten ; stir the mixture until it becomes somewhat 
thin and does not adhere to the finger; flavor to taste with Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla and pour into a tin slightly dusted with 
powdered starch, and when cool divide into small squares. 

Maple Creams. Take one-half as much water as maple sugar, 
cook without stirring, and when nearly done put in a small piece of 
butter; try in water, and when it begins to harden take off and stir 
rapidly until it becomes a waxen substance ; then make in balls and 
put halves of English walnuts on either side, putting on a greased 
plate to cool. 

Chocolate Creams. -Two cups of pulverized sugar, one-half cup 
cream, flavor to suit taste with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; boil 
five minutes and make into balls while hot; take as much chocolate- 
as required and steam over a teakettle; when soft, cover the balls 
and set thim away to harden. 

In all particulars that constitute perfect flavors, Dr. Price's can- 
not be approached by the various extracts in the market. 

40 



Vanilla Taffy. One pound of white sugar, one cup cream, one 
ounce gum arable; boil sugar and cream together; when half done 
add dissolved gum arabic; when done, flavor with Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla. 

Butter-Scotch. Three pounds "A" coffee sugar, one-quarter 
pound butter, one-half teaspoonful cream tartar, eight drops Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon; add sufficient water only to dissolve the 
sugar; boil without stirring till it will easily break when dropped 
in cold water, and when done add the lemon ; pour into a well-but- 
tered dripping-pan one-quarter inch thick, and when partly cold 
mark off into small squares. 

Cream Walnuts. Two pounds of white sugar, one teacup of 
water, boil until it threads; flavor highly with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Vanilla; take from the fire and stir until white and creamy; have 
walnuts prepared, make the candy into small round cakes; press 
walnuts into the sides, drop in granulated sugar. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy. One cocoanut, one and one-half 
pounds granulated sugar; put sugar and milk of cocoanut together, 
heat slowly until sugar is melted; then boil five minutes; add 
cocoanut (finely grated) , boil ten minutes longer, stir constantly to 
keep from burning; pour on buttered plates; cut in squares; will 
take about two days to harden; use prepared cocoanut when other 
cannot be had. 

Hoarhound Candy. Boil two ounces of dry hoarhound in one 
and one-half pints of water for about half an hour; strain and add 
three and one-half pounds of brown sugar; boil over a hot fire until 
sufficiently hard; pour out in flat, well-greased tins, and mark in 
sticks or small squares with a knife as soon as cool enough to retain 
its shape. 

Molasses Candy. One cup molasses, one cup sugar, butter 
size of an egg (sweet and not salt), and a tablespoonful vinegar; 
boil, but do not stir, until it hardens when dropped into cold water; 
when done, stir in a teaspoonful of soda and beat well; pour into 
buttered pans, and when cool pull until white; cut into sticks; 
flavor if desired just before pouring out to cool. 

Hickory-Nut Candy. One cup of hickory-nut meats, two cups 
sugar, half cup of water; boil sugar and water without stirring until 
thick enough to spin to a thread; flavor to suit taste with Dr. Price's. 
Extract of Vanilla; set in cold water; stir quickly until white, then 
stir in the nuts; turn into flat tin; when cold cut into squares. 

Artistic, delicate, and tasteless are Dr. Price's Food Colors. 
Use will prove their merit. 

41 



Honey Candy. One pint of white sugar, water enough to dis- 
solve it, and four tablespoonfuls of honey; boil until it becomes 
brittle on being dropped into cold water; pull when cooling. 

Chocolate Caramels No. I. One and one-half cups of grated 
chocolate, four of brown sugar, one and one-half of cold water, 
butter size of an egg and two tablespoonfuls sharp vinegar; boil on 
the top of a stove over a brisk fire until it becomes brittle when 
dropped in water; do not stir, but shake the vessel while boiling; 
flavor with two teaspoonfuls Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla just 
before taking from the fire ; pour into a buttered and floured drip- 
ping-pan and check off into even squares while soft. 

Chocolate Caramels No. 2. Take four ounces of chocolate; 
put into a. saucepan with one-half teacup of water and dissolve; 
then add three pounds sugar, one-half pint of cream and one small 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar; stir slowly until it will crack; when 
done, pour in buttered pans and mark off in squares. 

Hickory-Nut Macaroons. To hickory-nuts pounded fine, add 
mixed ground allspice and nutmeg; make a frosting as for cakes; 
stir in the meats and spices, putting in enough only to make it con- 
venient to handle; flour the hands, and make the mixture into balls 
about the size of a nutmeg; lay them on tins well-buttered, giving 
room to spread; bake in a quick oven; use washed butter for greas- 
ing the tins; lard or salt butter gives an unpleasant taste. 

Lemon Drops. One cup of powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, water enough to dissolve; boil 
until crisp when dropped into water; drop in buttered piates in 
drops to cool. 

Pop-Corn Candy. Put into an iron kettle one tablespoonful of 
butter, three tablespoonfuls of water and one cupful of white sugar; 
boil until ready to candy, then throw in three quarts of nicely 
popped corn; stir vigorouslv until the sugar is evenly distributed 
over the corn; take the kettle from the fire and stir until it cools a 
little; in this way you may have each kernel separate and all 
coated with the sugar. 

Cream Candy. One pound of white sugar, one tablespoonful 
vinegar, one teaspoonful Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, one tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar; add a little water to moisten sugar, boil 
until brittle; put in extract, then turn quickly out on buttered 
plates; when cool, pull until white and cut into squares. 

Dr. Price's Onion Relish appeals to the taste, giving an appe 
tizing relish to whatever is used. 

42 



Peppermint Drops. One cupful of sugar crushed fine and just 
moistened with boiling water, then boil five minutes ; take from the 
fire and add cream of tartar the size of a pea ; mix well and add one- 
half teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Peppermint; beat briskly 
until mixture whitens, then drop quickly upon white paper; have 
cream of tartar and essence of peppermint measured while the 
sugar is boiling. If it sugars before it is all dropped, add a little 
water and boil a minute or two. 

Wintergreen drops are made the same way by using one-half 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Wintergreen. 

Stick Candy. One pound of granulated sugar, one cup of 
water, one-quarter cup of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one tablespoonful of glycerine ; flavor with a teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, Rose, or Lemon; boil all except the 
flavoring until crisp when dropped into water; when cooked, add 
one-half teaspoonful of soda; after pouring into greased pans to 
cool, pour a teaspoonful of any one of Dr. Price's Flavoring 
Extracts over the top; when partly cool, pull white; draw into 
sticks and cut with shears. Color with one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Fruit Coloring. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



z\ Teaspooonfuls make One Tablespoonful 

4 Tablespoonfuls " One Wineglassful 

2 Wineglassfuls " One Gill 

2 Gills " One Teacupful 

2 Teacupf uls " One Pint 

4 Teaspoonfuls Salt " One Ounce 

i Tablespoonfuls Granulated Sugar " One Ounce 

2 Tablespoonfuls Flour " One Ounce 

i Pint Loaf Sugar weighs Ten Ounces 

i Pint Brown Sugar " Twelve Ounces 

i Pint Granulated Sugar " Sixteen Ounces 

i Pint Wheat Flour " Nine Ounces 

i Pint Corn Meal " Eleven Ounces 

10 Ordinary Sized Eggs about Sixteen Ounces 

A piece of Butter the size of an egg. . . " i\ Ounces 

Aside from their excellence there is economy in using Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts, as being pure it takes less to 
flavor. 

43 



DECORATIVE. 



A Green Reception. Maidenhair ferns for table decoration. 
Coffee with white and brown bread sandwiches, a leaf of lettuce 
between. Salad of celery, peas, and beans in a nest of shredded 
lettuce, Mayonnaise dressing. Ice cream in bricks or dainty forms, 
colored with Dr. Price's Apple Green. 

A Violet Luncheon. Woodland Violets for decoration. Lemon 
Sherbet, delicately colored with Dr. Price's Purple Violet, serve in 
lemon shells, candied violets for bonbon?. For dessert, Violet 
Mousse and Violet Cake recipes given. 

A Pink Tea. Apple Blossoms for decoration. Tea served from 
small table in delicate china cups, with thin slices of lemon, sugar, 
and rum. Thin bread and butter sandwiches, sugar tea wafers 
delicately colored with Dr. Price's Strawberry Red. 

Delicious Cakes. One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, two 
eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, one-half cup of milk, 
one and a half cups of flour, one teaspoonful baking powder. 
Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Bake in small crescent- 
shaped tins. Make a boiled frosting and color with any of Dr. 
Price's Harmless Food Colors. These are dainty served at an 
afternoon tea. 

Frozen Mint. Make a plain lemon ice, and when frozen add 
the following: three tablespoonfuls of water, one-half teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Essence o'f Peppermint. Pack the freezer, and let 
it stand some time. Serve as you would a cordial, in small wine- 
glasses. This is considered a good aid to digestion. 

Ideal Ice. One pint of cream, one cup of milk, one cup 
of sugar, the whites of two eggs well beaten. Flavor with Dr. 
Price's Ideal Extract. When partly frozen remove dasher and 
beat in one-half cup of Jamaica rum, freeze to the consistency of 
an ice and serve in glasses. 

Pistachio Cream Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter 
creamed, one cup of milk, three and one-half cups of flour, and the 
whites of eight eggs beaten stiff, add last two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake in layers. For icing see next page. 

To give artistic touches to table delicacies use Dr. Price's Ex- 
quisite Fruit Coloring. 



ICING. Two cups of sugar, the juice of one lemon, one cup of 
water; boil to a thick clear syrup. Pour in the beaten whites of 
three eggs. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Pistachio and color 
with Dr. Price's Apple Green. 

Violet Mousse. Soak one-quarter of a box of gelatine for half 
an hour in one-quarter of a CUD, of cold water. Whip one pint of 
cream, add the gelatine and two- thirds of a cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Violet, color with Dr. Price's 
Violet Purple. Stir carefully until it begins to stiffen, then put 
in a freezer. When nearly frozen place in a mold packed in ice 
and salt, let stand for one or two hours. 

Grape Sherbet. One quart of white canned grapes mashed 
fine, the juice of four lemons; sweeten to taste. Color with Dr. 
Price's Apple Green. When partly frozen stir in the beaten white 
of one egg. 

Sunshine Cake. One and one-half tumblers of sifted powdered 
sugar, one tumbler of flour sifted four times, the whites of eleven 
eggs, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Orange, and the 
yolks of six eggs. Beat the whites of eggs stiff, add sugar, then 
flour, and the yolks of eggs beaten very light, last the baking 
powder. Make a boiled frosting, flavor with Orange Extract and 
color with Dr. Price's Lemon Yellow. 

Sunshine Cream. One quart of cream, one quart of milk, one 
and one-half cups of sugar,- one tablespoonful of flour. Mix sugar 
and flour together thoroughly, boil the milk, stir in sugar and 
flour, and boil until the consistency of cream; when cool, add 
cream and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Orange and color with Dr. Price's Lemon Yellow. 

Muscat Water Ice. Take the juice of four lemons, mix with 
two cups of granulated sugar and let it stand for half an hour. 
Soak one tablespoonful of gelatine in a quarter of a cup of cold 
water for half an hour, then add half a cup of boiling water, stirring 
until dissolved; three cups of water added to the lemon and sugar 
gradually, stirring constantly; put in the gelatine and one-half cup 
of sherry. This is very pretty if colored a delicate brown with Dr. 
Price's Chocolate Brown. Freeze and serve in cups. 



If the housewife desires flavors at cheap figures she must expect 
quality to correspond. 

45 



INDEX. 



CAKES. 

PAGE 

Angels' Food No. 1 .. 15 

Angels' Food No. 2 .. 15 
Black or Wedding 

Cake 11 

Bride's Cake 14 

Caramel Cake 13 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. 12 
Chocolate Marble 

Cake 13 

Citron Cake 12 

Clove Cake 12 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake. 12 

Coffee Cake 12 

Cream Sponge Cake. 14 

Cup Cake 12 

Delicate Cake 13 

Fig Cake 12 

Gold Cake 14 

Hickory- Nut Cake .. 12 

Lunch Cake 14 

Marble Cake 13 

Mottled Cake 11 

Plain Fruit Cake ... 11 

Pound Cake 14 

Quick Sponge Cake . 13 

Silver Cake 14 

Spice Cake 12 

Washington Cake ... 13 

White Cream Cake. . 14 

White Lady Cake ... 14 

White Mountain Cake 14 

White Pound Cake . 14 

White Sponge Cake. 14 

LATER CAKES. 

Almond Cake 15 

Apple Jelly Cake ... 16 

Chocolate Cake .... 15 

Cocoanut Cake 15 

Cream Cake 16 

Fig Cake 16 

Hickory- Nut Cake . 17 

Lemon Jelly Cake . . 16 

Metropolitan Cake .. 17 

Minnehaha Cake. ... 16 

Orange Cake 15 

Pineapple Cake 17 



LAYER CAKES.-Cont'd. 

PAGE 

Pi n k -and -White 

Layer Cake 16 

Rolled Jelly Cake ... 17 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

Almond Icing 18 

Boiled Frosting .... 17 

Cream Frosting .... 17 

Chocolate Icing .... 18 

Soft Icing 18 

Water Icing 18 

SMALL CAKES. 

Almond Cookies .... 20 

Almond Drops 22 

Almond Jumbles ... 19 

Anise Drops 18 

Best Cookies 18 

Best Ginger Bread.. l 
Boston Cream Cake . 22 

Bread Cake 21 

Chocolate Wafers ... 19 

Cream Puffs 22 

Dew Drops 22 

Doughnuts 19 

Fried Cakes No 1 . . 19 
Fried Cakes No. 2 . . 19 

Fruit Cookies 20 

Fruit Ginger Bread. . 21 

Ginger Bread 21 

Ginger Cookies 21 

Ginger Drops 22 

Ginger Snaps 21 

Lemon Cookies .... 20 
Lemon Jumbles ... 19 
Molasses Cookies ... 20 
Philadelphia Jumbles 20 

Ring Jumbles 19 

Scotch Cakes 18 

Spice Drops 22 

Sponge Ginger Bread 

(Eggless) 21 

Sugar Cookies 20 

Tea Cakes 20 

PASTRY. 

Almond Tarts 25 

Apple Pie 23 

46 



PASTRY. Cont'd. 

PAGB 

Chocolate Pie 24 

Cherry Pie 25 

Cheese Cakes 26 

Cocoanut Pie 24 

Cocoanut Tarts 26 

Cream Pie No. 1 23 

Cream Pie No. 2 24 

Cream Tarts 25 

Currant and R a s p- 

berry Tarts 25 

Custard Pie 24 

Lemon Pie 24 

Lemon Cream Pie . . 24 

Marlborough Pie ... 24 

Mince Pie Meat 25 

Peach Pie 25 

Pie Crust No. 1 23 

Pie Crust No. 2 23 

Pie Crust No. 3 23 

Pie Crust No. 4 ... 23 

Puff Paste No. 1 ... 23 

Puff Paste No. 2 ... 23 

Pumpkin Pie 25 

Strawberry Short- 

Cake 26 

Sweet Potato Pie ... 25 

Tarts 25 

Tart Shells 25 

Victoria Pie 24 

DUMPLINGS. 

Baked Apple Dump- 
lings 26 

Barberries 26 

Peach Dumplings ... 26 
Steamed Apple 

Dumplings 26 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple Charlotte .... 30 

Apple Fritters 30 

Banana Pudding ... 28 

Boston Pudding 30 

Brown -Top Pudding 30 
Chocolate Pudding. . 29 
Christmas Plum Pud- 
ding 27 



PUDDINGS. Cont'd. 

PAGE 

Cottage Pudding ... 28 

Cream Fritters 30 

Cream Pudding .... 27 

Cup Pudding . 30 

Delicate Pudding . . 29 
Delmonico Pudding . 29 

Fig Pudding . . 29 

Fritters 30 

Fruit Pudding No. 1 27 
Fruit Pudding No. 2 27 
Graham Pudding ... 27 

Indian Pudding 29 

Macaroni Pudding . . 29 
Orange Pudding .... 28 
Peach Cottage Pud- 
ding 29 

Puff Pudding 27 

Queen of Puddings . 28 
Railroad Pudding . . 28 

Rice Pudding 28 

Rice Meringue 30 

Snow Pudding 28 

Steamed Berry Pud- 
ding 30 

Suet Pudding 27 

Tapioca Fruit Pud- 
ding 29 

Tipsy Pudding 28 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Foaming Sauce 31 

Good Pudding Sauce 31 
Hard Brandy Sauce . 31 

Hard Sauce 31 

Lemon Sauce 31 

White Wine Sauce .. 31 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS, 
AND JELLIES. 

Almond Cream 34 

Almond Custard 33 

Apple Snow 34 

Baked Custard 34 

Bavarian Cream .... 33 

Blanc Mange 31 

Blanc Mange for 

Summer, No. 1 32 

Blanc Mange for 

Summer, No. 2. . . 32 

Boiled Custard 32 

Cereal Jelly Pudding 36 
Charlotte Russe .... 34 
Chocolate Cream . . 35 



CUSTARDS.etc. Cont 'd. 

PAGE 

Corn Starch Blanc 

Mange 32 

Cup Custard 33 

Dr. Price's Tapioca 

Cream 33 

Floating Island 33 

Fruit Charlotte 34 

Fruit Desserts 35 

Italian Cream 35 

Jelly Sugar Marsh- 
mallow 36 

Jelly Sugar Pudding 

Sauce 36 

Lemon Jelly 35 

Macaroon Custard . . 32 
Neapolitan Blanc 

Mange 32 

Nut Jelly Pudding. . 36 
Orange, Cherry, Mint, 
Strawberry, Rasp- 
berry, and Pine- 
apple Jelly 36 

Rice Cream 35 

Russian Cream 34 

Snow Balls 35 

Snow Pudding 36 

Spanish Cream . ... 34 
Strawberry, Rasp- 
berry, Cherry, 
Pineapple, Peach, 
Orange, or Nut 

Dessert 36 

Swan's-Down Cream. 34 
Velvet Blanc Mange 32 
Wine Jelly 35 

ICE-CREAMS, ICES, 
AND SHERBETS. 

A Delightful Fruit 

Punch .' 40 

Claret Punch 39 

Chocolate Ice-Cream. 37 

Coffee Ice-Cream ... 37 

Currant Ice 38 

Fruit Cream 37 

Frozen Peaches .... 38 

Fruit Sherbet 39 

Ice Cream No. 1 37 

Italian Tutti-Frutti . 37 

Jamaica Ginger Beer 39 

Kumyss 38 

Lemon Ice 38 

Orange Sherbet .... 39 



ICE-CREAM, etc. Conf d 

PAGE 

Peach Ice-Cream ... 37 
Pineapple Sherbet . . 39 
Pistachio Ice-Cream.. 37 
Pomegranate Sherbet 39 

Pudding Glace 38 

Roman Punch 39 

Raspberry Royal ... 38 

Strawberry Ice 38 

Strawberry Sherbet . 39 
Vanilla Ice-Cream. . 37 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Butter Scotch 41 

Chocolate Caramels 

No. 1 42 

Chocolate Caramels 

No. 2 42 

Chocolate Creams. . . 40 
Cocoanut Cream 

Candy 41 

Cream Candy 42 

Cream Walnuts .... 41 
Hickory-Nut Maca- 
roons 42 

Hickory-nut Candy. 41 
Hoarhound Candy .. 41 

Honey Candy 42 

Lemon Drops ...... 42 

Maple Creams 40 

Molasses Candy ...-. 41 

Marshmallows 40 

Peppermint Drops. . 43 

Pop-Corn Candy 42 

Stick Candy 43 

Vanilla Taffy 41 

DECORATIVE. 

A Green Reception. . 44 

A Pink Tea 44 

A Violet Reception . . 44 
Delicious Cakes .... 44 

Frozen Mint 44 

Grape Sherbet 45 

Ideal Ice 44 

Muscat Water Ice . . 45 
Pistachio Cream 

Cake 44 

Sunshine Cake 45 

Sunshine Cream .... 45 

Violet Mousse 45 

WEIGHTS AND MEAS- 
URES 43 



47 




Dr. Price's 

WHEAT FLAKE FOOD 



IOR NEARLY tkree 
generations I nave been 
known among grocers as 
a pioneer in the scien- 
tific manufacture of pure 
foods. Tne articles 
which bear my name are to-day staples 
upon the shelves of grocers of two con- 
tinents, and I know tbat seven out of 
every ten American housewives will 
acknowledge that my productions are 
tne best in their line. 

Forty years of my life nave been 
devoted to pure-food manufacture, and 
during all tbat time I nave been pos- 
sessed with tbe belief tbat evolution 
would develop a pure, ready-to-eat, 
wheat flake health food. I, tberefore, 
with entire confidence, bave placed in 
tbe market Dr. Price's ^Vheat Flake 
Food, which I consider the triumphant 

achievement of a lifetime. 




Manufactured only by the 

Price Cereal Food Company, Chicago 



48 

. OONNfLlEY * SONS CO.. PIIIMTES. CMICASO. 



HIGHEST AWARD 



Official wart> fiibbow 



IHEDA 1 



LOUISIANA PURCHASE 
EXfOSITION 




PRIZE 

AWARDED TO 



CHICSCO, !!,!,,T 
Fie v-^i-iQ, Extracts 



tmfni (,1 
Grrup 90 Chfr 56 f 






uo Ell to inborn cbcec presents Sb.ill Come 



Greeting: 
Cbie ^Declaration 



lotc i '. : Htt.ichet 1 



Official Hxvarfc IRibbon 



- 1(5 IrJI 



Xouteiana f^urcbaec 
, Exposition 



ina the Sffliiatiircj of 




Bn^ tbit the 






3un> of 




Cbc Hitachi Official EVwnro TRibbon 



-i the Eml'iem of aiuhxit-o of the ol>er to ni.ifcc hnown to Ihe 
OTorlt tl-.it he has teeenvJ tl>e fiotmclton of an Hw.it? from thc 



of Hwvuos 
Utx Iculfitana purvKv;*: Cxpoitttim. 






