


PRiCE 




THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



THE BRIDE'S COOK BOOK 



We may live without poetry, music and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends; we may live without books; 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 

* "Ludle" 



PRICE $1.00 



THE DOUGLASS PUBLISHING CO. 

MONTGOMERY BLOCK 
SAN- FRANCISCO, CAL, 



Copyright, 1909, 

By 

JOHN DOUGLASS LOUDERBACK, 
San Francisco, Cal. 



A FEW HINTS ON HOW TO START A DAY. 

A lady's taste and nicety are very perceptible at the break- 
fast table. She should never allow a soiled tablecloth to appear 
on it. The linen should be fresh and snowy white, the tea, 
coffee, or cocoa, nicely made, and, if possible, fresh flowers and 
fruit should adorn the table. A nicely laid, pretty, appetizing 
breakfast is a great promoter of good temper and harmony 
through the ensuing day. A soiled tablecloth, tough, cold toast, 
weak tea, bitter coffee, etc., are enough to derange both the 
temper and digestion of those who have to submit to such 
domestic inflictions. Let our homes be bright, sunny, and 
charming; and that such may be the case, open the day with 
a cheery and well arranged breakfast table. 





Jt40P ^\8s 



The Bride's Menu. 

Blue Points. 

Queen Olives. 

Canape of Anchovies. 

Consomme. 

Baked Halibut. 

Potatoes Hollandaise. Cucumber Salad. 

Sweetbread Pates. 
Fried Spring Chicken. 

French Peas. Lettuce. Asparagus. 

Pudding Diplomatique, Sauce Duchesse. 

Tutti Frutti Ice Cream. 
Black Coffee. Cheese. 

Nuts. 
Assorted Fruit. 



Canape of Anchovies Cut toast in triangles, chop anchovies 
fine, spread on toast and sprinkle with chopped hard boiled eggs. 

Potatoes Hollandaise Boil plain kidney potatoes; dress 
with the following sauce: Three yolks of eggs, half a cup 
vinegar and water, beat up in a double boiler until it thickens, 
add a tablespoon of melted butter and season to taste with a 
little lemon juice, pepper and salt. 

Cucumber Salad 
Sweetbread Pate 

Pudding Diplomatique Take a pudding mold greased well 
with butter. Take a layer of sponge cake, then a layer of 
chopped pineapple, add another layer of cake then a layer of 
quartered Maraschino cherries, and so on until the mold is 
filled, then make custard as follows and pour over the cake: 
To four ounces of sugar mixed with six eggs, add one quart 
milk, a pinch of salt and lemon flavor. Bake in a medium oven. 

Sauce Duchesse Take apricot marmalade thinned with 
Kirschwasser and white wine, serve hot with pudding. 

Tutti Frutti Ice Cream Chopped glace fruit, figs and nuts 
thoroughly mixed with vanilla ice cream. 



Here Are Medicinal Foods. 

Watercress is an excellent blood purifier. 

Lettuce has a soothing effect on the nerves and is excellent 
for sufferers from insomnia. 

Tomatoes are good for a torpid liver, but should be avoided 
by gouty people. 

Celery is a nerve tonic; onions also are a tonic for the 
nerves. 

Spinach has great aperient qualities and is far better than 
medicine for sufferers from constipation. 

Beetroot is fattening and good for people who want to put 
on flesh. 

Parsnips possess the same virtues as sarsaparilla. 

Cranberries correct the liver. 

Asparagus stimulates the kidneys. 

Bananas are beneficial to sufferers from chest complaints. 

Celery contains sulphur and helps to ward off rheumatism. 

Honey is a good substitute for cod-liver oil. 

The juice of a lemon is excellent for sore throat, but should 
not be swallowed, but used as a gargle. 

Carrots are excellent for gout. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Coffee. 

For three cups, take three tablespoonsful of the finest mixed 
Mocha and Java, mix the coffee with one egg in a dish; when 
thoroughly mixed, pour into the coffee pot containing cold water 
and bring to a boil. THEN YOU HAVE COFFEE. 

Chocolate. 

Time, ten to twelve minutes. Scrape up about a quarter of 
a pound of a chocolate cake into saucepan with two gills of 
water; set it on the fire; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon 
until it is rather thick, then work it very quickly with the 
spoon. Stir in a pint of boiling milk by degrees and serve it. 

Cocoa. 

Time, five hours. A quarter of a pound of cocoa nibs to 
three quarts of water, to be boiled down to two quarts and a 
half. The nibs to be strained after five hours' boiling. If they 
are allowed to remain in the cocoa, it becomes bitter and un- 
palatable. 

Oatmeal Porridge. 

Time, half an hour. Put a pint of warm water into a stew- 
pan over the fire, and as it boils dredge in two ounces of oat- 
meal with your left hand, and stir with the right. When it is 
made, turn it into a soup-plate, adding a little salt or a little 
sugar, according to taste. Send it to table with a jug of hot 
milk, which should be added to it by degrees for eating. 

Breakfast Mush. 

To make a breakfast for four persons, take about one pint 
of creamery mush and stir boiling water into it to the con- 
sistency desired (salted to suit the taste), cook about five 
minutes, serve with cream and sugar. Fresh or stewed fruit 
added will make a delightful breakfast. 

If any mush is left over from breakfast, after it becomes 
cold cut in slices and fry for another meal. 

Omelette. 

Take four eggs and beat as light as possible. For every 
egg add a tablespoonful of milk. Put a piece of butter in the 
omelette pan, and when hot pour in the mixture. With a fork 
scrape the egg very lightly toward the center of the pan as it 
cooks, and when done fold it together with a pancake turner. 



How to Boil Eggs. 

Put the eggs into cold water, place on the range and as soon 
as the water comes to a boil they are thoroughly cooked, not 
from the outside in, but from the inside out, a few moments 
now will boil them suitable for salad dressing or sandwiches. 

Poached Eggs. 

Have boiling water in a shallow pan, break the eggs sepa- 
rately in a saucer, and slip gently into the boiling water; when 
all are in the water, place the pan over the fire until the white 
of each is perfectly set; remove with a slicer and lay on but- 
tered toast or broiled ham. 

Baked Eggs. 

Time, eight minutes. Have a little beef fat in the tin, let 
it be hot, then break in the eggs as for frying; salt them and 
set in hot oven for a few minutes and they are done. Eat with 
buttered toast. 

Egg and Oyster Omelette. 

Time, twelve minutes. Beat up four eggs, and season to 
suit; chop up six large oysters, make a batter of a half cup of 
flour and a half pint of milL; mix the whole together, stir well, 
and fry slowly, adding by the teaspoonful. 

Scrambled Eggs. 

Beat up four eggs, with salt and pepper to taste. Put an 
ounce of butter into a saucepan; directly it is melted put in the 
eggs, and keep constantly stirring with a spoon until they are 
nearly set, adding at the last a little finely-minced parsley. 

Breakfast Baked Omelette. 

Time, fifteen minutes. One heaping teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, one-fourth cup of milk, a lump of butter, a small onion 
chopped fine; boil all together until the corn-starch gets thick 
not lumpy take seven eggs, beat the yolks and whites sepa- 
ratelythe whites to a stiff froth; put the corn-starch in a 
dish with the yolks and half cup of milk, add a little salt and 
pepper, some chopped parsley, lastly the whites of the eggs. 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Milk Bread. 

Time, one hour. One pint of boiling water, one pint of new 
milk, one teaspoonful soda, the same of salt, flour enough to 

9 



form a batter; let it rise, add sufficient flour to form a dough, 
and bake immediately. 

Fried Bread. 

Time, ten minutes. Beat four eggs very light, add three 
tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, a little grated nutmeg, a table- 
spoonful of orange or rose water, and a quart of milk. Cut into 
slices, an inch thick, a stale loaf of bread; remove the crust 
from the sides, and cut each slice into halves. Butter your 
frying-pan, and when hot lay in your bread (dipped in the cus- 
tard) and brown on both sides. Lay them on a hot dish, and 
sprinkle over them a little sugar. 

Graham Bread. 

Take two cups buttermilk or sour milk, one-half cup of best 
sugar-house syrup, one teaspoonful of soda, half teaspoonful of 
salt. Stir with a spoon to a stiff mass (not too stiff, or the bread 
will be too hard) ; put it into a three-pint or a two-quart basin, 
well buttered; put into a steamer over cold water, which gives 
the loaf more time for rising. Steam about an hour; then 
place it in the oven just long enough to give it a good rich 
brown color. Most excellent gems are made with sour milk 
and soda, with shortening and a little salt, stirred to a soft 
batter with Graham flour, and baked in a quick oven in gem 
irons or patty pans. 

Frizzled Dried Beef. 

Time, fifteen minutes; six persons. Half-pound chipped 
beef, two tablespoonfuls of butter, half-pint of milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, and dash of pepper. Chipped beef is perhaps 
one dish that is at least commonly prepared well. If the meat 
is very salt, scald it once or twice and then press it perfectly 
dry. Put the butter in a saute or frying-pan; stir or toss the 
beef in the butter until thoroughly hot; then sprinkle over the 
flour, mix carefully and add hastily the milk; bring to boiling 
point and stand over hot water. 

Kidney Stew. 

Time, thirty minutes; six persons. Six veal kidneys, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, half-pint of boiling water, one teaspoon- 
ful of Worcestershire sauce, one teaspoonful of tomato catsup, 
one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter. Wash and 
split the kidneys in halves. Remove the white tubes. Wash the 
kidneys, cover them with cold water, bring to boiling point, 
drain; cover with fresh boiling water, drain again. Be careful 

10 



that each time they are just brought to the boiling point, do 
not actually boil. Rub the butter and flour together; add it to 
the butter and flour; stir until boiling; add the Worcestershire 
sauce, tomato catsup and salt; bring again to a boil; add the 
kidneys; cover and stand over hot water for fifteen minutes. 
Calf's liver may be prepared in precisely the same way. 

Kidneys Cooked in Their Fat. 

Take three fresh sheep's kidneys, without removing their 
fat, cut into rounds about half an inch in thickness. Dip 
them in cream and season, then dip them into flour, and fry in 
bacon fat a golden brown on each side. Serve very hot on 
rounds of toast or fried bread. 

Milk Toast. 

One quart milk; when it comes to a boil thicken with one 
teaspoonful corn-starch; add salt. Toast the bread a light 
brown; butter each slice, put layers of toast in a covered dish 
and pour on the thickened milk, then more toast and milk, and 
so on till the dish is full; cover, let stand five minutes, and 
serve. 

German Toast. 

Prepare the tomatoes as for sauce, and while they are 
cooking toast some slices of bread very brown, but not burned; 
butter them both sides and pour the tomato sauce over them. 

Corn Bread. 

Time, one hour and a half. Take one quart of sweet milk, 
corn meal enough to thicken, three eggs, half a cup of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, and 
two of cream of tartar; bake in a moderate oven. 

Brown Bread. 

Time, four to five hours. One quart of Indian meal and 
one quart of rye, mixed well together; half a cup of molasses, 
one tablespoonful of salt, tablespoonful of cream of tartar, two- 
thirds of a tablespoonful of soda, dissolved in a pint of cold 
water. When dissolved wet the mixture with it, and if it does 
not thoroughly wet in add a little more. It should be nearly 
as stiff as bread. 

How to Make Bread. 

Bread making is an accomplishment of which every woman 
should be proud. It need never be a hard task, unless the 
woman makes hard work of it. Especially where the gas range 

11 



is used, in which the heat is under absolute control, the very 
best and most satisfactory results can be attained. If the 
housekeeped has been in the habit of setting a sponge at night 
and insists upon that procedure, owing to a longer period of 
fermentation, a less quantity of yeast should be used than if 
set in the morning. Dry or compressed yeast may be used, but 
the compressed is preferable to dry when making bread during 
the day, as fermentation proceeds more rapidly. Certain pro- 
portions and conditions are necessary to obtain successful 
results. The better plan is to measure liquids as to the base of 
proportions, as flours vary in quality: One pint milk, one pint 
boiling water, two teaspoonfuls salt, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one tablespoonful butter, one yeast cake in one-quarter cup 
water. Put salt, sugar and shortening in mixing bowl, add 
milk and pour into it the boiling water. Dissolve yeast in one- 
quarter cup cold water. When liquid in bowl is lukewarm, add 
the dissolved yeast and flour enough to make a batter; beat 
well until full of bubbles, cover closely and keep warm for one 
hour, then add flour and knead into a smooth, velvety dough that 
will not stick to the hands. Place in warm place, allow to 
stand until it doubles in bulk and knead down, mold and put 
into pans. Allow to double in bulk again and bake in hot oven. 
Turn on both burners to heat the oven; let burn full on about 
eight to ten minutes. Turn off back burner and put in bread. 
The smaller loaves baked in the brick shaped pans can be 
baked in numbers to fill the oven to fullest capacity, changing 
from one side to the other, if necessary to insure even browning. 
According to thickness of loaves, thirty to sixty minutes should 
be allowed. Rolls may be lighter than bread and baked in 
hotter ovens. 

Eggs a-la-Mode. 

Remove the skin from a dozen tomatoes, medium size, cut 
them up in a saucepan, add a little butter, pepper and salt; 
when sufficiently boiled, beat up five or six eggs, and just before 
you serve turn them into the saucepan with the tomato, and 
stir them one way for two minutes, allowing them time to be 
well done. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Let the buckwheat be of the hulled sort, and fresh. Put 
into a two-quart pitcher one and one-half pints of tepid water; 
add four tablespoonfuls of bakers' or as much "compressed" 
yeast as will make one loaf of bread other kinds in propor- 
tionwith a little salt. Then stir in buckwheat enough to 

12 



make a thick batter; cover the pitcher and set away to rise 
over night, after beating thoroughly. In the morning add three 
tablespoonfuls of molasses and a quarter of a teaspoonful of 
soda, dissolved in about three tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat all 
well together, and pour the cakes from the pitcher upon a well- 
heated griddle. 

Hominy Muffins. 

Time, fifteen minutes. Take two cups of fine hominy, boiled 
and cold; beat it smooth; stir in three cups of sour milk, half a 
cup of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of salt, and two table- 
spoonfuls of white sugar; then add three eggs well beaten, one 
tablespoonful of soda dissolved in hot water, and one large cup 
of flour; bake quickly. 

Flour Muffins. 

Time, fifteen minutes. One-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of sugar, two cups of milk, three teaspoonfuls of yeast powder 
rubbed thoroughly into a scant quart of flour, and a little salt; 
bake in muffin rings. 

Brown Flour Muffins. 

Time, half an hour. One quart tepid water, half cup yeast, 
one tablespoonful of Indian meal, two of molasses, two pints 
graham flour, one pint wheat, one teaspoonful of soda about 
half an hour before baking as thick as soft gingerbread; bake 
half an hour or in greased rings on a griddle. 

Rice Muffins. 

Time, fifteen minutes. Take one cup of cold boiled rice, 
one pint of flour, two eggs, one quart of milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter, and one teaspoonful of salt; beat very hard and bake 
quickly. 

Corn Muffins. 

Time, fifteen minutes. Two cups yellow Indian meal, one 
cup flour, three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little 
salt, a piece of lard or butter the size of an egg, one teaspoonful 
saleratus and two of cream tartar (the cream tartar must be 
put in dry with the flour, and the saleratus mixed with a little 
warm water and put in last of all) ; mix all together with milk 
as thick as pound cake batter. Pour in corn-muffin-pans and 
bake in a hot oven. 

13 



Rusk. 

One teacupful of butter, one cup of sugar, one egg, one bowl 
of milk or water, one-third cup of yeast. Mix stiff with a 
sponge over night, make out on pans in the morning; raise the 
second time. 

Bread Crackers. 

Take one pound of bread dough after it has risen; add two 
ounces of butter or lard; work well in dough; let rise again; 
roll out very thin; cut in cakes and bake till dry. 

Breakfast Rolls. 

Mix half an ounce of sifted white sugar in two pounds of the 
finest flour; make a hole in the center, and put in about two 
tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast, mixed with a little water; let it 
stand all night; in the morning add the yolks of two eggs, a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, and sufficient warm milk 
to make it of a right consistency; divide into rolls (about twelve 
or fourteen) ; bake half an hour in a brisk oven. 

French Rolls. 

One pint of milk, one small cup of home-made yeast (you 
can try the baker's), flour enough to make a stiff batter; raise 
over night. In the morning add one egg, one tablespoonful of 
butter, and flour enough to make it fine and white), roll out, 
cut with a round tin and fold over; put them in a pan and cover 
very close. Set them in a warm place until they are very light; 
bake quickly. 

Pan Doodles. 

Make a sponge just as you do for bread over night. In the 
morning take from the bread-dough small pieces about the size 
of a walnut, shape them rather long than round; fry in boiling 
hot lard a light brown; serve hot in a covered dish; pull them 
open and butter them. You will find them both simple and 
delicious for breakfast. 

Oatmeal Cakes. 

Take two cups of cold boiled oatmeal; mix one egg through 
it; one tablespoonful of sugar, and prepared flour enough to 
make into cakes; dip each side into rolled cracker and fry brown. 

Breakfast Pie. 

Time, two hours. A delicious pie. Make a standing crust; 
then a mixture of six eggs, a quart of milk, some finely powdered 

14 



sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of white pepper; then line a pie dish 
with the crust; slice some ham very fine. Put a layer of ham, 
then part of your custard, and so on till the dish is full. Bake 
about two hours. When cold lift it out of the pie dish. 

Batter Bread. 

Take half a cup of bread crumbs soaked in a pint of milk 
and two eggs; beat this to a smooth batter; add two cups of 
Indian meal, one teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of 
butter; stir all together very hard, and bake in shallow tins 
very quickly. 

Rice Cakes. 

Take one cup of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, two eggs beaten lightly and milk enough to 
make this a thick batter; beat all together well and bake on a 
griddle. 

Tea Biscuit. 

One quart of sifted flour, a little salt, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, a small handful of sugar; mix lightly through 
the flour; rub a large teaspoonful of lard through the dry mix- 
ture; mix with sweet milk or water, the colder the better; roll 
out soft to thickness of about one-third of an inch; cut with a 
large-sized cutter and bake in a really hot oven. 

Dainty Muffins. 

One-quarter cup butter, one-quarter cup sugar, one egg, 
about half a cup of milk, one and one-half cups pastry flour, 
three scant teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream butter in cup, 
add sugar and cream together. Put in bowl, and add well beaten 
egg; sift baking powder with flour, and add, alternating with 
milk. Bake in hot buttered gem pans in moderately hot oven 
for twenty-five minutes. 

Waffles. 

Two cups flour, two level teaspoonfuls baking powder, one 
and one-third cups milk, one scant teaspoonful sugar, three eggs, 
two tablespoonfuls melted butter, one-half teaspoonful salt. Mix 
flour, baking powder, sugar and salt. Mix yolks, beaten well 
with milk; add to the flour gradually, beating in smoothly. Lastly 
fold in beaten whites. Have iron very clean, hot and well 
greased. Put enough batter in each side to fill not quite two- 
thirds full. Cover, cook waffles a minute longer on other side. 
Serve hot on hot plates. 

15 



Fritter Batter. 

This is batter for the Swedish timbale cases made with 
timbale irons. Sift together one cup of pastry flour and one-half 
teaspoon of salt. Beat the yolks of four eggs light and add half 
a cup of milk or water. Then stir the liquid into the flour gradu- 
ally, making a smooth batter, and add one tablespoon of olive oil 
or melted butter. Use the dover beater to whip the whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth and then add to the mixture and set away 
in a cool place for two hours or more. Have ready a kettle of 
hot fat, put iron into fat to heat. When hot, dip carefully into 
batter to cover about three-fourths of the mold, raise and im- 
merse in fat. When lightly browned, take from fat, drain, tap 
handle quickly so as to detach the cooked case. Examine the 
first case. If thin or too thick, add flour or water to make 
of right consistency. Cases may be used at once, or set aside, 
rewarmed and filled at last moment before serving. Any creamed 
mixture of chicken, fish or vegetables may be used for filling. 



1G 



The one who plays one of the most important parts in your 
little world is the COOK. 

A world without cooks! just imagine. 

How fortunate to have a little cook of your own who can 
supply wonderful dishes "Like Mother used to Make" she is a 
wonder. 

As an illustration, take a celebrated chef, the majority of 
them are married, and while they prepare the most elaborate 
dishes for others, they prefer home cooking, prepared by the 
little wife. Though he would gladly give lessons to the new 
wife, he'd rather have a piece of bread and butter from her 
hands than the finest meal he could prepare. 

Would the idea of your husband knowing more about cook- 
ing than you did please you? 

What a nice compliment to hear the remark: "My wife is 
a mighty fine cook, I can tell you; she beats her teacher." It 
makes a woman happy, for where is the woman who doesn't love 
being appreciated. 



17 



FISH. 

Let great care be taken to well clean the fish before it is 
dressed. Fresh-water fish have often a muddy taste and smell, 
which may be got rid of by soaking them in strong salt and water 
before they are cooked. 

Salt fish should be soaked in water before boiling, accord- 
ing to the time it has been in salt. When it is hard and dry, it 
will require thirty-six hours' soaking before it is dressed, and 
the water must be changed three or four times. When fish is not 
very salt, twenty-four hours, or even one night, will suffice. 

To Fry Fish. 

Cleanse them thoroughly, dry them on a folded cloth, dredge 
flour lightly over them, brush them with a well-beaten egg, then 
dip them in fine breadcrumbs. 

Have ready enough fine oil, or melted lard or beef dripping 
(clarified), to entirely cover the fish. Place the frping-pan over 
a clear fire. Let the lard reach the boiling point, and then im- 
merse the fish in it. You may try whether the fat is hot enough 
by letting a drop of cold water fall into it from the end of your 
spoon. If the hot fat spits, it is ready for use. Then fry, turning 
the fish when one side is browned to the other. When it is done, 
serve it extremely dry on a white cloth or embossed fish paper. 

To Broil Fish. 

A clear fire is required. Rub the bars of your gridiron with 
dripping or a piece of beef suet, to prevent the fish from sticking 
to it. Put a good piece of butter into a dish, work into it enough 
salt and pepper to season the fish. Lay the fish on it when it 
is broiled, and with a knife blade put the butter over every part. 
Serve very hot. 

To Boil Fish. 

Put the fish in the saucepan, and a little more than half 
cover it with boiling water. Cover the lid closely and boil 
gently until done. To determine when a fish is sufficiently 
boiled, draw it up upon the fish plate, and if the thickest part 
of the fish can be easily divided from the bone with a knife, it 
should be at once taken from the water. A little saltpetre or a 
few spoonfuls of vinegar may be added to the water to render 
the boiled fish firm. Some cooks prefer to steep the fish in 
salt and water from five to ten minutes before putting it in the 
kettle to cook, instead of putting salt in the water in which it is 
to boil. By this this means less scum rises. 

18 



Codfish Balls. 

Have the ingredients cooked on the day you wish them to 
be eaten. Put your codfish to soak a day and a half, and then 
boil until tender. Have your potatoes boiling, too. When the 
fish is done, pull every lump, no matter how small, apart, until 
it is light and feathery. Mash the potatoes until they are per- 
fectly smooth; add a little cream or milk, and a little butter, but 
not enough to color them; mix all thoroughly; roll into fat, 
smooth balls, about one-half inch thick. Be careful to make them 
a good shape. A little raw onion, chopped fine, is delicious mixed 
through them, just sufficient to flavor. Fry a good brown, in 
plenty of hot lard. Cooked oysters, laid on before eating, make 
them still better. 

Baked Fish. 

Select fresh, firm-fleshed fish for baking, clean thoroughly, 
cut off fins, leaving head and tail, wipe dry and pin oiled paper 
on the tail. Dust the inside with salt. Have needle with thread 
ready for sewing up fish as it is stuffed. Cut strips of fat bacon 
or salt pork to lay in gashes or over top of fish, to baste in bak- 
ing. Fill with 

Stuffing for Baked Fish. 

Put in a bowl one cup of bread crumbs from loaf two or 
three days old; add one-quarter teaspoonful salt, one-eighth 
teaspoon pepper, one teaspoon onion juice, one teaspoon minced 
parsley, two level teaspoons finely chopped sweet midget cucum- 
ber pickles (one teaspoon of capers if you have them and are 
liked), one-quarter cup melted butter. If crumbs are not too 
dry, no moisture need be added. The stuffing if slightly 
"crumbly" is more delicate. Put in lightly, sew up fish and 
form a horseshoe or letter S shape. On each side cut gashes to 
make body of fish turn in shape, and fill them with the pork 
strips. Skewer and tie in shape; put strips of pork in bottom 
of pan, rest fish on these and add one cup hot water to pan. 
Baste with hot water, to which a little salt has been added. Have 
the oven hot, for fish must begin baking at once. Within five 
minutes or less, a hissing sound should be heard. Upon this 
first heat of the oven will depend the success of the baking. The 
fish will be delicious, juicy and tender if baked just right, and 
those who have not liked fish at all will relish a fish baked in 
this manner. Allow twenty-five to thirty minutes for baking a 
fish of three or four pounds. When done, place on platter, re- 

19 



move paper, skewers, threads, pork strips, and garnish with 
Saratoga potatoes, lemon points and parsley or water cress. Serve 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

Baked Slice of Halibut. 

Time, thirty minutes; six persons. One thick slice of hali- 
but, one level teaspoonful of salt, parsley, one small onion, one 
salt spoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup 
of water, one lemon; melt the butter; chop the onion, put in 
the bottom of the baking pan, put on top of the halibut steak, 
dust with salt and pepper, and then the melted butter. Bake in 
a quick oven, or, if you have a gas stove, in the broiling cham- 
ber, for thirty minutes, basting once or twice. The steak must 
be nicely browned. Dish, strain over any sauce that may be 
left over in the pan, garnish with parsley and lemon, and send 
at once to the table. 

Lobster a-la-Bordelaise. 

Time, forty-five minutes; six persons. One good sized lob- 
ster, two ounces of butter, one bay leaf, one salt spoonful of 
pepper, one-half pound of fresh mushrooms or one can of mush- 
rooms, one pint of boiling water, one small onion, one salt 
spoonful of celery seed, one level teaspoonful of salt. Put the 
butter and onion, chopped, into a saucepan, cook until the onion 
is slightly browned, then add the flour, when boiling add all the 
seasonings. Simmer gently for ten minutes, strain, add the 
mushrooms; simmer ten minutes longer and stand the sauce 
over hot water while you cut the lobster into good sized pieces, 
put the lobster into the sauce, cover the pan closely and stand 
it over hot water for ten minutes and it is ready to serve. This 
may be served on toast in pate shells, or in a vol-au-vent. 

Fish Cakes. 

One pint bowl salt codfish, picked very fine, two pint bowls 
of whole, raw, peeled potatoes; put together in cold water and 
boil until the potatoes are thoroughly cooked; remove from 
fire and drain off all the water; mash with potato-masher; add 
piece of butter the size of an egg, two well-beaten eggs, and a 
little pepper; mix well with a wooden spoon; have a frying-pan 
with boiling lard or drippings, into which drop a spoonful of 
mixture and fry brown; do not freshen the fish before boiling 
with potatoes, and do not mold cakes, but drop from spoon. 

20 



Trout a I'Espagnol. 

Scale the trout and clean it by the gills; put inside it butter 
mixed with parsley, chopped onions, pepper, and salt; then 
dress the fish with oil, parsley, onions, thyme, laurel, salt, and 
pepper, and place it on a griddle, wrapped in oil-paper, dressing 
and all. When cooked, take the paper and herbs off, and cover 
with anchovy sauce. 

Fish Fritters. 

Take salt codfish and soak it over night. In the morning 
throw the water off the fish, put on fresh, and set it on the 
range until it comes to a boil. Do not let it boil, as that will 
harden it. Then pick it up very fine, season with pepper, mace, 
and perhaps a little salt. Make a batter of a pint of milk and 
three eggs, stir in the fish, and fry in small cakes. Any kind 
of codfish makes nice fritters. 

Turbot a-la-Creme. 

Time, one hour. Take five pounds of halibut or cod; boil 
thoroughly in salt and water; when done, drain it, and when 
cool flake it, taking out all the bones. One quart of cream set 
in a saucepan of hot water, half of an onion, some sprigs of 
parsley, two tablespoonfuls of corn-starch; cook it until it is 
flavored, then strain out the parsley and half a pound of butter 
to the cream; take the dish you serve it in and put first a layer 
of fish, then a layer of cream, a sprinkle of cayenne pepper, 
then a layer of cracker crumbs, and so on until the dish is full; 
put the last layer of cracker crumbs; bake it an hour at least; 
garnish with parsley. 

Fresh Halibut Fish-balls. 

To two pounds of boiled halibut add double the quantity of 
hot mashed potatoes; the fish must be picked in small pieces; 
add butter the size of an egg, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 
salt, and two eggs; mix them well, make them into round, flat 
balls, and when the weather is cold they can stand over night, 
but in summer they must be made in the morning. Have a 
kettle of boiling hot lard, put in only a few at a time, and boil 
them until they are a nice light brown. If the lard is not quite 
boiling they will soak the fat, and if too hot they will come out 
black instead of brown. If the fish, potatoes, etc.. seem too dry 
when you mix it, add a very little milk. 

21 



Salmagundi. 

Take the bones out of one dozen salt herring or shad and cut 
the flesh fine; wash two or three times in cold water; squeeze 
the water well out; slice eight onions thin; put fish and onions 
together and put on cold vinegar and pepper. 

Halibut Steaks. 

Wash and wipe the steaks dry; beat up two or three eggs 
and roll out some hard crackers very fine; salt each steak 
and then dip into the beaten eggs, and after into the cracker 
crumbs, and fry in hot fat. 

To Cook Shad-roes. 

First partially boil them in a small covered pan and then 
fry in hot lard, after covering or sprinkling with flour. The 
slices may also be simply dried in a cloth, floured and broiled 
over a clear fire; but they require the greatest care then to pre- 
vent them from burning. The gridiron is always rubbed with 
suet first. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Salmon is put into warm water instead of cold, in order to 
preserve its color and set the curd. It should be thoroughly well 
dressed to be wholesome. Scale it, empty and wash it with the 
greatest care. Do not leave any blood in the inside that you 
can remove. Boil the salt rapidly in the fish-kettle for a minute 
or two, taking off the scum as it rises; put in the salmon, first 
trussing it in the shape of the letter S, and let it boil gently 
until it is thoroughly done. Take it from the water on the fish- 
plate, let it drain, put it on a hot folded fish napkin, and garnish 
with slices of lemon. Sauce: Shrimp or lobster. Send up dressed 
cucumber with salmon. 

Broiled Salmon. 

Time, ten to fifteen minutes. Cut slices of an inch or an 
inch and a half thick from the middle of a large salmon; dust 
a little cayenne pepper over them; wrap them in oiled or but- 
tered paper, and broil them over a clear fire, first rubbing the 
bars of the gridiron with suet. 

Cod's Head and Shoulder. 

Time, half an hour or more. Cod's head and shoulders; 
four ounces of salt to each gallon of water; a little horseradish. 
Rub a little salt down the bone and the thick part of the fish, 
and tie a fold or two of wide tape round it to prevent its break- 

22 



ing. Lay it in a fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover 
it, with salt in the above proportion; add three spoonfuls of 
vinegar and a little horseradish. Let the water be brought just 
to the verge of boiling; then draw the fish-kettle to the side of 
the fire, to simmer gently till the fish is done, which can be 
ascertained by trying it with a fish slice to see if the meat can 
be separated easily from the bone; skim it well and carefully. 
When done, drain it and slip it off the fish strainer on a napkin 
neatly folded in a dish. Garnish with double parsley, lemon and 
the roe and liver of the cod. If the cod be crimped, it will re- 
puire a shorter time to dress it. 

Picked Cod. 

Time, fifteen minutes. About one pound and a half of 
dressed cod; a little oyster and egg sauce; two hard-boiled eggs, 
and four parsnips, or some mashed potatoes. Pick about a pound 
and a half of dressed codfish into flakes, and put it in layers, with 
a little oyster and egg sauce alternately, in a stewpan. Make 
it thoroughly hot. When it is done, pile it in the center of the 
dish, and serve with mashed potatoes in a wall round it, browned 
with a salamander, or garnish it with slices of hard-boiled eggs 
and parsnips cut into shapes. 

Salt Cod. 

Time, one hour. Put the cod in water the night before it is 
wanted, and let it soak all night; boil it; lay it in a dish, and 
send it up hot, with egg sauce. If it be preferred, instead of the 
egg sauce, boil parsnips quite tender, mash them with butter, 
cream or milk, and spread them round the salt fish. 

Baked Eels. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. Skin, empty, and thorough- 
ly wash four large eels, cut off the heads, and divide them into 
rather short pieces, wipe them very dry, dip each piece into a 
seasoning of cayenne, salt, minced parsley, and a little powdered 
savory herbs, put them into a deep dish, cover them with veal 
stock, put a thick paper or cover over the dish, and set it in 
the oven until the eels are tender. Skim off the fat, take the 
pieces of fish carefully out on a hot dish to keep warm, and 
stir into the gravy the wine, strained lemon juice and sauce; 
make it just boil up, and pour it over the fish. Garnish with 
sliced lemon. 

23 



Fried Eels. 

Time, eighteen or twenty minutes. Prepare and wash the 
eels, wipe them thoroughly dry, and dredge over them a very 
little flour; if large, cut them into pieces of about four inches 
long, brush them over with egg, dip them in bread crumbs, and 
fry them in hot fat. If small they should be curled round and 
fried, first dipped into egg and bread crumbs. Serve them up 
garnished with fried parsley. 

Yacht Oyster Stew. 

Time, half an hour. Strain, cook and skim the juice of 
twenty-four oysters; boil celery and a quarter of a small onion in 
a little water for half an hour or until the celery is well cooked; 
then add a pint of milk or cream, a tablespoonful of butter, a 
tablespoonful of pounded crackers, a teaspoonful of Worcester- 
shire sauce, salt, pepper, the oysters, and cooked juice, and boil 
all three minutes, or until the edges of the oysters shrivel. 

To Stew Oysters. 

Time, ten minutes. After pouring off the juice, put the 
oysters in some salt water and pass each one between the thumb 
and finger to get rid of the slime. Then to 100 oysters add half 
a pound of butter rubbed up with a teaspoonful of flour; stir for 
ten minltes or till done, then add a half pint of cream, but do 
not permit it to boil, otherwise the cream will curdle; add salt 
and cayenne to the taste. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Time, a quarter of an hour. Butter some tin scallop shells, 
or if you have not any, a small tart dish. Strew in a layer of 
grated bread, then put some thin slices of butter, then oysters 
enough to fill your shells or dish. Cover them thickly with 
bread crumbs, again add slices of butter. Pepper the whole well, 
add a little of the liquor kept from the oysters. Put butter over 
the whole surface, and bake in a quick oven. Serve them in 
their shells or in the dish. Brown them with a salamander. If 
you have not one, make the kitchen shovel redhot and hold it 
over closely enough to brown your scallops. 

Oyster Patties. 

Cover some small tins, called patty-pans, with puff paste; 
cut it round, and put in the center a small piece of bread (to 
prevent the top and bottom from collapsing) ; cover it with 
paste, slightly pinch the edges together, and bake in a brisk 

24 



oven a quarter of an hour. Then, having bearded and parboiled 
a dozen large oysters, cut them in quarters, and put them in a 
stewpan with an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, mixed 
with their liquor, and the broth from the beards ( which you must 
stey in a small saucepan, with a little stock gravy and two or 
three shreds of lemon). Season with a very little salt, a quar- 
ter of a teaspoonful of powdered mace, and the same quantity 
of cayenne; then gradually add three tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Mix well; then with a thin knife open the patties, take out the 
bread, put in a spoonful of the oysters and cream gravy; put the 
covers on again and serve hot. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Scald, beard, and wash large, fat oysters in their own liquor; 
strain it, and to every pint put a glass of white wine, mace, 
nutmeg, a good many white peppercorns, and a little salt, if 
necessary; simmer the oysters for four or five minutes; put 
vinegar, in the proportion of a glass to the pint, to the liquor, 
and boil it up; skim this pickle and pour it over the oysters, 
and when cold cork and close them up tight. 

Soft-Shell Crabs. 

Soft-shell crabs must be dipped in beaten egg, and then in 
grated bread or cracker crumbs, and thrown into a hot frying- 
pan, in which salt pork has been friend out for the purpose; it 
gives them a much better flavor than butter or lard. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Time, five or six minutes. Beard some good-sized oysters, 
make a thick omelet batter with four eggs and a tablespoonful 
of milk, dip each oyster into the batter, and then into grated 
bread, fry them a nice color, and use them to garnish fried fish. 

Scallops. 

Time, half an hour. Cover the scallops with beaten egg 
and bread-crumbs, well seasoned with pepper, salt and minced 
parsley, and fry them nicely. Put them to keep hot, dredge 
flour into the frying-pan to take up the grease, mix in water 
enough for gravy, season with pepper and salt, thicken it if 
required, make the scallops hot in it, and serve them with the 
gravy together. Lemon pickle may be added. 

They may also be floured and fried, and then stewed. 

25 



To Stew Mussels. 

Time, ten minutes. Clean the shells thoroughly with re- 
peated washings, and cook them until they open, as mentioned 
above. Pick them out of the shells, and as you do so save the 
liquor that runs from them, and pick out from each one the 
little hairy appendage to be found at the root of the little mem- 
ber shaped like a tongue. To the mussels, thus prepared, put 
half a pint of the liquor saved, and if there is not enough of it 
eke out the quantity with a little of the liquor in which they 
were boiled, poured off clear. Put in a blade of mace, thicken 
it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, let them stew gently 
for a few minutes, and serve them on toast. 

To Boil Herrings. 

Time, twenty minutes. Clean and wash the fish; dry them 
in a cloth, and rub over them a little vinegar and salt. Skewer 
them with their tails in their mouths, lay them on a strainer 
in a stewpan, and when the water boils put them in, and let 
them continue simmering slowly for about twenty minutes. When 
they are done, drain and place them in the dish with the heads 
turned in to the center; garnish with scraped horseradish, and 
serve with parsley and butter sauce. 

To Bake Herrings. 

Time, one hour. Clean and wash two herrings, lay them on 
a dish or board, and rub well over and into them a spoonful of 
pepper, one of salt, and twelve cloves pounded. Lay them in 
an earthen pan, cover them with vinegar, add two or three bay 
leaves, and tie them over with a thick paper. Put them into a 
moderate oven, and bake them for an hour. To be eaten cold. 

Fried Herrings. 

Time, six or eight minutes. Clean and scale the fish, and 
dry them thoroughly in a cloth. When they are quite dry, fry 
them to a bright color. The herring, being so rich a fish, should 
be fried with less butter than fish of most kinds, and well 
drained, and dried afterwards. A nice sauce to eat with her- 
rings is sugar, mustard, and a little salt and vinegar. Some 
serve melted butter, but herrings, are too rich to eat with a rich 
sauce. Crisp parsley may be used as a garnish. 

To Dress Lobsters. 

When sent to table, separate the body from the tail, remove 
the large claws, and crack them at each joint carefully, and 
split the tail down the middle with a sharp knife; place the 

26 



body upright in the center of a dish on a napkin, and arrange 
the tail and claws on each side. Garnish it with double parsley. 

To Dress Boiled Crabs. 

Empty the large shell; mix the flesh with a very little oil, 
vinegar, salt, white pepper, and cayenne to your taste, replace 
the meat in the large shell, and place it in the dish with the 
claws. 

To Pickle Fish. 

Take any freshly caught fish, clean and scale them, wash and 
wipe them dry. Cut them into slices a few inches thick, put 
them in a jar with some salt, some allspice, and a little horse- 
radish. When filled, cover them with good strong vinegar. Cover 
it well with a good cover. Let it stand in your oven a few hours. 
Don't let the oven be too hot. This will keep six months. Put 
it immediately in the cellar, and in a few days they will be fit 
for use. 

Clam Chowder. 

Twenty-five clams, chopped fine; six potatoes, chopped fine; 
two onions, chopped fine; a piece of salt pork, also chopped, and 
butter about the size of an egg; salt and pepper to taste the 
clam juice and one pint of milk and the same of water; six 
crackers rolled, one nutmeg, teaspoonful celery seed. Boil these 
slowly for at least four hours, adding water if it becomes too 
thick; half an hour before serving add coffee cupful of tomato 
catsup and two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce. When 
ready for table add tumbler of sherry; cut a lemon in slices 
and serve with it. 

Fried Oysters. 

Select fine, large oysters, dry them out of their own liquor. 
Have ready a plate of eggs and a plate of bred crumbs. Let 
them lay in the egg a few minutes, and then roll them in the 
bread crumbs, allowing them to remain in these also for a minute 
or two; this will make them adhere, and not come off as a skin 
when in the pan. Fry in half butter and half lard, in order to 
give them a rich brown. Make it very hot before putting the 
oysters in. 

Clam Fritters. 

Take twelve large or twenty-five small claims from their 
shells; if the clams are large, divide them. Mix two gills of 
wheat flour with one gill of milk, half as much of the clam liquor, 
and one egg well beaten. Make the batter smooth, and then 
stir in the clams. Drop the batter by tablespoonfuls in boiling 
lard; let them fry gently, turning them when done on one side. 

27 



SOUPS. 

It is of great importance that every one, and most especially 
those who labor hard, should take a little light soup at the be- 
ginning of a dinner, it warms and stimulates the stomach and 
prepares it for the digestion of the heavier foods to follow. 

Soup Garnishings. 

Under this heading we place croutons of various sizes and 
shapes, which are perhaps the most active of soup garnishings; 
cooked vegetables cut into fancy shapes, tiny egg balls, force 
meat balls, marrow or suet balls, are also sightly and palatable. 

Stock. 

All meat soups have "stock" for their basis. Beef and veal 
make the best stock, but mutton, if previously broiled or roasted, 
is very good. The Digester or Stock-pot should be made the 
receptacle of all sorts of meat bones, either broken or crushed, 
as the large proportion of gelatinous matter they contain is the 
basis or jelly of the stock, to which it can be added at pleasure. 

Winter (Split) Pea Soup. 

Time, three hours. Soak a quart of split peas in soft water 
for twelve or fourteen hours, and remove those which float 
on the top. Then simmer in two quarts of water until tender; 
put them in your stewpan; add two quarts of beef stock, about 
a couple of pounds of shin of beef, any odd meat bones, chopped 
up, and a slice of ham; a head of celery, six onions, three each 
of carrots and turnips all peeled and sliced and seasoning to 
taste . Simmer the whole for two or three hours, stirring 
and skimming from time to time; pass all through a fine hair 
sieve, give it one boil, and serve with toasted bread. 

Pot-Au-Feu. 

Time, three hours. Take shin of beef or cold beefsteak or 
roast, or anything of that kind; put in grated carrot (because 
that gives a flavor and a nice color), turnips, potatoes, a little 
browned flour, and plenty of salt and pepper; add a little garlic, 
half an onion, and some parsley. Boil two or three hours; strain 
after all is cooked. 

Soup Julienne. 

Time, forty-five minutes; six persons. One small turnip, 
half-cup of fresh green peas, one head of lettuce, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one and one-half quarts of boiling water, half cup of 
tender young beans, one potato, one salt spoonful of pepper. 

28 



Cut the carrot, turnip and potato in small strips; shell the peas 
and beans. Put the carrot and turnip in unsalted water and 
cook until tender, about thirty minutes. Put the beans in salted 
water, cook twenty minutes; add the peas, cook ten minutes and 
drain. Throw the potato in unsalted water and cook five min- 
utes. Drain all the vegetables, mix and add four nice lettuce 
leaves cut into shreds; add the vegetables and seasons, bring 
to a boil and serve. 

Potato Soup. 

Time, two hours. Eight potatoes, two turnips, four large 
onions, boiled together (in beef, mutton or poultry water) to a 
jam; then strained through a colander; then add butter rubbed 
in flour (a little), with cream or sweet milk, pepper and salt; 
chopped parsley in the bottom of the tureen; let soup boil well, 
then pour over the parsley. 

Mock Bisque Soup. 

Stew a can of tomatoes, and strain. Add a pinch of baking 
soda, to remove the acidity. In another saucepan boil three 
pints of milk; thicken with a tablespoonful of corn-starch pre- 
viously mixed with a little cold milk; add lump of butter size of 
an egg; salt and pepper to taste; mix with tomatoes; let all 
come once to the boil and serve. 

Clam Soup. 

Time, one hour. Twenty-five clams, opened, raw and 
chopped fine; add three quarts of water; boil them one-half hour, 
then add a pint of milk, one onion chopped fine, thicken with 
butter and flour; beat three eggs in the tureen and pour your 
broth over them boiling hot. 

Black Bean Soup. 

Time, five hours. Take a large knuckle of veal, add to it 
four quarts of water and one quart of black beans that have been 
soaked in water over night, and let them boil with the veal four 
or five hours; also, a small bit of onion and a dozen whole 
cloves, some salt and pepper; cut three hard-boiled eggs and 
two lemons into slices and put into the bottom of your tureen, 
and strain the soup, boiling hot, upon them. If the water boils 
away, you must keep adding to it, as this recipe ought to make 
a gallon of soup. It should be of the consistency of pea soup. 
If you have no veal, the bones of salt pork make a good substi- 
tute, but not equal to the knuckle. 

29 



Mock Turtle Soup. 

Time, twelve hours. Take about ten pounds of shin beef, 
cut it into small pieces, and fry the lean parts a light brown; 
put the rest of the beef (i. e., the fat part) into a stewpan with 
boiling water, and stew it for eight hours, with a bunch of sweet 
herbs and two onions; when cold take off the fat. Then get half 
a calf's head with the skin on, half boil it, and cut it into small 
square pieces and put them with the lean beef and the soup 
into the same pot, and let them stew altogether until quite 
tender. Thicken it with a very little flour; add a little pounded 
mace and cloves, and a grate of nutmeg, two spoonfuls of mush- 
room catsup, and pepper and salt to taste. A wine glass of 
sherry or white wine improves it. It should be served with egg 
balls and lemon. 

Tomato Soup. 

Time, one hour and a quarter. Take twelve large tomatoes, 
peel and chop them; boil ripe ones an hour, then stir in a half a 
teaspoonful of soda; when the foaming ceases add two soft 
crackers rolled very fine; add a quart of milk, one tablespoonful 
of butter and boil fifteen minutes. Salt and pepper to taste. If 
too thick, add a little boiling water or milk. 

Oyster Soup. 

Time, half an hour. To one hundred oysters take one quart 
of milk, half a pint of water, four spoonfuls of flour, half a cup 
of butter, and one teaspoonful of salt, with a very little cayenne 
pepper. Boil and skim the liquor off the oysters. Steam the 
flour and butter over the tea-kettle until soft enough to beat to 
a froth; then stir it in the liquor while boiling; after which add 
the other ingredients, and throw in the oysters, allowing them 
merely to scald. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Time, two hours. Take two quarts of green peas, one small 
onion and a sprig of parsley cut fine; add two quarts of hot 
water and boil slowly for half an hour, then add a pint of small 
new potatoes which have been peeled and laid in cold water 
an hour; put in a teaspoonful of sugar and a little salt; boil 
till the potatoes are done; now add a teacupful of cream or a 
pint of milk, boil a minute or two, and serve with small slices 
of toasted bread or gems cut in halves. 

30 



Chicken Soup. 

Time.four hours. Boil a pair of chickens with great care, 
skimming constantly, and keeping them covered with water. 
When tender, take out the chicken and remove every bone 
from the meat; put a large lump of butter into a frying-pan and 
dredge the chicken meat well with flour, lay in the hot pan; 
fry a nice brown and keep it hot and dry. Take a pint of the 
chicken water and stir in two large spoonfuls of curry powder, 
two of butter and one of flour, one teaspoonful of salt and a 
little cayenne; stir until smooth, then mix it with the broth in 
the pot; when well mixed, simmer five minutes, then add the 
browned chicken. Serve with rice. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. The macaroni must be 
boiled in water for ten minutes, strained and put into boiling 
stock, in the proportion of half a pound to the gallon; simmer 
slowly for half an hour, and serve very hot, with grated cheese 
on a separate dish. 

Kidney Soup. 

Time, six hours. Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of 
mutton a bullock's kidney, put it over the fire and when half done 
take out the kidney and cut it into pieces the size of dice. Add 
three sticks of celery, three or four turnips, and the same of 
carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs, tied together. 
Season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly 
for five or six hours, adding the catsup. When done take out 
the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always 
better (as all soups are) made the day before it is wanted. 

Scotch Barley Broth. 

Time, two hours. Take six pounds of the thick flank of 
beef, and cover it with six quarts of water, and a quarter of a 
pound of barley; boil it gently for an hour, skimming it fre- 
quently. Then add three heads of celery, two carrots, two 
turnips cut into pieces, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 
a little parsley; boil all together till you find the broth very 
good. Season it with salt. Then take out the beef, the onion, 
and sweet herbs; pour the broth into the tureen and put the 
beef in a dish garnished with carrots and turnips. 

31 



Ox-Tail Soup. 

Time, four hours and a half. Cut up two ox-tails, separat- 
ing them at the joints; put them into a stewpan with about an 
ounce and a half of butter, a head of celery, two onions, two tur- 
nips, and two carrots cut into slices, and a quarter of a pound 
of lean ham cut very thin; the pepper corns and savory herbs, 
and about a half pint of cold water. Stir it over a quick fire 
for a short time to extract the flavor of the herbs, or until the 
pan is covered with a glaze. Then pour in three quarts of 
water, skim it well, and simmer slowly for four hours, or until 
the tails are tender. Take them out, strain the soup, stir in 
a little flour to thicken it, add a glass of port wine, the catsup, 
and half a head of celery (previously boiled and cut into small 
pieces). Put the pieces of tail into the stewpan with the 
strained soup. Boil it up for a few minutes, and serve. This 
soup can be served clear, by omitting the flour and adding to it 
carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, with a head of 
celery in slices. These may be boiled in a little of the soup, 
and put into the tureen before sending it to table. 



32 



SAUCES. 

An appetizing sauce covers "A Multitude of Sins." It is 
easily made even with little material and at short notice. A 
rounding teaspoonful of butter rubbed with a rounding table- 
spoonful of flour is sufficient thickening to each half pint of 
liquid. 

For drawn butter plain water is used instead of milk, so by 
changing the seasonings and liquids a great variety of sauces 
are easily made. An ordinary stew, with a carefully made sauce, 
makes an attractive dish, left over vegetables, meats, etc., can 
be used to advantage for a beautiful sauce. 



33 



SAUCES AND GRAVIES. 

The thickest saucepans should be used for this operation, 
and only wooden spoons should be used for stirring. Remem- 
ber, also, that your saucepan must be exquisitely clean and 
fresh if you would have your cause a success, especially when 
it is melted butter. Let your fire be clear and not too fierce. 

Receipt for Melting Butter. 

Time, two or three minutes. Put about two ounces or two 
ounces and a half of butter into a very clean saucepan, with 
two tablespoonfuls of water, dredge in a little flour, and shake 
it over a clear fire, one way, until it boils. Then pour it into 
your tureen and serve as directed. 

Common Egg Sauce. 

Time, twenty minutes. Boil two eggs for twenty minutes, 
then take them out of the egg saucepan and put them in cold 
water to get cool, shell them and cut them into very small dice, 
put the minced eggs into a very hot sauce tureen, and pour 
over them a quarter of a pint of boiling melted butter. Stir 
the sauce round to mix the eggs with it. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Time, six or seven minutes. Wash the parsley thoroughly, 
boil it for six or seven minutes till tender, then press the water 
well out of it; chop it very fine; make half or a quarter of a 
pint of melted butter as required (the less butter the less pars- 
ley, of course), mix it gradually with the hot melted butter. 

Oyster Sauce. 

Time, five minutes. Stew the beards of one dozen oysters in 
their own juice with half a teacupful of good clear gravy; strain 
it off, add it to the melted butter which should be ready put 
in the oysters, and let them simmer gently for three minutes. 

Anchovy Sauce (for Fish). 

Time, four minutes. Stir three dessert spoonfuls of anchovy 
essence into half a pint of good melted butter, add a seasoning 
to your taste, and boil it up for a minute or two. Use plenty 
of cayenne and a little mace in this sauce. 



34 



Glaze. 

Boil some very strong clear gravy or jelly over a quick 
fire to the thickness of cream, stirring it constantly until it 
will adhere like jelly to the spoon. It must then be imme- 
diately poured out of the stewpan; the greatest care is required 
during the time of thickening to prevent it from burning When 
required for use, dissolve it by placing the jar (or whatever it 
may be kept in) in boiling water, and brushing it over the meat 
two or three times, when it will form a clear varnish Any 
kind of very rich stock can be boiled down to a glaze To be 
used for hams, tongues, etc. 

To Brown Flour. 

Time, five minutes. Put some flour in a pan or dish, and set 
; in the oven or over the fire. Stir it about that it may not 
burn; but let it brown well. Keep it in a dredging box for 
browning ordinary gravies. 

A Cheap Brown Gravy. 

Time, two hours. Take a pound of gravy beef and a sheep's 
melt, cut it into slices, dredge them with flour, and fry them 
lightly in butter; then pour in hot quite a pint of water Add 
a seasoning of pepper and salt, a small onion, and a piece of 
celery cut into slices. Set the stewpan over the fire and let 
it stew slowly for two hours. Skim it well; strain It; add a 
spoonful of catsup, and set it by for use. 

Gravy for Hashes, Etc. 

Time, two hours and a quarter. Break some bones, and put 
them into a stewpan, with any spare cuttings of meat you may 
have; add a little pepper, salt and twelve allspice, half a head 
of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer it for about 
two hours, with sufficient water to cover it. Cut a small onion 
into slices, fry it in a piece of butter, and boil it up with the 
gravy for fifteen or twenty minutes. Strain it into another 
stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of walnut catsup and a piece 
of butter rolled in flour, boil it up and it will be ready for vour 
meat. 

White Gravy. 

Time, four hours. This gravy is the stock of several white 
sauces, and is made thus: Put into a quart stewpan three pounds 
of lean veal, cut into dice, and half a pound of lean ham, cut 
smaller; add a glass of cold water, and put over the fire until 
the "white glaze," or jelly, forms on the bottom of the pan: 

35 



then add three pints of cold water, a bunch of savory herbs, a 
sliced onion and a blade of mace. Let it slowly come to a boil, 
then add a little salt, skim carefully, and simmer slowly for 
about three hours; strain, and when quite cold, remove all the 
fat. 

Gravy for a Goose or Ducks. 

Time, three hours. Put one set of giblets and half a pound 
of lean beef into a stewpan, with three sage leaves, one onion, 
some whole pepper, salt, and three pints of water, and boil it 
for three hours; then add a glass of port wine, with a spoonful 
of flour mixed smooth to thicken it, and boil it again for two or 
three minutes. 

Bread Sauce for Roast Turkey or Game. 

Time, one hour and a half. Peel and slice an onion and 
simmer it in a pint of new milk until tender, break the bread 
into pieces and put it into a small stewpan. Strain the hot milk 
over it, cover it close, and let it soak for an hour. Then beat it 
up smooth with a fork, add the pounded mace, cayenne, salt, 
and an ounce of butter; boil it up, and serve it in a tureen. The 
onion must be taken out before the milk is poured over the 
bread. 

Apple Sauce. 

Time, twenty minutes. Pare, core and cut into slices eight 
good boiling apples; put them into a saucepan with sufficient 
water to moisten and prevent them from burning, boil them 
until sufficiently tender to pulp. Then beat them up smoothly 
with a piece of butter, and put sugar to your taste. 

Horseradish Sauce, for Boiled Mutton or Roast Beef. 

Time, two or three minutes. Mix a stick of grated horse- 
radish with a wine glass of cream, a teaspoonful of mustard, 
and a pinch of salt, then stir in half a tumbler of the best vine- 
gar, and a pinch of salt. Bruise them with a spoon, and when 
thoroughly mixed together, serve in a tureen. 

Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb. 

Two tablespoonfuls of chopped green mint; one tablespoon- 
ful of pounded sugar; and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Pick 
and wash the green mint very clean, chop it fine, mix the sugar 
and vinegar in a sauce tureen, put in the mint, and let it stand. 

36 



Common Onion Sauce. 

Time, nearly half an hour. Peel four or six white onions 
and boil them till they are tender, press the water from them 
and chop them very fine. Make half a pint of milk hot, pulp the 
onions into it, add a little piece of butter, a salt spoonful of salt, 
and pepper to your taste. 

Arrowroot Sauce for Plum Pudding. 

Time, fifteen minutes. Rub very smoothly a dessert spoon- 
ful of arrowroot in a little water, or in a glass of white wine, 
squeeze in the juice of half a lemon add the pounded sugar, and 
pour gradually in half a pint of water. Stir it very quickly over 
a clear fire until it boils. Serve it with plum pudding. This 
sauce may be flavored with anything you prefer. 

White Wine Sauce. 

Time, five minutes. Add to half a pint of good melted 
butter, four spoonfuls of white wine, the grated rind of half a 
lemon, and the sugar pounded and sifted. Let it boil, and serve 
with plum, bread, or boiled batter pudding, etc. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

Time, twenty minutes. Take a quart of cranberries, a pint 
of sugar and a pint of water. Boil slowly, and when the berries 
are soft, beat well and strain through a colander. 

White Sauce. 

In three tablespoonfuls of nice, melted butter mix thor- 
oughly one table-spoonful of sifted flour, add three-fourths of a 
pint of milk, boil once, and then stir quickly. For color, add a 
little yolk of egg, and for flavor, lemon juice. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Time, one hour. Remove the skin and seeds from about 
a dozen tomatoes, slice them and put them in a stewpan, with 
pepper and salt to taste, and three pounded crackers. Stew 
slowly one hour. 

Horseradish. 

Wash the horseradish very clean, and lay it in cold water 
for nearly an hour; then scrape it into very fine shreds with 
a sharp knife. Place some of it in a glass dish, and arrange 
the remainder as a garnish for roast beef, or many kinds of 
boiled fish. 

37 



FORCEMEATS OR STUFFING. 

Sage and Onion Stuffing, for Geese, Ducks or Pork. 
Wash, peel and boil three onions in two waters to extract 
the strong flavor, and scald eight sage leaves for a few minutes. 
Chop the onions and leaves very fine, mix them with five ounces 
of bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, a piece of butter 
broken into pieces, and the yolk of one egg. 

Oyster Forcemeat. 

Take off the beards from a half pint of oysters, wash them 
well in their own liquor, and mince them very fine; mix with 
them the peel of half a lemon chopped small, a sprig of parsley, 
a seasoning of salt, nutmeg, and a very little cayenne, and 
about an ounce of butter in small pieces. Stir into these in- 
gredients five ounces of bread-crumbs, and when thoroughly 
mixed together, bind it with the yolk of an egg and part of the 
oyster liquor. 

Egg Balls, for Made Dishes or Soup. 

Time, twenty minutes to boil the eggs. Poudn the hard- 
boiled yolks of eight eggs in a mortar until very smooth; then 
mix with them the yolks of four raw eggs, a little salt, and a 
dust or so of flour to make them bind. Roll them into small 
balls, boil them in water and then add them to any made dishes 
or soups for which they may be required. 

Fried Parsley. 

Time, two minutes. Fried parsley is the cheapest and 
commonest of garnishings, but it requires to be very nicely 
done. Wash and pick the parsley, and dry it thoroughly in a 
cloth. Then put it in a wire basket, and hold it in boiling 
dripping for two minutes. Take it out of the basket and dry 
it well before the fire that it may become very crisp. The drip- 
ping in which it is fried should be quite boiling. If you have 
no wire basket, fry the parsley as quickly as possible and dry 
it before the fire when it is done. 

Stuffing for Turkey. 

Mix thoroughly a quart of stale bread, very finely grated; 
the grated rind of a lemon; quarter of an ounce of minced 
parsley and thyme, one part thyme, two parts parsley; and 
pepper and salt to season. Add to these one unbeaten egg and 
half a cup of butter; mix all well together and moisten with hot 

38 



water or milk. Other herbs than parsley or thyme may be 
used if preferred, and a little onion finely minced, added if 
desired. 

Dumplings. 

Put a pint of flour in a bowl; add a half teaspoonful of salt, 
and a rounding teaspoonful of baking powder; sift once or 
twice, add a little over a half cup of milk, the dough must be 
moist but not wet; drop this by spoonfuls over the top of the 
ragout, cover the saucepan and cook continuously for ten min- 
utes without lifting the lid. Dish the dumplings around the 
edge of the platter and put the meat in the center. 



39 



New England Dinner. 

Whenever your meet a native, or his descendant, of good 
old New England, you will find a being capable of appreciating 
a boiled dinner. Whether you select a small sugar-cured ham 
really a shoulder, of course weighing three or four pounds, 
or corned beef, or salt pork, there are important points to be 
observed in cooking meats and vegetables. 

The "dinner" need not include the entire array of vegetables. 
For our purpose we will use potatoes, turnips, carrots and cab- 
bage. It is a good plan to cook the meat early enough to admit 
of liquor cooling and removal of excess of fat before cooking the 
vegetables. Using corned beef, select a choice cut of three or 
four pounds, wash and soak in cold water and put on to cook 
in fresh, cold water. Skim, and simmer, until tender. Let it 
cool in liquor, remove the fat, reheat and use part of liquor in 
which to cook the turnips, carrots and potatoes in a separate 
kettle. Cut these vegetables in attractive pieces and arrange 
for cooking so that all will be done, and not overdone, at the 
same time. Cook the cabbage alone. Cut the head into eighths 
or sixteenths, according to size, or shred coarsely, have crisp by 
soaking in cold water, and cook in rapidly, salted water, un- 
covered, for twenty-five to thirty minutes, until tender. In serv- 
ing, place meat in center of the platter, surrounded with cab- 
bage as a bed for other vegetables, and arranged with some 
thought of attractiveness. Dust lightly with paprika, to aid 
digestion, and, if possible, introduce some bits of parsley as a 
garnish, of which it would be wise to partake. The meat and 
vegetables thus cooked with reference to digestibility, afford 
a boiled dinner that need not be paid for twice. 



40 



BEEF. 

To Make Tough Meat Tender. 

Soak it in vinegar and water; if a very large piece, for about 
twelve hours. For ten pounds of beef use three quarts of water 
to three-quarters of a pint of vinegar, and soak it for six or 
seven hours. 

To Boil Beef. 

Reckon the time from the water coming to a boil. Keep the 
pot boiling, but let it boil very slowly. If you let the pot cease 
boiling, you will be deceived in your time; therefore, watch that 
it does not stop, and keep up a good fire. Just before the pot 
boils the scum rises. Be sure to skim it off carefully, or it will 
fall back and adhere to the meat and disfigure it sadly. When 
you have well skimmed the pot, put in a little cold water, which 
will cause the scum to rise again. The more carefully you 
skim the cleaner and nicer the meat boiled will look. 

Put your meat into cold water; a quart of cold water to 
every pound of meat. Allow twenty minutes to the pound from 
the time the pot boils and the scum rises. . It is more profitable 
to boil than to roast meat. 

Kidney Stew. 

Time, two hours and a quarter. Take a large beef kidney, 
cut all the fat out, cut it up in slices; then let it lay in cold 
water, with a teaspoonful of salt added, fifteen minutes; wipe 
dry, then put it in the pot with three half pints of cold water; 
let it boil two hours; half an hour before it is done add one large 
onion, sliced; one teaspoonful of powdered sage, and pepper and 
salt to season well; serve hot with mashed potatoes. 

Stuffed Corned Beef. 

Time, three hours. Take a piece of well-corned rump or 
round, nine or ten pounds; make several deep cuts in it; fill 
with a stuffing of a handful of soaked bread, squeezed dry, a 
little fat or butter, a good pinch of cloves, allspice, pepper, a 
little finely chopped onion, and a little marjoram or thyme; then 
tie it up tightly in a cloth and saturate it with vinegar; boil 
about three hours. 

Beef a-la-Mode. 

Time, three and a half hours. Take a piece of meat, cross- 
rib is best, put a slice of bacon or some lard in the bottom of 
the pot, then the meat, and fill up with water till the meat is 

41 



covered; then take two onions, some pepper-corns, cloves, bay 
leaves, one carrot, and a crust of brown bread, salt and some 
vinegar; throw all this in over the beef, keep the pot well 
covered; fill up with more hot water if it boils down, and let 
it boil three hours; then burn a tablespoonful of flour, with 
some butter, a nice brown, thin with the gravy, and let it boil 
up once more with the meat; then put the beef in a deep dish 
and strain the gravy over it; add more vinegar to taste, serve 
with fried potatoes and red cabbage. 

An English Stew of Cold Roast Beef. 

Time, fifteen mines. Cut the meat in small and rather 
thin slices, season them highly with salt and pepper, and dip 
each lightly in bread crumbs moistened in gravy or melted 
butter. Dress them neatly on a dish, and lay over them a thin 
layer of cut pickles, and moisten the whole with a glassful of 
pickled vinegar and the preserved gravy of the roast beef; heat 
in a Dutch oven and garnish with fried sippets or potato balls. 

Boiled Bullock's Head. 

Time to boil, five hours. This is a good dish for a large 
family. Place the head in salt water for six hours, to cleanse 
it; then wash and remove the palates, and place them again 
in salt and water; put the head in a saucepan, with sufficient 
water to cover, boil for five hours, adding two carrots, two tur- 
nips, and two onions, cut small; when done, remove the head 
from the soup, and remove the bone from the meat; serve soup 
and meat in tureen; the palates, when white, boiled until tender, 
then pressed until cold, make a delicious relish for lunch or 
supper. 

Broiled Steak. 

For broiling, select only the choicest cuts from one inch 
to one and a half inches thick, remove bone and surplus fat, 
trim edges and skewer into shape. Have broiler very hot, 
grease with bit of suet and place steak close to flame to sear 
the surface. Turn, sear other side quickly and reduce flame 
or lower broiler and cook more slowly. Allow eight to ten 
minutes for steak one inch thick. Serve on hot platter, pour 
over part of fat, season and garnish. If a sauce should be 
desired use mushroom or maitre d'hotel or a "Clubhouse" sea- 
soning. Never pierce meat with fork while cooking. 

42 



A Rolled, Stuffed Steak. 

An inexpensive roast is from a large steak cut from best of 
round, about one and a half inches thick, scored, brushed with 
oil and vinegar, covered with a well seasoned stuffing of bread 
crumbs and rolled into a duck-shaped loaf. Dust with salt, 
pepper and flour, lay thin slices of suet and strips of fat, salt 
pork over the top, put in covered baking pan, add one cup of hot 
water and cook in moderately slow oven until tender. Nice 
hot or cold. Brown, mushroom, horseradish or flemish sauce 
may be served with it. 

To Accompany Roast Beef. 

A "tasty" adjunct to roasts with good brown sauce is 
mashed potato pie. Butter a shallow baking dish from which 
the pie may be served at the table, coat lightly with fine bread 
crumbs, fill with well mashed and seasoned potatoes, whipped 
until light, put on a pastry crust and bake as a pie. Serve 
with the roast, cutting in pie-shaped pieces and adding a spoon- 
ful or two of brown sauce. 

Braised Beef. 

Time, two hours; twelve persons. Four pounds of beef, 
one carrot, one turnip, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one round- 
ing teaspoonful of salt, one root of celery, two tablespoonfuls 
of flour, one salt spoonful of pepper. Purchase a piece of beef 
either from the round or from the shoulder cut the carrot and 
turnip into slices and then into blocks or dice. Cut the celery 
into small pieces; put the beef in a baking pan, put around 
the vegetables, add the pepper, pour this over the meat, cover 
the pan and cook in a slow oven one and a half to two hours, 
add the salt when the meat is half done. When the meat is 
done, lift it to the center of a large platter. Rub the butter and 
flour together, add it to the liquor in the pan which should now 
measure a pint; stir until boiling. Lift the vegetables carefully, 
arrange them neatly at the ends of the platter, strain over the 
sauce and send* at once to the table. Serve with this either 
baked sweet or white potatoes. 

Fricassee of Cold Beef. 

Time, ten minutes. Cut away all skin, gristle and fat; cut 
the meat in thin small slices; have ready a sauce made of 
stock thickened with butter rolled in flour, seasoned with shred 
parsley and young onions, pepper and salt. Strain the sauce 
when it is well flavored, and just heat the meat in it, soaking 

43 



by the side of the fire; add a glass of red wine, the yolk of an 
egg well beaten and the juice of a lemon, stir for a few minutes, 
but do not let it boil or, like all rewarmed things, it will harden. 

Beef Tongue (Corned or Smoked). 

Soak the tongue twenty-four hours before boiling. It will 
require from three to four hours, according to size. The skin 
should always be removed as soon as it is taken from the pot. 
An economical method is to lay the tongue, as soon as the 
skin is removed, in a jar, coiled up with the tip outside the 
root, and a weight upon it. When it is cold, loosen the sides 
with a knife, and turn it out. 

Beef Stewed with Onions. 

Time, two hours and twenty minutes. Cut two pounds of 
tender beef into small pieces, season with pepper and salt; 
slice one or two onions and add to it, with water enough to make 
a gravy. Let it stew slowly till the beef is thoroughly cooked, 
then add some pieces of butter rolled in flour, enough to make 
a rich gravy. Cold beef may be cooked in the same way, but 
the onions must then be cooked before adding them to the meat. 
Add more boiling water if it dries too fast. 

Boiled Corned Beef. 

Wash it well, put it in a pot and if very salt cover well 
with cold water; if only slightly corned, use boiling water; 
skim often while boiling, and allow at least half an hour for 
every pound of meat. If it is to be eaten cold, do not remove 
as soon as done, but allow it to remain in the liquor until nearly 
cold; then lay it in an earthen dish with a piece of board upon 
it and press with a stone or a couple of flat irons. 

Savory Beef. 

Take a shin of beef from the hind quarter, saw it into 
four pieces, put it in a pot and boil it until the meat and gristle 
drop from the bones; chop the meat very fine,, put it in a dish 
and season it with a little salt, pepper, clove and sage, to your 
taste; pour in the liquor in which the meat was boiled and 
place it away to harden; cut in slices and serve cold. 

Hash Balls of Corned Beef. 

Prepare the hash by mincing with potatoes; make it into 
flat cakes; heat the griddle, and grease it with plenty of sweet 
butter; brown the balls first on one side and then on the other, 
and serve hot. 

44 



Tripe. 

Must be washed in warm water and cut into squares of three 
inches; take one egg, three tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt 
and make a thick batter by adding milk; fry out some slices of 
pork, dip the tripe into the batter and fry a light brown. 

Beef Balls. 

Take a piece of beef boiled tender, chop it very finely with 
an onion, season with salt and pepper, add parsley, bread crumbs, 
lemon peel and grated nutmeg; moisten it with an egg, mix 
well together, and roll it into balls. Then dip them in flour 
and fry them in boiling lard or fresh dripping. Serve them 
with thickened brown gravy, or fried bread crumbs. 

Beef Liver. 

Slice the liver and pour boiling water over it; wipe dry and 
cut it into very small pieces. Fry slices of fat, salt pork until 
brown; take out the pork and fry the liver in the fat; cook 
thoroughly. When done pour a little water over the liver and 
thicken with a little flour and water, mixed smooth. Salt to 
taste. 

Stewed Shin of Beef. 

Time, four hours and a quarter. Saw the bone into three or 
four pieces, put them into a stewpan, and just cover them with 
cold water. When the pot simmers, skim it clean; and then 
add the sweet herbs, one large onion, celery, twelve black 
pepper-corns and twelve allspice. Stew it very gently over a 
slow fire till the meat is tender. Then peel the carrots and 
turnips and cut them into shapes; boil them with twelve small 
button onions till tender. The turnips and onions will take a 
quarter of an hour to boil, the carrots half an hour. Drain 
them carefully. Put the meat, when done, on a dish and keep 
it warm while you prepare some gravy, thus: Take a teacupful 
of the liquor in which the meat has been stewed and mix with 
it three tablespoonfuls of flour; add more liquor till you have a 
pint and a half of gravy. Season with pepper, salt and a wine 
glass of mushroom catsup. Boil it up, skim off the fat and strain 
it through a sieve. Pour it over the meat and lay the vegetables 
round it. 

Spiced Beef. 

Time, according to weight. Take the thin part of a piece of 
beef after the rib piece (called the flap) has been cut off, if 
any of the ends of the bones are left take them out. Rub it well 

45 



with salt and let it lay in pickle two days; then take half an 
ounce each of mace, cloves, black pepper and Jamaica pepper 
and a little chopped parsley and spread the whole equally over 
the beef; roll it up neatly and tie it very tight. Set it in a 
stewpan over a moderate fire, and let it stew slowly till quite 
tender. Then press it well, and when cold it will be fit to 
serve. The spices are to be laid on whole. 

Bubble and Squeak. 

Time, twenty minutes. Chop up and fry about one pound 
each of previously boiled cold potatoes and cabbage, with a 
little pepper, salt and a good large piece of butter. Set it 
aside to keep hot. Lightly fry some slices of cold boiled beef; 
put them in a hot dish, with alternate layers of vegetable, 
piling it higher in the middle. 

Minced Beef. 

Time, twenty minutes. Mince about a pound and a half of 
beef with six ounces of bacon and two onions, seasoning it 
highly with pepper and nutmeg. Take a sufficient quantity of 
stock made from bones, and any trimmings, a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, and a little browning; make it hot and strain 
it over the mince; put the whole into a stewpan, let it simmer 
for a few minutes, and serve it on a hot dish with sippets of 
toasted bread and a poached or hard-boiled egg divided and 
placed on each sippet arranged round the edge of dish. It is 
also served surrounded by a wall of mashed potatoes, with two 
poached eggs lying on the top of it. 

Beef Stew. 

Take three pounds of beef navel piece is the best cut in 
inch square pieces; peel and slice four or five onions; put a 
layer of meat in the bottom of the pot, then a layer of onions, 
and so on until used up; season each layer with pepper and 
salt; cover with boiling water; boil slowly and keep the pot 
covered. Peel a quart of potatoes, cut into small pieces; add 
the potatoes about half an hour before serving. 

Hash. 

Take cold pieces of beef that have been left over and chop 
them fine; then add cold boiled potatoes chopped fine; add pep- 
per and salt and a little warm water; put all in a frying-pan and 
cook slowly for twenty minutes. 

46 



Baked Calves' Hearts. 

Time, two hours; six persons. Two calves' hearts, one 
cupful of bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one quart of boiling water, one salt spoonful 
of pepper. Wash the hearts in cold water; make a stuffing 
from the bread crumbs, melted butter, salt and pepper. Cut 
the tubes from the upper part of the hearts and put in the 
stuffing; sew the tops, and stand them in a stewing pan tips 
down; cover the pan, and stew slowly one hour. Then put them 
in a baking pan, baste with melted butter, and bake one hour. 
Dish the hearts, the points toward the center of the dish; remove 
the strings, and fill the bottom of the dish with nicely seasoned 
peas. Pass with them a brown sauce made from the water 
in which the hearts were stewed. 

MUTTON. 

Stuffed Leg of Mutton. 

Boil two large white onions until tender, then chop fine; 
add bread crumbs and sage to taste, a little salt and pepper; 
then slit the sinewy part of the leg and insert the stuffing and 
roast. 

Mutton Cutlets. 

Take a piece of the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off 
the bones short, remove the gristle and fat, cut the cutlets about 
one-third of an inch in thickness, shape and trim them neatly; 
beat them with a cutlet bat dipped in water; pepper, salt and 
broil them over a brisk fire. 

Irish Stew. 

Time, two hours and a half. Put two pounds of mutton cut- 
lets or chops and four pounds good potatoes, peeled and sliced, 
in alternate layers in a large saucepan or stewpan, season to 
taste with pepper and salt, and a finely shred onion; add a 
pint of cold water, and simmer gently for two hours. Serve 
very hot. 

Mutton Sausage. 

Take a cold roast mutton, cut it in as large slices as possible; 
then take bread crumbs, sweet herbs, salt and pepper, wet them 
with an egg and put a small quantity into the center of each 
slice; roll each slice by itself, and tie it up as tightly as possible; 
cook them in hot melted butter or beef drippings until brown 
and crisp. 

47 



Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 

Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. Take out the 
bone and fill the space with a stuffing made of bread crumbs, 
salt pork chopped fine, pepper, salt and sage, or sweet marjoram. 

Stewed Leg of Mutton. 

Time, two hours. Make a stuffing of finely chopped beef 
suet, bread crumbs, an onion chopped finely, pepper, salt and 
a little ground clove. Make incisions in the leg and stuff it 
well; tie a little bundle of basil and parsley together; lay in 
the bottom of the pot and on it place the mutton; just cover 
with water and stew slowly for two hours; when tender, take 
out the mutton and add to the liquor a large spoonful of flour, 
made smooth with a little water, stir it well, and in five minutes 
take it off and strain it; pour it back into the pot and add a 
wine glassful of catsup and lay the mutton in till it is served. 

Boiled Leg of Lamb. 

Time, about one hour and a quarter. Boil it in water to 
2over it; when half done add two cups of milk to the water, 
with a large spoonful of salt. It should be served with spinach 
ind caper sauce. 

To Fry Lamb Steaks. 

Dip each piece into well-beaten egg, cover with bread 
crumbs or corn meal and fry in butter or new lard. Serve 
svith mashed potatoes and boiled rice. Thicken the gravy with 
flour and butter, adding a little lemon juice, and pour it hot 
jpon the steaks, and place the rice in spoonfuls around the 
lish to garnish it. 

Cold Mutton Broiled. 

Time, five minutes. Cut in thick slices cold boiled leg of 
mutton; it should not be cooked too much or it will fall into 
pieces; salt and pepper it and then broil. Serve very hot, and 
add a thick sauce flavored with fresh tomatoes or tomato sauce. 

Lamb or Mutton Stew. 

Time, two hours and a quarter. Part of a breast of mutton 
or lamb, cut in bits as many potatoes, pepper and salt to taste, 
two onions, a bunch of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew 
all together in sufficient water to cover them for two hours 
gently. Then put in a teacupful of tomato catsup and boil up 
again. Serve hot. 

48 



VEAL. 

Prepared Veal. 

Mince three pounds, raw (best parts), of a leg of veal, fa 
and lean, take six butter-crackers, pounded fine, two eggs, bul 
ter size of an egg, teaspoonful pepper and one of ground cloves 
tablespoonful salt, a little parsley, one slice salt pork, choppei 
fine. Work well together, make into the form of a loaf, pu 
bits of butter on top, put in dripping pan with water in it an< 
bake two hours in oven, basting often with the water; try i 
with fork to see if done. This is eaten cold and is a capita 
dish for lunch, etc., to be cut in slices when helped. It is calle< 
prepared veal. Chicken may be used, or any meat, but vea 
is best. 

Eggs and Minced Veal. 

Take some remnants of roast veal, trim off all the browne< 
parts and mince it very finely; fry a shallot, chopped small, ii 
plenty of butter; when it is a light straw color add a larg< 
pinch of flour and a little stock; then the minced meat witl 
chopped parsley, pepper, salt and nutmeg to taste; mix well 
add more stock if necessary, and let the mince gradually ge 
hot by the side of the fire; lastly add a few drops of lemor 
juice. Serve with sippets of bread, fried in butter round, anc 
poached eggs on top. 

Veal Loaf. 

Time pounds of uncooked veal, quarter of a pound of pork; 
chop these fine; add two eggs, one cupful pounded crackers 
one teaspoonful of salt, two of pepper; sage and summer savor j 
to suit the taste; press hard in a pudding-dish and bake one 
and a half hours; cut in thin slices when cold. 

Calf's Head, Boiled. 

Time to soak, two hours; to simmer, two hours. Let the 
butcher split the head in halves. Take out the eyes and the 
snout bone; then lay it in cold water to soak two hours before 
boiling; take out the brains and wash them well in several 
waters, then lay them in cold water. Put the heads togethei 
and lay it in a good sized pot; cover it with cold water and 
throw in a tablespoonful of salt; let it boil slowly for two 01 
three hours. When it has boiled a little more than an hour, take 
about a quart of the liquor and put into a stewpan for the 
gravy; add to it some salt, pepper, a little parsley chopped 
fine, a tablespoonful of lemon pickle, and then boil. Beat up an 
egg lightly, with two tablespoonfuls of flour, then remove care- 

49 



fully the skin from the brains and beat them up with the egg 
and flour. When well beaten thicken the gravy with it and 
stew about ten minutes. 

Roast Veal. 

Time, three hours. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, 
chopped thyme and parsley; a little pepper and salt, one egg 
and a little butter. If too dry moisten with a little hot water. 
Take a loin of veal, make an incision in the flap and fill it with 
the stuffing; secure it with small skewers and dredge the veal 
with a little flour, slightly salted. Bake in a moderate oven 
and baste often; at first with a little salt and water, and after- 
ward with the drippings in the pan. When done, skim the gravy 
and thicken with a little brown flour. The breast and shoulder 
are nice cooked in the same manner; ask your butcher to make 
incisions for the stuffing. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Veal Minced. 

Time, one hour and a quarter altogether. Mince the veal 
as finely as possible, separating the skin, gristle and bones, with 
which a gravy should be made. Put a small quantity of the 
gravy into a stewpan, with a little lemon peel grated, and a 
spoonful of milk or cream. Thicken it with a little butter and 
flour, mix gradually with the gravy; season it with salt and 
a little lemon juice and cayenne pepper. Put in the minced 
veal and let it simmer a few minutes. Serve it upon sippets 
of toasted bread. 

Knuckle of Veal 

Time, two hours and three-quarters. Cut in small thick 
slices, season with a little salt and pepper, flour lightly and 
fry it to a pale brown, then lay it in a saucepan and cover with 
water. Skim well and season with thyme and parsley and a 
little mace. Simmer gently for two hours and a half, then 
thicken the gravy with a little flour and add a piece of butter 
and salt to taste. Add a little catsup if desired. 

Spiced Veal. 

Time, one hour. One pound of veal, chopped very fine; 
season with two well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, tea- 
spoonful of salt and sage each. Put it into a cake-pan, and bake 
about an hour. Slice when cold. 

Fried Sweet Breads. 

For every mode of dressing they should be prepared by 
half boiling, and then putting them in cold water; this makes 

50 



them whiter and firmer. Dip them in beaten eggs and then 
into bread crumbs; pepper and salt and fry in lard. Serve with 
peas or tomatoes. 

Stewed Sweet Breads. 

Time, thirty-five minutes. After they are parboiled and cold, 
lard them with fat pork; put them in a stewpan, with some good 
veal gravy and juice of a small lemon; stew them till very ten- 
der, and just before serving thicken with flour and butter; 
serve them with the gravy. 

Calf's Brains and Tongue. 

Time, to boil ten or fifteen minutes. Separate the two lobes 
of the brain with a knife, soak them in cold water with a little 
salt in it for an hour; then pour away the cold water and cover 
them with hot water; clean and skin them. Boil them then 
very gently in half a pint of water, take off the scum carefully 
as it rises. Take them up, drain and chop them and put them 
to warm in a stewpan with the herbs chopped, the melted butter 
or cream, and the seasoning. Squeeze a little lemon juice over 
them; stir them well together. Boil the tongue; skin it; take 
off the roots; lay it in the middle of the dish and serve the 
brains around it. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Time, twelve to fifteen minutes. Let the cutlet be about 
half an inch thick, and cut it into pieces the size and shape of a 
crown piece. Chop some sweet herbs very fine; mix them well 
with the bread crumbs. Brush the cutlets over with the yolk of 
an egg, then cover them with the bread crumbs and chopped 
herbs; fry them lightly in butter, turning them when required. 
Take them out when done. Mix an ounce of fresh butter with 
the grated peel of half a lemon, a little nutmeg and flour; pour 
a little water into the frying-pan and stir the butter, flour and 
grated lemon peel into it; then put the cutlets ino this gravy 
to heat. Serve them piled in the center of the dish with thin 
rolls of bacon as a garnish. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon. 

Time, quarer of an hour. Soak two or three livers in cold 
water for half an hour, then dry it in a cloth, and cut it into 
thin, narrow slices; take about a pound of bacon, or as much 
as you may require, and cut an equal number of thin slices 
as you have of liver; fry the bacon lightly, take it out and keep 
it hot; then fry the liver in the same pan, seasoning it with 

51 



pepper and salt, and dredge over it a little flour. When it is a 
nice brown, arrange it round the dish with a roll of bacon be- 
tween each slice. Pour off the fat from the pan, put in about 
two ounces of butter well rubbed in flour to thicken the gravy; 
squeeze in the juice of a lemon and add a cupful of hot water; 
boil it, and pour it into the center of the dish. Serve it gar- 
nished with forcemeat balls or slices of lemon. 



PORK. 

To Roast a Leg of Pork. 

Time, twenty minutes to one pound. The leg to be roasted 
should not weigh more than six or seven pounds. Score the 
rind or skin with a sharp knife all round the joint. Baste it 
well. It will yield sufficient dripping to baste itself without 
butter. If the crackling and fat are not kept on, the joint will 
not require so long a time to roast it. Sauce: Brown gravy 
or tomato. 

To Steam a Ham. 

Time, twenty minutes to each pound. If the ham has been 
hung for some time, put it into cold water, and let it soak all 
night, or let it lie on a damp stone sprinkled with water for two 
days to mellow. Wash it well, put it into a steamer there are 
proper ones made for the purpose over a pot of boiling water. 
Steam it for as long a time as the weight requires, the pro- 
portion of time given above. 

This is by far the best way of cooking a ham. It prevents 
waste and retains the flavor. When it is done, skin it and strew 
bread-raspings over it as usual. If you preserve the skin as 
whole as possible and cover the ham when cold with it, it will 
prevent its becoming dry. 

To Boil a Ham. 

Time, four or five hours. Well soak the ham in a large 
quantity of water for twenty-four hours, then trim and scrape 
it very clean, put it into a large stewpan with more than suffi- 
cient water to cover it; put in a blade of mace; a few cloves, 
a sprig of thyme and two bay leaves. Boil it four or five hours, 
according to its weight; and when done, let it become cold in 
the liquor in which it wf s boiled. Then remove the rind care- 
fully without injuring the fat, press a cloth over it to absorb 
as much of the grease as possible, and shake some bread-rasp- 
ings over the fat, or brush it thickly over with glaze. Serve 

52 



it cold, garnished with parsley, or aspic jelly in the dish. Orna- 
ment the knuckle with a paper frill and vegetable flowers. 

To Bake a Ham. 

Time, four hours. Take a medium sized ham and place it 
to soak for ten or twelve hours. Then cut away the msty part 
from underneath, wipe it dry, and cover it rather thickly over 
with a paste :of flour and water. Put it into an earthen dish, 
and set it in a moderately heated oven for four hours. When 
done, take off the crust carefully and peel off the skin, put a 
frill of cut paper round the knuckle, and raspings of bread over 
the fat of the ham, or serve it glazed, and garnished with cut 
vegetables. 

To Boil a Leg of Pork. 

Time, a quarter of an hour for each pound, and half an 
hour over. Procure a nice small compact leg of pork, rub it 
well with salt, and let it remain for a week in pickle, turning 
and rubbing the pickle into it once a day. Let it lie for half 
an hour in cold water before it is dressed to improve the color; 
then put it into a large pot or stewpan and well cover it with 
water. Let it boil gradually, and skim frequently as the scum 
rises. On no account let it boil fast, or the meat will be hard- 
ened, and the knuckle end will be done before the thick part. 
When done, serve it on a hot dish with a garnish of turnips 
or parsnips. 

To Boil Bacon. 

Time, one hour and a half for two or three pounds. If very 
salt, soak it in soft water two hours before cooking. Put it into 
a saucepan with plenty of water and let it boil gently. If a 
fine piece of the gammon of bacon, it may, when done, have 
the skin, as in hams, stripped off, and have finely powdered 
bread-raspings strewed over it. 

Ham. 

Boil the ham till well cooked. Take it out of the water and 
drain till cold. When cold remove the outside skin and make 
slight incisions in the fat on the top of ham with a knife. 
Sprinkle three or four tablespoonfuls of powdered moist sugar 
over the top of the ham. Roast in oven for twenty minutes, 
basting about every five minutes with a pint of cooking sherry. 
Remove from the oven while doing so, using the sherry enough 
at a time to baste thoroughly with it. 

53 



Pig's Tongues. 

Partially boil the tongue in order to remove the skin. Pickle 
them as you would pickle a ham; lay them one on the top of 
each other under a heavy weight. Cover the pan in which you 
place them, and let them remain for a week, then dry them, and 
put them into sausage skins. Fasten them up at the ends and 
smoke them. 

To Roast a Pig's Head. 

Time to roast, half an hour. Boil it tender enough to take 
the bones out. Then chop some sage fine, mix it with the 
pepper and salt, and rub it over the head. Hang it on the split, 
and roast it at a good fire. Baste it well. Make a good gravy 
and pour over it. Apple sauce is eaten with it. 

Pig's Head Boiled. 

Time, one hour and a half.- This is the more, profitable dish, 
though not so pleasant to the palate; it should first be salted, 
which is usually done by the pork butcher; it should be boiled 
gently. Serve with vegetables. 

Pig's Cheek. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. Boil and trim in the 
shape of ham, and if very fat carve it as a cockle-shell; glaze 
it well, or put over it bread crumbs and brown them. 

To Fricassee Pork. 

Cut a small sparerib or chine of pork into pieces, cover 
with water and stew until tender; remove the meat and flavor 
the gravy with salt, pepper, and thicken with a little flour. 
Serve in a deep dish, in the gravy, and garnish the dish with 
rice. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Chop finely some cold boiled ham, fat and lean together, 
say a pound to four eggs; put a piece of butter in the pan, then 
the ham; let it get well warmed through, then beat the eggs 
light; stir them in briskly. 

Corned Pork. 

Time, four hours. It should be soaked a few hours before 
boiling, then washed and scraped, and put into fresh water. 
It must not be boiled fast, but put into cold water and grad- 
ually warmed through; skim frequently while boiling. 

A leg or shoulder weighing seven or eight pounds should 

54 



boil slowly for four hours. When taken up it must be skinned 
carefully, though some prefer the skin remaining on, as it loses 
much of the juice by skinning. It is very nice cold. 

Pork Chops. 

Time, fifteen minutes. Cut the chops about half an inch 
thick, and trim them neatly; put a frying-pan on the fire, with 
a bit of butter; as soon as it is hot, put in your chops, turning 
them often till brown all over; a few minutes before they are 
done, season with powdered sage, pepper and salt. 

Ham Toast. 

Mix with one tablespoonful of finely chopped or grated ham, 
the beaten-up yolk of an egg, and a little cream and pepper; 
heat over the fire, and then spread the mixture either on hot 
buttered toast, or on slices of bread fried quite crisp in butter; 
serve very hot. 

Saveloys. 

Time, half an hour to bake. Remove the skin and bone 
from six pounds of young pork, and salt it with one ounce of 
saltpetre and one pound of common salt; let it stand in the 
pickle for three days and then mince it up very fine, and season 
it with three teaspoonfuls of pepper and twelve sage leaves 
chopped as small as possible; add to it one pound of grated 
bread, and mix it all well together; fill the skins and bake 
them in a slow oven for half an hour. They may be eaten hot 
or cold. 

MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

We give general directions on this most important art. 
First, the cook should have smooth cold hands very clean 
for making paste or crust. She should wash them well and 
plunge them in cold water for a minute or two in hot weather, 
drying them well afterwards before beginning her paste. 

Be very careful about the proper heat of the oven for baking 
pies, as if it be too cold the paste will be heavy and have a 
dull look; if too hot, the crust will burn before the pie is 
done. 

Try if the oven is hot enough by holding your hand inside 
it for a few seconds; if you can do so without snatching it out 
again quickly, it is too cold; it is best, however, to try it by 
baking a little piece of the crust in it first. 

Always make a small hole with the knife at the top of the 

55 



pie to allow the gases generated in it by the cooking to escape. 
This aperture is also useful for pouring gravy into the pie when 
it is done, if more is required. 

To Clarify Beef Dripping. 

Put the dripping into a basin, pour over it some boiling 
water, and stir it round with a silver spoon; set it to cool, and 
then remove the dripping from the sediment, and put it into 
basins or jars for use in a cool place. Clarified dripping may 
be used for frying and basting everything excepting game or 
poultry, as well as for pies, etc. 

To Make a Short Crust With Dripping. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of clarified 
beef dripping, one wineglassful of very cold water, a pinch of 
salt. 

Take care that the water you use is cold, especially in sum- 
mer. Put the flour, well dried, into a large basin (which should 
be kept for the purpose) with a pinch of salt; break up the 
clarified beef dripping into pieces and mix them well with the 
flour, rubbing both together until you have a fine powder. Then 
make a hole in the middle of the flour and pour in water 
enough to make a smooth and flexible paste. Sprinkle the 
pasteboard with flour, and your hands also, take out the lump 
of paste, roll it out, fold it together again and roll it out 
i. e., roll it three times, the last time it should be of the thick- 
ness required for your crust, that is, about a quarter of an inch, 
or even thinner. It is then ready for use. 

Common Puff Paste. 

Put one pound of sifted flour on the slab, or in an earthen 
basin; make a hollow in the center, work into it a quarter of 
a pound of lard and half a teaspoonful of salt. When it is 
mixed through the flour, add as much cold water as will bind 
it together, then a little flour over the pasteboard or table; 
flour the rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to half an inch in 
thickness; divide half a pound of butter in three parts, spread 
one evenly over the paste, fold it up, dredge a little flour over 
it and the paste-slab or table, roll it out again, spread another 
portion of the butter over, and fold and roll again, so continue 
until all the butter is used; roll it out to a quarter of an inch 
in thickness for use. 

56 



Suet Crust for Puddings. 

One pound of flour, six ounces of beef suet, a cupful of cold 
water. Strip the skin from the suet, chop it as fine as possible, 
rub it well into the flour, mix it with a knife, work it to a very 
smooth paste with a cupful of water and roll it out for use. 

Game Pie. 

Time to bake, about two hours. "Raise" a crust to a size 
corresponding with the quantity of your game. Cut with a 
sharp knife the flesh from the best parts; keep each kind 
separate, and set them aside for a moment. Then split the 
heads, break the bones, and put them with the inferior parts 
into a stewpan, with a roasted onion, a carrot, a teaspoonful of 
salt, twenty black peppercorns, sprigs of winter savory, mar- 
joram, lemon and common thyme, two bay leaves, half a clove 
of garlic and half a pound of gravy beef. Stew in a very little 
water (according to the quantity of the meat) five hours. When 
done, skim and strain, and set it aside to cool. Line the whole 
of your raised crust with a thin layer of short paste, then a 
layer of fat bacon or ham cut in thin slices. Now put in your 
different kinds of game in layers, not round, but from the 
bottom, filling up the corners and crevices with forcemeat 
stuffing. Having mixed together two teaspoonfuls of salt, have 
a teaspoonful of cayenne, and half a grated nutmeg; sprinkle 
a little of them over each layer. Finish the filling with a layer 
of ham or bacon; put over it a layer of the short paste; then 
cover with the raised crust. Pinch round the sides, ornament 
by crimping leaves set according to fancy, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven an hour, an hour and a half or two hours, according 
to size. When both pie and gravy are nearly cold put the 
point of a funnel into the small hole (which, by the way, you 
must make in the top of the pie before you bake it), and gently 
pour through it the gravy you have prepared. 

Potato Patsy. 

Time, nearly two hours. Cut about a pound and a half 
of beefsteak into thin slices, season it with pepper and salt to 
taste, lay it at the bottom of a Pedro-pan, and put small pieces 
of butter on the top, pour in a large cupful of stock or gravy 
and put in the perforated plate. Mash some fine mealy potatoes 
with a few spoonfuls of milk, and fill up the whole space to 
the top of the tube of the pan, press the potato down, and 
mark it with a knife in any form you please. Bake it in a 

57 



moderate oven a delicate color. Send it to the table with a 
folded napkin round it and when served lift up the plate off 
potatoes. 

Plain Beefsteak Pie. 

Time, one hour and a half. Cut two and a half pounds of 
steak into small pieces with a very little fat, dip each piece into 
flour, place them in a pie-dish, seasoning each layer with pepper, 
salt and a very little cayenne pepper, fill the dish sufficiently 
with slices of steak to raise the crust in the middle, half fill 
the dish with water or any gravy left from roast beef, and a 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce; put a border of paste round 
the wet edge of the pie dish; moisten it and lay the crust over 
it. Cut the paste even with the edge of the pie dish all round, 
ornament it with leaves of paste, and brush it over with the 
beaten yolk of an egg. Make a hole with a knife in the top, and 
bake it in a hot oven. 

Mutton Pie. 

Time to bake, one hour and a half or two hours. Strip the 
meat from the bones of a loin of mutton without dividing it, 
and cut it into nice thin slices, and season them with pepper and 
salt; put a pie crust round the edge of a pie-dish, place in it 
a layer of mutton, then one of forcemeat, and again the slices 
of mutton with three or four halves of kidneys at equal dis- 
tances; then pour in a gravy made from the bones seasoned 
and well cleared from fat. Moisten the edge with water. Cover 
with a paste half an inch thick; press it round with your thumbs, 
make a hole in the center, and cut the edges close to the dish, 
ornament the top and border according to your taste, and 
bake it. 

Veal and Oyster Pie. 

Time to bake, one hour and a half. Cut a pound and a 
half of veal into small neat cutlets, and spread over each a 
thin layer of minced or pounded ham, season them with pepper, 
salt, and grated lemon peel, and roll each cutlet round. Line 
the edge of a pie-dish with a good paste, put a layer of rolled 
veal at the bottom, over the veal a layer of oysters, then of veal, 
and the oysters on the top; make a gravy with a cupful of weak 
gravy or broth, the peel of half a lemon, the oyster liquor 
strained, and a seasoning of peper and salt; cover a crust over 
the top; ornament it in any way approved, egg it over, and 
bake it in a moderate oven. When done, more gravy may be 

58 



added by pouring it through the hole on the top through a 
funnel, and replacing an ornament on it after the gravy is 
added. 

Cheshire Pork Pie. 

Time, one hour and a half. Take the skin and fat from a 
loin of pork, and cut it into thin steaks; season them with 
pepper, salt and nutmeg; line a pie-dish with paste, put in a 
layer of pork, then of pippins pared and cored, and about two 
ounces of sugar; then place in another layer of pork, and half 
a pint of white wine, and lay some butter on the top; cover 
it over with puff paste, pass a knife through the top to leave 
an opening, cut the paste even with the dish, egg it once 
and bake it. 

A Plain Rabbit Pie. 

Time to bake, one hour and a quarter. Skin and wash 
a fine large rabbit; cut it into joints and divide the head. Then 
place it in warm water to soak until thoroughly clean; drain 
it on a sieve, or wipe it with a clean cloth. Season it with 
pepper and salt, a sprig of parsley chopped fine, and one shallot 
if the flavor is liked (but it is equally good without it). Cut 
the bacon into small pieces, dredge the rabbit with flour, and 
place it with the bacon in a pie-dish, commencing with the in- 
ferior parts of the rabbit. Pour in a small cupful of water, or 
stock if you have it; put a paste border round the edges of 
the dish, and cover it with a puff paste about half an inch 
thick. Ornament and glaze the top, make a hole in the center 
and bake it. 

A Plain Pigeon Pie. 

Time to bake, one hour and a quarter. Lay a rim of paste 
round the sides and edge of a pie-dish, sprinkle a little pepper 
and salt over the bottom and put in a thin beefsteak; pick and 
draw the pigeons, wash them clean, cut off the feet, and press 
the legs into the sides; put a bit of butter and a seasoning of 
pepper and salt in the inside of each, and lay them in the dish 
with their breasts upwards, and the necks and gizzrads between 
them; sprinkle some pepper and salt over them and put in a 
wine glass of water; lay a thin sheet of paste over the top, and 
with a brush wet it all over; then put a puff paste half an inch 
thick over that, cut it close to the dish, brush it over with 
egg, ornament the top, and stick four of the feet out of it and 
bake it. When done, pour in a little good gravy. You may 
put in the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, or leave out the beef- 
steak, if you think proper. 

59 



Veal and Ham Patties. 

Time, a quarter of an hour. Chop about six ounces of 
ready dressed lean veal, and three ounces of ham, very small, 
put it into a stewpan with an ounce of butter rolled in flour, 
a tablespoonful of cream, the same of veal stock, a little grated 
nutmeg and lemon peel, some cayenne pepper and salt, a spoon- 
ful of essence of ham and lemon juice. Mix all well together 
and stir it over the fire until quite hot, taking care it does not 
burn. Bake them in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour; fill 
with the mixture and serve. 

Moulded Veal, or Veal Cakes. 

Time, half an hour to bake. Slices of cold roast veal; 
slices of ham; three eggs; some gravy; two sprigs of parsley; 
pepper and salt. Cut a few slices of ham and veal very thin, 
taking off the skin from the veal, chop two sprigs of parsley fine, 
and cut the eggs hard-boiled into slices. Take any nice shaped 
mould, butter it, and put the veal, ham, eggs and parsley in 
layers until the mould is full, seasoning each layer with a little 
pepper and salt, placing a few slices of egg at the bottom of 
the mould at equal distances, fill up with good stock and bake 
it. When cold turn it out, and serve on a folded napkin, gar- 
nished with flowers cut out of carrots, turnips, and a little 
parsley. 

Beefsteak Pudding. 

Time to boil, about two hours. Put a pound, or a little 
more, of flour in a basin, and mix it thoroughly with some very 
finely chopped suet; put in a good heaped salt spoonful of salt. 
Mix it to a paste with water; flour the pasteboard, the roller 
and your hands. Take out the lump of paste and roll it out 
about half an inch thick. Butter a round-bottomed pudding- 
basin, line it with paste, turning a little over the edge. Cut 
up the steak into small pieces, with a little fat, flour them 
slightly, season them highly with peper and salt, then lay them 
in the basin, pour over them a gill of water. Roll out the rest 
of the paste, cover it over the top of the basin, pressing it 
down with the thumb. Tie the basin in a floured pudding-cloth, 
and put it in a saucepan in a gallon of boiliug water, keep it 
continually boiling for nearly two hours, occasionally adding a 
little more water. Take it up, untie the cloth, turn the pudding 
over on the dish, and take the basin carefully from it. Serve. 

60 



Beefsteak and Kidney Pudding. 

Time, to boil two hours. Take a pound of nice tender beef 
and beef kidney, cut them into pieces about a quarter of an inch 
thick, season them with pepper and salt, and dredge a little 
flour over them. Lightly butter a round-bottomed pudding 
basin, roll out the paste to about half an inch in thickness and 
line the basin, then put in the beef and kidney, pour in three 
or four tablespoonfhls of water, cover a piece of paste over 
the top, press it firmly together with your thumb, then tie the 
pudding basin in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan 
with four quarts of water; keep it constantly boiling, adding 
more boiling water if required. 

Mutton Pudding. 

Time to boil, rather more than two hours. Make a paste 
as for beefsteak pudding. Cut the meat in slices, season it with 
the herbs, pepper, and salt. Put a layer of meat in the basin, 
then one of slices of raw potatoes, till the basin is full. Cover 
it with the crust, tie it in a floured cloth and boil it in sufficient 
water. 

Veal Pudding. 

Time, one hour to boil. Cut about two pounds of lean veal 
into small collops a quarter of an inch in thickness, put a 
piece of butter the size of an egg into a very clean frying-pan 
to melt, then lay in the veal and a few slices if bacon, a small 
sprig of thyme, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, place the 
pan over a slow fire for about ten minutes, then add two or three 
spoonfuls of warm water. Just boil it up, and then let it stand 
to cool. Line a pudding basin with a good suet crust, lay in the 
veal and bacon, pour the gravy over it, roll out a piece of paste 
to form a lid, place it over, press it close with the thumb, tie 
the basin in a pudding cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling 
water, keeping it continually boiling until done. 

Rabbit Pudding. 

Time, two hours to boil. Cut a small rabbit into small 
neat pieces, and have ready a few slices of bacon or ham. Line 
a basin with a good suet crust. Lay in the pieces of rabbit 
with the bacon or ham intermixed, season to your taste with 
pepper and salt, and pour in a cupful of water. Cover the crust 
over the top, press it securely with the thumb and finger, and 
boil it. 

61 



Suet Pudding. 

Time, to boil one hour and a quarter. Mix one pound of 
flour very dry with half a pound of finely chopped suet, add 
eggs and a pinch of salt; make it into a paste with the water, 
beating it all rapidly together with a wooden spoon. Flour a 
pudding cloth, put the paste into it, tie the cloth tightly, and 
plunge it into the boiling water. The shape may be either a 
roll or a round ball. When it is done, untie the cloth, turn the 
pudding out, and serve very hot. 

POULTRY. 

To Roast Wild Fowl. 

The flavor is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, 
salt and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much 
less dressing than tame. A rich brown gravy should be sent 
in the dish; and when the breast is cut into slices, before 
taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, 
is a great improvement to the flavor. To take off the fishy 
taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt, and 
hot water into the dripping pan and baste them for the first 
ten minutes with this; then take away the pan and baste con- 
stantly with butter. 

To Roast a Turkey. 

Pluck the bird carefully and singe off the down with lighted 
paper, break the leg bone close to the foot and hang up the 
bird and draw out the strings from the thigh. Never cut the 
breast; make a slit down the back of the neck and take out the 
crop that way, then cut the neck bone close, and after the 
bird is stuffed the skin can be turned over the back and the 
crop will look full and round. Cut around the vent, making 
the opening as small as possible, and draw carefully, taking 
care that the gall bag and the gut joining the gizzard are not 
broken. Open ttie gizzard and remove the contents and detach 
the liver from the gall bladder. The liver, gizzard and heart, 
if used in the gravy, will need to be boiled an hour and a half 
and chopped as fine as possible. Wash the turkey and wipe 
thoroughly dry, inside and out; then fill the inside with stuff- 
ing and either sew the skin of the neck over the back or 
fasten it with a small skewer. Sew up the opening at the vent; 
then run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh through the 
body, passing it through the opposite pinion and thigh. Put 

62 



a skewer in the small part of the leg, close on the outside of 
the sidesman, and push it through. Pass a string over the 
points of the skewers and tie it securely at the back. 

Dredge well with flour, and cover the breast with nicely 
buttered white paper, place on a grating in the dripping pan 
and put in the oven to roast. Baste every fifteen minutes a 
few times with butter and water, and afterward with gravy in 
the dripping pan. Do not have too hot an oven. A turkey 
weighing ten pounds will require nearly three hours to bake. 
Stew the giblets in just water enough to cover them, and when 
the turkey is lifted from the pan, add these (chopped very fine) 
with the water in which they were boiled, to the drippings; 
thicken with browned flour, boil up once and pour into the 
gravy boat. If the dripipngs are too fat, skim well before 
putting in the giblets. Serve with cranberry sauce, currant or 
apple jelly. 

Roast Goose. 

Geese and ducks, if old, are better parboiled before they 
are roasted. Put them on in sufficient water to cover them, and 
simmer about two hours. Make a stuffing with four onions, one 
ounce of green sage, chopped fine, a large cupful of stale bread- 
crumbs and the same of mashed potatoes, one teaspoonful of 
butter, a little pepper and salt, and one unbeaten egg; mix 
them well together and stuff the body of the goose; then place 
in the oven and bake about an hour and a half. Serve with 
apple sauce. 

Roast Pigeons. 

When cleaned and ready for roasting, fill the bird with a 
stuffing of bread-crumbs, a spoonful of butter, a little salt and 
nutmeg, and three oysters to each bird (some prefer chopped 
apple). They must be well basted with melted butter, and 
require thirty minutes' careful cooking. In the autumn they 
are best, and should be full grown. 

Roast Duck. 

Prepare your duck for roasting and use the following stuff- 
ing: Chop fine and throw into cold water three good-sized 
onions, one large spoonful of sage, two of bread-crumbs, a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, a little salt and pepper, and the 
onions drained. Mix well together, and stuff the duck. 

An hour is enough for an ordinary sized duck. The gravy 
is made by straining the dripping; skim off the fat, then stir in 
a large spoonful of browned flour, a teaspoonful of mixed mus- 
tard, a wineglassful of claret. Simmer for ten minutes. 

63 



Boiled Turkey. 

Prepare your turkey as for roasting; put it in a cloth and 
boil it slowly, if from eight to nine pounds, an hour and a half. 
Throw into the water a few cloves, a little black pepper, sweet 
marjoram and salt. It is to be served with oysters. Skim the 
turkey well while boiling or it will not be white. 

Chicken Fricassee. 

Time, three hours and a quarter. Prepare a couple of nice 
chickens; joint them, dividing the wings, side, breast and back- 
bone, and let them lie in salt and water half an hour, remove 
them then to a stewpan, with half a pound of good, sweet salt 
pork, cut up in pieces; barely cover with water, and simmer on 
top of the stove or range for three hours; when sufficiently 
tender, take out the chicken, mix a tablespoonful of flour 
smoothly* with cold milk, and add a little fine dried or chopped 
parsley, sage and thyme or summer savory, and stir gradually 
into the liquor; keep stirring till it boils; season with pepper 
and salt to taste; and then put back the chicken and let it boil 
up for a few moments in the gravy; garnish with the green 
tops of celery. 

Chicken Pot Pie. 

Time, one hour. Divide the chicken into pieces at the 
joints; boil until part done, or about twenty minutes, then take 
it out. Fry two or three slices of fat salt pork, and put in the 
bottom, then place the chicken on it with three pints of water, 
two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of pepper, and cover over 
the top with a light crust, made the same as for biscuit. 

Ragout of Ducks. 

Put. the gizzards, livers, necks, etc., into a pint of good 
strong beef broth, or other well seasoned stock. Season the 
ducks inside with salt and mixed spices. Brown them on all 
sides in a frying pan, and then stew them till tender in a 
strained stock. When nearly ready thicken the sauce with 
browned flour and butter. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Boil a pair of chickens until you can pull the meat from the 
bones; remove all the meat and allow the bones to boil half an 
hour longer; stand this in a cool place and it will become 
jellied; the next day cut the meat into small pieces, melt the 
jelly and throw it in; then add two tablespoonfuls of Worces- 
tershire sauce, two of walnut sauce, one tablespoonful of salt, 

64 



a pinch of powdered mace, cloves, and allspice; slice ten hard- 
boiled eggs and two lemons; line a large bowl or form with 
these slices, then pour in the mixture and let it stand in a cool 
place, but not to freeze. The water should just cover the 
chickens when put to boil. This is a very ornamental dish and 
keeps for a long time. 

To Hash Ducks. 

Nothing tastes better than a fat roast duck. Cat it into 
pieces as in carving at table, skin and soak these by the side 
of the fire in a little boiling gravy till thoroughly hot. Add a 
small glass of wine and a sufficient quantity of mixed spices 
to give the sauce a high relish. 

Chicken Salad. 

Boil a chicken; do not chop very fine; cut up one bunch of 
celery, the size of a cent; to make the dressing, wash smooth 
the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, one teaspoonful of salt, one or 
two tablespoonfuls of made mustard; stir in slowly four table- 
spoonfuls of sweet oil, then two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; pour 
over the chicken and celery. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

One large chicken, two sweet-breads, wine glass of cream, 
one loaf baker's stale bread. Cook chicken and sweet-bread 
separately, saving the chicken broth. Chop chicken, meat and 
sweet-bread finely together, season with pepper, salt, parsley, 
and half a teaspoonful grated onion. Rub the bread into crumbs 
until you have equal quantities of crumbs and meat. Place over 
the fire as much of the chicken broth as will moisten well the 
crumbs, into which stir the cream, and butter size of an egg. 
When it boils, stir in crumbs until they adhere to the spoon. 
Add meat, and, when cold, two well-beaten eggs. Mold into 
rolls, with your hands, roll them in crumbs and fry in hot lard, 
like doughnuts. 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut the chicken in pieces and parboil for three-quarters of 
an hour. Remove the chicken and add to the water in which it 
is boiled a little salt, pepper and a teacupful of milk thickened 
with a tablespoonful of flour. Line a deep dish with nice paste, 
put in the chicken and turn over it the gravy which you have 
prepared. Cover it with paste immediately; make a small hole 
in the center; ornament with strips of paste, and bake for forty- 
five minutes. 

65 



Boiled Fowl or Chicken. 

They should be cleaned and stuffed as for roasting. A young 
fowl requires an hour; if tough and old, three hours. A chicken 
will boil in three-quarters of an hour. They may be served with 
oyster, caper or egg sauce. 

Stewed Chicken. 

Divide a chicken into pieces by the joints, and put into a 
stewpan, with salt, pepper, some parsley and thyme; pour in a 
quart of water, with a piece of butter; and when it has stewed 
an hour and a half, take the chickens out of the pan. If there 
is no gravy, put in another piece of butter, add some water and 
flour, and let it boil a few minutes. When done, it should not 
be quite as thick as drawn butter. For the dumplings: Take 
one quart of sifted flour, one teaspoonful of salt, two of cream 
of tartar and one of soda; mix with milk and form into biscuit; 
place them upon a tin in a steamer over the kettle where the 
chicken is boiling. They will steam in twenty minutes. You 
can rub a little butter in the flour, if you wish them very nice. 

To Cook Poultry. 

All kinds of poultry and meat can be cooked quicker by 
adding to the water in which they are boiled a little vinegar or 
a piece of lemon. By the use of a little acid there will be a 
considerable saving of fuel, as well as shortening of time. Its 
action is beneficial on old tough meats, rendering them quite 
tender and easy of digestion. Tainted meats and fowls will 
lose their bad taste and odor if cooked in this way, and if not 
used too freely no taste of it will be acquired. 

Roast Rabbit. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. Procure a fine large rab- 
bit, and truss it in the same manner as a hare; fill the paunch 
with veal stuffing, and roast it before a bright clear fire for 
three-quarters of an hour, if a large one basting it well with 
butter. Before serving mix a spoonful of flour with four of 
milk, stir into it the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, and season 
with a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; baste the rabbit 
thickly with this, to form a light coating over it. When dry, 
baste it with butter to froth it up, and when done place it care- 
fully in a dish, and pour round it some brown gravy boiled up 
with the liver minced, and a little grated nutmeg. Serve with 
gravy in a tureen, and red jelly. 

66 



To Blanch Rabbits, Fowls, etc. 

To blanch or whiten a rabbit or fowl it must be placed on 
the fire in a small quantity of water, and let boil. As soon as 
it boils it must be taken out and plunged into cold water for a 
few minutes. 

Boiled Rabbit. 

Time (medium size), three-quarters of an hour. When the 
rabbit is trussed for boiling, put it into a stewpan and cover 
it with hot water, and let it boil very gently until tender. When 
done place it on a dish, and smother it with onions, or with 
parsley and butter, or liver sauce, should the flavor of onion not 
be liked. If liver sauce is to be served, the liver must be 
boiled for ten minutes, minced very fine and added to the butter 
sauce. An old rabbit will require quite an hour to boil it thor- 
oughly. 

To Fricasee Rabbits Brown. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. Take two young rabbits, 
cut them in small pieces, slit the head in two, season them with 
pepper and salt, dredge them with flour, and fry them a nice 
brown in fresh butter. Pour out the fat from the stewpan, 
and put in a pint of gravy, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint 
of fresh mushrooms, if you have them, and three shallots chop- 
ped fine; season with pepper and salt, cover them close, and 
let them stew for half an hour. Then skim the gravy clean, 
add a spoonful of catsup and the juice of half a lemon. Take 
out the herbs, and stir in a piece of butter rolled in flour, boil 
it up till thick and smooth, skim off the fat, and serve the rab- 
bits garnished with lemon. 

To Truss Woodcocks, Snipes, etc. 

Pluck and wipe them very clean outside; truss them with 
the legs very close to the body, and the feet pressing upon 
thighs; skin the head and neck, and bring the beak under the 
wink. 

CURING BACON, HAMS, ETC. POTTING, ETC. 

Great care must be taken in preparing the meat for salting. 
It must be carefully examined to see that it is fresh and good, 
then wiped, sprinkled with salt, and afterwards left to drain a 
few hours before it is rubbed with the salt. The meat will thus 
be thoroughly cleansed from the blood, which will prevent it 
from turning and tasting strong. It should then be placed in 

67 



the pickling pan and turned every morning, also it should be 
rubbed with the pickle. The cover of the pickling pan should 
fit very close and have a weight on it to keep it down. If a 
large quantity of salt meat is frequently required, the pickle 
may be boiled up, skimmed well, and when cold poured over 
any meat that has been sprinkled and well drained, as above 
directed. 

To Cure Bacon. 

Time, three weeks. Take one pound of saltpetre, one pound 
of bay salt, one gallon of coarse salt, one pound of salprunella, 
one pound of moist sugar. 

Pound the salprunella and bay salt very fine, mix the coarse 
salt and the sugar well together, and rub it into your bacon, 
hams, and cheeks, putting all in the same brine. Turn and rub 
the bacon every day for a week; afterward, every other day. 
Let it remain in the brine three weeks, and then send it to be 
smoked or dried. Large sides of bacon take a month to dry, 
small ones three weeks. 

To Cure Hams. 

For two large hams, one pound of common salt, three ounces 
of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one pound of coarse brown 
sugar, one quart of stale strong beer or ale. 

Boil all the above ingredients in the quart of beer or ale, and 
when cold pour it on the hams and turn them every day for a 
fortnight, then smoke them well. 

To Pot Beef. 

Time, three hours and a half. Take a piece of lean beef 
and free it from the skin and gristle, put it into a covered jar 
with three dessertspoonfuls of hot water and stand it in a deep 
stewpan of boiling water to boil slowly for nearly four hours, 
taking care that the water does not reach to the top of the jar. 
When done, take it out, mince it fine and pound it in a mortar 
with a seasoning of pepper, salt and pounded mace. When 
smooth and like a thick paste, mix in some clarified butter, and 
very little of the gravy from the jar, press it into pots, pour 
butter over the tops, and tie down for use. 

To Pickle Pork. 

Take one-third of saltpetre, two-thirds of white salt. Some 
people prefer pork pickled with salt alone (legs especially), 
others in the following manner: Put a layer of salt at the bot- 
tom of a tub; then mix the salt and saltpetre beaten; cut the 

68 



pork in pieces, rub it well with the salt and lay it close in the 
tub, with a layer of salt between every layer of pork till the tub 
is full. Have a cover just large enough to fit the inside of the 
tub, put it on, and lay a great weight at the top and as the salt 
melts it will keep it close. When you want to use it, take a 
piece out, cover the tub over again, and it will keep good a 
long time. 

Potted Ox-Tongue. 

Cut about a pound and a half from an unsmoked boiled 
tongue, remove the rind. Pound it in a mortar as fine as pos- 
sible with six ounces of butter and a small spoonful each of 
mace, nutmeg, and cloves beaten fine. When perfectly pounded 
and the spice well blended with the meat, press it into small 
potting-pans and pour clarified butter over the top. A little 
roast veal added to the potted tongue is an improvement. 

Hams, Tongues, and Beef, Yorkshire Fashion. 

Take one pound and a half of ham sugar, two ounces of salt- 
petre, one pound of common salt, half a pound of bay salt, two 
ounces of pepper. 

The meat should be well rubbed over night with common salt 
and well rubbed in the morning with the above ingredients. If 
hams, they should be rubbed before the fire every day and 
turned. 

Potted Fowl and Ham. 

Cut all the meat from a cold fowl and remove the bones, 
skin, etc., then cut it into shreds, with a quarter of a pound of 
lean ham and six ounces of butter, the pepper, salt, nutmeg and 
cayenne, and pound it all in a mortar until reduced to a smooth 
paste. Then mix it thoroughly together, fill the potting-pots, 
pour over them a thick layer of clarified butter, and tie them 
down with a bladder. Set them in a dry place and it will keep 
good for some time. A little grated lemon peel is an improve- 
ment to the fowl. 

Potted Head. 

Time, five or six hours. Take half an ox-head, and soak it 
in salt and water. When well cleansed from the blood, put it 
with two cow-heels into a large stewpan and cover them with 
cold water. Set over the fire and let it boil till tender. Strain 
the meat from the liquor, and when cold, cut the meat and 
gristle into very small pieces. Take all the fat from the cold 
liquor in which the meat, etc., was first boiled, put the mince 
with it, and boil the whole slowly till perfectly tender and thick 

69 



enough to jelly; give it a quick boil, and put it in shapes. Be- 
fore boiling the second time, add pepper and salt to your taste. 
and a little pounded mace if approved. 

Potted Herrings. 

Time, two hours. Cut off the heads and tails of the fish, 
clean, wash and dry them well, sprinkle them with pepper and 
salt within and without, lay them in an earthen pan, and cover 
them with white vinegar. Set them in an oven not too hot 
(the roes at the top, but they are not to be eaten), till the 
bones are quite soft, which will be in about two hours. Some 
cut the fish down by the bone, so as to open them, and then roll 
them up from the tail to the head. The bay leaves are an im- 
provement, and a little water may be added to the vinegar if 
preferred. Cover them with paper. 

To Pot Lobsters. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour to boil the lob- 
ster. Take from a hen lobster the spawn, coral, flesh and pick- 
ings of the head and claws, pound well and season with cayenne, 
white pepper and mace, according to taste. Mix it to a firm 
paste with good melted butter. Pound and season the flesh 
from the tail and put it into a pot, and then fill with the other 
paste. Cover the top of each put with clarified butter and keep 
it in a cool place. 



VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE PUREES, SALADS AND SALAD 

MIXTURE. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper, salt and nutmeg. 
Beat to a cream, with a tablespoonful of melted butter to every 
cupful of potato. Add two or three beaten eggs and some 
minced parsley. Roll into small balls; dip in beaten egg, then 
in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Saratoga Fried Potatoes. 

Peel good sized potatoes and slice them as evenly as pos- 
sible. Drop them into ice water, have a kettle of very hot lard, 
as for cakes, put a few at a time into a towel and shake, to dry 
the moisture out of them and then drop them into the boiling 
lard. Stir them occasionally and when of a light brown take 
them out with a skimmer, and they will be crisp and not greasy. 
Sprinkle salt over them while hot. 

70 



Stewed Potatoes. 

Boil the potatoes till tender; cut them in thick slices; take 
a half a teaspoonful of flour, a little salt and butter and chopped 
parsley, and a teacupful of milk; put them all together in a 
saucepan and let them stew about twenty minutes. 

Potato Cakes. 

Roast some potatoes in the oven; when done skin and 
pound in a mortar with a small piece of butter warmed in a 
little milk; chop a shallot and a little parsley very finely, mix 
well with the potatoes, add pepper and salt, shape into cakes, 
egg and bread crumb them, and fry a light brown. 

To Cook Salsify. 

Scrape the root and put into cold water immediately; cut 
into thin slices; boil tender, make a nice white sauce or drawn 
butter and pour over, or boil to a mash; mix with butter, salt, 
a little milk and pepper, add flour enough and mix as codfish 
cakes, and fry in the same manner. 

Egg Plant au Gratin. 

Peel and cut them in slices lengthwise, arrange them in 
layers on a well buttered tin (previously rubbed with garlic). 
Put between the layers a sprinkling of fine bread crumbs, chop- 
ped parsley, sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste; pour over 
them some liquified butter; add a sprinkling of grated cheese 
and a few baked bread crumbs; bake in the oven and brown 
with a salamander. 

To Cook Spinach. 

Wash and clean the spinach thoroughly from grit, then boil 
it in salt and water; press the water entirely out of it and chop 
it as fine as powder. A quarter of an hour before serving it 
put it into a saucepan with a piece of butter mixed with a 
tablespoonful of flour and half a tumblerful of boiling water, 
some salt, pepper and nutmeg, and let it simmer fifteen minutes. 
Serve with hard-boiled eggs on the top. 

Escalloped Onions. 

Take eight or ten onions of good size, slice them, and boil 
till tender. Lay them in a baking dish, putting bread crumbs, 
butter in small bits, pepper and salt between each layer, until 
the dish is full, putting bread crumbs last; add milk or cream 
until full. Bake twenty minutes or half an hour. 

71 



Stewed Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes, and remove the skins; 
cut them in pieces and stew them without water, seasoning them 
with butter and salt, and a little pepper if desired. 

Tomatoes Fried. 

Do not pare them, but cut in slices as an apple; dip in 
cracker, pounded and sifted and fry in a little good butter. 

Green Corn. 

Time, twenty minutes. This should be cooked on the same 
day it is gathered; it loses its sweetness in a few hours, and 
must be artificially supplied. Strip off the husks, pick out all 
the silk and put it in boiling water, if not entirely fresh, add 
a tablespoonful of sugar to the water, but no salt; boil twenty 
minutes, fast, and serve; or you may cut it from the cob, put 
in plenty of butter and a little salt, and serve in a covered 
vegetable dish. 

Succotash. 

Time, two hours. Cut off the corn from the cobs, and put 
the cobs in just enough water to cover them and boil one hour; 
then remove the cobs and put in the corn and stringbeans 
(carefully prepared by breaking off both ends and stringing) 
about one inch long; add a piece of salt pork and boil one 
hour; when boiled add some cream, or milk, salt and pepper, 
and butter. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Time, one hour and a half to boil. Boil four or five par- 
snips until tender, take off the skins and mash them very fine, 
add to them a teaspoonful of flour, one egg, well beaten, and a 
seasoning of salt. Make the mixture into small cakes with 
a spoon, and fry them on both sides a delicate brown in boiling 
butter or beef dripping; when both sides are done, serve them 
up very hot on a napkin or hot dish, according to your taste. 

To Serve Celery. 

Wash the roots free from dirt, and cut off all the decayed 
leaves; preserve as much of the stalk as you can, removing any 
specks or discolored parts. Divide it lengthwise into quarters, 
curl the top leaves, and place it with the roots downwards in 
a celery glass nearly filled with cold water. 

Stewed Celery. 

Time, one hour and twenty minutes. Wash four heads of 
celery very clean, take off the dead leaves, and cut away any 

72 



spots or discolored parts. Cut them into pieces about two 
or three inches long, and stew them for nearly half an hour. 
Then take them out with a slice, strain the water they were 
stewed in, and add it to half a pint of veal gravy, mixed with 
three or four tablespoonfuls of cream. Put in the pieces of 
celery and let them stew for nearly an hour longer. Serve 
with the sauce poured over. 

To Dress Cucumbers. 

Pare the cucumbers, commence cutting from the thick end, 
using a sharp knife and as thin as possible, drop in a large 
pan of cold water, wring them in the hands, squeezing out all 
of the seeds (which will float); skim, or pour off the seeds, 
and arrange on a large dish, dress with French dressing to 
suit taste. This receipt makes them deliciously crisp. 

Rice Croquettes. 

One teacupful of rice; boil in a pint of milk and a pint 
of water, when boiled and hot add a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two eggs, juice and 
grated peel of one lemon; stir this up well, have ready the 
yolks of two eggs, beaten on a plate, cracker crumbs on an- 
other; make the rice in rolls and dip in the egg and crumbs; 
fry them in butter; serve hot. 

Young Beets Boiled. 

Wash them very clean, but neither scrape nor cut them. 
Put them in boiling water, and, according to their size, boil 
them from one to two hours; take off the skin when done, and 
put over them pepper, salt and a little butter. Beets are very 
nice baked, but require a much longer time to cook. 

Lima Beans. 

Shell them into cold water; let them lie half an hour or 
longer, put them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, 
a little salt, and cook until tender. Drain and butter well and 
pepper to taste. 

Stringbeans. 

Break off both ends and string carefully; if necessary, pare 
both edges with a knife. Cut the beans in pieces an inch long 
and put in cold water a few minutes. Drain and put them into 
boiling water with a piece of bacon or salt pork. Boil quickly 
for half an hour, or till tender. Drain in a colander and dish 
with plenty of butter. 

73 



Fried Parsnips. 

Boil until tender, scrape off the skin and cut in lengthwise 
slices. Dredge with flour and fry in hot dripping, turning when 
one side is browned. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Take off the outer leaves, cut the head in quarters, and boil 
in a large quantity of water until done. Drain and press out 
the water, chop fine and season. Boil three-quarters of an hour, 
or till tender. The water can be drained off when they are 
half done, and fresh water added if desired. 

Boiled Onions. 

Skin them and soak them in cold water an hour or longer; 
then put into a saucepan and cover with boiling water, well 
salted; when nearly done, pour off the water, add a little milk, 
and simmer till tender. Season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Winter Squash. 

Cut it in pieces, take out the seeds and pare as thin as 
possible; steam or boil until soft and tender. Drain and press 
well, then mash with butter, pepper, salt and a very little sugar. 
Summer squash may be cooked the same way; if extremely 
tender they need not be pared. 

Hashed Browned Potatoes. 

So frequently husbands who travel and enjoy certain dishes 
as served in hotels and restaurants, request their wives at home 
to attempt these potatoes. They are rather difficult to prepare, 
but a little practice will reward one with success in the effort. 
Chop two cold boiled potatoes fine, dust with salt and pepper; 
put one tablespoonful of butter in the fryingpan, and when hot 
add potatoes, spreading them out evenly. A quarter of a cup 
of milk may be added or one-eighth teaspoon of kitchen bouquet, 
if liked. Have only a moderate heat, let potatoes stand to 
cook and brown for about ten or fifteen minutes without stir- 
ring. Then fold and roll as you would an omelet, and turn 
on a heated dish to serve very hot. 



74 



Do not be deceived by those that tell you they can produce 
something from nothing it is impossible. 

The first thing is to procure "the best," and use it to the 
best advantage. 

Don't believe that you can give a luncheon for eight per- 
sons Cost 95 cents with a menu as follows: 

Anchovy Paste and Sliced Tomatoes on Toast 
Bouillon with Marrowbone Dumplings 

Macaroni Italienne 

Marinated Round Steak, Breaded and Fried 

Fried Potatoes Asparagus Salad 

Individual Strawberry Shortcake 

It is a Joke, a Dream, both as to menu and cost. 

Follow your own ideas, make everything count, make the 
table look attractive, strive to please, and you will succeed 
in not only being a good housekeeper and cook, but make home 
happy. 

SALADS. 

Yolk of one or two raw eggs; one or two young onions or 
leeks; three tablespoonfuls of salad oil; one of vinegar; some 
lettuce, and slices of beetroot, salt and mustard. 

Take the yolk of one or two raw eggs, according to the 
size of the salad you require, beat them up well, add a little 
salt and mustard, and chop up one or two young onions or leeks 
about the size of grass, then add the salad oil and the vinegar, 
and beat the whole up into a thick sauce. Cut in the salad, and 
put thin slices of beetroot at the top. Sprinkle a little salt over 
it, and do not stir up till the moment you use it. For a small 
salad three dessert spoonfuls of oil and one of vinegar will do. 

Summer Salad. 

Three lettuces, a good quantity of mustard and cress, some 
young radishes, boiled beetroot, hard-boiled eggs. Wash and 
carefully remove the decayed leaves from the lettuces and mus- 
tard and cress, drain them well from the water, and cut them 
and the radishes into small pieces, arrange them on a dish 
lightly with the mustard and cress mixed with them, and any 
of the salad mixtures you prefer poured under, not over, them. 
Garnish with boiled beetroot, cucumbers and hard-boiled eggs cut 
into slices, and some vegetable flowers. Slices of cold poultry, 
or flaked fish may be added to a summer salad, and are ex- 
tremely good. 

75 



Cold Slaugh. 

Shave cabbage fine, scald half-pint vinegar, mix one small 
teaspoonful cornstarch in two-thirds cupful of cream (or con- 
densed milk a very little thinner), with one egg well beaten 
and a little salt; pour the scalded vinegar on the mixture very 
slowly, so as not to break the egg, then boil until thick; pour 
hot on the cabbage; a few capers and olives will improve 
the slaugh for those who are fond of such things. The above 
is a very nice dish to eat, either with fried or escalloped oysters. 

Potato Salad. 

Six cold boiled potatoes, one medium-sized onion, sliced 
thin into a tureen; first a layer of potato, then of onion, alter- 
nately, until the dish is full; sprinkle with pepper and salt 
occasionally while filling the dish; do the same on the top; put 
on four tablespoorifuls of sweet cream; melt one-half cup of 
butter or lard from fried pork, with half a pint of vinegar; 
when boiling hot pour over the salad and it is ready to serve. 

Lobster Salad. 

Take one hen lobster, lettuces, endive, mustard and cress, 
radishes, beetroot, cucumber, some hard-boiled eggs; pour the 
salad mixture into the bowl, wash and dry the lettuces and en- 
dive, and cut them fine; add them to the dressing, with the 
pickings from the body of the lobster and part of the meat 
from the shell cut into small pieces. Rub the yolks of two or 
three hard-boiled eggs through a sieve, and afterward the coral 
of the lobster, then place the salad very lightly in the bowl, and 
garnish it with the coral, yolks of the hard-boiled eggs, sliced 
beetroot, cucumber, radishes, and the pieces of lobster; place 
as a border hard-boiled' eggs cut across, with the delicate leaves 
of the celery and endive between them. 

Combination Crab and Shrimp Salad. 

One crab and one quart of shrimps, both picked, crisp let- 
tuce, according to the size of the salad required; mince the 
lettuce in a salad bowl, covering with pure olive oil, using 
wooden spoon; when all oil is absorbed, add the crab and 
shrimps, and pour over a French dressing, mix thoroughly and 
serve on individual plates. 

Aspics. 

These are meat and vegetable jellies, easily made, and 
makes a beautiful garnish for cold meats, salads, etc. As a 

76 



binding for mixed salads it L most attractive. For instance, 
chicken and celery may be mixed together molded plain or in a 
border, using enough aspics to hold them in shape. 

It looks different than plain chicken salad. One tablespoon- 
ful chopped onion, one tablespoonful chopped carrot, one salt 
spoonful celery seed or a little chopped celery, one box of 
gelatine (two ounces), one bay leaf, one quart of water, one 
level teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of vinegar or lemon 
juice, and a dash of cayenne. Cover the gelatine with a half 
cup of cold water to soak for a half hour. Put all the vege- 
tables in the quart of water, bring slowly to boiling point, sim- 
mer gently ten minutes; add seasonings; stir for a moment, add 
the gelatine, take from the fire and strain through two thick- 
nesses of cheese cloth; if made carefully and quickly this will 
be brilliant and clear; if it boils too hard or boils too long it 
will be clouded. Then add the white of an egg beaten, bring 
to boiling point, boil rapidly for a moment, stand aside to settle 
for five minutes and strain through flannel or cheesecloth, and 
put aside to cool. 

Sardine Canapes. 

Spread circles of toast with sardines rubbed to paste with 
creamed butter, seasoned with Worcestershire sauce and few 
grains of cayenne. Place an olive in the center of each when 
ready to serve. 

The Chafing Dish. 

At the present time every good wife should be familiar with 
the chafing dish, as PO many easy and inexpensive dishes may be 
prepared at the table, and often they are more appreciated 
than when brought from the kitchen. 

Little Pigs in Blankets. 

Take one can of finest oysters, drain off the juice, wrap 
each oyster in a strip of the finest thin-cut bacon you can 
procure, using the small Japanese toothpick for a skewer; place 
in a chafing dish and cook until edges of oysters ruffle, serve 
with fine slices of toast. 

Sweetbreads a-la-Bechamel. 

Time, ten minutes; six persons. One pair of sweetbreads, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, half 
a cup of boiling water, half a cup of milk, half a cup of mush- 
rooms, chopped, one level teaspoonful of salt, yolks of two 

77 



eggs, one salt spoonful of pepper, six tablespoonfuls of cream. 
Parboil and pick apart the sweetbreads, rejecting the mem- 
brane. Put the butter and flour in the chafing dish; add the 
milk, salt and pepper; stir until boiling; add the sweetbreads 
and mushrooms. Cover the dish while you beat the yolks of 
the eggs and cream together; add these hastily and, when smok- 
ing hot, serve. 

Chicken, game or veal may be substituted for sweetbreads. 

For Cooking Venison Steak in a Chafing Dish. 
Have your steaks cut from the leg and about one inch 
thick; trim them nicely, cutting off the outside skin and all 
the stray bits, and lay two steaks in a chafing dish; the lamp, 
of course, being ready for lighting. Prepare a gravy thus: Put 
into a saucepan about a cupful of nice stock, small teaspoonful 
of salt, half teaspoonful of black pepper, a little cayenne, a few 
cloves and allspice, and let boil up; then stir into it a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, in which one-half teaspoonful or less 
of flour has been rubbed, and two tablespoonfuls of currant 
jelly. When these are dissolved pour the gravy over the steaks; 
light the lamp, and while the other dishes are being served 
the steaks will cook; serve with currant jelly; it is exceedingly 
palatable and digestive. Mutton is also good prepared in this 
manner. 



78 



USEFUL KITCHEN HINTS. 
Time-Table for Boiling Meats and Fish. 

Mutton, per pound, 15 minutes; Corned Beef, per pound, 
30 minutes; Ham, per pound, 18 to 20 minutes; Turkey, per 
pound, 15 minutes; Chicken, per pound, 15 minutes; Tripe, per 
pound, 3 to 5 hours; Codfish, per pound, 6 minutes; Halibut, per 
pound, 15 minutes; Bass, per pound, 10 minutes; Salmon, per 
pound, 10 to 15 minutes; Small Fish, per pound, 6 minutes; 
Lobster, per pound, 30 to 40 minutes. 

Proportions. 

Three to four eggs to one pint of milk for custards. 

One salt spoonful of salt to one quart of milk for custards. 

One teaspoonful of vanilla to one quart of milk for custards. 

Two ounces of gelatine to one and three-quarters quarts of 
liquid. 

Four heaping teaspoonfuls cornstarch to one quart of milk. 

Three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder to one quart 
of flour. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one pint of sour milk. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one pint of molasses. 

One even teaspoonful of baking powder to one cup of flour. 

One teaspoonful of baking powder is the equivalent of half 
a teaspoonful of soda, or one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Tables of Weights and Measures. 

Four gills, one pint: two pints, one quart; four quarts, one 
gallon; sixteen ounces, one pound; one-half kitchen cupful, one 
gill; one kitchen cupful, one-half pint or two gills; four kitchen 
cupfuls, one quart; two cupfuls of granulated sugar or two and 
one-half cupfuls of powdered sugar, one pound; one heaping tea- 
spoonful of sugar, one ounce; one cupful of butter, one-half 
pound; four cupfuls of flour or one heaping quart, one pound; 
one heaping teaspoonful butter or butter the size of an egg, two 
ounces or one-quarter cup; eight round teaspoonfuls of dry ma- 
terial or sixteen teaspoonfuls of liquid, one cupful. 



79 



TO MAKE PASTES, PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 
German Paste. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, put into it 
half a pound of butter, the same of powdered sugar, and the 
peel of a lemon grated; make a hole in the middle of the flour, 
break in the yolks of two eggs, reserving the whites, which are 
to be well beaten; then mix all well together. If the eggs do 
not sufficiently moisten the paste, add half an eggshell of water. 
Mix all thoroughly, but do not handle too much. Roll out thin, 
and you may use it for all sorts of pastry. Before putting it 
into the oven, wash over pastry with the white of the beaten 
eggs, and shake over a little powdered sugar. 

A Light Puff Paste. 

Take one pound of sifted flour, one pound of fresh butter, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream or tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, 
a little water. Work one-fourth of the butter into the flour 
until it is like sand, measure the cream of tartar and the soda, 
rub it through a sieve, put it to the flour, add enough cold water 
to bind it, and work it smooth; dredge flour over the paste-slab 
or board, rub a little flour over the rolling-pin and roll the paste 
to about half an inch in thickness; spread over the whole sur- 
face one-third of the remaining butter, then fold it up, dredge 
flour over the paste-slab and rolling-pin, and roll it out again, 
then put another portion of the butter, and fold and roll again, 
and spread on the remaining butter, and fold and roll for the 
last time. 

Very Rich Short Crust. 

Break ten ounces of butter into a pound of flour dried and 
sifted, add a pinch of salt and two ounces of loaf sugar rolled 
fine. Make it into a very smooth paste as light as possible, with 
two well-beaten eggs and sufficient milk to moisten the paste. 

Paste for Custards. 

Rub six ounces of butter into half a pound of flour. Mix 
it well together and two beaten eggs and three tablespoonfuls 
of cream. Let it stand a quarter of an hour, then work it up 
and roll out very thin for use. 

To Ice or Glaze Pastry or Sweet Dishes. 
To ice pastry or any sweet dishes, break the whites of 
some new-laid eggs into a large soup plate, and beat them with 
the blade of a knife into a firm froth. When the pastry is nearly 

80 



done, take it from the oven, brush it well over with the beaten 
egg, and sift the powdered sugar over it in the above proportion. 
Put it again into the oven to dry or set, taking care it is not 
discolored; or beat the yolks of eggs and a little warm butter 
well together, brush the pastry over with it when nearly baked, 
sift pounded sugar thickly over it and put it into the oven to 
dry. For raised or meat pies, the yolks of eggs must be used. 

Red Currant and Raspberry Tart. 

Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour. Take a pint and 
a half of picked red currants, three-quarters of a pint of rasp- 
berries, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, half a pound of 
puff-paste. Pick the currants and raspberries from their stalks, 
mix them together in a pie dish with the moist sugar. Wet the 
edge of the dish, place a band of puff-paste round it, wet that 
also. Cover the top with puff-paste, pressing it round the edge 
with your thumbs. Cut the overhanging edge off evenly, Then 
scallop the edge by first chopping it in lines all round and then 
giving them a little twist at regular intervals with the knife. 
Take the edges you have cut off, flour them, roll them out, and 
cut them into leaves to ornament the top. Edd it over and 
bake it. When done, dredge it with white sugar and salaman- 
der it. 

Cherry Tart. 

Time to bake, thirty-five to forty minutes. Take about one 
pound and a half of cherries, half a pound of short crust, moist 
sugar to taste. Pick the stalks from the cherries, put in a tiny 
cup upside down in the middle of a deep pie dish, fill round 
it with the fruit, and add moist sugar to taste. Lay some short 
crust round the edge of the dish, put on the cover as directed 
before, ornament the edges and bake it in a quick oven. When 
ready to serve, sift some loaf sugar over the top. 

Gooseberry Tart. 

Time to bake, about three-quarters of an hour. Cut off the 
tops and tails from a quart of gooseberries, put them into a 
deep pie dish with five or six ounces of good moist sugar, 
line the edge of the dish with short crust; put or. the cover, 
ornament the edges and top in the usual manner, and bake 
in a brisk oven. Serve with boiled custard or a jug of good 
cream. 

Cranberry Tart. 

Time to bake, three quarters of an hour or one hour. Pick 
a quart of cranberries free from all imperfections, put a pint 

81 



of water to them, and put them into a stewpan, add a pound of 
fine brown sugar to them and set them over the fire to stew 
gently until they are soft, then mash them with a silver spoon, 
and turn them into pie dish to become cold. Put a puff-paste 
round the edge of the dish, and cover it over with a crust; or 
make an open tart in a flat dish with paste all over the bottom 
of it and round the edge; put in the cranberries; lay cross 
bars of paste over the top and bake. 

Rhubarb Tart. 

Time to bake, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Cut 
the large stalks from the leaves, strip off the outside skin and 
cut the sticks into pieces half an inch long. Line a pie dish 
with paste rolled rather thicker than a crown piece, put in a 
layer of rhubarb, stew the sugar over it, then fill it up with the 
other pieces of stalks, cover it with a rich puff-paste, cut a 
slit in the center, trim off the edge with a knife and bake it 
in a quick oven. Glaze the top or strew sugar over it. 

Plain Apple Tart. 

Time to bake, one hour, or if small, half an hour. Rub a 
pie dish over with butter, line it with short pie crust rolled 
thin, pare some cooking apples, cut them in small pieces, fill 
the pie dish with them, strew over them a cupful of fine moist 
sugar, three or four cloves or a little grated lemon peel, and 
add a few spoonfuls of water, then cover with puff-paste crust, 
trim off the edges with a sharp knife and cut a small slit at 
each end, pass a gigling iron round the pie half an inch outside 
the edge, and bake in a quick oven. 

Open Apple Tart. 

Time, to bake, in a quick oven until the paste loosens from 
the dish. Peel and slice some cooking apples and stew them, 
putting a small cupful of water and the same of moist sugar 
to a quart of sliced apples, add half a nutmeg and the peel of 
a lemon grated, when they are tender, set them to cool. Line 
a shallow tin pie dish with rich pie paste or light puff-paste, put 
in the stewed apples half an inch deep, roll out some of the 
paste, wet it slightly over with the yolk of an egg beaten with 
a little milk, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, cut it in 
very narrow strips, and lay them in crossbars or diamonds across 
the tart, lay another strip round the edge, trim off the outside 
neatly with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven until the 
paste loosens from the dish. 

82 



Tartlets. 

Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Cut as many rounds 
of rich puff-paste with a tin cutter as you require. Then cut 
an equal number, and press a smaller cutter inside them to 
remove the center and leave a ring. Moisten the rounds with 
water and place the rings on them. Put them into a moderate 
oven for ten or twelve minutes, and when done fill the center 
with any preserve of apricot, strawberry or orange marmalade. 
Stamp out a little of the paste rolled very thin into stars, etc. 
Bake them lightly, and place one on top of each tartlet. Serve 
them hot or cold. 

Orange Tartlets. 

Time to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. Take out the pulp 
from two oranges, boil the peels until quite tender, and then 
beat them to a paste with twice their weight of pounded loaf 
sugar; then add the pulp and the juice of the oranges with a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat all these ingredients 
well together, line some patty-pans with rich puff-paste, lay the 
orange mixture in them and bake them. 

Lemon Puffs. 

Time, six or eight minutes to bake. Beat and sift a pound 
and a quarter of loaf sugar, and mix with it the peel of two 
lemons grated, whisk the whites of three eggs to a firm froth, 
add it gradually to the sugar and lemon, and beat it all together 
for one hour. Make it up into any shape you please, place the 
puffs on oiled paper on a tin, put them in a moderate oven 
and bake. 

Apple Tarts. 

To a quart of stewed apples run through a sieve, add three 
eggs, half a pound of sugar, one ounce of butter, nutmeg and 
rosewater to taste; paste at bottom only. Half a peck of apples 
makes five good-sized pies. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Take some fine rhubarb, strip off the skins, and cut the 
sticks into inch pieces; fill a large dish with them, cover with 
sugar and flavor with lemon juice and peel, cinnamon or vanilla. 
Put this in the oven and when considerably shrunk put into a 
smaller dish, add more sugar and flavoring if required, cover 
with a good crust and bake for about half an hour. 

83 



Squash Pies. 

Boil and sift a good, dry squash, thin it with boiling milk 
until it is about the consistency of thick milk porridge. To every 
quart of this add three eggs, two great spoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, nutmeg (or ginger, if you prefer), and sweeten quite sweet 
with sugar. Bake in a deep plate with an undercrust. 

Lemon Maringue Pie. 

Boil three lemons until they are soft enough for a straw 
to penetrate the rind, mash them up fine with a tablespoonful 
of butter, one cup and a half of powdered sugar, and the yolks 
of six eggs; make a thin crust, put in the mixture and bake 
it; when cool, beat up the whites of the eggs with one and a 
half cups of powdered sugar and spread it over the pie; brown 
it a nice color. 

Boston Cream Pie. 

Cream part. One pint of new milk, two eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of sifted flour, five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put two- 
thirds of the milk on to boil, and stir the sugar and flour in 
what is left. When the rest boils, put in the whole and stir 
until it cooks thoroughly. When cool, flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. 

Crust part. Three eggs, beaten separately, one cup of 
granulated sugar, one and a half cups of sifted flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Divide in half, put in two pie tins, 
and bake in a quick oven to a straw color. When taken out 
split in halves, and spread the cream between. 

Lemon Pie. 

Yolks of four eggs, and one whole one, nine tablespoonfuls 
of granulated sugar, juice of two lemons and the grated rind of 
one, three pounded milk crackers soaked in one tumbler of 
milk, mix and bake. Then beat the whites of the four eggs 
with four tablespoonfuls of powdered or fine granulated sugar, 
and spread and put in the oven to brown. This makes two 
pies. 

Lemon Pie Without any Thickening but the Eggs. 

Mix together the grated rind of two lemons and the juice 
(discarding the hard pulp), nine tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 
the yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and 
half a tumbler of milk; line a dinner plate with rich crust, two 
layers on the edge; pour the mixture in and bake; while baking 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding two even 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; when the pie is sufficiently 

84 



cooked, pour over the whites and return to the over for a few 
minutes. 

Ye Ancient Gingerbread. 

One pint sorghum molasses, 1 cup (genuine) sour butter- 
milk, 1 cup home-made leaf lard, 1 level tablespoonful soda, % 
tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon allspice, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 
x /4 teaspoon salt, 2 eggs and flour to make a soft dough. 

Mix lard and molasses, add beaten eggs, then add spices, 
salt and soda sifted with about one cup of flour and alternate 
with the milk, beating all well together. Finally add flour 
enough to make a soft dough. Roll rather thick, cut in fan- 
tastic shapes, "little gingerbread men," if to please the little 
folks, or any desired shape. Have a moderate heat only, as 
bread should not be baked too quickly. 



Shortcake need not be confined exclusively to the straw- 
berry season. Other berries and fruits and meats can be 
utilized for very acceptable variety in cakes. What is known 
as "biscuit dough," more or less rich was the original short- 
cake, and the sweet cakes with elaborate fillings are the res- 
taurant, or modern departures. 

A Rich Short Cake Crust. 

Is made by this recipe: Sift together l 1 /^ cups of pastry 
flour, y 2 cup cornstarch, % teaspoon salt, 1 level tablespoon 
sugar, 4 level or 2 rounding teaspoons baking powder. Cut into 
this with a knife or work in with finger tips, %, cup butter; add 
white of one egg beaten stiff; then add gradually, about one 
cup of milk, making a dough similar to pie crust, in that it is 
flaky and not too soft. Fold and knead lightly. Divide into 
two cakes, pat into rounds or squares and bake in cake tins in 
moderately quick oven 15 to 20 minutes. Individual shortcakes 
may be made from this dough, and they are very attractive when 
served. 

The preparation of berries and fruit is so largely a matter 
of taste that we leave this to the discrimination of the individ- 
ual, offering but few suggestions. All fruit for shortcakes 
should be prepared long enough however, in advance, to have 
been sweetened by allowing sugar to remain a short time on 
the cut fruit. When cream that may be whipped is obtainable, 
it takes first rank as being most appropriate and acceptable 
for serving with shortcakes and admits of a display of taste in 
garnishing. What could be more appetizing and satisfying than 
a delicious strawberry shortcake, surrounded with berries, cov- 

85 



ered with whipped cream, through which the largest and choicest 
berries were peeping, tempting one to "come, eat and be 
merry." 

Tomato Pie. 

Take six or eight tomatoes, two lemons, one teaspoonful 
flour, and sugar to taste. Crust top and bottom. 

Orange Pie. 

Two oranges, eight tablespoonfuls of sugar, four eggs, two- 
thirds tumbler of milk; beat the yolks, sugar, and grated peel 
of the oranges, being careful not to grate off. 

White Potato Pie. 

For one good-sized pie, taks half a pound of potatoes, boil 
and mash, and while hot squeeze half a lemon into it with a 
good-sized piece of butter; add one cup white sugar, two or 
three eggs, half a teaspoonful of mace and grate nutmeg on top 
of pie. 

Potato Pie. 

Boil either Irish or sweet potatoes until well done, mash 
and sift them through a coarse wire sieve; to a pint of pulp 
add three pints of sweet milk, a tablespoonful of melted butter, 
two eggs, a teacupful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of salt, nut- 
meg or lemon to flavor. Bake it with an undercrust of rich 
paste. 

Apple Pie. 

Stew a dozen tart apples, when soft add a tablespoonfuf of 
butter, one cup of sugar, half a glass of rosewater, and a little 
nutmeg. Bake the paste as for cream pie, and fill with apple 
instead of cream. 

Auntie's Cream Pies. 

Make the paste for three pies, roll out and cover your 
plates, then roll out and cover a second time, and bake. When 
baked, and while warm, separate the edges with a knife and lift 
the upper from the lower paste; fill in the cream, and put on 
the upper paste. 

The Cream. Put on a pint of milk to boil. Break two 
eggs into a dish, and add one cup of sugar and half a cup of 
flour; after beating well, stir it into the milk just as it com- 
mences to boil; keep on stirring one way until it thickens; use 
any flavor you may prefer. 

86 



Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Make a crust as for soda biscuit, peel and core your apples, 
cut the dough in square pieces, and put one apple for each 
dumpling; put them in a dripping pan and place in the oven 
for five minutes, then make a syrup with water and sugar, one 
cupful of sugar to a pint of water, and pour into the dripping 
pan, baste with the syrup (as you would a turkey), while they 
are cooking; when done, eat with sweet cream. 

MINCE MEAT. 

One pound of currants, one pound of peeled and chopped 
apples, one pound of suet chopped fine, one pound of moist 
sugar, quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and cut in two, the 
juice of four oranges and two lemons, with the chopped peel of 
one; add of ground mace and allspice each a spoonful, and a 
wineglass of brandy. Mix all well together and keep it closely 
covered in a cool place. 

Egg Mince Meat. 

Six hard-boiled eggs, shred very fine; double the quantity of 
beef suet, chopped very small; one pound of currants, washed 
and dried; the peel of one large or two small lemons, minced 
up; six tablespoonfuls of sweet wine, a little mace, nutmeg 
and salt, with sugar to your taste; add a quarter of a pound 
of candied orange and citron cut into thin slices. Mix all well 
together and press it into a jar for use. 

Lemon Mince Meat. 

Take one large lemon, three large apples, four ounces of 
beef suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of white sugar, 
one ounce of candied orange and citron. Chop up the apples 
and beef suet; mix them with the currants and sugar; then 
squeeze the juice from a large lemon into a cup. Boil the 
lemon thus squeezed till tender enough to beat to a mash; add 
it to the mince meat. Pour over it the juice of the lemon, 
and add the citron chopped fine. 

BAKED AND BOILED PUDDINGS. 

For boiled puddings you will require either a mould, a 
basin, or a pudding cloth; the former should have a close-fitting 
cover and be rubbed over the inside with butter before putting 

87 



the pudding in it, that it may not stick to the side ; the cloth 
should be dipped in boiling water, and then well floured on 
the inside. A pudding cloth must be kept very clean, and in 
a dry place. Bread puddings should be tied very loosely, as 
they swell very much in boiling. 

The water must be boiling when the pudding is put in, 
and continue to boil until it is done. If a pudding is boiled in a 
cloth it must be moved frequently while boiling, otherwise it 
will stick to the sauce pan. 

There must always be enough water to cover the pudding 
if it is boiled in a cloth; but if boiled in a tin mould do not let 
the water quite reach the top. 

To boil a pudding in a basin, dip a cloth in hot water, 
dredge it with flour and tie it closely over the basin. When the 
pudding is done, take it from the water, plunge whatever it is 
boiling in, whether cloth or basin, suddenly into cold water, 
then turn it out immediately; this will prevent its sticking. If 
there is any delay in serving the pudding, cover it with a nap- 
kin or the cloth in which it was boiled; but it is better to serve 
it as soon as removed from the cloth, basin or mould. 

Always leave a little space in the pudding basin for the 
pudding to swell, or tie the pudding cloth loosely for the same 
reason. 

Baked Puddings. 

Bread or rice puddings require a moderate heat for baking; 
batter or custard require a quick oven. 

Eggs for puddings are beaten enough when a spoonful can 
be taken up clear from the strings. 

Souffles require a quick oven. These should be made so 
as to be done the moment for serving, otherwise they will fall in 
and flatten. 

Noodle Pudding. 

Time, one hour. Three eggs, beat light; add a little salt 
and flour to make a paste that will roll; roll the paste an eighth 
of an inch thick; fold the paste and shred fine; boil in clear 
water, with a little salt, put them in the water while it is 
boiling, and do not allow them to stick together, or uncover the 
pot for ten minutes; take them out and drain well; bake them 
one hour; beat two eggs light, mix them in a quart of milk, and 
stir in the noodles; add salt, sugar and spices to taste, and 
bake as custard. 

88 



Yankee Plum Pudding. 

Time, four hours. Take a tin pudding boiler that shuts 
over tight with a cover. Butter it well. Put at the bottom some 
stoned raisins and then a layer of baker's bread, cut in slices, 
with a little butter or suet strewed over, then raisins, bread 
and suet alternately, until you nearly fill the tin. Take milk 
enough to fill your boiler, and to every quart add three or four 
eggs, some nutmeg and salt, and sweeten with half sugar and 
half molasses. Drop it into boiling water, and let it boil three 
or four hours. Be sure the cover fits tight, or your pudding 
will be watersoaked. Serve with wine sauce. 

John Bull Pudding. 

Time, six hours. One pound of flour, one pound stoned 
raisins, one pound currants, quarter of a pound sugar, one ounce 
citron, one pound suet chopped fine, six eggs beaten very light, 
one gill good brandy. Some of the flour (sifted) should be re- 
served to mix with the dry fruit. Boil six hours; keep boiling 
water at hand to replenish as it boils; to be eaten with hard 
or liquid sauce, as taste may dictate; turn the pudding a few 
times when you first put it to boil. 

Cheap Plum Pudding. 

Time, three hours. One cup suet, one cup raisins, one cup 
currants and citron mixed, one egg, one cup sweet milk, half 
a teacup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, three and a half cups 
flour, a little salt; bcil three hours; serve with hard or liquid 
sauce. 

Plum Pudding. 

Time, three hours. A pint of bread crumbs; pour over 
them one-half pint boiling milk and let it cool thoroughly; then 
add one pound stoned raisins, one-half pound currants, one 
tablespoonful of butter minced fine, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one small teaspoonful cloves, nut- 
meg and cinnamon, each; five eggs, beaten light; flour your 
fruit before mixing, and boil three hours; eat with hot brandy 
sauce. 

Indian Pudding. 

Time, two hours. Scald one pound of Indian meal that is, 
pour boiling water on it, stirring until stiff; have ready one 
pound chopped suet; stir it in and add one pint molasses and 
one ounce ground ginger; bake in a greased tin in a slow oven; 
takes about two hours to bake. 

89 



Troy Pudding. 

Time, three hours. One cup each of chopped suet, stoned 
raisins, molasses and milk, and one egg, three cups of sifted 
flour, a little salt and a pinch of soda; boil three hours; serve 
with sweet sauce. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

Time, two hours. Into two quarts of boiling water stir 
six heaping tablespoonfuls of meal, a little salt and a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. When nearly cold add three well- 
beaten eggs and eight tablespoonfuls of sugar or molasses and 
spice to taste. 

Orleans Pudding. 

Time, two hours. Two cups flour, one-half cup butter, one 
cup molasses, one cup raisins, one and a half cups of milk, one 
teaspoonful saleratus dissolved in milk; boil two hours in tin 
boiler; serve with the above sauce. 

Boiled Fruit Pudding. 

Time, two hours. One quart crushed wheat, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, half teaspoonful cloves, two cups sugar, two 
eggs, half a pound of suet, chopped fine, one teaspoonful cream 
of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, half cup of molasses, half 
pound of raisins chopped fine, citron or lemon peel if desired; 
boil two hours. 

Orange Pudding. 

Time, twenty minutes. Four sweet oranges peeled and 
picked to pieces, and put in a deep pudding dish, with two 
cups of sugar. Put a quart of milk, the yolks of three eggs 
and two dessert spoonfuls of cornstarch on to boil; take off, 
cool it, and pour it on the oranges; then beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, put it over the pudding, and place it in the oven 
until it is of a light brown color. 

Farina Pudding. 

Time, three-quarters of an hour. Five ounces farina stirred 
gradually and boiled in one quart of milk, then let it cool, sepa- 
rate the yolks and whites of five eggs, beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and stir the yolks and sugar together, then stir all into 
the cool boiled farina, flavor and bake; it will be light like a 
souffle if made in this manner. 

90 



Queen Pudding. 

Time, half an hour. One quart milk, one pint (hardly full) 
bread crumbs, four eggs yolks, whites for frosting, sugar to 
taste. Serve with hard sauce and jelly; when the pudding is 
done pour over it the whites of the eggs and brown. 

Two-Hour Pudding. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup (small) 
molasses, one cup milk, two cups flour, one and a quarter cups 
raisins, hard sauce; grease the tin well with butter, and let 
it boil two hours. 

Apple Pudding. 

Time, two hours. Peel the apples and put them in a kettle 
in halves, with a pint of water, a small lump of butter, a little 
salt, nutmeg, and a handful of sugar, make a soda biscuit crust 
about one-third inch thick, and put it on top of the apples, make 
a hole in the center of the crust, boil until the apples are thor- 
oughly cooked. Serve with hot sauce, adding wine or brandy 
if you choose. A plate turned upside down in the kettle will 
prevent it from burning. 

French Tapioca Pudding. 

Time, one hour. Take two ounces of tapioca, and boil it in 
a half pint of water, until it begins to melt, then add half a 
pint of milk by degrees, and boil until the tapioca becomes 
very thick; add a well-beaten egg, sugar and flavoring to taste, 
and bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. 

Bread Pudding. 

Time, one hour. Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze 
it very dry, take out the lumps and add boiling milk, about a 
pint to a pound of soaked bread, beat up two eggs, sweeten, add 
a little nutmeg, and bake the pudding slowly until firm. If 
desired a few raisins may be added. 

Aunt Mary's Pudding. 

Time, two hours. Butter a tart dish, sprinkle the bottom 
with finely minced candied peel, and a very little shred suet, 
then a thin layer of light bread, and so on until the dish is full. 
For a pint dish make a liquid custard of one egg and half a 
pint of milk; sweeten, pour over pudding, and bake as slowly 
as possble for two hours. 

91 



Children's Pudding. 

Time, one hour and a half. To make a nice pudding for 
the children's diner, take three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one quart of milk and a little salt; make a batter, then 
have some apples nicely peeled and cored, place them in a well 
buttered pie dish, then pour the batter over them. Let it bake 
one hour and half and make a nice sweet sauce for it. 

Oatmeal Pudding. 

Time, one hour. Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal 
in a quarter of a pint of milk add to it a pint of boiling milk, 
sweeten to taste and stir over the fire for ten minutes; then 
put in two ounces of sifted bread crumbs; stir until the mixture 
is stiff, then add one ounce of shreded suet, and one or two 
well beaten eggs; add a little lemon flavoring or grated nutmeg. 
Put the pudding into a buttered dish and bake slowly for an 
hour. 

Macroon Pudding. 

Time, half an hour. Soak a pound of fresh macroons in 
milk, make a custard of eight eggs (reserving the whites of 
four), a quart of milk sweetened with one-quarter pound of 
sugar, put the macroons in the custard, bake in a deep dish in 
the oven, putting a piece of paper on top to prevent burning; 
when done whip the whites of the four eggs, with sugar, and 
spread on top quite thickly, put in the oven again for about 
five minutes. 

Hard Times Pudding. 

Time, three hours. Half a pint of molasses, half a pint of 
water, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one teaspoonful of salt; thicken 
with flour, sifted, to a batter, thick as cup cake, put into pud- 
ding boiler, half full, to allow for swelling; boil steadily for three 
hours; eat with or without sauce. 

Pumpkin Pudding. 

Time, two hours. Pare the pumpkin and put it down to 
stew, strain it" through a colander; two pounds of pumpkin to 
one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, and eight eggs; beat 
to a froth; one wineglass of brandy, half wineglass of rosewater, 
one teaspoonful mace, cinnamon and nutmeg all together. 

Cornstarch Pudding. 

Time, half an hour. Boil one quart of milk, then beat the 
yolks of four eggs, with four tablespoonfuls of cornstarch and 

92 



a little milk; stir into the boiling milk, let it boil up once and 
turn into a pudding dish; then beat the whites of the eggs to a 
froth and add four spoonfuls of white powdered sugar; cover 
the pudding with the mixture, and set in the oven and brown 
lightly; flavor with vanilla, lemon, etc. 

Apple Batter Pudding. 

Time, one hour. Core and peel eight apples, put in a dish, 
fill the places from which the cores have been taken with 
brown sugar, cover and bake; beat the yolks of four eggs light, 
add two teacupfuls of flour, with three even teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, sifted with it, one pint of milk, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, then the whites, well beaten; pour over the apples 
and bake; use sauce with it. 

Batter Pudding. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, six spoonfuls of flour, a little 
sale; bake twenty minutes. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Grate cocoanut, then stew it slowly in one quart of milk; 
pour this on a half loaf of baker's bread; when cold add one 
pound of sugar, and one-half pound butter, beaten to a cream; 
then add six eggs and bake. 

Snow Pudding. 

One ounce of gelatine; pour on it a pint and a half of boil- 
ing water; add two teacups of white sugar, the grated peel and 
juice of two lemons; strain into a deep dish to cool; when it 
commences to jell, add to it the whites of four well-beaten eggs, 
beat until the dish is full, put in molds and place in a cool place. 

Fig Pudding. 

Time, four hours. Half a pound bread crumbs, half a pound 
figs, six ounces of suet, six ounces brown sugar; mince the figs 
and suet nicely, a little salt, two eggs, well beaten, nutmeg to 
taste, boil in a mold four fours. Serve with wine sauce. 

Mock Plum Pudding. 

Time, three hours. One cup finely cut suet, one of dried 
currants, one-third cup of molasses, two-thirds cup of milk 
or water, one teaspoonful allspice, cloves and cinnamon mixed, 
three cups of flour: mix well and steam three hours. 

93 



PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 

Pancakes should be eaten hot. They should be light enough 
to toss over in the pan. Snow will serve instead of eggs for 
pancakes; it should be taken when just fallen, and quite clean; 
two tablespoonfuls of snow will supply the place of one egg. 

Common Pancakes. 

Time, five minutes. Beat three eggs, and stir them into 
a pint of milk; add a pinch of salt, and sufficient flour to make 
it into a thick, smooth batter; fry them in boiling fat, roll 
them over on each side, drain and serve them very hot, with 
lemon and sugar. 

Snow Pancakes. 

Time, five minutes. Make a stiff batter with four ounces of 
flour, a quarter of a pint of milk, or more if required, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any 
number of pancakes, and add three large spoonfuls of snow to 
each; fry them lightly, in very good butter, and" serve quickly. 

Batter for Fritters. 

Time, five minutes. Mix eight ounces of fine flour with 
about half a pint of water into a smooth batter, dissolve the 
butter over a slow fire; and then stir it by degrees into the 
flour; then add the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth, 
and stir them lightly in. 

Apple Fritters. 

Time, six minutes. Beat and strain the yolks of seven 
eggs and the whites of three; mix into them a pint of new milk, 
a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy; 
well beat the mixture, and then add gradually sufficient flour 
to make a thick batter; pare and core six large apples, cut 
them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle pounded 
sugar over them, and set them by for an hour or more; dip 
each piece of apple in the batter, and fry them in hot lard 
about six minutes, the lard should not be made too hot at first, 
but must become hotter as they are frying; serve on a napkin 
with sifted sugar over them. 

Cake Fritters. 

Cut a stale cake into slices an inch and a half in thickness, 
pour over them a little good cream, and fry them lightly in 

94 



fresh butter, and when done place over each slice of cake a 
layer of preserves. 

Bread Fritters. 

To a quart basinful of stale bread broken small, put a quart 
of boiling milk, cover it for ten or fifteen minutes; when quite 
soft, beat it with a spoon until it is smooth, add two well-beaten 
eggs, half a nutmeg grated, a tablespoonful of brandy, one of 
butter and a little salt; beat it light; make an omelet-pan hot, 
put in a small piece of butter and when dissolved pour in suffi- 
cient batter to run over the pan, let it fry gently; when one 
side is a fine brown, turn the other, put butter and sugar with 
a little grated nutmeg over, lay one on the. other, cut them 
through in quarters, and serve them hot. 

Blackberry Fritters. 

Time, five minutes. Are made by mixing a thick batter of 
flour and sour milk, or cream as for pancakes, only quite stiff; 
if cream is used, allow one more egg than for sour milk, then 
stir thick with berries; have ready a kettle of hot lard, dip a 
tablespoon into the lard, then take a spoonful of batter and drop 
it into the boiling lard; the grease will prevent the batter from 
sticking to the spoon and will let it drop off in nice oval shape; 
eat with syrup. 

Grandma's Crullers. 

Time, five minutes. Six eggs, six tablespoonfuls powdered 
sugar, six tablespoonfuls melted butter, a wineglass of brandy, 
and a little nutmeg; flour as for doughnuts; roll thin and 
cut into fanciful shapes with a jagging iron. 

Doughnuts. 

Time, five minutes. Half a pint of sweet milk, half a cup 
of butter (scant), one cup. of yeast, salt; flavor with nutmeg 
or cinnamon; mix them at night; in the morning roll out and 
let them raise until very light, and drop in hot fat; they are 
very nice, after they are fried, to roll them in pulveried sugar. 

Doughnuts. 

Dissolve one cake of compressed yeast in one pint of luke- 
warm milk; add flour to make a moderately stiff sponge, and 
let rise until it begins to drop or go back (say about two hours); 
rub together one-quarter pound butter, one-half pound sugar, 
three eggs, a little extract of lemon, a little cinnamon; add 

95 



the same with a cup of warm milk to the sponge, and make 
dough as soft as it can be handled; let rise about an hour or 
until light, then roll out, cut with round cutter, place on well- 
dusted table until light, and then fry in hot lard. 

Graham Griddle Cakes. 

Time, five minutes. One pint of milk, half a cup of sour 
cream, half a teaspoonful of soda, the same of salt; stir in 
graham flour not as stiff as for fine flour cakes (no egg's) ; have 
the griddle quite hot; or with yeast the same as with' buck- 
wheat. 

Hominy Croquettes. 

Time, six minutes. To a cupful of cold boiled hominy add 
a teaspoonful melted butter, and stir it well, adding by degrees 
a cupful of milk, till all is made into a soft, light paste, add 
a teaspoonful white sugar, and one well-beaten egg- roll it 
into oval balls with floured hands, dip in beaten egg then 
rolled cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Fried Bread. 

Beat four eggs very light, add three tablespoonfuls of good 
brown sugar, a little grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of orange 
or rosewater, and a quart of milk; cut into nice slices, an inch 
thick, a stale loaf of bread; remove the crust from the sides 
and cut each slice into halves; butter your frying-pan and when 
hot lay in your bread (dipped in the custard) and brown on 
both sides; lay them on a hot dish and sprinkle over them a 
little loaf sugar. 

Hominy Fritters. 

Two teacupfuls of cold boiled hominy, add to it one tea- 
cupful of sweet milk and a little salt, stir till smooth, then add 
four tablespoonfuls of flour and one egg; beat the yolk and 
white, adding the white last; have ready a pan with hot butter 
and lard (half of each), drop the -batter in by spoonfuls and 
fry a hght brown. 

Omelet Souffle. 

Separate the whites from the yolks of twelve eggs- put the 
whites into a basin and beat them extremely fast till they form 
a very thick snow; then beat six yolks separately, with two 
ounces of sugar, and a dessert spoonful of orange flower water 
or just enough to flavor it to your taste 

Before beating the eggs have ready a' round tin, well greased 
all over the inside with fresh butter. 

96 



When you have finished beating the six yolks, mix them 
very thickly with the whites, lest the snow should turn that is, 
melt into water; put it then into the buttered tin, and place 
it in the oven; it will be so thick, if it is well and skillfully 
mixed, that there will be no fear of its running over; watch it 
well, glancing at it from time to time through a little opening 
of the oven door, to see how it is going on; as soon as it has 
risen very high, and is of a golden color, take it out of the oven. 

Do not suffer the omelet souffle to remain long in the oven; 
if it is not watched it will fall in and become a mere galette; 
let the oven be of a very gentle heat, or the bottom of the ome- 
let will be burned before the ton is done. 

Before putting the tin in the oven you may powder the 
snow with fine sugar; it crystallizes and has a very pretty 
effect; as soon as the omelet is done it must be sent to the 
table; if it waits for longer than ten minutes it falls in; the 
eggs should be beaten with a fork or a little whisk. 

If this souffle is liked more solid, add to the yolks of the 
eggs when beaten two dessert spoonfuls of rice boiled in milk 
and flavored with vanila; in this case do not put in the orange 
flower flavoring; the rice must be very well cooked, and well 
sweetened before it is added to the eggs. 

Friar's Omelet. 

Boil eight or nine large apples to a pulp, stir in two ounces 
of butter, and add pounded sugar to taste; when cold add an 
egg well beaten up; then butter the bottom of a deep baking 
dish, and the sides also; thickly strew crumbs of bread, so 
as to stick all over the bottom and sides; put in the mixture and 
strew bread crumbs plentifully over the top; put it into a 
moderate oven, and when baked turn it out, and put powdered 
sugar over it. 

Orange Souffle. 

Slice five oranges, and pour over them a cold custard made 
of one pint of milk, the yolks of five eggs, sweetened to taste; 
beat the whites of eggs to a froth, and brown carefully. 

DAINTY DESSERTS FOR DAINTY PEOPLE. 

Lemon Custard. 

Take half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, 
the peel of one pared very thin, boiled tender and rubbed through 
a sieve, and a pint of white wine; let all boil for a quarter of 
an hour, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor and 

97 



set them to cool; pour the rest into the dish you intend for it; 
beat the yolks of the eggs and the whites and mix them with 
the cool liquor; strain them into your dish, stir them well up to- 
gether, and set them on a slow fire in boiling water; when done, 
grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and brown it over with 
a salamander; this custard may be eaten either hot or cold. 

Plain Boiled Custard. 

Time, about twenty minutes to infuse the peel, ten or 
fifteen minutes to stir the custard. Pour a quart of milk into 
a delicately clean saucepan with three laurel leaves and the 
peel of a lemon, set it by the side of the fire for about twenty 
minutes, and when on the point of boiling strain it into a basin 
to cool; then stir in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and the 
ten eggs well beaten, -again strain it into a jug, which place in 
a deep saucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until it 
thickens; then pour it into a glass dish or into custard cups. 

Blancmange. 

Time, fifteen minutes. Put into a delicately clean stewpan 
one ounce isinglass or gelatine, two ounces of sweet and bitter 
almonds blanched and pounded, one pint and a half of new 
milk, and pint of cream, the lemon juice and the peel grated, 
with loaf sugar to taste; set the stewpan over a clear fire, and 
stir it till the isinglass is dissolved, then take it off and continue 
stirring it till nearly cold before putting it into the mold; this 
quantity will fill a quart mold, but if you wish to make it in a 
small shape you must not put more than a pint of milk and 
half a pint of cream; color the top ornament with cochineal, 
and let it get cold before you add the rest of the blanchmange. 

Cheap Blancmange. 

Time, fifteen minutes altogether. Pour two spoonfuls of 
boiling water over an ounce of isinglass, take a quarter of a 
pound of sugar, rub part of it on the lemon, and when the flavor 
and color are well extracted, put it with the remainder of the 
sugar into a stewpan with a quart of milk and a stick of cinna- 
mon; let it all simmer until the sugar and isinglass are dis- 
solved; then strain it through muslin into a jug, add the vanilla 
flavoring, strain it again, and then pour it into a china mold 
and let it stand all night in a very cold place. 

Milan Souffle. 

Take four lemons, rub the peel on the sugar, put to it the 
yolks of six eggs made into a custard and the juice of the 

98 



lemons; let it stand till cold, then add nearly half a pint of 
whipped cream and an ounce of isinglass; the whites of the 
eggs to be well whipped to a strong froth, and put round it 
with the whipped cream when cold. 

New Jersey Blanchange. 

In three pints of sweetened cream, or milk, put one ounce 
of Russia isinglass and a little salt; place it over the fire and 
stir in the isinglass until dissolved; then boil it well; it will not 
taste so rich if only scalded; flavor and strain into a pitcher, 
stand the pitcher where it will keep hot and all the sediment will 
settle; pour carefully into forms that the sediment may not 
darken the ornaments; if peach water or almond is used for 
flavoring, put it in after boiling; the peel of a lemon and stick 
cinnamon boiled together in milk is very pleasant. 

CREAMS. 
Stone Cream. 

One pot of preserved apricots or plums, half an ounce of 
isinglass, one pint of cream, one lemon, two teaspoonfuls of 
crushed white sugar (more or less, to taste) ; take a glass dish 
and line it at the bottom about an inch thick with preserved 
plums or jam; dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little 
water, strain it, add to it a pint of thick cream, the peel of the 
lemon grated, enough sugar to make it pleasant to your taste; 
let it boil one minute, then put it into a jug that has a spout; 
when it is nearly cold but not quite set, squeeze into it the 
juice of the lemon (or rather, squeeze the lemon in a cup 
and add it to the cream, lest a pip should fall into the jug) ; 
pour it into the dish from a jug with a spout over the sweet- 
meat, and let it stand all night; place on the top a few ratafias. 

Velvet Cream. 

Put one ounce of isinglass into a stewpan with a large cup- 
ful of white wine, the juice of a large lemon, and sufficient 
sugar to sweeten it rubbed on the peel to extract the color and 
flavor; stir it over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved, and 
then strain it to get cold; then mix with it the cream and 
pour into a mold. 

Coffee Cream. 

Put three-quarters of a pint of boiled milk into a stewpan, 
with a large cupful of made coffee, and add the yolks of eight 

99 



well-beaten eggs and four ounces of pounded loaf sugar; stir the 
whole briskly over a clear fire until it begins to thicken, take 
it off the fire, stir it for a minute or two longer and strain it 
through a sieve on the two ounces of gelatine; mix it thoroughly 
together and when the gelatine is dissolved, pour the cream 
into a mold, previously dipped into cold water, and set the 
mold on rough ice to set. 

Lemon Cream. 

Pare into a pint of water the peels of three large lemons; 
let it stand four or five hours; then take them out and put 
to the water the juice of four lemons and six ounces of fine 
loaf sugar; beat the whites of six eggs and mix it all together, 
strain it through a lawn sieve, set it over a slow fire, stir it one 
way until as thick as good cream; then take it off the fire and 
stir it until cold, and put it into a glass dish. Orange cream 
may be made in the same way, adding the yolks of three eggs. 

Raspberry Cream Without Cream. 

Pound and sift a quarter of a pound of sugar, mix with it 
a quarter of a pound of raspberry jam or jelly, and the whites 
of four eggs; all to be beaten together for one hour, and then 
put in lumps in a glass dish. 

Bavarian Cream. 

Dissolve half a package of gelatine in one quart of boiling 
milk; stir until it is dissolved, then add a pint of cream, and 
sweeten to taste; add three tablespoonfuls of extract of vanilla; 
let it cool a little, stirring it occasionally; then put it into cus- 
tard cups, or in a mold, and leave it in a cold place till ready 
to use. 

American Cream. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, half a box of gelatine, one and 
a half teaspoonfuls of vanilla; soak the gelatine in a little cold 
water twenty minutes; bfat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar 
together, let the milk come to a boil, then stir in the sugar and 
the yolks, then the gelatine, then the whites of the eggs (having 
been beaten to a foam) ; gently stir all together, add the flavor- 
ing, and pour into a mold to cool. 

JELLIES, SWEET DISHES, RELISHES, ETC. 

The Foundation of all Jelly. 

Take a packet of gelatine, dissolve it in half a pint of cold 
water, and then add a pint of hot water, the peel of five lemons 

100 



without the pith, a small stick of cinnamon, the cloves, the 
juice of the lemons, the sherry and the loaf sugar; when done 
clarify it with the shells and whites of five eggs. 

If you wish to ma'kp any other kind of jelly, omit the sherry 
and add for instance, orange juice for orange jelly, or the juice 
of strawberries, cherries, pineapple, or any other fruit; the jelly 
takes its name from its flavoring; no jelly of several colors 
should be set warm, as the different colors run and weaken 
it extremely. 

Calves' Feet Jelly. 

Time, to boil the feet until reduced to one quart; to reboil 
the jelly, a quarter of an hour. Cut two feet in small pieces 
after they have been well cleaned and the hair taken off; stew 
them very gently in two quarts of water till it is reduced to 
one quart; when cold take off the fat and remove the jelly from 
the sediment; put it into a saucepan with half a pound of loaf 
sugar, a pint of white wine, a wineglass of brandy in it, four 
lemons with the peel rubbed on the sugar, the whites of four 
eggs well beaten and their shells broken; put the saucepan on 
the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm; let it 
boil a quarter of an hour after it rises to a head, then cover it 
close, and let it stand about half an hour; after which pour it 
through a jelly bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent 
waste, and squeezing it quite dry; pour the jelly through until 
clear, then put it into the mold. 

Jelly From Cow Heels. 

Time, to boil the cowheels seven hours, or until reduced to 
three pints; boil five minutes after the wine is added. Put 
two thoroughly clean cowheels into a stewpan with a gallon of 
spring water, and let it boil until reduced to three pints; when 
cold skim off the cake of fat and take the jelly carefully from 
the sediment at the bottom, put the jelly into a stewpan with 
one pint of white wine, half a pound of loaf sugar, and the 
juice of five lemons; beat up the whites of six eggs, throw them 
into the jelly, stir it all together, and let it boil five minutes; 
then pour it into a jelly bag and let it run on the peels of four 
lemons placed in the basin the jelly runs into, as the peel will 
give a fine flavor and color; if not perfectly clear, run it 
through again; pour into a mold, and turn it out the next day. 

Apple Jelly. 

Take some ripe apples, fine-flavored and juicy, pare and 
cut them in quarters, put them in water as you cut them, or 

101 



they will turn black; when all are cut put them in a preserving 
kettle, and pour over them a little water; let them cook until 
they are quite soft, then strain through a flannel bag; boil the 
juice with an equal weight of sugar until it will jell (you can 
test it by placing a little on a plate), and pour it, while hot, 
into the jelly molds or jars. Golden pippin apples make the 
finest jelly; if wanted for immediate use only you can use less 
sugar. 

Currant Jelly. 

Mash the currants well to expel the Juice; strain through 
a cloth, and to every pint of juice allow a pound of sugar; put 
the sugar in the preserving pan and add a very little water; 
heat gradually and boil it ten minutes, stirring constantly; skim 
the sugar and add the currant juice; let the sugar and currant 
juice cook ten minutes after they begin to boil; skim well and 
pour at once into glasses or jars. 

Grape Jelly. 

Take grapes before they are fully ripe and boil them gently 
with a very little water; then strain and proceed as with cur- 
rant jelly. Wild grapes will not make as firm a jelly as culti- 
vated ones. 

Wine Jelly. 

To one and a half boxes gelatine, one pint cold water, juice 
of three lemons, grated rind of two; let stand an hour, then 
add two pounds of loaf sugar, three pints boiling water; boil 
five minutes; just before straining in flannel bag stir in one 
pint sherry wine, six tablespoonfuls of best brandy. 

Swedish Jelly. 

Cover a knuckle of veal with water, add a small onion and 
a carrot, and let it boil until the meat is ready to fall off the 
bone; take the meat, hash it fine and return it to the liquor 
after it is strained, and give it another boil until it jellies; add 
salt, pepper, the juice and rind of a lemon cut fine, then pour 
it into a form; put it in a cold place. It makes a nice dish for 
lunch or tea. If the knuckle of veal is large, use three quarts 
of water; if small, two quarts, and let it boil slowly three or 
four hours, or until it is reduced to about half the quantity of 
water put in. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

To make two quarts, take a two-ounce package of the gela- 
tine and soak for one hour in a pint of cold water, add to this 

102 



one pound and a half of sugar, the juice of four lemons, some 
orange peel, stick cinnamon or other flavoring; when the gela- 
tine is thoroughly soaked pour on three pints of boiling water 
and strain immediately through a jelly bag or coarse toweling; 
next pour into molds and set aside to cool; in .varm weather 
use a little more gelatine. 

Gateau de Pommes. 

Boil one pound of sugar in a pint of water until the water 
has evaporated, then add two pounds of apples pared and cored, 
the juice of a large lemon, and the peel grated; boil all together 
till quite stiff, then put it into a mold and when cold turn it out 
and serve it with rich custard around it. 

Gooseberry Fool. 

Put two quarts of gooseberries in a stewpan with a quart 
of water; when they begin to turn yellow and swell, drain the 
water from them and press them with the back of a spoon 
through a colander, sweeten them to your taste, and set them to 
cool; put two quarts of milk over the fire beaten up with the 
yolks of four eggs and a little grated nutmeg; stir it over the 
fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off and stir it 
gradually into the cold gooseberries; let it stand until cold 
and serve it. The eggs may be left out and milk only may 
be used. Half this quantity makes a good dishful. 

Rice Snow Balls. 

Time, twenty minutes to boil the rice. Put a quarter of a 
pound of rice into a stewpan with a pint and a half of new 
milk, two ounces of pounded sugar and two ounces of sweet 
almonds blanched and minced fine, and boil it until the rice is 
tender; dip some small cups into cold water, fill them with the 
rice and set them to become cold; turn them out on a dish, ar- 
range a border of preserves or marmalade all round them, and 
pour a little rich cream into the center, if you have it. 

Frosted Pippins. 

Time, half an hour. Divide twelve pippins, take out the 
cores, and place them close together on a tin, with the flat side 
downward. Whisk the white of egg quite firm, spread it over 
them, then strew some lemon peel cut very thin and in shreds, 
and sift double refined sugar over the whole. Bake them half 
an hour, and then place them on a hot dish and serve them 
quickly. 

103 



Rice and Pears. 

Time, one hour and a half. Boil a cup and a half of rice 
in one pint of milk till tender, then put in the cinnamon, sugar 
and nutmeg. Take it up, let it get nearly cold, beat three eggs 
well, and mix them with the rice; butter a mold, put the rice 
in, tie it down tightly in a floured cloth, and let it boil for an 
hour; turn it out, lay round it baked pears. Garnish with 
slices of lemon stuck into the rice. 

Meringues. 

Whisk the whites of four small eggs to a high froth, then 
stir into it half a pound of finely powdered sugar; flavor it with 
vanilla, or lemon essence, and repeat the whisking until it will 
lie in a heap; then lay the mixture in lumps on letter paper, in 
the shape of half an egg, molding it with a spoon, laying each 
about half an inch apart; then place the paper containing the 
meringues on a piece of hard wood, and put them into a quick 
oven; do not close it; watch them, and when they begin to have 
a yellow appearance take them out; remove the paper carefully 
from the wood, and let them cool for two or three minutes; 
then slip a thin-bladed knife very carefully under one, turn it 
into your left hand, take another from the paper in the same 
way, and join the two sides which were next the paper together. 
The soft inside may be taken out with the handle of a small 
spoon, the shells filled with jam, jelly, or cream and then joined 
together as above, cementing them together with some of the 
mixture. 

Rice Meringue. 

Time, twenty minutes. Put a teacupful of rice into half 
a pint of milk, and stand it at the side of the fire to simmer 
until quite soft; then add the yolks of three beaten eggs to the 
rice in the stewpan, and beat the whole up with a teaspoonful 
of fine, moist sugar; then turn it out into the tin that it is to be 
baked in, piling it up high in the center, and spread a thick layer 
of apricot or any other jam over it; whisk the whites of the 
three eggs to a firm froth with a teaspoonful of powdered loaf 
sugar, spread it all over the jam and sprinkle loaf sugar on the 
top of it; then drop a little of the froth about it in different 
shapes; put it into the oven for about twenty minutes, leaving 
the door open. Raspberry, strawberry or currant jam may 
be used. 

Curd for Cheesecakes. 

Boil one quart of water in a stewpan; beat two eggs and 
mix them with a quart of new milk; then add them to the 

104 



water, with two spoonfuls of lemon juice of good vinegar; when 
the curd rises lay it on a sieve to drain. 

Cheesecakes. 

Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Beat half a pint of good 
curd with four eggs, three spoonfuls of rich cream, a quarter of 
a nutmeg grated, a spoonful of ratafia, and a quarter of a 
pound of currants washed and dried; mix all well together and 
bake in patty-pans lined with a good puff-paste. 

Lemon Cheesecakes. 

Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. Just warm a quarter of 
a pound of butter, stir into it a quarter of a pound of sugar 
pounded fine, and when dissolved mix with it the peel of two 
lemons grated and the juice of one strained; mix all well to- 
gether, and pour it into patty-pans lined with puff-paste. Put a 
few blanched almonds on the top of each. 

Macaroni as Usually Served. 

Time, to boil the macaroni, half an hour; to brown it, six 
or seven minutes. Take half a pound of pipe macaroni, seven 
ounces of cheese, four ounces of butter, one pint of new milk, 
one quart of water and some bread crumbs. Flavor the milk 
and water with a pinch of salt, set it over the fire, and when 
boiling drop in the macaroni; when tender, drain it from the 
milk and water, put it into a deep dish, sprinkle some of the 
grated cheese amongst it, with part of the butter broken into 
small pieces, place a layer of grated cheese over the top, and 
cover the whole with fine bread crumbs, pouring the remainder 
of the butter lightly warmed over the crumbs; brown the top 
of the macaroni with a salamander, or before the fire, turning 
it several times that it may be nicely browned; serve it quickly, 
and as hot as possible. 

Ramaklns. 

Mix a teaspoonful of flour with two ounces of grated cheese, 
two ounces of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream, and 
two well-beaten eggs; stir all well together and bake it in small 
tins. You may add a little cayenne pepper if you please. 

Toasted Cheese. 

Cut equal quantities of cheese, and having pared it into 
extremely small pieces, place it in a pan with a little milk, and 
a small slice of butter; stir it over a slow fire until melted and 

105 



quite smooth; take it off the fire quickly, mix the yolk of an 
egg with it, and brown it in a toaster before the fire. 

Welsh Rarebit. 

Time, ten minutes. Take half a pound of cheese, three 
tablespoonfuls of ale, a 1 thin slice of toast; grate the cheese fine, 
put it to the ale, and work it in a small saucepan over a slow 
fire till it is melted; spread it on toast, and send it up boiling 
hot. 

Stewed Apples and Rice. 

Peel good baking apples, take out the cores with a scoop 
so as not to injure the shape of the apples; put them in a deep 
baking dish and pour over them a syrup made by boiling sugar 
in the proportion of one pound to a pint of water; put a little 
piece of shred lemon inside each apple and let them bake very 
slowly until done, but not in the least broken. If the syrup 
is thin, boil it until it is thick enough; take out the lemon peel 
and put a little jam inside each apple, and between them little 
heaps of well boiled rice. This dish may be served either hot 
or cold. 

BAKING BISCUITS AND CAKES. 
General Directions. 

An oven to bake well should have a regular heat throughout, 
but particularly at the bottom, without which bread or cakes 
will not rise or bake well. An earthen basin is best for beating 
eggs or cake mixture. Cake should be beaten with a wooden 
spoon or spatula; butter may be beaten with the same. Eggs 
should be beaten with rods or a broad fork, a silver fork, or 
one made of iron wire, is best, as it is broadest. Eggs should 
be clear and fresh for a cake. 

It is well, as a general rule in cake making, to beat the 
butter and sugar (which must be made fine), to a light cream; 
indeed, in the making of pound cake the lightness of the cake 
depends as much upon this as upon the eggs being well beaten; 
then beat the eggs and put them to the butter, and gradually 
add the flour and other ingredients, beating it all the time. 

In common cakes, where only a few eggs are used, beat them 
until you can take a spoonful up clear from the strings. 

In receipts in which milk is used as one ingredient, either 
sweet or sour may be used, but not a mixture of both. Sour 
milk makes a spongy, light cake; sweet milk makes a cake 
which cuts like pound cake. 

106 



To blanch almonds, pour boiling water on them, and let 
them remain in it until their skins may be taken off; then throw 
the almonds into cold water to whiten them, drain them from 
the water, but do not wipe them; the moisture will prevent 
their oiling. 

In making cakes, if you wish them to be pleasing to the 
palate, use double-refined sugar, although light brown sugar 
makes a very good cake. For icing cakes, the sugar must be 
rolled and sifted, or pounded in a mortar. 

To ascertain whether a cake is baked enough, if a small 
one, take a very fine splint of wood and run it through the 
thickest part; if not done enough, some of the dough or un- 
baked cake will be found sticking to it; if done, it will come 
out clean. If the cake is large, pass a small knife blade through 
it instead of the splint. Cakes to be kept fresh should be placed 
in a tin box, tightly covered, in a cool, dark place. 

Icing for Cakes. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a high froth, then add to 
them a quarter of a pound of white sugar, pounded and sifted, 
flavor it with vanilla or lemon, and beat it until it is light and 
very white, but not quite so stiff as meringue mixture. The 
longer it is beaten the more firm it will become. Beat it until 
it may be spread smoothly on the cake. 

Feather Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, three eggs beaten separately, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar. Flavor with the 
rind of a fresh lemon. Bake in jelly tins. It is also nice if 
baked in a loaf and frosted. 

Jelly Cake. 

Beat three eggs well, the whites and yolks separately; take 
a cup of fine white sugar and beat that in well with the yolks, and 
a cupful of sifted flour stirred in gently; then stir in the whites, 
a little at a time, a teaspoonful of baking powder and one table- 
spoonful of milk, pour it in three jelly cake plates, and bake 
from five to ten minutes in a well heated oven, and when cold 
spread with currant jelly, and place each layer on top of the 
other and sift powdered sugar on the top. 

French Loaf Cake. 

Two cups of white sugar, one scant cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, three heaping cups of flour, three eggs, two teaspoon- 

107 



fuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda. Put sugar, butter, 
eggs (not previously beaten), soda and cream of tartar all to- 
gether, beat to a froth; add the milk, beating well, flavor with 
lemon extract, add the flour gradually, pour into a cake tin 
lined with buttered paper, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over 
the cake before baking. It is well to cover it when first put- 
ting in the oven, in order not to harden the top too soon. 

Marble Cake. 

White Part. Whites of four eggs, one cup white sugar, half 
cup of butter, half cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of vanilla or lemons and two and a 
half cups of sifted flour. 

Black Part. Yolks of four eggs, one cup brown sugar, half 
cup molasses, half cup butter, half cup sour milk, 'one teaspoon- 
ful soda and one and a half cups sifted flour. Put it in the 
cake dish alternately, first one part and then the other. The 
tin should be lined with buttered paper. 

Molasses Cake. 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of lard, three-quarters 
of a cupful of water, one tablespoonful of ginger, three tea- 
spoonfuls of saleratus dissolved, flour enough to make it stiff 
as pound cake dough. 

New Year's Cake. 

One pound butter, one and a half pounds sugar, three 
pounds flour, two tablespoonfuls carraway seed, half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, dissolved in a cupful of milk. Cut long and print, 
or cut as cookies. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Four cups of flour, three of sugar, one cup of milk, five 
eggs, beaten separately (save the whites of three for icing), 
one cup of butter, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, the half of a cocoanut grated and put into 
the cake, the other half put with the whites of three eggs and 
half a cup of powdered sugar, with a little orange water or 
lemon juice for the icing; bake the cake in jelly pans; when done 
spread the icing between and on top; put in the oven for a few 
minutes. 

Rich Plum Cake. 

Quarter peck finest flour, one pound loaf sugar, three pounds 
of currants, one pound of raisins, chopped, one-quarter ounce 

108 



of mace and cloves, a grated nutmeg, peel of a lemon cut fine, 
half a pound of blanched almonds beaten with rose or orange 
flower water; mix thoroughly, then melt two pounds of butter 
in rather more than a pint of cream, put to it a pint of sherry, 
a glass of brandy, twelve eggs, yolks and white beaten apart, 
and half a pint of yeast; strain this into the dry ingredients, 
beat a full hour, butter your hoop, throw in plenty chips of 
citron, lemon and orange candy, as you put in your batter; bake 
moderately quickly. 

Cream Cakes. 

Boil together half a pint of water and two-thirds of a cup 
of butter; while boiling stir in one and a half cups of flour 
thoroughly; let it then cool sufficiently, not to cook the eggs, 
five of which are to be well beaten, and the whole mixed to- 
gether; drop on tins a spoonful in a place, and bake in a very 
hot oven, twenty or thirty minutes. It will make two dozen. For 
the cream boil a pint of new milk, stirring in, beaten together, 
two eggs with one cup of sugar, and not quite a cup of flour; 
boil a little, stirring briskly; when cool flavor with lemon; open 
the cakes at the side with a sharp knife and pour in the cream. 

White Mountain Cake. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, half pound butter, six 
eggs, one large cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 
one of soda, juice of a lemon. Beat yolks and whites together 
first, then the sugar, beat the butter in a separate dish and then 
add to the other. Take the milk, divide, and put soda in one-half 
and cream of tartar in the other; just before you put in the 
oven put both milks together. Bake one hour; mix the flour 
in after the butter. 

Cocoa Cookies. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, half a grated 
cocoanut, with flour; roll thin and bake. 

Sour Milk Cake. 

One cup of sour milk, one cup -of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, two cups of flour, one egg, one level teaspoonful of soda, 
half cup of raisins, chopped and spiced to taste. 

Fried Cake. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, half teaspoonful of soda; add spice to suit the 
taste; mix in some flour and fry in lard. 

109 



Jelly Roll. 

. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one cup of flour; pour it 
thin into a baking pan; bake slowly; spread jelly over it and 
roll it up; wrap it in a cloth. 

One-Egg Cake. 

One and one-third cups of flour, one-third cup of sweet milk, 
one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one egg 
and two tablespoonfuls of baking powder. 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup brown sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup each 
butter and lard, one cup cold coffee, two eggs, one tablespoonful 
cinnamon, and one of cloves, one grated nutmeg, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, flour, one pound each of currants and raisins. 

Ginger Cookies. 

One cup of sugar, one cup molasses, one cup of lard, two- 
thirds cup of boiling water, one egg, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, one tablespoonful ginger, one tablespoonful soda, one 
teaspoonful salt. 

Aunt Carrie's Snowflake Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup and a half sugar, half cup butter, half 
cup milk, half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, two cups flour, whites of two eggs, half cup of sugar, 
beaten together. Bake in jelly cake tins, frost each layer and 
sprinkle with grated cocoanut. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

One tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful ginger, one-half 
cup brown sugar, two cups molasses, two cups water or sour 
milk, one and a half teaspoonfuls soda; do not stir very long; 
bake in a moderate oven. 

Molasses Cookies. 

Take two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, two cups of 
butter, four teaspoonfuls of alum, put in two cups of boiling 
water, four' teaspoonfuls of soda and flour enough to roll out. 

Gelatine Frosting. 

One teaspoonful gelatine, two tablespoonfuls of cold water; 
when the gelatine is soft, one tablespoonful of hot water. When 
entirely dissolved, add one cup of powdered sugar, and beat 

110 



it while it is yet warm, until white and light; lemon to taste. 
This frosts one sheet of cake. 

Lemon Cake. 

One cup butter, three cups sugar, four cups flour, one cup 
milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful soda, juice and rind of one 
lemon. 

Newport or Lunch Cake. 

One quart sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar 
mixed through it, one-half cup of sugar, two eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of lard, one cup of sweet milk; lastly dissolve one 
teaspoonful of soda in a little hot water; mix and bake in a 
hot oven from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Scotch Cake. 

Flour, one and a half pounds; powdered sugar, three-fourths 
of a pound; butter, three-fourths of a pound; lard, one-fourth 
of a pound. Warm your flour and sugar together, then whip 
butter and lard to a cream, and mix with the flour and sugar. 
It will be in crumbs which must be pressed together with the 
hands into small cakes and laid on a paper (without buttering) 
on a sheet tin. Sprinkle a few comfits on top before baking. 

Mother's Raised Biscuit. 

Scald one quart of milk; into this, while hot, put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg; when cold, add one egg, a teacupful 
of baker's yeast, or home-made; thicken with sifted flour to a 
batter as thick as muffin batter; let rise, mold, rise again bake 
quickly. 

Fig Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of cold water, with 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it; three cups of raisins, 
chopped fine, cinnamon and nutmeg, four eggs, one pound of 
figs; use the figs whole, covering them well with the cake 
to prevent burning; bake in layers, frosting between each layer. 
Make as stiff as pound cake; cut with a very sharp knife to 
prevent crumbling. This receipt makes two loaves. 

Queen's Cake. 

One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, eight 
eggs, beaten separately, one pound of flour, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, one wineglass of cherry bounce, two 
cups of currants. 

Ill 



Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, whites of three 
eggs, one cup of milk, two and three-fourths cups of flour, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; bake on jelly tins; whites of 
two eggs, well beaten, with not quite a cup of pulverized sugar, 
add six tablespoonfuls of grated German sweet chocolate, and 
two teaspoonfuls of vanilla; spread the cakes. 

Black Cake. 

Two pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins (after wash- 
ing both currants and raisins, when they are dry, dredge with 
flour), one large spoonful of ground cinnamon, one large spoon- 
ful of ground mace, four nutmegs, one gill of molasses, one gill 
of brandy, one gill of rose water, if you choose; sift one pound 
of flour into one pan, and one pound of sugar into another, add 
to the sugar three-quarters of a pound of butter and stir to a 
cream; beat six eggs light and stir into the butter and sugar 
alternately with the flour; then add by degrees fruit, spice 
and liquors, and stir hard; bake in a moderate oven about 
four hours; let it remain in the oven to cool. 

Rice Cake. 

One pound of ground rice, one of sugar, half pound of butter, 
six eggs; flavor with lemon or vanilla, or to suit taste. 

Fruit Cake. 

One cup of molasses, one pound flour, one of sugar, three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, two pounds of seeded raisins, three 
of currants, one of citron, half a pound of blanched almonds, 
half an ounce of mace, one wineglass brandy, ten eggs; cream 
the sugar and butter, add the eggs, beaten separately; stir in the 
flour, brandy, spices and then the fruit. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

One quart of flour, sifted, one teaspoonful of salt, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg; rub it in the flour well; dissolve one teaspoonful of soda 
in a tablespoonful of water, and put the soda water in two cups 
of milk; bake in a quick oven; take three pints of berries, press 
half, and then put the other berries in; save some of the juice, 
and mix some sugar with it; split the cake, butter it, and lay 
the mixture between. Peaches cut up, sugared, and mixed with 
a little cream or milk, or oranges cut up, with sugar, and laid 
between the cake, are also very nice. 

112 



Raised Cake. 

Three cups of new milk, one cup of yeast, two cups of sugar; 
work it into a stiff batter with flour, let it rise over night; in 
the morning put in one and a half cups of butter, one more cup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in milk, put in spices 
and raisins as long as you can stir it with a spoon. 

Cold Water Pound Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, one 
cup of cold water, three pounds of flour, one teaspoonful cream 
of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. 

Orange Cake. 

One cup white sugar, one small half cup butter, two cups 
flour, one-half cup cold water, five eggs Whites of four only, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, juice and rind of one orange; 
bake like jelly cake; frost each layer, make frosting of the re- 
maining white. 

Cornstarch Cake. 

Half pound cornstarch, half pound wheat flour, six eggs, 
half pound butter, one pound sugar, one small cup sweet milk, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Wedding Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, nine eggs, one 
pound of 'flour, three pounds of currants, two pounds of stoned 
raisins, one-half teacup of wine or brandy, from one-half to 
three-quarters pound of citron, one grated nutmeg, some mace 
and cinnamon; rub the butter and sugar together; when light, 
add first the yolks and then the whites of the eggs the yolks 
and whites of the eggs to be beaten separately then put in 
nearly all your flour, keeping out just enough to dust your 
raisins and cement them; cut your citron in such slices as 
you like, and put in as you put the cake in the pan; after 
mixing your fruit in the cake grease a four-quart pan carefully, 
line it with clean straw paper, a little butter on the paper; 
put your cake in and bake, in not too quick an oven, for it 
burns easily. After it is baked take it out of the pan, paper and 
all, and let it cool. The next day, to keep it fresh and moist, 
put it back in the pan, or in a tin cake-box, and keep it tightly 
covered. 

Gingerbread Nuts. 

One pound of sugar, two pounds of molasses, three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, four pounds of flour, four ounces of ginger, 

113 



one ounce of allspice, two spoonfuls of coriander seed, some 
candied orange peel; two spoonfuls of brandy, yolks of four 
eggs. Mix the sugar, molasses and butter, and melt all together; 
then stir in the flour, ground ginger, allspice, coriander seed, and 
the orange peel, cut very small; mix all into a paste with the 
eggs well beaten, and the brandy and make them into nuts or 
cakes. 

Ginger Snaps. 

Work a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of fine 
flour, then mix it with a half pound of molasses, a quarter of 
a pound brown sugar and one tablespoonful each of ginger 
and caraway seeds. Work it all well together, and form it 
into cakes not larger than a crown piece; place them on a 
baking tin in a moderate oven, when they will be dry and crisp. 

Brown Bread Biscuits. 

One pound of coarse graham flour, two ounces of butter 
and a little water. Make the butter and water boiling hot, add 
it to the flour, keeping it very firm. Roll the biscuits out, 
not too thin, and bake them in a rather quick oven. 

Lemon Biscuits. 

Dry well before the fire a pound and a half of flour, rub 
into it a quarter of a pound of butter as fine as possible, mix 
with it a pound and a half of loaf sugar, pounded, and the peel 
of three lemons, chopped very fine. Well beat two eggs, add 
to them the juice of two lemons, and stir thoroughly. Put the 
mixture into the flour, and mix all well together, till you have 
a stiff paste; roll it out to the thickness of a penny piece, and 
divide it into biscuits with a paste cutter; bake them on a tin. 
These biscuits should be kept in a tin box near the fire till 
wanted, as they are apt to give. 

Ginger Biscuits. 

Eight ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, four ounces 
of loaf sugar; yolks of three eggs and some ground ginger. Beat 
the butter to a cream before the fire, add the flour by degrees, 
then the sugar, pounded and sifted and a flavoring to taste of 
ground ginger, and mix the whole with the yolks of three well- 
beaten eggs. When thoroughly mixed, drop the biscuit mix- 
ture on buttered paper, a sufficient distance from each other 
to allow the biscuits to spread, and bake them a light color 
in a rather slow oven. 

114 



Plain Biscuits. 

One pound of flour, half a pint of milk, two ounces and a 
half of fresh butter. Dissolve the butter in the milk made warm, 
but not hot, and stir it into the flour to make a firm paste, 
roll it out thin with a plain tin shape or a tumbler; prick each 
biscuit and bake. 



PRESERVES AND PICKLES. 

Gooseberry Jam. 

Three pounds of loaf sugar, six pounds of rough red goose- 
berries. Pick off the stalks and buds from the gooseberries and 
boil them carefully but quickly for rather more than half an 
hour, stirring continually; then add the sugar pounded fine, and 
boil the jam quickly for half an hour, stirring it all the time 
to prevent its sticking to the preserving pan. When done put 
it into pots, cover it with brandy paper, and secure it closely 
down with paper moistened with the white of an egg. 

To Preserve Cherries. 

One pound of sugar to every pound of cherries; and three 
tablespoonfuls of red currant juice. Lay some pounded sugar 
at the bottom of the preserving pan, and place some cherries 
on it, then another layer of sugar, then of cherries, repeating 
this until all are in, leaving out a little of the sugar to stew 
in as they boil; add three spoonfuls of currant juice to each 
pound of fruit, and set it over a clear fire. Boil them quickly, 
shaking them round frequently to prevent their burning, but 
do not stir them. Take off the scum as it rises, and when 
the syrup is thick and they look clear, put them into pots, and 
when cold, cover them over. 

To Bottle Cherries. 

Have ready some wide mouthed bottles quite clean an'', 
dry; cut each cherry from the stalk into the bottle, be sure 
not to pull them off. To every bottle of cherries put three 
ounces of powdered sugar, then tie them tightly over with 
bladder. After drawing the bread, leave the oven door open. 
About 9 o'clock at night put in the bottles and close the oven 
door. Take them out the first thing in the morning and put 
them in a dry place for use. 

115 



Apple Marmalade. 

Take a peck of apples, full growth, but not the least ripe, 
of all or any sort; quarter them and take out the cores, but 
do not pare them; put them into preserving pan with one 
gallon of water, and let them boil moderately until you think 
the pulp will run, or suffer itself to be squeezed through a 
cheese cloth, only leaving the peels behind. Then to each quart 
of pulp add one pound, good weight, of loaf sugar, either broken 
in small pieces or pounded, and boil it all together for half 
an hour and ten minutes, keeping it stirred; then put it into 
pots, the larger the better, as it keeps longer in a large body. 

Rules to be Observed in Pickling. 

Procure always the best vinegar. The success of your 
pickles depends on the goodness of your vinegar. Use glass 
bottles for your pickles; if earthen jars, they must be unglazed, 
as the vinegar acting upon the glaze produces a mineral poison. 
Use saucepans lined with earthenware, or stone pipkins to boil 
your vinegar in. If you are compelled to use tin, do not let your 
vinegar remain in one moment longer than actually necessary. 
Employ also wooden knives and forks in the preparation of your 
pickles. Fill the jars three parts full with the articles to be 
pickled, and then fill the bottle or jar with vinegar. When 
greening, keep the pickles covered down, as the evaporation of 
the steam will injure the color. . A little nut of alum may be 
added to crisp pickles, but it should be very small in proportion 
to the quantity or it will give a disagreeable flavor. 

To Pickle Mushrooms. 

Gather some mushroom buttons, wipe them very clean with 
a piece of flannel dipped in vinegar, then put them into an 
iron saucepan with pepper, salt, two or three cloves and a very 
little mace pounded; let them stew over the fire, and after 
they have produced a great deal of liquor, let them stand by 
the fire until they have consumed all that liquor up again; but 
the saucepan must be shaken now and then to prevent their 
sticking to the bottom. Put them into large nosed bottles, and 
pour cold vinegar that has been boiled over them, and then cork 
them up. They will keep for seven years. If the vinegar should 
dry away, add a little more. Should they be wanted to put 
over a broiled fowl or veal cutlets, take a few out of the bottle 
and pour some boiling water over them to take off the sourness, 
then put them immediately over the cutlets. 

116 



To Pickle Onions. 

Take some nice onions, peel and throw them into a stew- 
pan of boiling water; set them over the fire, and let them re- 
main until quite clear; then take them out quickly, and lay them 
between two cloths to dry. Boil some vinegar with the ginger 
and whole pepper, and when cold pour it over the onions in glass 
jars, and tie them closely over. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Nine pounds peaches, three pounds sugar, three quarts good 
cider vinegar. Peel the peaches, put two cloves in each peach, 
then put them with the sugar and vinegar in a porcelain 
lined kettle; cook from five to ten minutes. Add a little whole 
allspice. 

Sweet Tomato Pickles. 

Eight pounds peeled tomatoes, four of powdered sugar, cin- 
namon, cloves and allspice, each one ounce. Boil one hour, and 
then add a quart of boiling vinegar. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

To a gallon of water add a quart of salt, put in the cucum- 
bers, and let them stay over night. In the morning wash them 
out of the brine and put them carefully into a stone jar. Boil 
a gallon of vinegar, put it in while cold, quarter of a pound 
of cloves, and a tablespoonful of alum; when it boils hard skim 
it well and turn over the cucumbers. In a week they will be 
fit for use. 

Green Pickles for Daily Use. 

A gallon of vinegar, three-quarters of a pound of salt, quarter 
pound of ginger, an ounce of mace, quarter ounce of cayenne 
pepper, and an ounce of mustard seed, simmered in vinegar, and 
when cold put in a jar. You may throw in fresh vegetables when 
you choose. 

Tomato Soy. 

To one peck of grene tomatoes, sliced thin, add one pint of 
salt; stand twenty-four hours; strain, and put on the fire with 
twelve raw onions, an ounce of black pepper, one ounce of all- 
spice, quarter of a pound of ground mustard, half a pound of 
white mustard seed, and a little cayenne pepper. Cover with 
vinegar and boil till as thick as jam, stirring occasionally with 
a wooden spoon, to prevent burning. 

117 



Mock Capers. 

Take green nasturium seeds when they are full grown, but 
not yellow; dry for a day in the sun; then put them in jars and 
cover with boiling vinegar, spiced, and when cool cork closely. 
Fit for use in six weeks. 

Pepper Catsup. 

Fifty pods of large red peppers, with the seeds. Add a 
pint of vinegar, and boil until the pulp will mash through 
a sieve. Add to the pulp a second pint of vinegar, two spoonfuls 
of sugar, cloves, mace spice, onions and salt. Put all in a ket- 
tle, and boil to a proper consistency. 

Pickled Red Cabbage. 

Cut the cabbage in thin slices, spread it on a sieve and 
sprinkle it with salt; let it drain for twenty-four hours, dry it, 
pack it in pickle jars, fill them with cold vinegar, put in spice 
to taste, and tie the jars up firmly. Open the jars in a few days 
and if the cabbage has shrunk, fill up with vinegar. 

Pickled Green Tomatoes. 

Let the tomatoes stand in salt and water for twelve hours. 
Then stick four or five cloves in each one, and pour boiling 
vinegar over them. Place them in a jar and set them in a cool 
place. 

Spiced Currants. 

Five pounds of currants, two pounds sugar, one pint vinegar, 
one tablespoonful each of salt, pepper, cinnamon and cloves, 
mash well together and boil twenty minutes. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Cut the tomatoes in two and boil for half an hour, then 
press through a hair sieve and add spices in the proportion given 
below, after which boil for about three hours over a slow fire. 
Remove from the fire, turn it out, and let it stand till next day, 
when you must add half a pint of vinegar for each peck of 
tomatoes. For every like amount of the vegetable, add, while 
boiling, one-eighth of an ounce of red and one-quarter of an 
ounce of black pepper, half an ounce each of mace, allspice and 
cloves, and two ounces of mustard all finely powdered. Salt 
to suit, and put in a little ginger, and essence of celery, if you 
so desire. Bottle, seal the corks and keep in a dark place. 

Pickled Pears. 

Ten pounds of pears, three pounds of light brown sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, one ounce of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves 

118 



(ground), one-quarter pound of citron; put all in together and 
boil until the pears are tender, skim the pears out and let the 
syrup boil half an hour longer. 

French Mustard. 

Take a quarter of a pound of best yellow mustard, pour 
over it half a pint each of water and vinegar. Add a pinch 
of salt and a piece of calamus root the size of a pea. Put it on 
the fire and when it boils add a tablespoonful of flour, let it boil 
twenty minutes, stirring it constantly. Just before taking it off 
stir in a teaspoonful of sugar or honey. When cool, put it into 
bottles and cork tightly. 

Chow-Chow. 

A peck of tomatoes, two quarts of green peppers, half a 
peck of onions, two cabbages cut as for slaw, and two quarts of 
mustard seed. Have a large firkin, put in a layer of sliced toma- 
toes, then one of onions; next one of peppers, lastly cabbage; 
sprinkle over some of the mustard seed, repeat the layers again 
and so on until you have used up the above quantity. Boil a 
gallon of vinegar with a bit of alum, two ounces of cloves and 
two of allspice tied in a little bag and boiled with the vinegar, 
skim it well and turn into the firkin. Let it stand twenty-four 
hours, then pour the whole into a large kettle and let it boil 
five minutes; turn into the firkin and stand away for future use. 

Preserved Apples. 

Core and pare a dozen good-sized apples, and cut into eighths, 
make a syrup of a pound of sugar to half a pint of water; let it 
boil, and then put in as much apple as can be boiled without 
breaking; remove them carefully when tender; after all are 
done, add a little more sugar, boil a few minutes, flavor with 
lemon and pour over the apples. 

Preserved Pineapple. 

A pound of sugar to a pound of pineapple; put the slices in 
water, and boil a quarter of an hour; then remove them and 
add the sugar to the water; put in the apple and boil fifteen 
minutes. Boil the syrup till thick. 

Apple Jam. 

Core and pare a good quantity of apples, chop them well, al- 
low equal weight of apples and sugar, make a syrup of your 

119 



sugar by adding a little water, boiling and skimming well, then 
throw in some grated lemon peel and a little white ginger with 
the apples; boil until the fruit looks clear. 

Green Gage Jam. 

Rub rips green gages through a sieve, put all the pulp into a 
pan with an equal weight of loaf sugar pounded and sifted. Boil 
the whole till sufficiently thick, and put into pots. 

Preserved Lemon Peel. 

Make a thick syrup of white sugar, chop the lemon peel fine 
and boil it in the syrup ten minutes; put in glass tumblers and 
paste paper over. A teaspoonful of this makes a loaf of cake, 
or a dish of sauce nice. 

To Crystalize Fruit. 

Pick out the finest of any kind of fruit, leave on their stalks, 
beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, lay the fruit in the 
beaten egg with the stalks upward, drain them and beat the part 
that drips off again, select them out one by one and dip them 
into a cup of finely powdered sugar, cover a pan with a sheet of 
fine paper, place the fruit inside of it and put it in an over that 
is cooling; when the icing on the fruit becomes firm pile them 
on a dish and set them in a cool place. 

Preserved Tomatoes. 

A pound of sugar to a pound of tomatoes. Take six pounds 
of each; the peel and puice of four lemons and a quarter of a 
pound of ginger tied up in a bag; put on the side of the range 
and boil slowly for three hours. 

Cider Apple Sauce. 

Take a porcelain lined kettle, fill it with rich, sweet cider, 
boil more than half way, then empty into stone pot. Have ready 
sweet apples, pared and quartered, fill the kettle with them, pour 
on part of the cider, cover and let them stew until the apples are 
done, add the rest of the cider and a little sugar, and stir until 
quite thick. It is better to boil it several hours, as the longer 
it is boiled the longer it can be kept; while boiling add spice to 
taste. 

Preserved Strawberries. 

Pick off all the stems, and to very quart of fruit add a quart 
of sugar; mix well with the sugar and put them over a slow fire 

120 



till the syrup commences to form, then put them over a hot fire 
and let them boil quickly for fifteen minutes, skimming it well. 
Put them boiling hot into stone jars, seal up tightly. 

To Preserve Green Gooseberries Whole. 
To one pound of gooseberries allow one pound and a half of 
double refined sugar, and one pint and a half of water. Pick off 
the black eye, but not the stalk, from the largest green goose- 
berries you can procure, and set them over the fire to scald, 
taking care they do not boil. When they are tender, take them 
out, and put them into cold water. Then clarify a pound and a 
half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, and when the syrup is 
cold put the gooseberries singly into your preserving pan, add 
the syrup, and set them over a gentle fire. Let them boil 
slowly, but not quick enough to break them. When you perceive 
the sugar has entered them, take them off, cover them with white 
paper and let them stand all night. The next day take out the 
fruit and boil the syrup until it begins to be ropy. Skim it well, 
add it to the gooseberries, and set them over a slow fire to sim- 
mer till the syrup is thick. Then take them out. Set them to 
cool, and put them with the syrup into pots. Cover them over, 
and keep them in a dray place. 

Strawberry Jam. 

To six pounds of strawberries allow three pounds of sugar. 
Procure some fine scarlet strawberries, strip off the stalks and 
put them into preserving pan over a moderate fire, boil them for 
half an hour, keeping them constantly stirred. Break the sugar 
into small pieces and mix them with the strawberries after they 
have been removed from the fire. Then place it again over the 
fire, and boil it for another half an hour very quickly. Put it 
into pots, and when cold cover it over with brandy papers and 
a piece of paper moistened with the white of an egg over the 
tops. 

Raspberry Jam. 

To every pound of raspberries use the same weight of 
sugar, but always boil the fruit well before you add the sugar 
to it, as that will make it a better color. Put the fruit in a 
preserving pan, mashing it well with a long wooden spoon. After 
boiling it a few minutes, add the same quantity of sugar as fruit, 
boiling it half an hour, keeping it well stirred. When done, and 
sufficiently reduced, fill the jars, and when cold ocver them over 
with white paper moistened with white of an egg. 

121 



Rhubarb Marmalade. 

To one pound of loaf sugar, one pound and a half of rhubarb 
stalks, peel of half a large lemon, a quarter of an ounce of bitter 
almonds. 

Cut the rhubarb stalks into pieces about two inches long and 
put them into a preserving pan with the loaf sugar broken small, 
the peel of the lemon cut thin, and the almonds blanched and 
divided. Boil the whole well together, put it into pots and 
cover it as directed for other preserves. 

To Preserve Plums. 

To every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar. Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put the fruit 
on a dish with pounded sugar strewed over; the next day put 
them into a preserving pan and let them simmer gently by the 
side of the fire for about thirty minutes, then boil them quickly, 
removing the scum as it rises, and keep them constantly stirred, 
or the jam will stick to the bottom of the pan. Crack the stones 
and add the kernels to the preserve when it boils. 

To Preserve Lettuce Stalks. 

Cut into pieces of about three inches in length some stacks 
of large lettuce, and soak them in cold water for ten minutes, 
washing them very clean. Put a pound and a half of sugar into 
a preserving pan with six pints of water and three large des- 
sertspoonfuls of ground ginger. Set it over a clear fire to boil 
for twenty-five minutes, then pour it into a deep dish to remain 
all night. The next day repeat the boiling for half an hour; do 
this for five or six days, and then drain them free from moisture 
on a sieve reversed. Make a rich syrup of sugar, water, and 
three ounces of whole ginger, just bruised; put the lettuce again 
into a preserving pan, pour the syrup over them, and boil them 
several times until the stalks become clear, taking care the 
syrup is sufficiently strong of the ginger. 

Blackberry Jam. 

Crush a quart of fully ripe blackberries with a pound of the 
best loaf sugar pounded very fine, put it into a preserving pan, 
and set it over a gentle fire until thick, add a glass of brandy, 
and stir it again over the fire for about a quarter of an hour; 
then put it into pots and when cold tie them over. 

Black Currant Jam. 

Gather the currants when they are thoroughly ripe and dry, 
and pick them from the stalks. Bruise them lightly in a large 

122 



bowl, and to every pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound 
of finely beaten loaf sugar; put the sugar and fruit into a pre- 
serving pan and boil them from three-quarters to one hour, 
skimming as the scum rises, and stirring constantly; then put 
the jam into pots, cover them with brandy paper, and tie them 
closely over. 

Black Currant Jelly. 

Gather the currants when ripe, on a dry day, strip them from 
the stalks and put them into an earthen pan or jar, and to 
every five quarts allow a half pint of water; tie the pan over 
and set it in the oven for an hour and a quarter, then squeeze 
out the juice through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of juice 
put a pound of loaf sugar, broken into pieces; boil it for three- 
quarters of an hour, skimming it well; then pour it into small 
pots, and when cold put brandy papers over them and tie them 
closely over. 

Red Currant Jelly. 

Pick the currants from the stalks into a broad earthenware 
pan. To about one gallon of the picked currants put half a 
pound of sifted lump sugar. Put the sugar over the picked cur- 
rants the day before you make the jelly. Set the currants over 
a slow fire to simmer gently for about twenty minutes, the 
slower they simmer the greater quantity of juice they will dis- 
charge. There should be an equal quantity of red and white 
currants. When all the juice is discharged, strain it through 
a hair sieve, and then through a jelly bag while quite hot. Now 
to each quart of juice put one pound of powdered loaf sugar. 
Put it into a preserving pan, and set it over a quick stove to 
boil for twenty minutes. If any scum rises, skim it off. When 
done, put it into small white pots or little glasses, and cover it 
with brandied paper. Tie down. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Take six pounds of oranges; cut the peel so as to make it 
peel off in four pieces. Put all the peels on the fire in a pre- 
serving pan, with a large quantity of water, and boil them for 
two hours, then cut them in very thin slices. While they are 
boiling press the inside of the oranges through a splinter sieve, 
narrow enough to prevent the seeds and skin from going through. 
When this is done, and the peels cut into the thinnest shreds, 
put the whole on a fire in a copper or brass pan, with eight 
pounds of loaf sugar broken small. Boil it all together for ten 
minutes ;it may then be taken off the fire and put into preserv- 
ing jars. 

123 



HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES. 

How to Choose Meat, Fish, Poultry, Etc. 

We advise housewives to market for themselves; but as 
some skill is required in a purchaser (if this duty is to be per- 
formed to advantage), we will endeavor to give directions by 
which inexperienced housewives may be enabled to select good 
articles. 

First in the list comes butcher's meat; of which beef is con- 
sidered the best by most people. An ox should be kept five or six 
years before it is killed; it is then in its prime. Ox-beef is the 
best. It is a fine grained meat; the lean of a bright red color, 
intermingled with grains of fat, when it is well fed and good. 
The fat should be white, not yellow, and the suet also white and 
firm. Beef should never be lean; it is tough and bad unless 
there is a good quantity of fat. Heifer beef is paler than ox beef, 
and closer grained; the fat whiter, and the bones, of course, 
smaller. Bull beef is only described to be avoided. It is dark 
colored and coarse grained; has very little fat, and a strong 
meaty smell about it. 

Of these joints, choose the rib or sirloin for roasting. If you 
purchase ribs of beef, let them be the middle ribs. You may 
have one, two, three or four ribs, as you will; but one rib is 
too thin to be economical, as it dries up in cooking. If, however, 
your family be small, a single rib, with the bones taken out, 
rolled, and stuffed will make a nice little roast. If you buy a 
sirloin, take care to have it cut from the thin end, which has 
a good under cut or fillet, as then, in addition to a roast joint, 
you will have another dish, a fillet of beef, one of the best 
dishes ever served. 

The rump is preferred to the sirloin by epicures, but it is 
too large to be served whole. A sufficiently large joint is cut 
from the thin end to roast. 

For dinner for a large family, where economy is essential, 
the buttock of beef is excellent, and very profitable. It is 
cheaper than the other roasting portions of the ox, has no bones, 
and affords quantities of rich gravy. But it should be hung for 
some time until quite tender. The round, aitchbone and silver- 
side are usually salted and boiled. The neck is used for making 
soup or gravy ask for it as "gravy beef," the thin flank is the 
part to be collared. A "rump steak" is to be ordered for frying, 
etc. A "beefsteak" does for stewing, puddings, pies, etc. The 
inferior and cheaper parts of beef make excellent soup. 

124 



Veal should be small and white, and the kidney well covered 
with fat. The flesh should be dry, closely grained and white; 
if it is moist and clammy it is stale, and not fit for cooking. 

The fillet, loin, shoulder and best end of the neck are the 
roasting joints. The breast is sometimes roasted in very small 
families, but it is usually stewed, as is also the knuckle; or 
the knuckle may be boiled, and served with parsley and butter; 
a calf's head is a delicacy. Calf's feet are also valuable boiled, 
stewed or used for jelly. Veal makes the best stock for rich 
soups and gravies. It is a most useful meat for made dishes 
of all kinds, on account of its delicate flavor. 

Mutton. Wether mutton is best. It may be known by 
its having a knob of fat on the upper part of the leg. It should 
be dark colored and have plenty of fat. The color is important, 
as it is a proof of age, and the older mutton is the better it 
is. All the joints of a sheep may be roasted. The saddle is 
the best. The haunch is next best to the saddle; it is the leg 
and loin undivided. The leg and neck are frequently boiled. The 
leg and loin separated are the best joints after the haunch. 
Chops are cut from the loin; cutlets from the thick end of 
the loin, best end of the neck, or middle of the leg. The leg is 
sometimes cured and smoked as a ham. The breast of mutton 
is often salted and boiled. The scrag end of mutton is very 
good stewed with rice. 

Lamb should be small, of a pale colored red, and fat. 
Lamb is generally roasted. The leg of "house lamb" (which is 
in season just before Christmas) is sometimes boiled and served 
with white sauce. 

Venison. You can tell as to being "high" or not, by running 
a skewer into the shoulder and observing the scent on it when 
withdrawn. The fat should be thick and clean. If the cleft of 
the haunch is smooth and close, the animal is young. 

Pork. The fat of pork should be firm, and the lean white 
and finely grained. The rind or skin thin and smooth. If the 
flesh feels clammy to the touch the pork is bad; if the fat has 
kernels in it the pig has been measly, and the meat should not 
be eaten. Pork should be perfectly sweet to be good, therfore, 
do not hang it long. 

Bacon. If bacon is good the rind is thin, the fat firm and 
pinkish, the lean tender and adhering to the bone. Rusty bacon 
has yellowish streaks in it. 

Hams are tried by sticking a knife or skewer into them up 
to the knuckle, if when drawn out it has a nice smell, the ham is 
good. A bad scent will be perceived if it is tainted. 

125 



The roasting joints of pork are the spare rib, loin and the 
leg, the other joints are salted; the leg may also be cured 
and boiled. The sides or flitches are made into bacon. The leg 
makes a ham. 

Meat should be wiped with a dry cloth as soon as it comes 
from the butcher's flyblows should be cut out, and in loins, the 
long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out as it soon 
taints; the kernels also should be removed from beef. Never re- 
ceive bruised joints. If you wish to keep your meat hanging 
longer than ordinary, dredge it well with pepper. Powdered 
charcoal dusted over it will also prevent its tainting, nay, will 
absolutely remove the taint from meat already gone; we have 
seen a pair of fowls quite green from unavoidable long keeping, 
made fresh and sweet as ever by being sprinkled with pow- 
dered charcoal for an hour before dressing. In hot summers 
it is advisable to keep a lunmp of charcoal in the larder. Meat 
becomes more digestable and tender by hanging, but lamb and 
veal cannot be kept so well as beef and mutton. 
To Choose Poultry and Game. 

Turkey. The cock bird," when young, has a smooth black 
leg with a short spur. The eyes are bright and full, and the 
feet supple, when fresh; the absence of these signs denotes 
age and staleness; the hen may be judged by the same rules. 

Fowls. The young rooster has a smooth leg and a short 
spur, when fresh the vent is close and dark. Hens, when 
young, have smooth legs and combs; when old, these will be 
rough; a good capon has a thick belly and large rump, a poll 
comb and a swelling breast. 

Geese. In young geese the feet and bills will be yellow 
and free from hair. When fresh the feet are pliable; they are 
stiff when stale. 

Ducks may be selected by the same rules. 

Pigeons, when fresh, have supple feet, and the vent will 
be firm; if discolored they are stale. 

Rabbits. When a rabbit is young and fresh, the cleft in 
the lip is narrow, the body stiff, and the claws are smooth and 
sharp; old and stale ones will be the opposite of this. 
To Choose Eggs. 

Shake the eggs; if they are bad they will rattle. But we 
think the best plan is to put them in a basin of water, and see 
if they lie on their side, down in it. If the egg turns upon its 
end it is bad; if it lies obliquely, it is not quite fresh, but may 
do for puddings, etc. 

126 



A happy home, 
A smiling wife, 
A meal cooked right, 
Ah, that is life! 

FOR ADVANCED PUPILS. 
CANDY FOR THE CHILDREN. 

Maple Caramels. 

One pound sugar, one-half pound maple sugar, one-half pint 
rich cream. Heat slowly and when it begins to boil, add two 
tablespoonfuls butter and one-quarter teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tar; cook slowly until it snaps in cold water. Pour on buttered 
tins and mark in squares while warm. 

Ice Cream Taffy. 

Two cups sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, enough water 
to dissolve the sugar. Boil eight minutes. Add one-half tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar and boil seven minutes longer. Take 
from the fire and add one teaspoonful of vanilla extract and 
pull until white. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Take of grated chocolate, milk, sugar, molasses, one cupful 
of each, piece of butter the size of an egg; boil until it drops 
hard; pour on buttered dish and before it cools mark off into 
square blocks. 

Butter Scotch. 

Five tablespoonfuls molasses, four tablespoonfuls sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls water, two tablespoonfuls butter; let boil 
until when dropping a little in cold water it will be brittle. 
Put in a pinch of soda before taking off the stove, pour on 
buttered tins and when cool enough, mark in squares. 

Cocoanut Caramels. 

Two cups sugar, with enough water to boil it. When ready 
to take off the stove, put in one cup of cocoanut, with a piece 
of butter. Flavor with vanilla. 

Chocolate Fudge. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup of milk and butter size of 
a walnut. Put on the stove and when it comes to a boil add 
one square of chocolate, grated. When done remove from fire 
and add one teaspoonful of vanilla and stir with a spoon until 
it thickens. Then pour on buttered tins and when cool enough 
mark in squares. 

127 



THIS IS A JOKE DON'T USE THE RECEIPT. 

Question. 
Dear Editor: How do you make peach marmalade? 

NEWLY WED. 
Answer. 

Peach marmalade: Take four able-bodied peaches, soak in 
vinegar until mellow; then add four ounces of baking powder 
and Worcestershire sauce to taste. Bake over a slow fire until 
thoroughly done. Serve hot with lettuce and bay rum. This is 
original. 



128 



