NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736259 2 






\ 

v 





ADOLPHE MEYER. 



THE POST-GRADUATE 



COOKERY BOOK 



CONSISTING OF 



A large number of special receipts, many of them original, 

which are offered in this form as a supplement 

to existing works on the culinary art 

BY 

ADOLPHE MEYER 

Author of ''Eggs and how to Use Them," etc., and for more than 
ten years Chef of the noted Union Club, Xe\v York 




PUBLISHED BY THE CATERER PUB. Co. 
23 PARK Row, N. Y. 



COPYRIGHT, 1903 
Bv THE CATERER Pun. Co. 



- 



ENEW YC 

PUBL BR^ 



ASTOtt, LENOX AND 
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS, 
R 1904 



> 



INTRODUCTORY 



In presenting "The Post Graduate Cookery Book,' I 
should perhaps explain that my idea has not been to produce 
a book to take the place of existing works of culinary reference 
but, instead, one that shall serve as a sort of supplement to 
other standard volumes. There is much that is new being 
constantly added to culinary knowledge, and in " The Post 
Graduate Cookery Book' I have endeavored to record such 
original, "up-to-date' or especially recherche dishes as have 
seemed to me most likely to be of value to the reader. 

This work, as its title indicates, is addressed primarily to 
those who have graduated in their culinary studies, but 1 have 
endeavored to explain everything so clearly as to make jt 
of almost equal value to those younger and less experienced. 

Yours very sincerely, 

ADOLPHE MEYER. 



INDEX OF CONTENTS 



PAGES 

SOUPS 7 to 48 

HORS D'OEUVRES AND SAVOURIES . . 49 to 53 

SAUCES 54 to 75 

FISH AND SHELLFISH 76 to 1 19 

BEEF, VEAL, MUTTON, LAMB, PORK, VENISON 120 to 150 

POULTRY AND GAME 150 to 1 86 

MISCELLANEOUS ENTREES 186 to 206 

GARNISHINGS 206 to 217 

VEGETABLES 218 to 250 

SALADS 251 to 255 

SWEET DISHES AND DESSERTS 255 to 272 

AUXILIARY RECEIPTS 273 to 282 



SOUPS. 

GRAND BOUILLION GENERAL STOCK. 

Grand Bouillon, or General Stock, is the foundation of all 
meat soups. It is made both into consomme, and for the 
preparation of creams and purees. 

It is of course essential to have a good basis if good results 
are expected. 

To prepare 5 gallons of stock proceed as follows : 

Put into a stock boiler 

10 pounds of lean beef, 
4 pounds of cracked beef bones, 
i knuckle of veal, 
3 pounds of chicken giblets. 

Moisten with 5^ gallons of cold water and set over a slow 
fire. 

When this commences to boil, remove the scum and add I pint 
of cold water, to aid the raising of some more scum. When the 
soup is well cleared, add 3 ounces of salt and the following 
ingredients. 

4 medium carrots, 

1 turnip, 

2 leeks, 

3 onions, 

i handful of soup celery, 

3 cloves. 

Let simmer gently for 4 hours, removing the fat occasionally. 

Strain through a cloth and put aside for further use. 

FOND BLANC DE YEAT- -WHITE VEAL STOCK. 

Proceed as for General Stock, increasing the quantity of veal 
and diminishing the beef. 



FOND BLANC DE YOLAILLE- -WHITE CHICKEN STOCK. 

Proceed as for General Stock, using more chicken, so as to 
accentuate the flavor of the chicken. 



8 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

FOND LIE A POTAGE- -THICKENED SOUP STOCK. 

This stock is generally used for cream soups and other 
(lightly) thickened soups. It is thickened with a roux i. e., the 
same amount each of butter and flour well cooked together 
without browning. It should be moistened with white stock 
and cooked over a slow fire until all impurities have risen to 
the surface. 

* 

BOUILLON DE LUCINES ORANGES- -BROTH OF HARD CLAMS. 

Put the clams on the fire with their own juice and a little 
water ; remove at the first boil, take off the scum and strain. 

BOUILLON DE LUCINES ORANGES ET BOUILLON DE VOLAILLE 

CLAM AND CHICKEN BROTH. 

Clam broth is highly esteemed on account of its invigorating 
action on the nerves of the stomach. Its taste is rather strong 
(especially to delicate persons), but satisfactory results are ob- 
tained by adding one-third of chicken broth to two-thirds of 
clam broth. 

BOUILLON DE LUCTNES ORANGES A LA CREME CLAM BROTH 

WITH CREAM. 

Two-thirds of clam broth, 
One-third of boiled cream. 

BOUILLON DE LUCINES ORANGES, UNCLE SAM- -CLAM 

BROTH, L!NCLE SAM FASHION. 

Serve plain clam broth in cups, adding to each cup a table- 
spoonful of whipped cream. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 9 

CONSOMME. 

Chop fine 3 pounds of lean beef, mix with it 4 egg whites and 

1 pint of cold water, and work it vigorously ; then add slowly 3 
gallons of General Stock, set it over a moderate fire and let 
simmer for I hour and 30 minutes, stirring every once in a 
while, to prevent it from sticking to the bottom ; then strain 
through a fine cloth and season to taste with salt and a pinch 
of sugar. 

NOTE. If the color is too light, add a few drops of Black 
Jack (burned sugar) but use it with discretion. 

CONSOMME DE VOLAILLE CHICKEN CONSOMME. 

Proceed as for ordinary consomme, using white chicken stock 
to moisten the chopped beef. When boiling, add a partially 
roasted fowl. 

CONSOMME DE GIEIER GAME CONSOMME. 

Put into a saucepan 3 pounds of game carcasses, and moisten 
with 2 gallons of General Stock ; add a faggot of herbs, con- 
sisting of parsley roots, i sprig each of thyme and sweet basil, 

2 bay leaves, 4 sage leaves, and I sprig of marjoram ; clarify with 
2 pounds of lean beef. 

XOTE. Care should be taken that the skin of the game is 
discarded before cooking. 



CONSOMME A LA NESSELRODE CONSOMME, NESSELRODE 

STYLE. 

Prepare a custard with I gill of pure of chestnuts, I gill of 
cream, 2 yolks and 2 whole eggs ; season to taste, and cook in 
small buttered timbale moulds in a bain-marie in a slow oven. 

When cold, cut the custard in slices and serve in consomme. 

CONSOMME A LA ROYAL CONSOMME, ROYAL FASHION. 

Beat together 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs with 2 gills of con- 
somme ; season with salt and nutmeg, strain and fill into some 



TO The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

small buttered timbale moulds. Then stand these in a sauce- 
pan with boiling water and cook in the oven from 12 to 15 
minutes. 

When cold, cut in slices or in fancy shapes, and serve in the 
consomme. 

CONSOMME A LA CRECY CONSOMME, CRECY STYLE. 

Prepare custard as described for Nesselrode Consomme, 
using puree of carrots instead of chestnuts. 

CONSOMME A LA CRISTOPHE COLOMBE CONSOMME, CHRIS- 
TOPHER COLUMBUS STYLE. 

Make custard with puree of tomatoes. Slice, when done, and 
serve in consomme with green peas. 

CONSOMME A LA TRIANON--CONSOMME, TRIANON FASHION. 

Add to the consomme three kinds of royal custard yellow, 
red and green (the latter colored with spinach). 

CONSOMME DES EPICURIENS- -TiiE EPICURE'S CONSOMME. 

Serve consomme with poached eggs and on a dish separate 
-some "deviled crusts" (receipt given elsewhere in this book). 

CONSOMME A LA SUEDOISE CONSOMME, SWEDISH FASHION. 

Prepare and cook vegetables as directed for Brunoise Soup. 
Then take some toasted slices of dinner rolls and put on each 
some of the vegetables, sprinkle over some grated Parmesan 
cheese, place a small piece of butter on each, arrange on a bak- 
ing sheet and bake in the oven. 

Serve the crust separate to consomme. 

CONSOMME DES JACOBINS CONSOMME, JACOBIN STYLE. 

Pound in the mortar 4 ounces of lean ham with y* gill of 
well reduced tomato sauce and 2 tablespoonfuls of bechamel 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book, i i 

sauce; rub through a fine sieve, put into a bowl and mix with 
l /2 gill of consomme, 4 egg yolks and i whole egg ; flavor with 
a dash of Madeira, and season with salt, cayenne and grated 
nutmeg. 

Fill some small buttered dariole moulds with this mixture andi 
cook in the oven as you would cook Royal Custard. 

When cold, cut into slices and serve in consomme with green 
peas. 

CONSOMME, PRINTANIER ROYAL SPRING CONSOMME, WITH 

ROYAL CUSTARD. 

Add to the consomme all sorts of green vegetables (cut in 
small pieces or in fancy shapes) cooked in consomme, and some 
Royal Custard cut in fancy shapes. 

CONSOMME, PRINTANIER A LA COLBERT SPRING CONSOMME, 

COLBERT FASHION. 

Prepare a garnishing of green vegetables cooked in con- 
somme. When serving, add one poached egg for each guest. 

CONSOMME A LA FLORENTINE CONSOMME, FLORENTINE 

FASHION. 

Tie 2 sprigs of sweet basil in a clean cloth, put in a saucepan 
with i gallon of boiling consomme, cover the pan tightly and 
stand in the bain-marie for 3 hours ; take out the basil and serve 
the consomme with the following garnishing and grated Par- 
mesan cheese separate : 

Florentine Garnishing. Put into a saucepan i gill of water 
with i ounce of butter and a pinch of salt ; when boiling, add 2 
ounces of flour and stir vigorously to get a smooth paste until it 
detaches from the pan ; take from the range, and after 5 minutes 
mix with 2 eggs (one at a time) and i ounce of grated Parmesan 
cheese. When cold, put the paste into a pastry bag with a tube 
one-quarter of an inch in diameter, and press the contents of the 
bag slowly into a pan of slightly salted boiling water, let cook 
for 5 minutes without boiling, drain and put into the consomme. 



1 2 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CONSOMME A LA DUCLAIR CONSOMME, DUCLAIR STYLE. 

Prepare some thin pancakes ; spread over them a forcemeat 
made with 2 ounces of cooked breast of chicken, 3 boneless 
anchovies and j/2 gill of bechamel ; season to taste and rub 
through a sieve. 

Place one pancake on top of the other and cut them in small 
lozenges. Add these to the consomme only when ready to 
serve. 

CONSOMME A LA MONACO CONSOMME, MONACO STYLE. 

Thicken some chicken consomme with arrowroot, and garnish 
with carrots and turnips scooped out with a small round vege- 
table scoop (the size of large green peas). Cook these vege- 
tables in consomme and add equal parts each of truffles and 
green peas. 

Make some small chicken-quenelles the same size as the rest 
of the garnishing, add these before serving with a good pinch of 
chervil leaves. 

CONSOMME A L'INDIENNE CONSOMME, INDIAN FASHION. 

Clarify I gallon of General Stock with 2 pounds of lean, 
chopped beef, and flavor with a heaping teaspoonful of curry 
powder. Strain and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice 
(separate). 

CONSOMME A LA VOLONTAIRE CONSOMME, VOLUNTEER 

FASHION. 

Garnish the consomme with asparagus tips cut l /> inch long, 
small flowerets of cauliflower and sweet red pepper of about 
the same size as the asparagus. Add some small quenelles made 
of cream chicken forcemeat, and a pinch of chervil before 
serving. 

CONSOMME A LA BOWDOIX- -CONSOMME, BOWDOIN FASHION. 

Garnish a rich chicken consomme with fresh tomatoes (peeled, 
free from seeds, cut in large pieces, and cooked in consomme), 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 13 

green asparagus tips (cut i inch long), red chicken quenelles 
and a pinch of chervil. 

NOTE.- -The red chicken quenelles are prepared by adding 
some thickly reduced tomato sauce to the chicken forcemeat. 



CONSOMME A LA TOSCA CONSOMME, TOSCA STYLE. 

Thicken a strong chicken consomme with sago, and garnish 
with finely shredded truffles, smoked beef tongue and French 
pancakes. 



CONSOMME A LA VIENNOISE CONSOMME, VIENNESE STYLE. 

Work (in a bowl) 4 ounces of butter to cream ; add i egg 
yolk, i tablespoonful of cream and i tablespoonful of sifted 
flour (one after the other) ; keep on adding until 4 egg yolks 
and 4 tablespoon fuls each of cream and flour have been added; 
then whip the 4 whites, add them to the paste, season with salt 
and nutmeg and spread the paste over a buttered sheet of paper 
on a baking sheet ; cook in a slow oven, and when cold, cut in 
small lozenges. Serve separate to consomme. 



CONSOMME A L'INFANTE CONSOMME, INFANTA STYLE. 

Prepare the same paste as described for Florentine Garnish- 
ing. Put the paste in a pastry bag provided with a ^g-inch tube ; 
lay some small heaps of paste on a buttered baking sheet ; brush 
over with beaten egg, and bake in a medium oven. When cold, 
make an incision on the side of the puffs and fill with a puree of 
foie gras ; serve these puffs separate to a rich consomme. 



CONSOMME A LA RETNE CONSOMME, QUEEN FASHION. 

Pound 2 ounces of cooked chicken breast with i ounce of but- 
ter and a tablespoonful of bechamel sauce, season to taste, rub 
through a sieve, and fill puffs made as explained above. Serve 
separate with consomme. 



14 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CONSOMME AUX DIABLOTINS CONSOMME, WITH DEVILED 

CRUSTS. 

Cut a few dinner rolls in slices l / inch thick, put on each slice 
a small piece of butter (the size of a hazelnut), and cover with 
grated Parmesan cheese mixed with plenty of cayenne pepper. 
Put these to bake in a hot oven, and when of a golden hue 
serve separately on a napkin, as an accompaniment to a strong 
consomme. 

CONSOMME A LA SKOBELEFF CONSOMME, SKOBELEFF 

FASHION. 

Infuse in I gill of sherry a pinch each of thyme, marjoram, 
sweet basil and sage ; add the peelings of 3 truffles, 6 tarragon 
leaves and I dozen branches of chervil ; cover the pan well and 
set in the bain-marie for 2 hours. In the meantime, prepare a 
gallon of rich consomme with sago. Strain the infusion through 
a napkin and add it to the consomme. 

Before serving, garnish the consomme with small quenelles 
made with chicken forcemeat, to which one-third part thickly 
reduced tomato sauce has been added. 



CONSOMME A LA COMTESSE CONSOMME, COUNTESS 

FASHION. 

Pound in the mortar 2 ounces of cooked chicken breast with 
3 gills of cream; rub through a sieve, put in a bowl, dilute with 
3 yolks and I whole egg, and season with salt, grated nutmeg 
and 12 drops of essence of almonds. 

Butter some small timbale moulds, fill them with this prepara- 
tion, and cook as custard. When cold, unmold, cut in slices 
and serve with consomme and asparagus tips. 

CONSOMME AU GARBURE DE CHOUX CONSOMME, WITH 

GARBURE OF CABBAGE. 

In bygone days "garbure" was a soup by itself, which again 
was subdivided into different kinds. Modern cookery, however, 



The Post-Graduatc Cookery Book. 15 

has done away with the old-fashioned style of serving, and gives 
"garbure" as a garnishing to consomme. 

The "soupe a 1'oignon gratinee," or baked onion soup, was 
the "onion garbure" of yore. To-day, though, we proceed in a 
more refined manner, thus enabling the "garbure" to be pre- 
pared for fine dinners. 

Take a Savoy cabbage, cut it in four, removing the core ; 
wash well, parboil for 15 minutes, and then refresh with cold 
water. When cold, take it from the water and press firmly, so 
that all the water is extracted, put in a small saucepan, moisten 
with veal stock and 3 tablespoonfuls of goose liver fat or (if 
none of that be at hand) other good fat, cover tightly and cook 
in a slow oven for 3 hours. Next fill the cabbage into silver 
shells, sprinkle with cheese and bake in the oven. 

Cut a few dinner rolls into slices, have them toasted, and 
serve with the cabbage separate to a rich consomme. 

For an American plan dinner, the cabbage can be put on top 
of the sliced and toasted rolls, and then be baked in the oven. 

The following garbures may be prepared according to the 
same principles as the above. 

GARBURE DE LATTUE GARBURE OF LETTUCE. 
GARBURE A LA PAYSANNE GARBURE, PEASANT STYLE. 

Prepare and cook the vegetables as indicated for Peasant 
Soup, and finish as explained above. 



POT-AU-FEU. 

The Pot-au-feu is the family soup of the French people. Rich 
and poor appreciate it alike, and its mere name is sufficient to 
create a sensation of home life and contentedness. 

The Petite Marmite and the Croute-au-pot are, so to say, the 
progeny of the venerable Pot-au-feu, but though the last named 
is more humble in its appearance than its two aristocratic off- 
spring, it is nevertheless a fact that many who are blessed with 
revenues great enough to fare daily on green turtle or the like, 



1 6 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

are satisfied to partake every now and then of the modest 
Pot-au-feu. 

To succeed in making this historical soup it is essential that 
you use an earthen vessel or pot. The general instructions are 
to use i quart of water to each pound of beef, and to use the 
vegetables judiciously, as no one kind should be more prominent 
than the other. If some chicken giblets are on hand, they 
will add to the agreeable flavor of the broth. 

RECEIPT. 

Put 4 pounds of lean beef, a good-sized and well-cracked 
beef bone, and some chicken giblets in an earthen vessel, moisten 
with i gallon of water and set on a slow fire ; when the scum 
rises, remove it and add a gill of cold water to aid the remainder 
of the scum to rise. When the soup boils, and after it is well 
cleared, add the following ingredients : 

Salt, not too much. 

4 medium carrots, 

2 small turnips, 

4 leeks and i head of celery tied together in a bunch, 

2 onions, one stuck with 3 cloves, 

i clove of garlic, 

One-quarter of a small head of cabbage. 

Let the soup simmer for 4 hours. 

Remove the fat from the soup, season to taste and serve with 
sliced, toasted rolls. Add a pinch of chervil before serving. 

If the meat is served as a course, dish it up on a plate and 
surround with the vegetables. 

XOTE. In some places it is customary to cut up or slice the 
vegetables and add them to the soup. 



CROUTE-AU-POT. 

Proceed as for Pot-au-feu, using 2 quarts of water and 3 
quarts of consomme, and adding a partially roasted fowl. 

When the meats and vegetables are cooked, strain the broth 
and cut the vegetables in small pieces and add them to the 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 17 

soup ; season to taste, and before serving, add a good pinch of 
chervil. 

Serve separate crusts prepared as follows : Take two or three 
dinner rolls, cut lengthwise in half, rid of all the soft part, cut 
in pieces I inch square, trim the edges and toast in a slow oven. 

Some cooks dip these crusts in the fat of the broth, but I do 
not recommend the practice. It is better to use butter if you 
wish to dip them. 

PETITE MARMITE. 

The names of this and the two preceding soups are so typi- 
cally French that I have made no attempt to translate them into 
English, fearing to be unable to find the proper equivalent. 
When well prepared, the Petite Marmite surpasses any other 
clear soup, except perhaps green turtle. 

In Europe -the PetiteMarmite (pronounced "petit marmeet") 
is served in different sizes, according to the number of guests. 
It can, however, be served in individual soup pots (one to each 
person). 

RECEIPT. 

Parboil 4 pounds of rump and 2 pounds of plate of beef, i 
marrow bone and I good-sized oxtail cut into joints; cool 
off these meats under running water, so as to have them well 
cleaned from scum and coagulated albumen, put them in an 
earthen vessel holding about 4 gallons, add a partially roasted 
fowl and moisten with 2 gallons of consomme; set on the fire 
to boil, and garnish with 8 ounces of young carrots cut into 
olive shape, 3 ounces of young turnips (of the same shape as 
the carrots), 4 ounces of leeks, 2 ounces of celery, both cut in 
pieces i inch long, and 6 ounces of parboiled cabbage tied to- 
gether with a string; let simmer gently from 2 to 2 l / 2 hours. 

Serve separately, some toast spread with marow, and some 
rolls cut into thin slices and toasted. 

If individual soup pots are used, the meat should be cut into 
small pieces and divided equally among the pots. 



1 8 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

POTAGE JULIENNE- -JULIENNE SOUP. 

To "cut in Julienne'' means to cut in fine shreds. For 
Julienne Soup the vegetables should be from about I to 1^/2 
inches long and ^ inch thick. 

Take 4 red carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, the white part of 3 
leeks, i stalk of celery, a handful of string beans, and 5 or 6 
cabbage leaves. Shred these vegetables finely (as stated above), 
put them into a saucepan with 4 ounces of butter, and be- 
springle liberally with powdered sugar (about I ounce). Cover 
the pan and set it on the range over a slow fire, so as to cook 
the vegetables gently ; stir with a wooden spoon from time to 
time, and when the moisture of the vegetables is evaporated 
moisted with I gallon of consomme ; simmer slowly for 30 
minutes. Five minutes before using, add a good handful of 
cooked green peas, i small head of lettuce and 2 dozen leaves 
of sorrel, both finely shredded ; season to taste, and just before 
serving add a pinch of cut chervil. 



JULIENNE GRENADE GRENADE JULIENNE SOUP. 

Proceed as in the preceding receipt, but ten minutes before 
the soup is ready, add some raw tomatoes peeled, squeezed and 
cut in eight parts (if small ; if large, cut in twelve parts). Cook 
gently, so that the tomatoes will not fall apart.. 

POTAGE FLEURY- -FLEURY SOUP. 

Prepare i gallon of Julienne Soup, and before serving bind it 
with 8 egg yolks, i pint of cream and 3 ounces of butter. Add 
a pinch of chervil and serve with toasted sippets separate. 

POTAGE PAYSAXXE- -PEAS ANT SOUP. 

Cut in thin slices, the size of a 5-cent piece, 3 carrots, 2 tur- 
nips, 2 onions, 3 leeks, 6 cabbage leaves, i celery stalk and I 
head of lettuce. Proceed and finish as for Julienne Soup. 

Serve with sippets of bread i. e., a French roll cut in slices 
and toasted. 



The Post-Graduate Cooker y Book. 19 

POTAGE FERMIERE- -FARMER'S SOUP. 

Same as Peasant's Soup, with the addition of cooked white 
beans and a binding of 4 egg yolks and i pint of cream. 

POTAGE SUISSE Swiss SOUP. 

Same as Peasant's Soup, but before serving bind with I pint 
of cream, 8 egg yolks and 3 ounces of butter. 

Serve separately a plate of grated cheese and toasted sippets 
of bread. 

POTAGE MOGUL MOGUL SOUP. 

One-third Julienne soup, 
One-third puree of tomatoes, 
One-third puree of split peas. 

POTAGE BRUNOISE--BRUNOISE SOUP. 

Use the same vegetables as for Julienne soup, except lettuce 
and sorrel, but cut the vegetables in l / inch squares. 

For cooking, follow the same directions as for Julienne soup. 

Brunoise can be garnished with barley, rice and small chicken 
quenelles. If this is done, it can be so shown on the bill of fare, 
as, for instance : Brunoise with barley, with rice, or with 
quenelles, etc. 

POTAGE PRINTANIER A LA CHIFFONADE CHIFFONADE 

SPRING SOUP. 

Slice very fine 3 onions, and smother them in 4 ounces of but- 
ter ; add the same quantity of flour, stir for 5 minutes con- 
tinuously without letting the flour become brown ; moisten with 
i gallon of chicken or veal stock, let simmer for 30 minutes, 
clear off all fat and scum that may arise, then add (all finely 
shredded as for Julienne soup), i head of lettuce, 3 handfuls of 
sorrel and one of water cress, and i small cucumber (peeled, cut 
lengthwise in four, freed from all seeds, and sliced fine). Cook 
for another half hour, then add 2 handfuls of cooked green peas, 
season with salt, a pinch of sugar and a little grated nutmeg. 

Before serving the soup, bind it with i pint of cream and 6 
egg yolks, and add a pinch of chervil. 



20 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

POTAGE AMBASSADEURS AMBASSADOR'S SOUP. 

Cook 4 ounces of rice in veal or chicken broth. When done, 
add 3 quarts of puree of split peas and l / 2 pint of shredded and 
cooked sorrel. Finish the soup with i quart of boiling cream 
and 4 ounces of butter. 

POTAGE CRESSPNIERE CRESSONIERE SOUP. 

Prepare I gallon of puree of potatoes, add a half peck of 
cleaned watercress, and cook together for 25 minutes. Then 
rub through a fine sieve. Bind with I quart of cream, 8 egg 
yolks and 4 ounces of sweet butter, season to taste and garnish 
with parboiled watercress leaves. 

POTAGE PORTUGAIS- -PORTUGUESE SOUP. 

Chop fine 4 onions, and cook in butter together with 2 ounces 
of salt pork cut into small pieces; add 12 large, ripe tomatoes 
cut in quarters ; cook until they form a puree, and moisten with 
2 quarts of soup stock ; when boiling, add 8 ounces of rice, a 
faggot of herbs, and I clove of garlic. 

Let cook in the over for I hour and 30 minutes, then rub 
through a fine sieve, dilute with sufficient consomme to make 
the soup rather thin, season with salt, cayenne pepper and a 
pinch of sugar, finish with 2 ounces of sweet butter, and serve 
with plain boiled rice separate. 

NOTE. Soups made with rice, barley, or other farinaceous 
substances (as described above) should only be heated, never 
allowed to boil after they have been rubbed through the sieve. 

POTAGE A LA BONNEFEMME- -HOUSEWIFE'S SOUP. 

Cut the white part of 18 leeks lengthwise in half, and then in 
pieces half an inch long, put in a saucepan with 6 ounces of but- 
ter and cook slowly without allowing to brown ; moisten with 
i gallon of white stock, and then add 12 medium-sized potatoes, 
peeled and cut in slices the size of a 5-cent piece ; let simmer for 
three-quarters of an hour. Season to taste, and before serving 
bind with 8 egg yolks, i pint of cream and 4 ounces of butter. 
Add a pinch of chervil and serve with toasted sippets of French 
rolls. 



I The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 2 1 

POTAGE CRITERION- -CRITERION SOUP. 

Prepare I gallon of lightly thickened chicken broth, add to it 
the white parts of 6 leeks and 2 stalks of celery finely shredded 
(about i inch long) and previously smothered in butter. 

Clear the soup of all fat and scum, bind it with I pint of cream 
and 4 egg yolks (well beaten together), and season to taste. 
Before serving, add some shredded chicken breast and a pinch 
of chervil. 

POTAGE A LA D'AUMALE D'AUMALE SOUP. 

One-third tapioca consomme. 
Two-thirds cream of sorrel. 

POTAGE D'ARTOIS D'ARTOIS SOUP, 

1 quart of brunoise soup, 

3 quarts of thick puree of white beans, 

Finish with i pint of cream and 4 ounces of butter. 

POTAGE ANDALOUS ANDALUSIAN SOUP. 

One-third tapioca consomme, 
Two-thirds tomato puree. 

POTAGE CAMELIA CAMELIA SOUP. 

One-third tapioca consomme, 

Two-thirds puree of split peas, 

Garnish with shredded leeks and breast of chicken. 

POTAGE FAUBONNE--FAUBONNE SOUP. 

2 quarts of Julienne soup, 

3 quarts of thick puree of split peas, 

Finish with i pint of cream and 4 ounces of butter. 



22 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

POTAGE FONTANGE FONTANGE SOUP. 

I pint of sorrel, sliced fine and cooked in butter, 

3 quarts of puree of split peas, 
i quart of cream, 

6 egg yolks, 

4 ounces of butter, 

Finish and serve as Sante soup. 

POTAGE LEOPOLD LEOPOLD SOUP. 

i pint of sorrel sliced fine and cooked in butter, 

3 quarts of consomme, with semolina, 
i quart of cream, 

8 egg yolks, 

4 ounces of butter. 

POTAGE LAMBALLE LAMBALLE SOUP, 

One-third tapioca consomme, 

Two-thirds cream of peas or puree of split peas. 

POTAGE LONGCHAMP--LONGCHAMP SOUP. 

3 quarts of split pea puree, 

i quart of vermicelli consomme, 
i pint of cooked sorrel, 
i pint of cream, 

4 ounces of butter. 

POTAGE SANTE SANTE OR HEALTH SOUP. 

i pint of sorrel, sliced fine and cooked in butter, 

3 quarts of potato puree (rather thin). 

Finish with i quart of cream, 6 egg yolks and 4 ounces of 
sweet butter ; add chervil before serving, and give toasted sip- 
pets of bread separate. 

POTAGE SUEDOIS SWEDISH SOUP. 

As Sante Soup, but instead of sorrel use spinach (cut and 
cooked as sorrel). 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 23 



POTAGE VELOURS VELVET SOUP. 



One-third tapioca consomme, 
Two-thirds puree of carrots, 
Finish with I pint of cream. 



THE GREAT AMERICAN TURTLE. 

POTAGE DE TORTUE VERTE AU CLAIRE CLEAR GREEN 

TURTLE SOUP. 

The best and most profitable turtles are those weighing from 
100 to 150 pounds. 

When ready to be decapitated, lay the turtle on its back, cut 
off its head with a sharp strong knife, stand it head downward 
in a tub and make an incision between the hind fins and the 
upper shell, thus allowing the blood to escape more freely. If 
time permits, let the turtle lay in a cool place over night. 

The following morning place the turtle on its back on a table, 
and with a sharp knife cut out the under shell, gradually remov- 
ing all the meat which is attached to it ; then cut off the fins 
and separate them from the fleshy parts to which they are at- 
tached. Detach the intestines and throw them away. 

Divide the shells in four or more pieces, plunge them (as well 
as the fins and the head) into boiling water (for a few moments 
only, but long enough to enable you to remove the horny outer 
skin), and then lay in cold water. 

For a turtle of 100 pounds, have ready the following stock 
(which can be prepared the previous day) : 

STOCK. Put into a stock boiler 25 pounds of shin of beef and 
25 pounds of knuckle of veal; fill with 15 gallons of water, and 
set on the fire. When boiling, remove the scum and add 4 fowls 
partially roasted ; garnish with 5 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, 6 
leeks and 2 stalks of celery tied together, and add also a good 
handful of salt; free the stock from scum and fat occasionally, 
and let simmer for 4 hours ; then strain the broth and put aside 
for further use. 

Place the cleaned turtle shells and fins in a large stock boiler, 
moisten with the stock prepared as above, and place on the fire. 



24 The Post-Graduaic Cookery Booh. - 

When boiling, remove the scum and add the following ingredi- 
ents tied in a cloth : 

2 ounces of sweet basil, 

2 ounces of marjoram, 

i ounce of sage, 

i ounce of thyme, 

18 cloves, 

12 bay leaves, 

The peel of i lemon. 

Let the soup simmer for two or three hours, or until the 
turtle is cooked; then, with the aid of a skimmer, remove the 
turtle meat, put it into a basin of cold water, wash it well to free 
it from all impurities, cut it into i inch square pieces, and lay in 
a cool place for further use. 

Have 10 pounds of lean beef chopped fine, and mix with it 4 
egg whites and i quart of water. Remove all fat from the turtle 
broth, strain it, and add it gradually to the chopped beef ; set on 
the fire to clarify, stirring occasionally to prevent setting on the 
bottom of the pan ; let simmer i hour, and then strain. 

Place the cut turtle meat in a saucepan, add the strained broth, 
set on the range and let boil for 15 minutes. 

The soup needs now but the finishing touch that is, the 
necessary quantity of cayenne and about i quart of good sherry 
(or more, according to taste though too much wine is injurious 
to the flavor). 

In American-plan houses, where a loo-pound turtle has to go 
a good way, an addition of half consomme and half chicken 
broth may be made to the turtle soup ; but it then loses its flavor 
and its rich gelatinous appearance. To remedy this, the soup 
may be thickened with arrowroot diluted with sherry. 

Should all the soup not be used at once, it can be preserved in 
stone jars, covering with melted lard to prevent the contact 
of air. 

In England, more so than in America, it is customary to 
serve with each portion of soup some of the green fat which is 
found chiefly in the sockets of the forefins. If this is desired, 
gather all the green fat, let it soak in cold water for a few hours, 
and 'boil in some of the turtle stock. (If the fat is not well 
soaked, it will be of a fishy flavor.) 

Some cooks like to add sliced lemons to the soup before 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 25 

serving, but it is preferable to serve the lemon separate, to let 
the guests help themselves. 

Another idea is to serve with it a garnishing of quenelles, 
hard-boiled egg yolk, etc., but all other ingredients than the 
turtle tend only to spoil the flavor and appearance of this ex- 
ceptional soup, which very well merits its name of Queen of 
Soups. 

Some three-quarters of a century ago the great Careme gave 
to posterity his receipt for turtle soup. It differs materially 
from the one above, but since those days the taste of the public 
in general has become more refined they no longer want stews 
for soups, and that is what the old-fashioned green turtle soup 
was. Careme's green turtle was garnished with quenelles, truf- 
fles, mushrooms and artichokes, and was thickened with a roux 
-an idea which our modern epicures would call an abomination. 

If I have dwelled so long on this subject, it was because it 
seemed worth while, and furthermore, because one hears so 
many complaints of how difficult it is to obtain really good turtle 
soup at the average hotel and restaurant. By following the 
above directions, one can be certain of success. 

For a smaller turtle the proportions should naturally be de- 
creased. 



FAUSSE TORTUE AU CLAIRE CLEAR MOCK TURTLE. 

Choose 2 white calves' heads, and have them boned. Steep 
them in water for a few hours, changing the water three or four 
times ; then parboil and refresh the heads, and set them on the 
fire with 3 gallons of w r ater ; when boiling, free from scum, add 
2 carrots, 3 onions, I stalk of celery and some salt, and let 
simmer until done. 

Strain the broth (and keep for further use), put the heads in 
cold water, free from all impurities, and cut up in i-inch square 
pieces. 

Butter a good-sized saucepan, line it with 2 carrots and 3 
onions (all cut in slices), range 4 slices of lean ham on top, and 
over the ham lay 2 knuckles of veal and 6 pounds of shin of 
beef (chopped in convenient sized pieces). Let the vegetables 
brown over a slow fire, then moisten with the broth of the 
calves' head and i gallon of consomme, and let simmer slowly 



26 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

for four hours. Flavor with the following ingredients : 

i ounce of sweet basil, 

i ounce of marjoram, 

J/2 ounce of sage, 

Y-Z ounce of mace, 

Y-2 ounce of thyme, 

8 bay leaves, 

6 cloves, 

The peel of i lemon. 

Strain the broth and clarify it with 2 pounds of lean chopped 
beef mixed with 2 whites of eggs and I pint of cold water ; let 
simmer for i hour, then strain again ; add the cut calf's head, 
heat the soup to boiling point, and thicken with a tablespoonful 
of arrowroot diluted with 2 gills of sherry. Add the necessary 
cavenne and serve. 



FAUSSE TORTUE A L'ANCTENNE OLD FASHIONED MOCK 

TURTLE. 

Follow the same formula as for Clear Mock Turtle, minus 
the clarifying. Thicken with a brown roux, let the soup de- 
spumate slowly, and when ready, add some egg dumplings- 
made with equal parts of cooked hard egg yolks, raw egg yolks, 
butter and a little flour, formed into small balls and cooked in 
salted boiling water. 



POTAGE, QUEUE DE BOEUF, CLAIRE CLEAR OxTAIL SOUP. 

Cut 2 oxtails into i-inch pieces, wash them well, set them on 
the fire to parboil, and when done, refresh them under running 
water, washing them well to free them from scum and other 
matter. 

Next put the tails in a saucepan, moisten with 5 quarts of 
consomme, and set on the fire to simmer for two or three hours, 
or until tender. 

Scoop out with a small vegetable spoon (twice the size of a 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 27 

green pea) I pint each of carrots and turnips, parboil and then 
cook in consomme. 

Twenty minutes before the soup is done tie in a cloth I sprig- 
each of sage, marjoram and sweet basil, and put in the soup. 
When ready to serve add the vegetables and remove the herbs ; 
season the soup to taste with salt, cayenne and a pinch of sugar. 

Dilute a tablespoonful of arrowroot with I gill of sherry and 
stir it into the soup when boiling. Remove the scum and serve. 



POTAGE, QUEUE DE BOEUF LlE THICK OXTAIL SOUP. 

* #-^ 

Proceed as for Clear Oxtail, and thicken with a brown roux. 

POTAGE, QUEUE DE BOEUF A LA BOURGEOISE OXTAIL 
SOUP WITH CARROTS AND LEEKS. 

Follow directions as for Clear Oxtail ; but also trim and par- 
boil young carrots (about the size of a large clove of garlic), 
cut the white part of i dozen leeks into i-inch pieces and add 
both vegetables to the soup about 45 minutes before the tails 
are' cooked. 

Add some chervil before serving. 

POTAGE, QUEUE DE BOEUF LIE A L'INDIENNE- -THICK 
OXTAIL, INDIAN FASHION. 

Prepare a thick oxtail soup without the vegetable garnishing 
and season with curry. Serve separate a dish of plain boiled 
rice. 

POTAGE DE JOUE DE BOEUF Ox CHEEK SOUP. 

Put 4 ox cheeks with i knuckle of veal into a saucepan, and 
set it on the fire with 3 quarts of consomme and 2 quarts of 
water; when boiling, clear well from scum, add 2 carrots, I 
turnip, i onion stuck with 2 cloves, 3 leeks and i stalk of celery ; 
let simmer until the cheeks are done, then remove the meat and 
put them between two dishes under light press. 

Strain the broth and finish as "clear oxtail," adding the same 
garnishing; cut the cheeks in small pieces and add to the soup. 



28 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

POTAGE DE JARRET DE VEAU A L'ANGLAISE- -ENGLISH CALF'S 

KNUCKLE SOUP. 

Moisten 2 boned calf's knuckles with 5 quarts of cold chicken 
broth, and set on the range. When boiling, take off the scum 
and add a partially roasted chicken (although not essential ; the 
addition of a chicken naturally augments the sapidity of the 
soup). A half hour before the meats are done, add the white 
part of i dozen leeks cut in ^2-inch pieces. 

When the veal is cooked, remove it from the pot and put it 
under a light press. When done, cut it into small pieces and 
add it again to the soup. Also add the chicken cut in small 
scallops, and i pint of cooked rice ; let simmer for a few minutes, 
season to taste and serve. 

HocHE-Pox A L'ECOSSAISE SCOTCH HOTCH-POTCH. 

This soup may be termed the Pot-au-feu of the Scotch people. 
It is related that King Edward VII. (while Prince of Wales), 
when on a certain hunting excursion, passed the cottage of a 
Highlander, whose \vife was just preparing the hotch-potch. 
The escaping odor tickled the nostrils of the Prince to such a 
degree that he entered the cottage and asked to partake of the 
soup. The flavor was evidently as good as the smell, for he 
asked for the receipt and himself wrote it down at the woman's 
dictation. He later handed the receipt to his chef, with the 
order to prepare the soup daily during the hunting season. 

The soup differs, though, but little from the receipt given for 
Mutton Broth. The same directions may be followed, with the 
addition of cabbage, cauliflower, string beans and plenty of 
green peas. The meat may be cut in ^-inch squares before 
cooking. 

BOUILLON DE MOUTON A L'ORGE MUTTON BROTH, WITH 

BARLEY. 

Have 4 pounds of neck of mutton trimmed from all fat, put in 
a saucepan with 3 quarts of veal or chicken broth and 2 quarts 
of \vater, and set on the range. AVhen boiling, remove the scum 
coming" to the surface. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 29 

Cut into small squares and add to the soup 3 carrots, 2 tur- 
nips, 2 onions, 3 leeks, I stalk of celery, and 2 handfuls of 
washed pearl barley, and let simmer for 3 hours. 

When the meat is cooked cut it into small pieces and add it to 
the soup. Five minutes before serving add 2 tablespoonfuls o 
coarsely chopped parsley. Season to taste and serve. 



GOMEO DE VOLAILLE A LA CREOLE C III C KEN GUMBO, 

CREOLE FASHION. 

Cut 2 tender, well-cleaned chickens in half-inch square pieces, 
place them in a saucepan with 6 ounces of butter, and add 8 
ounces of lean, raw ham and 3 onions ; cut in squares ; stir with a 
wooden spoon until the moisture is evaporated, add 2 green 
peppers cut fine, and then drain the butter and moisten with 
3 quarts of chicken broth and 3 quarts of consomme. When 
boiling, clear from fat, add 12 peeled and seedless tomatoes cut 
in pieces and 100 well-washed tender okras (cut in i-inch long 
pieces), add a faggot consisting of parsley roots, a sprig each of 
thyme and marjoram, 2 bay leaves, and 2 cloves of garlic. 

Let simmer gently until the okra is cooked ; then season to 
taste, remove the faggot, and, before serving, add I pint of 
boiled rice. 

NOTE.- -The soup being substantial, it is preferable to serve 
the rice on a separate dish, especially for private dinners. 



GOMBO AUX CRABES DURS--HARD CRAB GUMBO. 

Follow the same directions as for chicken gumbo, but leave 
out the chickens and add the crab flakes just before serving. 



GOMBO AUX CRABES MOUX--SOFT CRAB GUMBO. 

Remove the shells of 12 soft-shell crabs, free them from gills 
and cut off the small claws. Cut the large claws in two, and the 
crab in six pieces. (If large size, cut them in eight.) 

Fry the crabs in butter and finish the soup as explained for 
Chicken Gumbo (without the chicken). 



33 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

GOMBO Aux GRENOUILLES FROG GUMBO. 

Prepare the same as Soft Crab Gumbo, using frog legs in- 
stead of crabs. 



GOMBO A LA SAM WARD GUMBO, SAM WARD FASHION. 

Two-thirds of Chicken Gumbo mixed with one-third Clear 
Green Turtle Soup the turtle meat to be cut in 1/2 -inch square 
pieces. 

GOMBO FILE GUMBO FILE. 

Gumbo file may be prepared with chicken, crabs, oyster, 
shrimps, rabbits, squirrel, etc. It is made like the other gumbos, 
but without tomatoes and okra. When ready to be served, some 
gumbo file is added ; this is in reality nothing but young sassa- 
fras leaves dried and pow r dered. 

The soup should be removed from the fire, and should not be 
allowed to boil after the powder is added. 

For i gallon of soup use about 10 tablespoonfuls of Gumbo 
file. Hold the powder in the left hand, raise the latter rather 
high, and then allow the powder to fall into the soup by de- 
grees. Stir continuously, so as not to form any lumps. 

POTAGE, MULLIGATAWNY DE VOLAILLE CHICKEN MULLI- 
GATAWNY. 

Slice 6 onions and fry them in 4 ounces of butter (without 
browning), add two tablespoonfuls of curry powder (or mulli- 
gatawny paste, if obtainable), 2 sliced apples and 2 ounces of 
flour; stir for a few minutes, and then moisten with 5 quarts of 
chicken or veal stock. Then put a tender fowl to cook in the 
soup, let simmer until done, and strain. 

Cut the fowl in slices, and put it into the soup tureen. 

Add i gill of almond milk and I pint of cream to the soup 
and season to taste. Heat it well and pour it over the meat in 
the tureen. Serve with a plate of rice separate. 

The mulligatawny may be flavored with chutney, currant jelly 
and lemon juice, according to taste. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 3 1 

MULLIGATAWNY DE MOUTON- -MUTTON MULLIGATAWNY. 

Prepared as Chicken Mulligatawny, using mutton and mut- 
ton broth instead of chicken. 



MULLIGATAWNY DE VEAU- -VEAL MULLIGATAWNY. 
Same as Chicken Mulligatawny, using veal instead of chicken. 

MULLIGATAWNY DE POISSON- -FiSH MULLIGATAWNY. 

Remove the fillets from the fish, wrap it in a cloth and cook 
in the soup. Follow directions as for the mulligatawny soups. 

MULLIGATAWNY DE LEGUMES POUR CAREME- -VEGETABLE 

MULLIGATAWNY FOR LENT. 

9 

Prepare i gallon of vegetable broth with all sorts of vege- 
tables obtainable, using them, though, with discretion, so that 
no particular flavor predominates. 

Strain and thicken the broth lightly, flavor with curry and 
a tablespoonful of chutney, let simmer for three-quarters of an 
hour, season to taste, add i gill of almond milk, bind with 6 egg 
yolks, i pint of cream and 2 ounces of butter, strain and garnish 
with macedoine of vegetables. 

Serve a plate of rice separate. 

CHOWDER DE LUCINES CLAM CHOWDER. 

Drain i gallon of hard clams (about 100), cut off all the hard 
parts and chop them coarsely. 

Cut fine 6 ounces of salt pork, put it into a saucepan with 6 
ounces of butter and set on the range ; add 3 coarsely chopped 
onions, 3 leeks and i stalk of celery (cut fine) ; let smother over 
a slow fire, stirring constantly, and then add 8 large peeled 
potatoes, cut in small squares, and 12 large, ripe, peeled and 
seedless tomatoes, cut in pieces ; moisten with 2 quarts of veal 
or chicken broth and flavor with i teaspoonful of ground thyme, 
YT. teaspoonful each of ground sage, marjoram and mace; let 



3 2 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

simmer for 20 minutes, then add the chopped clams with their 
juice, boil 20 minutes longer, clear from scum and fat, and add 
some bruised oyster crackers and chopped parsley. Season to 
taste and serve. 

CHOWDER A LA GEORGE DE F. GRANT CHOWDER, GEO. DE F. 

GRANT FASHION. 

Follow directions as for Clam Chowder, but keeping it more 
liquid and adding some soft clams, boneless frog legs and soft 
crabs cut in small pieces. 

POTAGE AUX CRABES A LA LAFFAN--CRAB FLAKE SOUP, 

LAFFAN STYLE. 

Take 2 quarts of chicken broth, I quart of clam broth, I quart 
of cream. Boil each separately, then mix together and thicken 
slightly with a roux. Season to taste with salt, a pinch of sugar 
and a little cayenne pepper, flavored with a dash of sherry. Five 
minutes before serving, add the crab flakes and eggs, but do 
not let boil. 

POTAGE DE LUCINES PAPILLONS AUX CRABES D'HUITRES- 
SOFT CLAM Soup WITH OYSTER CRABS. 

Put 75 small but choice soft clams (belly part only) in a 
saucepan with I quart each of chicken broth, clam broth and 
oyster broth; set on the fire; when boiling, take off the scum, 
let simmer for 3 minutes and then add I quart of bechamel 
sauce. Season to taste with salt, mace, cayenne and a pinch of 
sugar. 

Pick carefully i pint of oyster crabs and plunge them in boil- 
ing water for i minute, drain and add them to the soup : finish 
with i pint of boiling cream and 3 ounces of butter. 

POTAGE A LA GRANDE DUCHESSE FISH SOUP, GRAND 

DUCHESS STYLE. 

Prepare 3 quarts of lightly thickened fish stock, add i quart 
of tomato puree, and i pint of onion puree, let boil for 30 min- 



The Post-Gradnatc Cookery Book. 33 

utes, during which time clear off the scum as it rises to the sur- 
face, and season to taste with salt and paprika. 

Before serving, bind with 8 egg yolks, i pint of cream, 3 
ounces of sweet butter, and I ounce of crayfish or lobster butter ; 
garnish with lobster or crayfish tails cut in small pieces, small 
quenelles made with fish forcemeat, and green asparagus tips 
cut in y 2 -mch pieces. 

BARSCZ A LA POLONAISE- -POLISH BEET SOUP. 

Cut in Julienne (i. e., shred finely) 6 beet roots, 4 leeks, 4 
onions, a small head of Savoy cabbage and 4 celery knobs ; 
smother these vegetables in butter over a slow fire and moisten 
with 5 quarts of broth and i quart of strained fermented beet- 
root juice, add 3 pounds of brisket of beef (previously parboiled) 
and i duck partially roasted. Soak a handful of dried mush- 
rooms in cold w r ater, cut in Julienne and add to the soup. Add 
also a faggot of herbs composed of parsley, a sprig of marjoram, 
2 bay leaves and I clove. 

Remove the duck as soon as tender, and let the soup simmer 
until the beef is cooked. Then remove the faggot of herbs and 
the fat. 

Cut the beef and the duck into small pieces. Cook a dozen 
small sausages (chipolata) and remove the skin (when done). 
Add these and both meats to the soup. 

Before serving, scrape 12 sour beets and press their liquid 
through a cloth ; add this to the soup and heat well. 

Serve with sour cream separate. 

A pinch of chopped fennel should be added before serving. 
If no fresh fennel is at hand, a sprig of dried fennel may be 
added to the faggot of herbs. 

NOTE.- -The characteristic feature of this soup is that it 
should be of a light acid taste, and of a reddish tint. If, though, 
it is cooked in an ordinary saucepan or kept in a retinned bain- 
marie, it is impossible to retain this peculiar tint. Some cooks 
recommend one to add claret to the broth ; but this is not neces- 
sary if the above directions are carefully carried out, and if an 
earthen vessel is used. 

Sour beets are prepared by peeling 18 beetroots, putting into 
a jar, covering with lukewarm water, adding 2 handfuls of soft 



34 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

breadcrumbs, covering well, and keeping in a warm place for 
five or six davs bv that time fermentation should have set in. 

/ 

CREME DE YOLAILLE CREAM OF CHICKEN. 

Thicken 5 quarts of chicken stock with a roux made with J4 
pound of butter and Y\ pound of rice flour (creme de riz). Truss 
a tender fowl (or, better still, a roasting chicken) and put it to 
cook in the soup. 

Garnish the soup with 3 leeks, I onion stuck with 2 cloves, I 
small carrot and a piece of celery ; simmer until the chicken is 
tender, then remove the latter and the vegetables and strain the 
cream. 

Pick all the meat from the bones of the chicken, and pound 
it in the mortar with 3 ounces of butter and a pint of cream ; 
rub through a fine sieve and add to the soup ; bind it with 5 egg 
yolks, i pint of cream and 2 ounces of butter (but do not allow 
to boil) ; season to taste and serve with croutons souffles, sep- 
arate. 

CREME DE VOLAILLE A LA REINE MARGOT- -CREAM OF 
CHICKEN, QUEEN MARGOT STYLE. 

**w 

Proceed the same as for Cream of Chicken, with the addition 
of YZ gill of almond milk when serving, and a garnishing of 
small round chicken quenelles. 

Almond Milk. Pound 2 ounces of shelled sweet almonds and 
10 pieces of shelled bitter almonds with I gill of water, and 
strain. 

CREME DE VOLAILLE A LA PRINCESSE CREAM OF CHICKEN, 

PRINCESS FASHION. 

Cream of Chicken with garnishing of green asparagus tips. 

CREME DE VOLAILLE A LA SULTANE CREAM OF CHICKEN, 

SULTAN'S FASHION. 

Before serving, finish the cream with pistachio butter. 
Pound 4 ounces of scalded and peeled pistachio nuts, add 3 
ounces of sweet butter, and rub through a fine sieve. 



77k 7 Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 35 

CREME DE VOLAILLE A LA MARIE STUART CREAM OF 
CHICKEN, MARY STUART FASHION. 

Garnish the cream with cooked green peas and carrots 
scooped out the size of peas and cooked in consomme. 

CREME A LA BAGRATION- -CREAM, BAGRATION STYLE. 

This soup is prepared exactly as Cream of Chicken, except 
that veal is used instead of chicken. 

Before serving, garnish with cooked macaroni cut in ^4-inch 
pieces. 

Serve grated Parmesan cheese separate. 

NOTE. Some cooks flavor this soup with curry, but this 
method must be denounced as incorrect. It may, however, be 
prepared with fish and served on Fast days under the above 
name, mentioning the fact that the soup is (maigre) made with 
fish. 

CREME D'ORGE A LA VIENNOISE AUX CROUTONS SOUFFLES- 
CREAM OF BARLEY, VIENNESE FASHION. WITH PUFF 

CRUSTS. 

Prepare a roux with j4 pound of butter and l /\ pound of 
barley flour (creme d'orge), cook for 5 minutes, and moisten 
with i gallon of chicken broth. When boiling, take off the 
scum and add 4 leeks and 3 celery stalks cut up fine ; cook for 
one hour, then add I pint of boiling cream and strain. 

Before serving, bind the soup with 4 egg yolks, i gill of 
cream, a little grated nutmeg and 2 ounces of s\veet butter. 

Season to taste with salt and a pinch of sugar. Serve crou- 
tons souffles separate. 

CREME D'ORGE A L'FCOSSAISE CREAM OF BARLEY. SCOTCH 

STYLE. 

Follow directions as given for Cream of Barley, Viennese 
Fashion, omitting the flavoring of celery and leeks, and re- 
placing the chicken broth by mutton broth. 

The soup may be garnished with different sorts of vegetables 
cut in small squares and cooked in salted water. 



36 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CREME DE CELERI- -CREAM OF CELERY. 

Prepare a roux with ^4 pound each of butter and flour, cook 
for a few minutes without coloring; then moisten with I gallon 
oi chicken or veal broth ; let simmer, and remove the scum from 
time to time. 

Clean about 2 pounds of celery stalks (for this purpose the 
outside leaves will do just as well), cut very fine, parboil, and 
add to the thickened stock ; cook for I hour, add I pint of boil- 
ing cream, and rub through a fine sieve. 

Put the soup back into a clean saucepan, season to taste, and 
before serving, bind it with 4 egg yolks, I gill of cream and 2 
ounces of sweet butter. 

CREME DE MAIZE CREAM OF GREEN CORN. 

Prepare i gallon of thickened stock as described for Cream of 
Celery. 

Scrape 18 ears of raw corn, add the soup, boil for 45 minutes,, 
add i quart of boiling cream and strain. 

Season with salt and a pinch of sugar, and bind with the usual 
mixture of cream, yolks of eggs and butter. 

NOTE. In winter, or when green corn is unobtainable, canned 
corn may be used. Before being put in the soup, though, it 
should be pounded in the mortar. 

CREME DE TOMATES A i; AMERICAIXE CREAM OF TOMATOES, 

. \ MERICAN . FASHION. 

Prepare i gallon of thickened soup stock (vide Cream of 
Celery). 

Wash 3 pounds of fresh tomatoes, cut them in quarters, and 
add them to the stock ; let simmer for i hour, then rub through 

a fine sieve. 

Season the soup with salt, cayenne and a pinch of sugar. Be- 
fore serving, bind with 4 egg yolks, i pint of cream and 3 ounces 
of butter. 

CREME DE CHOUX FLEURS CREAM OF CAULIFLOWER. 
Proceed as for Cream of Celery, using 3 quarts of stock and 
I quart of milk. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 37 

Wash and cut 2 pounds of cauliflower in small pieces, parboil 
and add to the soup ; cook for 45 minutes, then add I quart of 
boiling cream and strain. 

Season to taste and bind with 4 egg yolks, I gill of cream and 
2 ounces of butter. 

CREME DE HARICOTS DE LIMA CREAM OF LIMA BEANS. 

Boil 3 pounds of lima beans in slightly salted water, pound 
in the mortar and rub through a fine sieve. Have ready 2 
quarts of thickened soup stock, add the puree of lima beans, I 
quart of clear soup stock, and i quart of boiling cream. Strain 
and season to taste. 

Before serving, bind the cream with 4 egg yolks, I gill of 
cream and 2 ounces of butter. 

CREME DE NAVETS CREAM OF WHITE TURNIPS. 

Cut 12 medium-sized white turnips in fine slices, parboil and 
smother them slowly in butter, with two leeks and one onion 
cut fine ; moisten with 3 quarts of thickened soup stock, let 
simmer for 45 minutes, and then add i quart of boiling cream, 
rub through a fine sieve, season with salt and a pinch of sugar, 
and bind with egg yolks, cream and butter. 

CREME DE POIRE AUX CREAM OF LEEKS. 

Wash and cut up 24 nice leeks, put them in a saucepan to 
smother with y pound of butter. Prepare i gallon of thickened 
soup stock and put the smothered leeks therein. Let them 
simmer for 45 minutes, then add i quart of boiling cream ; rub 
through a sieve. Season to taste and bind with the usual mix- 
ture of cream, egg yolks and butter. 

CREME D'OSEILLE CREAM OF SORREL. 

Pick and wash well i peck of sorrel ; heat 4 ounces of butter 
in a saucepan and put the sorrel therein to cook. When it has 
rendered all its humidity, add 3 quarts of thickened soup stock, 
let simmer for 20 minutes, then strain. 

Put the soup in a clean saucepan, and add i quart of boiling 



38 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

cream. Do not allow it to boil after the cream is added. Sea- 
son with salt, sugar and nutmeg, and bind with 4 egg yolks, I 
gill of cream and 3 ounces of butter. 

NOTE. As the acidity of the sorrel is averse to some persons, 
we would recommend the use of one-third of spinach to two- 
thirds of sorrel. 

CREME D'EPINARDS CREAM OF SPINACH. 
Same proceedings as for Cream of Sorrel. 

CREME DE Pois NOUVEAUX CREAM OF NEW GREEN PEAS. 
Proceed as for Cream of Lima Beans. 

CREME DE LAITUES CREAM OF LETTUCE. 
Same proceedings as Cream of Sorrel. 

CREME DE SALSTFIS CREAM OF OYSTER PLANT. 

Follow the same directions as for Cream of Celery. 

Scrape about 36 oyster plants and put them into acidulated 
water until all are cleaned ; cut them into small pieces and set 
on the fire to parboil; then add them to the thickened stock; 
allow to cook gently for one hour, and finish as Cream o*f Celery. 

CREME DE CITRONILLE CREAM OF PUMPKIN. 

Peel 2 pounds of pumpkin, cut in small pieces and set it on 
the fire to cook with 2 quarts of milk. When the pumpkin is 
done, add 2 quarts of thickened soup stock and I quart of boil- 
ing cream, then rub through a fine sieve ; season to taste, and 
bind it with 4 egg yolks, i gill of cream and 2 ounces of butter. 

CREME DE LEGUMES A LA LIVONIENNE CREAM OF VEGE- 
TABLES, Li VON i AN STYLE. 

Slice fine and smother in butter 8 carrots, 4 turnips, 4 celery 
stalks, 4 onions, 4 leeks and a few parsley roots. When the 
vegetables have evaporated their liquid, strew over 4 ounces of 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. '39. 




flour and cook for 5 minutes without browning, then moisten 
with i gallon of broth, cook for i hour, and rub through a fine 
sieve. 

Season with salt and a pinch of sugar and bind with i pint of 
cream and 6 egg yolks. Serve fried bread crusts separate. 



CREME DE JAMBON DE VIRGINIE AUX QUENELLES D'EPINARDS 
-CREAM OF VIRGINIA HAM WITH SPINACH DUMPLINGS. 

Thicken i gallon of veal or chicken broth lightly with a roux 
and add to it i quart of puree of tomatoes ; put the bone of a 
cooked Virginia ham into the thickened stock, and let simmer 
for one hour. 

Take i l / 2 pounds of lean Virginia ham (trimmings will an- 
swer for this purpose), pound fine in the mortar with i pint of 
bechamel sauce and l / 2 pound of sweet butter, and then rub 
through a fine sieve. 

Ten minutes before serving the soup, remove the ham bone,. 
add the puree of ham (without allowing the soup to boil), add 
l /2 pint of thick cream, season to taste with salt and paprika, and 
strain into the soup tureen. Before serving, add the spinach- 
dumplings prepared as follows : 

Rub a small handful of well pressed cooked spinach through 
a fine sieve, and mix with it double its amount of chicken cream 
forcemeat ; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg, and then with 
two black-coffee spoons shape small, longish quenelles or dump- 
lings and lay them into a buttered saucepan. When there are 
enough quenelles made, pour over them some boiling salted 
water (enough to cover completely), bring the contents of the 
pan to a boil, and then draw aside to prevent further boiling. 
After 10 minutes, drain the quenelles and put them into the 
soup or into some consomme for further use. 

CREME A LA VENITIENNE- -VENETIAN CREAM. 

Slice fine ^ dozen raw artichoke bottoms, and cook them in 
butter over a slow fire ; when done, add i quart of cooked green 
peas and a good handful of parboiled and pressed spinach ; 
pound these ingredients and add them to i gallon of lightly 



40 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

thickened stock, allow to boil for 30 minutes, take off the scum 
and strain into a clean saucepan, add I pint of boiling cream, 
season to taste with salt and a pinch of sugar and finish with 3 
ounces of butter. 

\Yhen serving, add a handful of cooked green peas. 

\OTE.--The color of this soup should be of a light green. If 
it is not so, add a little coloring. 

CREME DE CHAMPIGNONS FRAIS A LA PALMERSTON- -CREAM 

OF FRESH MUSHROOMS, PALMERSTON FASHION. 



Slice fine 8 white onions ; smother them slowly with 4 ounces 
of butter; when nearly cooked, add i l /2 pounds of cleaned and 
chopped fresh mushrooms (the tails will answer for this pur- 
pose), cook until their humidity is evaporated, then moisten 
with i gallon of thickened soup stock ; let simmer for 45 min- 
utes, add I quart of boiling cream, strain, season to taste, and 
bind as usual with 4 egg yolks, 2 gills of cream and 4 ounces 
of butter. 

CREME A LA MILANAISE CREAM, MILAN FASHION. 

Mix 6 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese with I pint of cream 
and 8 egg yolks, dilute with I gallon of lightly thickened chicken 
broth and set on the range till it reaches the boiling point, but 
do not allow to boil. Strain through a cloth, season to taste and 
serve with Italian paste cooked in salted water. 

CREME A LA D 'ORLEANS CREAM, ORLEANS FASHION. 

Prepare I gallon of chicken consomme with tapioca. Before 
serving bind it with 12 egg yolks, I pint of cream and 4 ounces 
of butter. Garnish with 3 sorts of small quenelles (i. e., red, 
white and green). 

CREME D'EPERLANS A LA NEPTUNE CREAM OF SMELTS, 

NEPTUNE STYLE. 

Prepare i gallon of fish stock as follows : 

Line the bottom of a saucepan with 4 sliced onions, 6 parsley 



The Post-Graduaie Cookery Book. 41 

roots, 2 bay leaves, I sprig of thyme and 3 cloves; lay on top of 
this 2 pounds of fish bones, and the bones of two pounds of 
smelts from which the fillets have been removed; moisten with 
I pint of dry white wine and let reduce to about one-half; then 
moisten with 5 quarts of water and let simmer for I hour ; strain 
the broth and thicken slightly with a roux. 

Next tie the fillets of smelts in a napkin and let boil in the 
thickened stock for twenty minutes ; then take them out, and 
when cooled off pound with i cup of thick cream and 2 ounces 
of butter, and rub through a fine sieve. Five minutes before 
serving the soup, add the puree of smelts, another cup of cream 
and 2 ounces of butter; season to taste with salt and cayenne 
pepper, and serve with small quenelles made of fish cream force 
meat. 



CREME DE LUCINES PAPILLONS CREAM OF SOFT CLAMS. 

Heat 6 ounces of butter in a saucepan, add 100 selected soft 
clams, stew for 10 minutes, then moisten with I gallon of lightly 
thickened chicken stock; let simmer for 45 minutes, then rub 
through a fine sieve. 

Season to taste with salt, a pinch of mace and cayenne ; bind 
with 6 egg yolks, I pint of cream and 2 ounces of butter. Serve 
with croutons souffles separate. 

NOTE. Instead of chicken stock, fish stock, as described for 
Cream of Smelts, may be used. 

CREME DE LUCINES ORANGES CREAM OF HARD CLAMS. 

Follow directions as given for Cream of Soft Clams, using 
half clam juice when preparing the stock. 

CREME D'HUITRES CREAM OF OYSTERS. 
Follow directions as given for Cream of Hard Clams. 

CREME DE MOULES CREAM OF MUSSELS. 

Wash and scrape the mussels ; when they are well cleaned, 
cook them with sliced vegetables and white wine. When cooked 



4 2 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

remove the mussels from their shells and prepare the soup after 
formula given for Cream of Hard Clams. 



CREME DE SOLES A LA MERIDIONALE CREAM OF SOLES, 

MERIDIONAL STYLE. 

Prepare a gallon of fish stock, as described for Cream of 
Smelts, and add 12 ripe fresh tomatoes cut in pieces ; dilute a 
pinch of saffron in water and add to the soup. 

Tie the fillets of 2 soles in a cloth and boil in the soup for 20 
minutes. 

Finish the soup according to the formula given for Cream of 
Smelts, Neptune Style. 



BISQUE DE CRABES DURS A L'AMERICAINE-~BISQUE OF 
HARD CRABS, AMERICAN FASHION. 

Cut into small squares 4 onions, 2 carrots and 3 ounces of 
lean ham ; heat 4 ounces of butter in a large saucepan, fry the 
vegetables therein and add 3 bay leaves, 3 cloves, a sprig of 
thyme, 6 parsley roots and 12 pepper corns. 

Remove the shells and lungs from I dozen hard crabs, wash 
them well in tepid water (so as to free them from all the sand), 
cut up into small pieces and put them with the vegetables into 
the saucepan ; cook for 5 minutes, stirring all the time ; then 
moisten with a pint of white wine. When nearly reduced, add 
2 ponies of brandy, set fire to it, and when it is extinguished add 
6 ripe tomatoes and one pint of stock ; cook over a moderate 
fire for 25 minutes, then pound in the mortar to a fine pulp. 

Thicken lightly I gallon of soup stock, with a roux (prepared 
with butter and rice flour) ; when boiling, add the puree of 
crabs and cook for 30 minutes, removing from time to time the 
scum that may rise, then rub through a fine sieve and return 
the soup to the saucepan ; heat it well without boiling, add I 
pint of cream and 3 ounces of butter, season to taste, and serve 
with croutons souffles separate. 

NOTE. Bisques always require high seasoning. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 43 

BISQUE DE CRABES DURS A I/INDIENNE--BISQUE OF HARD 

CRABS, INDIAN FASHION. 

This soup is prepared in the same style as the above, with the 
addition of curry powder or paste and boiled rice as garnishing. 

BISQUE DE HOMARD BISQUE OF LOBSTER. 

Follow the same directions as given for Bisque of Hard 
Crabs, omitting the tomatoes ; when ready to serve finish the 
soup with lobster butter. 

BISQUE DE HOMARD A L'AMERICAINE--BISQUE OF LOBSTER, 

AMERICAN FASHION. 

Same formula as Bisque of Hard Crabs, American Fashion. 

BISQUE DE HOMARD A L'!NDIENNE--BISQUE OF LOBSTER, 

INDIAN FASHION. 

Proceed as for Bisque of Hard Crabs, Indian Fashion. 

NOTE. Where economy is the object the shells of cooked lob- 
sters may be used for these soups ; while the meat of the lobster 
serves for a dish, an excellent soup may be prepared with the 
shells. 

BISQUE D'EREVISSES BISQUE OF CRAYFISH. 

Wash 6 dozen crayfish in several waters, and cook them 
as explained for Bisque of Hard Crabs, American Fashion. 
When cooked, remove the meat from the tails, which may be 
used for some other purpose, or serve with the soup as garnish- 
ing. 

Keep 2 ounces of the head shells, clean them well, and stuff 
them with fish cream forcemeat ; before serving the soup, cook 
the heads in salted water, and serve one for each guest. 

Finish the soup as Bisque of Lobster. 

PUREE DE Pois CASSES- -PUREE OF SPLIT PEAS. 

Wash well and steep in cold water for a few hours I quart of 
split peas. Set them on the fire with 3 quarts of cold water; 



44 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

when boiling, remove the scum, and add the following ingredi- 
ents : One carrot cut in two, I onion stuck with 2 cloves, 2 
leeks, i stalk of celery, a few parsley roots, the outside leaves of 
2 heads of lettuce and a small ham bone, or either ^ pound of 
salt pork. 

Let simmer for 3 hours, then remove the vegetables and the 
meat, and rub the soup through a fine sieve. 

Put the soup into a clean saucepan, dilute with enough stock 
to give it the proper consistency ; season with salt and sugar, 
and finish \vith 4 ounces of butter. 

Serve fried breadcrumbs separate. 

XOTE. An addition of cream is not prohibited by any means. 

PUREE DE HARICOTS NOIR--PUREE OF BLACK BEANS. 
Proceed as for Puree of Split Peas. 

PUREE DE HARICOTS BLANC- -PUREE OF WHITE BEANS. 
Same as above. 

PUREE DE LENTILLES--PUREE OF LENTILS. 
Same as Puree of Split Peas. 

PUREE DE TOMATES FRAICHES--PUREE OF FRESH TOMATOES. 

Cut in small pieces and fry in 4 ounces of butter, I carrot, 2 
onions, 4 parsley roots and 3 ounces of ham. When the vege- 
tables are lightly colored, add 3 ounces of flour, fry for 5 min- 
utes longer, and moisten with 2 quarts of broth. Now add 2 
cloves, I bay leaf and a very small sprig of thyme. 

Wash \vell 6 quarts of ripe raw tomatoes, cut them in four, 
and add them to the soup ; let simmer for I hour, then rub 
through a fine sieve ; if too thick, add some stock. Season with 
salt and sugar, and serve fried bread crusts separate. 

PUREE DE CARROTES A LA CRECY- -PUREE OF CARROTS, CRECY 

STYLE. 

Fry in 6 ounces of butter 2 sliced onions, without allowing to 
take color, add 4 pounds of new carrots, sliced as fine as pos- 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 45 

sible, season with salt and 6 ounces of sugar, cover the pan and 
cook in a slow oven for one hour, stirring the carrots occasion- 
ally. 

In the meantime prepare a roux of butter and rice flour, and 
moisten with I gallon of soup stock. 

When the carrots are cooked, pound them to a fine pulp, add 
them to the thickened soup stock, boil for 15 minutes, and then 
rub through a fine sieve. 

Season the soup to taste, and finish with I pint of cream and 
3 or 4 ounces of sweet butter. 

Serve with fried croutons separate. 

PUREE DE POMMES DE TERRE A LA PARMENTIER PUREE OF 
POTATOES, PARMENTIER FASHION. 

Put i dozen medium-sized potatoes in a saucepan and moisten 
with soup stock (enough to cover the potatoes). 

When boiling, add i onion, 2 leeks, and a small bunch of 
soup celery ; cook thoroughly and then rub through a fine sieve. 
(If too thick, dilute with broth.) Add i pint of cream and 4 
ounces of butter ; season to taste. 

Serve small squares of bread fried in butter on a separate dish. 

PUREE DE LEGUMES A LA FLAM ANDE- -PUREE OF VEGE- 
TABLES, FLEMISH STYLE. 

Cut into slices 4 carrots, 4 onions, 4 celery stalks, 4 leeks, and 
2 turnips ; smother these vegetables in butter and moisten with 
i gallon of broth ; then add 3 handfuls of split peas, 6 medium- 
sized whole potatoes, and a small ham bone; cook for 2 l /> hours, 
then rub through a fine sieve, and dilute with broth ; season to 
taste with salt and a pinch of sugar. Before serving, add I pint 
of cream and 4 ounces of butter. Serve with fried bread crusts 
separate. 

PUREE DE CHOUXRAVES ET POMMES DE TERRE- -PUREE OF 

KOHLRABI AND POTATOES. 

Put 8 kohlrabi and 6 potatoes in a saucepan, and moisten with 
enough white soup stock to cover. When boiling, remove the 



46 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

scum ; add I onion, 2 leeks and some soup celery ; cover the 
pan and let cook in the oven for one hour. 

Rub the vegetables through a fine sieve, return to a clean 
saucepan and add enough soup stock to make the soup suffi- 
ciently liquid. Before serving, bind the puree with 4 egg yolks, 
2 gills of cream and 3 ounces of butter. Serve bread crusts 
fried in butter separately. 



GAME SOUPS. 

There is more than one method to prepare thick game soups. 
I shall, however, give here but those which, during my experi- 
ence, have found the most appreciation. 

Many cook books give receipts for game soups \vhich are of 
great extravagance- "take so and so many partridges," or "so 
and so many pheasants,'' as if economy would be no object. 

In kitchens of some consequence, where some kind of game is 
served as a course of a dinner, be it private, table d'hote or 
American plan, there will be enough carcasses left to make a 
palatable soup for the following day. The game flavor should 
not be too pronounced, as if too strong it will often prove to be 
objectionable, especially to women. 

PUREE DE GIBIER, A LA MEXICAINE--PUREE OF GAME, 

MEXICAN STYLE. 

Steep i quart of black beans over night in cold water ; set 
them on the fire with 3 quarts of cold water ; when boiling, re- 
move the scum and add the following ingredients : 

Cut in small squares 3 carrots, 4 onions, I stalk of celery, 8 
ounces of lean, smoked ham, and 6 parsley roots. Fry in butter 
and add I sprig of thyme, I of sage, I of sweet basil, 3 bay leaves 
and i dozen pepper corns. 

Chop fine 3 or 4 pounds of game carcasses, be it grouse, 
partridge or wild duck (if the latter, all skin should be removed 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 47 

before chopping, as it often tastes oily or fishy), and add to the 
vegetables; let cook slowly for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, 
and then moisten with i pint of sherry. Put the game along 
with the beans, add 5 ripe tomatoes, cut in pieces, and let 
cook in the oven for at least 3 hours. 

When the beans are cooked, drain them and pound in the 
mortar, moisten with their own liquor and with enough stock to 
give the right consistency ; then rub through a fine sieve. Put 
the puree into a clean saucepan, season to taste, and finish it 
with i pint of cream and 4 ounces of butter. 

Garnish either with quenelles of game or game cut in small 
squares, croutons, souffles or ordinary small bread crusts fried 
in butter. 

PUREE DE GIBIER A I/ANDALOUSE--PUREE OF GAME,, 

ANDALUSIAN FASHION. 

Cut in small squares 2 carrots, 3 onions and 8 ounces of lean 
raw ham ; fry in butter, then add 3 or 4 pounds of chopped 
carcasses of game; moisten with 3 quarts of stock, add 12 ripe 
tomatoes, a faggot of herbs and i pound of rice. Let this cook 
in the oven for I hour and 30 minutes, then pound in the mortar 
and dilute with consomme in order to give it the proper con- 
sistency. Now rub through a fine sieve, season to taste, heat 
the soup without letting it boil, and finish with a pint of cream 
and 4 ounces of butter. 

PUREE DE GIBIER A LA NESSELRODE--PUREE OF GAME, 

NESSELRODE STYLE. 

Cut the husks of 60 chestnuts, put them on a pan, and bake 
in the oven until they can be peeled easily. 

Put the peeled chestnuts in a pan and moisten with 3 quarts 
of broth, add the game and finish the soup as prescribed for 
Puree of Game, Mexican Style. 

PUREE DE PERDREAUX A LA CHANTILLY- -PUREE OF PART- 
RIDGE, CHAXTILLY STYLE. 

Follow same directions as Puree of Game, Mexican Style, 
using lentils instead of black beans. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

PUREE DE TETRAS A LA CONDE--PUREE OF GROUSE, CONDE 

STYLE. 

Same formula as Mexican Game Soup, using red beans in- 
stead of black. 



PUREE DE CANARDS SAUVAGES A LA ROUEN AISE--PUREE OF 

WILD DUCK, ROUEN FASHION. 

Same as Mexican Style, adding I dozen duck or chicken livers 
and claret instead of sherry. 

CREME DE PERDREAUX CREAM OF PARTRIDGE. 

Follow same directions as for Cream of Chicken, using 3 
partridges instead of the fowl. 

This soup, being richer, is therefore more suitable for ban- 
quets and high class dinners than the purees, as described 
before. 

CREME DE FAISANS CREAM OF PHEASANT. 

Same formula as for Cream of Chicken, using 2 pheasants 
partridges instead of the fowl. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 49 

, HORS D'OEUVRES AND SAVOURIES. 

CANAPES A L'ARLEQUINE- -HARLEQUIN CANAPES. 

Prepare small pieces of buttered toast and decorate to your 
fancy by forming strips, either crosswise or lengthwise, with 
chopped beef tongue, hard yolk and white of egg, gherkins, 
truffles, smoked salmon and parsley. Serve on a napkin. 

CANAPES A I/INDIENNE- -INDIAN CANAPES. 

Pound in the mortar 2 ounces each of cooked ham and 
chicken, add 2 ounces of butter, a good tablespoonful of Chut- 
ney and a pinch of curry ; pass this preparation through a fine 
sieve and spread on small pieces of toast. Decorate with chop 
ped eggs. 

CANAPES A LA NANTUA NANTUA CANAPES. 

Spread some Montpelier butter on small pieces of toast, put 
in the center a small stoneless French olive stuffed with an- 
chovies, and on both sides of the olive, a tail of crayfish ; deco- 
rate with chopped aspic jelly. 

CANAPES A LA REFORME- -REFORM CANAPES. 

Take some small pieces of toast, about ij^ to 2 l / 2 inches, 
spread over some ravigote butter, and garnish with finely shred- 
ded (about y 2 inch in length and I part of each), smoked beef 
tongue, truffles, white of hard-boiled egg and gherkins. Sprinkle 
over a little finely chopped meat jelly and serve on a napkin. 

CANAPES A LA WHITTIER--\VHITTIER'S CANAPES. 

Chop fine 2 ounces each of cooked chicken and ham, pound 
in the mortar with 2 ounces of cheddar cheese and I of butter ; 
season with a good pinch of English mustard and paprika, 
spread on small pieces of toast, and decorate with small anchovy 
fillets and chopped hard-boiled eggs. Serve on a napkin. 



50 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CANAPES A LA WINDSOR- -WINDSOR CANAPES. 

Chop fine and pound in the mortar equal parts of cooked 
breast of chicken, smoked beef tongue and Chester cheese, and 
rub through a fine sieve. 

Spread some of this paste on small pieces of toast and deco- 
rate with gherkins, truffles and beef tongue. 



FEUILLES DE LAITUE A LA GENOISE LETTUCE LEAVES, 

GENOESE FASHION. 

Cut 2 hard-boiled eggs and I dozen anchovy fillets in small 
squares and season with pepper and a little mayonnaise sauce, 
and with the paste cutter cut out some crisp lettuce leaves about 
2^/2 inches in diameter ; put a teaspoonful of the anchovy salad 
in each and decorate with chopped beets, capers and parsley. 

FEUILLES DE LAITUE A L'INDIENNE LETTUCE LEAVES, 

INDIAN STYLE. 

Proceed as above for a la Genoise, using lobster instead of 
anchovies. Season with curry powder. 

BEIGNETS D'ANCHOIS ANCHOVY FRITTERS. 

Dip the anchovies (filleted and well trimmed) in frying batter 
and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with fried parsley. 

CROUTES DE HADDOCK A L'INDIENNE CRUSTS OF HADDOCK, 

INDIAN FASHION. 

Pound fine 8 ounces of smoked haddock, add a tablespoonful 
of bechamel, 2 egg yolks and 2 tablespoonfuls of cream ; season 
with salt and curry, and rub through a fine sieve. Spread some 
of this preparation on small round toasts, sprinkle over some 
chopped hard eggs, place them on a buttered dish, and cook in 
a moderate oven from 6 to 8 minutes. Dress on a napkin and 
serve hot. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 5 1 

CANAPES DE JAMBON A LA DIABLE DEVILED HAM CANAPES. 

Chop some lean ham very fine, and spread it on small pieces 
of buttered toast. Besprinkle liberally with paprika, and heat 
in the oven for a few minutes. 



CANAPES DE LANGUE DE BOEUF A LA HONGROISE BEEF 
TONGUE CANAPES, HUNGARIAN STYLE. 

Chop fine some cooked smoked beef tongue, add to it just 
enough chicken cream forcemeat to give it some 'consistency, 
spread it on small pieces of toast ; besprinkle liberally with 
paprika, place on a buttered pan and heat it for 8 to 10 minutes 
in a hot oven. 



BATONS SALES A L'ALLEMANDE GERMAN SALT STICKS. 



Roll out some puff paste trimmings (y inch in thickness) 
and cut off bands 4 inches long and % to I inch wide. Lay the 
bands on a moistened baking sheet, brush over with egg, and 
strew over crushed rock salt and carraway seed. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

BATONS DE CAVIAR CAVIARE STICKS. 

Prepare sticks as above for German Salt Sticks, only have 
them somewhat smaller and without salt and carraway seed. 
When baked split the sticks lengthwise and fill the inside with a 
layer of caviare. 



BATONETS AU PARMESAN- -SMALL PARMESAN STICKS. 

Roll out some puff paste trimmings, sprinkle over some 
grated Parmesan cheese, and fold in three. After 10 minutes 
roll out to Y4 inch thick, brush over with egg and besprinkle 
with grated Parmesan cheese mixed with a good pinch of cay- 
enne. Cut the paste sticks 4 inches long and l /2 inch \vide, range 
on a baking sheet and bake in a brisk oven. Serve on folded 
napkin. 



^2 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

BAVAROIS AU PARMESAN- -PARMESAN BAVARIOS. 

Put into a saucepan 6 egg yolks and dilute with I pint of 
milk ; set on the range over a slow fire, whipping continuously 
until it thickens and being careful not to let it boil ; add ^ 
ounce of leaf gelatine (previously soaked in cold water), and 4 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. 

Allow this preparation to cool, then add I pint of whipped 
cream ; season to taste with salt and red pepper ; fill into some 
small moulds or cases ; set in a cool place for 2 hours, and serve 
on a folded napkin. 

NOTE.- -The moulds should be lightly oiled. This can be 
done by placing the oil on a towel and then rubbing the insides. 

PERLES AU FROM AGE CHEESE PEARLS. 

Use the same paste as explained for Florentine Garnishing. 
(See Consomme, Florentine Fashion.) 

With a small round tube adjusted to the pastry bag, press out 
on a baking sheet small heaps the size of a large pea, brush over 
with egg and besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese (with 
which a pinch of cayenne is mixed). Bake in a slow oven. 

SOUFFLES AU PARMESAN- -PARMESAN CHEESE SOUFFLES. 

Dilute 4 ounces of flour with I pint of milk and I gill of 
cream, season with salt, nutmeg and cayenne, set on the fire and 
stir continuously until boiling (being careful not to have any 
lumps). Add 2 ounces of butter, 4 egg yolks and 6 ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Whip the whites of 6 eggs very firm 
and add gently to the mixture. Fill some small cases with this, 
and bake in a hot oven for about 8 minutes or more (according 
to the size of the cases). 

BEIGNETS SOUFFLES A LA PARMESANNE- -PARMESAN CHEESE 

FRITTERS. 

Put into a saucepan I pint of water with 2 ounces of butter. 
When boiling, add 5 ounces of sifted flour, and stir over the fire 
until the paste detaches from the pan ; add 4 ounces of grated 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 53 

Parmesan cheese, take from the range, and 5 minutes after add 
3 e gg s ( one after the other) ; season with salt, cayenne and nut- 
meg. 

Drop i dessertspoonful of this paste into hot lard, and move 
it gently with the skimmer until of a nice color. Serve hot on a 
napkin. 



BEIGNETS SOUFFLES AU PARMESAN ET JAMBON PARMESAN 

CHEESE AND HAM FRITTERS. 

Add to the Parmesan Cheese Fritter preparation I ounce of 
lean cooked ham, and cut in very small squares. 

RAMEQUINS AU FROMAGE CHEESE RAMEKINS. 

Prepare a paste as for Parmesan Cheese Fritters, with the 
following ingredients : 2 gills of water, 2 ounces of butter, 4 
ounces of flour, 3 eggs and 4 ounces of Parmesan cheese. 

When the paste is cold put lumps on a buttered baking dish 
(using a tablespoon), brush over with beaten egg, besprinkle 
with finelv diced Gruvere cheese, bake in a medium oven and 

* * 

serve hot. 

BEIGNETS DE CAMEMBERT CAMEMBERT FRITTERS. 

Clean a whole Camembert and rub it through a fine sieve, 
add the same amount of well reduced bechamel, and thicken 
with 3 egg yolks ; season with salt and red pepper, and put away 
to get cold. 

When very cold and hard shape the above preparation into 
small round, flat croquettes, dip them in beaten eggs, roll in 
bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with fried 
parsley. 



SAUCES 

Much has been written about sauces, but the subject is far 
from exhausted. A sauce well prepared is worthy of being eaten 
by the greatest epicures, while on the other hand a badly pre- 
pared sauce had far better be thrown away. 

It is therefore necessary that all ingredients should be of the 
very best quality, and that the proper time should be allowed for 
preparation. 

There are but two fundamental sauces i. e., the white and 
the brown but there are several auxiliary sauces which are of 
greatest necessity in modern and up-to-date work, and which 
should always be on hand in well appointed kitchens. 



DBS SAUCES FONDAMENTALLES FUNDAMENTAL 

SAUCES. 

FONDS BLANC POUR VELOUTE WHITE STOCK FOR VELOUTE 

SAUCE. 

For this purpose it is well to prepare a chicken broth, adding 
a good quantity of veal, so as to make the stock rich in gela- 
tinous matter. 

FONDS BRUN POUR SAUCE BRUNE BROWN STOCK FOR 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Line the bottom of a saucepan with 6 slices of smoked raw 
ham, and lay over this 4 carrots and 3 onions, sliced, and a fag- 
got of herbs. 



] The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 55 

Cut up two knuckles of veal (about 8 pounds) bones and all, 
and 4 pounds of beef. Lay these meats over the vegetables,. 
cover the saucepan and set it over a slow fire ; allow the meats- 
to brown slowly, then remove the fat and moisten with 3 gal- 
lons of general stock, let simmer for 4 hours, strain and put 
aside for further use. 

NOTE.- -This gravy also serves for the moistening of braised 
meats, and for the thinning of brown sauces. 



FONDS DE VEAU BRUX- -BROWN VEAL STOCK. 

Follow directions as given for Brown Stock, using veal only 
for its preparation. 



SAUCE VELOUTE- -VELOUTE SAUCE. 

Prepare a roux with ^ pound each of butter and flour; let 
it cook slowly for 15 to 20 minutes, being careful not to let it 
brown in the least ; remove it from the fire, and after 10 minutes 
dilute with 3 gallons of white stock, which should be hot, but 
not boiling; set on the fire and stir until boiling, then add a 
good handful of fresh mushroom peelings, let simmer gently for 
i l / 2 hours, strain and put aside for further use. 

NOTE.- -This sauce, as its French name implies, should be of 
a velvet like appearance. 



SAUCE BRUNE BROWN SAUCE. 

This sauce is by many misnamed Spanish sauce, or Espagnole 
in French ; it has nothing whatever to do with Spain, and there- 
fore call it what it really is, Brown Sauce. 

Its perfect concoction requires patience and experience. Pre- 
pare a roux with 8 ounces each of flour and butter, cook it over 
a moderate fire until it takes a light brown appearance ; take it 
from the fire, and when cooled, add 3 gallons of Brown Stock 
and i quart of tomato sauce. Set on the fire, let simmer for 4 
hours, continuously removing the rising impurities ; then strain 
and set aside. 



56 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

The following day put the sauce again to reduce, adding 2 
quarts of Brown Stock, and 6 ounces of dried mushrooms, 
previously soaked in cold water for 15 minutes. Let it sim- 
mer for 3 to 4 hours, then strain and put aside. The following 
day repeat the boiling for another 3 hours, always removing the 
rising impurities. 

The sauce is now ready to be used as a basis for all sorts of 
compound brown sauces. 

NOTE.- -The cooking of the roux should be done very slowly, 
as an excess of heat would precipitate the process of browning, 
thus giving the roux a burnt and bitter taste. 



SAUCES AUXILLIAIRES AUXILIARY SAUCES. 

SAUCE BECHAMELBECHAMEL SAUCE. 

Originally, this sauce was a veloute reduced with cream ; big 
chunks of veal were cooked in the sauce, and its preparation 
vvas all except economic. 

Modern practice proceeds more systematically. Bechamel is 
to-day neither more nor less than a cream sauce. It is more 
wholesome than veloute, and is prepared with boiled milk, 
although a part of cream may be used. The same directions as 
for Veloute may be followed. 

Simmer the sauce gently for i l / 2 to 2 hours, flavor with a 
faggot of herbs, 2 onions, one of them stuck with 3 cloves, and 
I carrot. Season with salt and a pinch of sugar ; strain and put 
aside for further use. 



SAUCE TOMATE- -TOMATO SAUCE. 

Select 2 gallons of ripe tomatoes, wash them well and cut 
them in pieces ; place in a saucepan with 2 quarts of stock and 
set on the fire to stew for 20 minutes. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 57 

Heat 8 ounces of butter in another saucepan, add 3 onions, 
2 carrots and 6 ounces of raw smoked ham, all cut in squares. 

When the butter clears, add 2 cloves of garlic and 6 ounces 
of flour; let cook for 10 minutes, without browning; then add 
the stewed tomatoes and a faggot of herbs. Let this simmer 
for i hour, 'then rub through a fine sieve. Season to taste and 
reduce to a good consistency. 

NOTE. Canned tomatoes mav be used instead of the fresh. 



SAUCES COMPOSERS COMPOUND SAUCES. 
SAUCE ALLEMANDE GERMAN SAUCE. 

Reduce 2 quarts of Veloute with 2 gills of chicken broth and 2 
gills of cream until the sauce covers the back of a spoon ; bind 
the sauce with 8 egg yolks, i gill of cream and 4 ounces of but- 
ter. Cook the eggs without allowing the sauce to boil. Season 
with salt, cayenne, grated nutmeg and the juice of a lemon. 

Strain and place in a bain-marie, with a little butter on top of 
the sauce to prevent the forming of a skin. 

SAUCE AURORE AURORA SAUCE. 

Incorporate to i quart of German Sauce, i pint of reduced 
tomato sauce, add 3 ounces of shredded ham. 

SAUCE CAPRE CAPER SAUCE. 

Mix together i pint of Cream Sauce and i pint of German 
Sauce, add some Nonpareil capers. 

SAUCE AU CELERI CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut 4 stalks of celery in j4~ mcn pieces ; wash them well and 
parboil for 5 minutes, then drain and moisten with chicken 
broth. When the celery is cooked, the broth should be nearly 
reduced ; add 3 pints of Veloute Cream Sauce. 



58 The* Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

SAUCE VELOUTE A LA CREME- -VELOUTE CREAM SAUCE. 

Reduce 3 quarts of Veloute with I quart of cream until the 
sauce covers the back of a spoon ; add 6 ounces of butter, and 
season to taste. 



SAUCE BANQUIERE- -BANKERS" SAUCE. 

Reduce ^ gill of Madeira with 12 pepper corns, add I pint of 
brown veal stock and i quart of Veloute ; reduce to good con- 
sistency, then add 2 gills of tomato sauce and I gill of cream ; 
strain and season with salt and cayenne, and finish with 3 ounces 
of sweet butter. 



SAUCE BRETONNE--BRITANNY SAUCE. 

Shred in fine Julienne the white part of 3 leeks, I stalk of 
celery and 12 heads of white fresh mushrooms; smother in 
butter, as directed for Julienne Soup ; moisten with 5/2 gill of 
chicken broth and let reduce ; then add I quart of Veloute and 
I gill of cream, finish with 3 ounces of butter and add 2 shred- 
ded truffles. 



SAUCE BECHAMEL A LA CREME- -BECHAMEL CREAM SAUCE, 

Proceed as for Cream Veloute Sauce, using bechamel in- 
stead of Veloute. 



SAUCE CURRY A LA CREME CREAM CURRY SAUCE. 

Chop fine 2 onions and fry them in butter without allowing 
them to brown; drain the butter, add a tablespoonful of curry 
powder, moisten with 5/2 gill of chicken broth, let reduce and 
add i quart of Veloute Cream Sauce. 

NOTE.- -This sauce gains immensely by adding some milk of 
cocoanut. Scrape a cocoanut and pour over a pint of boiling 
water. Steep for 25 to 30 minutes, then drain the milk. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 59 

SAUCE RAIFORT A LA CREME HORSERADISH CREAM SAUCE. 

To 6 ounces of freshly grated horseradish add i pint of 
Veloute Cream Sauce ; do not allow to boil. 

* 

SAUCE HONGROISE- -HUNGARIAN SAUCE. 

Chop fine 2 onions, fry in butter without allowing to brown, 
drain the butter, add I teaspoonful of paprika, moisten with 2 
gills of dry white wine, and let reduce to one gill ; then add I 
quart of Veloute ; reduce to good consistency, add 2 gills of 
cream ; season to taste and finish with 3 ounces of butter. 

SAUCE MADRAS MADRAS SAUCE. 

Chop fine and fry in butter 2 small onions ; add I crushed 
clove of garlic and I tablespoonful of curry powder; drain the 
butter ; moisten with y 2 gill of chicken broth and I pint of 
Veloute Cream Sauce. 

Reduce to good consistency, then add 3 gills of tomato sauce ; 
season to taste and finish with 2 ounces of butter. 

SAUCE POULETTE POULETTE SAUCE. 

Proceed as for German Sauce, adding more butter and the 
juice of a lemon. 

SAUCE SUPREME SUPREME SAUCE. 

This sauce is Veloute Cream Sauce in its highest perfection. 
Follow the same directions, adding more cream. 

SAUCE SUPREME MOUSSELINE MUSSLIN SUPREME 

SAUCE. 

Before serving add some whipped cream to the Supreme 
Sauce. 



60 The Post-Gr actuate Cookery Book. 

SAUCE RAVIGOTE RAVIGOTE SAUCE. 

Chop fine 3 shallots; put them in a saucepan with J^ gill of 
vinegar; let reduce almost dry, then add I quart of Veloute 
Sauce and boil for 10 minutes. Strain, add I tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, i of chervil and I teaspoonful of tarragon, and 
finish with 4 ounces of Venetian butter. 



SAUCE VlLLEROY- -VlLLEROY SAUCE. 

This sauce is generally used as a coating for articles to be 
fried. It is prepared as German Sauce, and its principal quality 
should be its gelatinous contents, so that it will easily become 
firm when cold. 



VlLLEROY SOU BISEE- -VlLLEROY SAUCE WITH PUREE OF 

ONIONS. 

Follow directions as given for German Sauce, and add to 6 
gills of sauce 2 gills of puree of onions. 

SAUCE VlLLEROY, TOM ATEE- -VlLLEROY SAUCE WITH 

TOMATOES. 

Six gills of Villeroy Sauce, 2 gills of well reduced tomato 
sauce. 

SAUCE BIGARADE--BIGARADE SAUCE. 

Follow directions as given for Orange Sauce, using Bigarade 
oranges i. e., such as have not attained their full ripeness. 

SAUCE BORDELAISE- -BORDEAUX SAUCE. 

Reduce I gill of claret with 4 chopped shallots, a small sprig 
of thyme and i bay leaf ; moisten with i pint of Brown Sauce 
and 2 gills of brown veal gravy ; reduce to good consistency ; 
strain, and finish with 2 ounces of sweet butter. 



The Post-Graduatc Cookery Book. 61 

SAUCE CHATEAUBRIAND CHATEAUBRIAND SAUCE. 

Reduce I gill of dry white wine with 4 chopped shallots, a 
sprig of thyme and I bay leaf ; moisten with 2 gills of brown veal 
stock : reduce to I gill, and add I tablespoonful of meat glace ; 
incorporate 6 ounces of sweet butter, and strain through a 
cloth. Before serving, add a heaping teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, a pinch of chopped tarragon and the juice of half a 
lemon. 

XOTE. When butter is to be incorporated into a brown sauce 
it should be stirred with a spoon. If stirred with a whisk the 
sauce will whiten. 

SAUCE COLBERT COLBERT SAUCE. 

Reduce I gill of Brown Sauce to a good consistency ; add, by 
degrees, 6 ounces of sweet butter ; season with cayenne and 
lemon juice, and add i teapsoonful of chopped parsley. 

SAUCE CREOLE CREOLE SAUCE. 

Slice fine 2 onions and i peeled green pepper; fry them in 
butter without browning; add 2 cloves of garlic well bruised; 
stir for i minute, then drain ; moisten with ^2 gill of white 
wine and i pint of Brown Sauce. Let this simmer gently for 20 
minutes. Meantime scald and peel 4 large ripe tomatoes, press 
out the seeds and cut them in not too small pieces ; add them 
lo the sauce and cook 15 minutes longer. Season with salt and 
cayenne. 

SAUCE CHASSEUR CHASSEUR SAUCE. 

Chop fine 3 shallots and fry in butter without coloring; slice 
6 heads of fresh mushrooms, and add to the shallots, with 2 
tablespoonfuls of white wine ; add a gill of Brown Sauce, ^2 gill 
of tomato sauce and a tablespoonful of beef extract ; reduce 
for 5 minutes, season to taste, add i ounce of sweet butter and 
i teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 



62 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. ' 

SAUCE DIABLE DEVILED SAUCE. 

Reduce J^ gill of vinegar with 4 chopped shallots and 24 
crushed pepper corns ; moisten with i pint of brown sauce ; let 
simmer for 15 minutes, add a teaspoonful of diluted English 
mustard and a good dash of Worcester sauce ; strain and finish 
with 2 ounces of sweet butter. 

SAUCE D'UXELLE D'UXELLE SAUCE. 

Add to i pint of D'Uxelle preparation (see this), I pint of 
brown sauce and 2 gills of brown veal stock ; reduce to a good 
consistency. 

SAUCE ITALIENNE- -ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Follow same directions as for D'Uxelle Sauce, adding I gill of 
tomato sauce. 

NOTE. In bygone days Italian sauce was prepared with 
veloute. Modern practice, however, has abandoned this system. 

SAUCE GRANDVENEUR GRANDVENEUR SAUCE. 

Reduce 5/2 gill of vinegar with 12 crushed pepper corns, and 
when nearly dry add a tablespoonful of grated, unsweetened 
chocolate; then dilute with a little port wine, and add i table- 
spoonful of currant jelly and i pint of brown sauce; let simmer 
for 15 minutes; season to taste and strain. 

SAUCE LYONNAISE LYONNESE SAUCE. 

Slice fine 4 onions ; fry them in butter without browning ; 
drain the butter, moisten with i gill of white wine vinegar, and 
let reduce nearly dry ; moisten with I pint of brown sauce and I 
gill of brown veal gravy. Let simmer for 15 minutes. 

SAUCE A LA MOELLE MARROW SAUCE. 

Reduce i gill of white wine with 4 chopped shallots, add I 
pint of brown sauce and 2 gills of brown veal stock ; reduce to 
good consistency ; strain and add parboiled slices of marrow. 



The Post-Graduatc Cookery Book. 63 

SAUCE MARECHALE MARSHAL SAUCE. 

Put into a saucepan 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, 
allow to reduce almost dry, then add i pint of brown sauce and 
2 tablespoonfuls of beef extract; reduce for 10 minutes, then 
incorporate by degrees 4 ounces of butter; finish with the juice 
of a lemon, a pinch of red pepper and a teaspoonful of chopped 
tarragon leaves. 

SAUCE MADERE MADEIRA SAUCE. 

Reduce I gill of Madeira wine with 18 pepper corns to ^ gill; 
add i pint of brown sauce and 2 gills of brown veal stock ; re- 
duce to good consistency and strain. 

SAUCE PERIGUEUX- -PERIGUEUX SAUCE. 
Add a gill of chopped truffles to i quart of Madeira sauce. 

SAUCE POJARSKY- -POJARSKY SAUCE. 

Reduce 2 gills of brown veal stock with I quart of tomato 
sauce to a good consistency ; season highly with paprika, and 
before serving, add 2 gills of whipped cream. 

SAUCE OPORTO- -PORT WINE SAUCE. 

This sauce is generally served with game. We, therefore, 
recommend cooks to use some game broth or game bones when 
preparing it. 

Reduce i gill of port wine with 12 pepper corns to ^2 gill; 
then add i gill of game broth ; reduce to one-half ; add i table- 
spoonful of currant jelly and i pint of brown sauce; reduce to 
good consistency and strain. 

SAUCE A L'ORANGE ORANGE SAUCE. 

P>rown T lump of cut sugar with a few drops of vinegar; 
moisten with y 2 gill of white wine, and allow to reduce ; add 2 
gills of brown sauce, y 2 gill of rich veal stock and the juice of 



64 The Post-Graduatc Cookery Book. 

one orange ; reduce to good consistency and strain through a 
cloth ; garnish with the finely shredded outer rind of one orange, 
and finish with a good dash of brown curacao. 

SAUCE AU PAIN- -BREAD SAUCE. 

Put 2 gills each of cream and milk in a saucepan, and when 
boiling, add sufficient fresh bread crumbs to thicken ; add I 
small onion ; let simmer for 20 to 30 minutes, then remove the 
onion ; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg, and finish with 2 
ounces of butter. 



SAUCE POIVRADE- -PEPPER SAUCE. 

Cut into small dice I onion, I small carrot and I ounce of raw 
ham ; fry in butter ; add 2 bay leaves, I sprig of thyme and I 
tablespoonful of crushed pepper corns ; moisten with y 2 gill of 
white wine vinegar ; reduce to one-quarter and moisten with I 
pint of brown sauce. Cook for 15 minutes, skim and pass 
through a fine sieve. 



SAUCE POLONAISE- -POLISH SAUCE. 

Crush 24 juniper berries, put them in a saucepan with I gill 
of wine vinegar, and reduce almost dry, add a tablespoonful of 
chicken glace and I quart of veloute cream sauce ; let simmer 
for 10 minutes ; then strain and finish with 2 ounces of butter. 

SAUCE ROBERT- -ROBERT SAUCE. 

Chop fine and fry in butter 2 onions (do not allow them to 
brown) ; drain the butter, add l /2 gill of vinegar and let reduce ; 
moisten with I pint of brown sauce and I gill of brown veal 
gravy ; reduce well and finish with i tablespoonful of French 
mustard. 

SAUCE SAXONNE SAXON SAUCE. 

Add to i pint of port wine sauce I tablespoonful of parboiled 
black currants, and i of gherkins cut in ^/g-inch cubes. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 65 

SAUCE LONDONDERRY- -LONDONDERRY SAUCE. 

Shred finely the outer rind of I orange and i lemon ; steep y 2 
ounce of Angelica in lukewarm water for 15 minutes, and then 
shred it also ; put all this in a saucepan with I gill of port wine 
and reduce to J /> gill, add a tablespoonful of currant jelly and I 
pint of brown sauce, boil for a few minutes, season with salt 
and cayenne, and finish with the juice of a half lemon. 

SAUCE TORTUE TURTLE SAUCE. 

Reduce with y 2 gill of Madeira wine I sprig each of thyme, 
sage, sweet basil and marjoram. When reduced to half, add I 
pint of brown and 2 gills of tomato sauce. When boiling, skim 
and season highly with cayenne, and strain. 

SAUCE TRUFFES TRUFFLE SAUCE. 

Slice 4 truffles, put them in a saucepan with y 2 gill of Madeira, 
allow to reduce and moisten with I pint of Madeira sauce. 



Sauces pour Poissons Sauces for Fish. 

In well equipped kitchens fish stock should be on hand con- 
stantly, for both the cooking of the fish and the preparation of 
sauces for the latter. 

This stock is best prepared with the bones and trimmings of 
various kinds of white fish, unless it is to be used for brown 
sauces, in which case the head and bones of the salmon are 
preferable. 

For ordinary use the fundamental meat sauces may be em- 
polyed for the preparation of fish sauces. To impart its flavor 
to the sauce a certain quantity of fish stock should be reduced 
with the respective sauces. 

We shall, however, give the receipt for the two (white and 
brown) fundamental fish sauces, and if in the following receipts 
for sauces, veloute or brown sauce is mentioned, either the fish 
sauces or the meat sauces mav be used. 



66 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

FUMET DE POISSON POUR SAUCES BLANCHES- -FlSH STOCK 

FOR WHITE SAUCES. 

Line the bottom of a saucepan with 2 onions cut in slices, 8 
well washed parsley roots and stems, 2 bay leaves, a sprig of 
thyme and 3 cloves. Place on top 3 pounds of fish bones and 
trimmings, moisten with I quart of dry white wine, cover the 
pan and let the wine reduce to half ; then add I gallon of water. 
When boiling, skim and let simmer for I hour, strain and put 
away for further use. 

FUMET DE POISSON POUR SAUCES BRUNES--FISH STOCK FOR 

BROWN SAUCES. 

Cut into small squares 2 carrots and 3 onions ; fry them in 
butter, and when the butter is clear, add 3 pounds of fish bones 
(half salmon if possible). Moisten with i pint of dry white 
wine and I pint of Madeira, add a faggot of herbs, a handful of 
soaked dried mushrooms, and 3 cloves. Conduct the finishing 
of this stock as prescribed for the preceding White Fish Stock. 

VELOUTE A POISSON--FISH VELOUTE. 
Proceed as for Veloute Sauce using white fish stock. 

SAUCE BRUNE A POISSON- -BROWN FISH SAUCE. 

Proceed as described for Brown Sauce, using brown fish 
stock instead of brown meat stock. 

SAUCE AMERICAINE AMERICAN SAUCE. 

Cut fine and fry in butter 2 onions and I carrot; add I bay 
leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a few parsley roots (cut fine). 

Pound to a fine pulp the shells of 2 lobsters, add it to the 
vegetables, and keep stirring over the fire until all humidity is 
reduced ; then moisten with 2 gills of white wine and 5/2 gill of 
brandy ; set fire to it and add 3 pints of fish stock ; let boil for 
15 minutes, then strain; remove the butter from the stock; 
allow to reduce to 2 gills, add i quart of tomato sauce and re- 
duce to good consistency. Strain once more, season with salt 
and red pepper and finish with the juice of half a lemon and 3 
ounces of sweet butter. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 67 

SAUCE ANCHOIS ANCHOVY SAUCE. 

Finish I quart of veloute cream sauce with 6 ounces of an- 
chovy butter. 

SAUCE AURORE AURORA SAUCE. 

Reduce I pint of veloute with 2 gills of fish stock and I gill of 
cream. When well reduced, add 2 gills of thick tomato sauce ; 
season to taste, and finish with 2 ounces of lobster butter. 

SAUCE CARDINALE CARDINAL SAUCE. 
Same as Lobster Sauce, without lobster cut in pieces. 

SAUCE AUX LUCINES ORANGEES CLAM SAUCE. 

Reduce I pint of veloute with 2 gills of clam broth, and I 
gill of cream. Season with cayenne, add the belly part of 24 
hard clams, previously cooked, and finish with 3 ounces of 
butter. 

SAUCE AU CRABES DURES--HARD CRAB SAUCE. 

Proceed as for Clam Sauce, adding a dash of sherry. Heat 
some crab flakes in butter, and add them instead of clams. 

SAUCE CREVETTE SHRIMP SAUCE. 

Prepare as Lobster Sauce, using shrimps and shrimp butter 
instead of lobster. 



SAUCE ECOSSAISE SCOTCH SAUCE. 

Add to Sauce Xormande equal parts of carrots, celery and 
leeks, cooked in butter over a very mild fire, cooked string 
beans and truffles, all of these ingredients cut in ^-inch squares. 

SAUCE AUX FINES HERBES--FINE HERB SAUCE. 

Reduce l / 2 gill of fish stock almost completely, and add 2 gills 
of veloute sauce. AYhen boiling, bind with 2 egg yolks and a 



68 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

little cream; add a tablespoonful each of chopped parsley and 
chervil and ^2 teaspoonful of chives; finish with 2 ounces of 
butter, the juice of half a lemon, salt, and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper. 

SAUCE DIPLOMATE DIPLOMAT SAUCE. 

Reduce i l / 2 pints of veloute with 2 gills of fish stock and I 
gill of cream ; add 2 gills of Puree Soubise (onion puree). Sea- 
son to taste, finish with 2 ounces of butter, and before serving 
iidd 3 finely shredded truffles. 

SAUCE AUX OEUFS EGG SAUCE. 

Mix 2 gills each of veloute cream and Hollandaise sauce, and 
add 2 coarsely chopped eggs. 

Or : Reduce I pint of veloute with I gill of fish stock and I 
ot cream ; bind with 2 egg yolks ; season to taste ; finish with 
3 ounces of butter and add 2 coarsely chopped eggs. 



SAUCE MALAYENNE MALAY SAUCE. 

Rasp the white of a cocoanut into a bowl and moisten with l /2 
gill of boiling water ; let stand for 25 minutes and then strain 
The liquid and put aside to use when the sauce is finished. Fry 
2. finely shredded onions in 2 ounces of butter (do not allow the 
onions to brown), add a crushed half clove of garlic and 2 
ounces of flour, and stir for a few minutes ; then moisten with 

1 pint of fish stock, simmer for 20 minutes, season with salt and 
a teaspoonful of curry, and add the cocoanut liquid, the juice of 
a small lemon and one sweet pepper shredded finely ; finish with 

2 ounces of butter. 



SAUCE AUX HUITRES OYSTER SAUCE. 

Cook 24 oysters in their own juice and drain ; reduce the 
gravy of the oysters with I pint of veloute ; bind with 3 egg 
yolks and I gill of cream ; season to taste, and finish with 4 
ounces of butter ; take off the belly part from the oysters and 
add them to the sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 69 

SAUCE AUX OEUFS D'ALOSE SHAD ROE SAUCE. 

Boil one-half of one shad roe in salt water. When done, re- 
move the skin and cut the roe into small pieces ; then add it to a 
pint of fine herb sauce. 



SAUCE NORMANDE XORMAN SAUCE. 

Follow directions as given for White Wine Sauce, using more 
cream and the juice of a few oysters or mussels when reducing 
it to its proper consistency. 



SAUCE AUX CRABES D'HUITRES OYSTER CRAB SAUCE. 

1. Reduce 2 gills of clam juice with I quart of veloute; bind 
with 6 egg yolks and I gill of cream ; finish the sauce with 6 
ounces of butter and a dash of sherry. 

Plunge 2 gills of picked and washed oyster crabs in boiling 
salted water: let boil for 2 minutes, drain well and add to the 
sauce. 

2. Add 2 gills of boiled oyster crabs to I quart of Dutch 
sauce. 



SAUCE MORXAY MORNAY SAUCE. 

Reduce 2 gills of fish stock with I quart of Bechamel and i 
gill of cream ; season to taste with salt and cayenne. 

Incorporate to the sauce, by degrees, 6 ounces of grated Par- 
mesan cheese and 2 ounces of butter. 

NOTE. If Mornay sauce is to be used for other purposes 
than as a sauce for fish, omit the fish stock. 



SAUCE HOMARD LOBSTER SAUCE. 

1. Reduce i gill of fish stock with i quart of veloute and r 
gill of cream ; season to taste and finish with 6 ounces of lobster 
butter ; add 4 ounces of lobster cut in small squares. 

2. Prepare as Dutch Sauce, using one-third lobster butter 
and add lobster cut in small squares. 



70 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

SAUCE GENEVOISE GENEVA SAUCE. 

Chop coarsely and fry in butter I onion, adding peelings of 
2 dozen fresh mushrooms, and moisten with 2 gills of dry white 
wine and 2 gills of white fish stock. Reduce to 2 gills, then add 
i quart of veloute, allow to reduce to 'good consistency, strain 
and finish with 8 ounces of sweet butter and a dash of Madeira. 



SAUCE MOUTARDE MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Add 2 tablespoonfuls of French mustard to I pint of German 
or Dutch Sauce. 



SAUCE FLEURETTE--FLEURETTE SAUCE. 

Reduce I pint of Bechamel sauce with I gill of cream. Sea- 
son and finish with 2 ounces of butter. Fine herbs may be 
added. 

NOTE.- -The French call the first skimming of the milk 
fleurette, which denotes cream. 

SAUCE VENITIENNE- -VENETIAN SAUCE. 

Reduce 2 tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar with I chopped 
shallot, then add i gill of fish stock and reduce to half the 
amount ; incorporate 2 gills of veloute sauce and reduce to good 
consistency with ^ gill of thick cream; finish with 4 ounces of 
Venetian butter without allowing it to boil. 

SAUCE VIN BLANC- -WHITE- WINE SAUCE. 

Reduce i gill of dry white wine with a good handful of fresh 
mushroom peelings, 2 gills of fish stock and I pint of veloute. 
Bind with 4 egg yolks and i gill of cream ; strain ; season to 
taste, and finish with 8 ounces of butter and the juice of I lemon. 

SAUCE GENOISE GENOESE SAUCE. 

Cut in small squares i carrot and 2 onions; fry them in but- 
ter, add i faggot of herbs, I clove of garlic and a head of salmon 



The Ppst-Graduate Cookery Book. 71 

cut in pieces. Moisten these with 2 gills of claret and 2 gills of 
brown fish stock, let simmer for 30 minutes, strain and reduce 
the obtained essence with .1 pint of brown sauce. Season to 
taste and finish with 3 ounces of anchovy butter. 

SAUCE ITALIENNE ITALIAN SAUCE. 

Proceed as for Italian Sauce for meat. Reduce with brown 
iish stock ; leave out the ham. 

SAUCE BORDELAISE (POUR POISSON)- -BORDEAUX SAUCE 

(FOR FISH). 

Chop fine 6 shallots, fry them lightly in butter, drain the 
butter, moisten with 2 gills of claret, reduce to half, add 2 gills 
of brown fish stock and i pint of brown sauce ; reduce to good 
consistency, and finish with 3 ounces of butter. 

SAUCE CREOLE CREOLE SAUCE. 

Follow directions given for Creole Sauce for meats, and in- 
corporate 2 gills of reduced fish stock. 

SAUCE PORTUGAISE- -PORTUGUESE SAUCE. 

Chop fine 6 shallots and fry them lightly in butter, add I 
crushed clove of garlic, moisten with I gill of fish stock, allow 
to reduce, then add I pint of tomato sauce. Season to taste 
with salt and cayenne pepper, and incorporate 3 ounces of 
Gutter. 



SAUCES INDEPENDENTES INDEPENDENT SAUCES 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE--DUTCH SAUCE. 

i. Reduce }/ 2 gill of white wine vinegar with I dozen pepper 
corns ; when nearly dry, take the pan from the fire, add 6 raw 
egg yolks and 2 tablespoonfiils of cold water. Set the saucepan 



72 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

in the bain-marie with boiling water, or on the range; work 
the contents of the pan incessantly, adding by degrees 8 ounces 
of butter ; strain, season to taste, and before serving, the juice 
of half a lemon may be added. 

2. Prepare the same reduction as stated above ; add I gill of 
Bechamel sauce. When boiling, add 4 egg yolks ; cook these 
without allowing them to boil, and add, by degrees, 8 ounces 
of butter. Season to taste and strain; add lemon juice before 
serving. 

NOTE. Sauce No. 2 is in no sense inferior to No. I ; it is 
equally as good in every respect, and easier to handle. 



SAUCE HOLLANDAISE TOMATEE DUTCH SAUCE WITH 

TOMATOES. 

Add 3 gills of well reduced tomato sauce to I quart of Dutch 
Sauce. 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE VERTE GREEN DUTCH SAUCE. 
Use one-third of Venetian butter. 

SAUCE MOUSSELINE MUSSLIN SAUCE. 

Follow directions as given for Dutch Sauce, adding 3 gills of 
whipped cream to each quart of sauce. 

SAUCE MALTAISE ou SAUCE HOLLANDAISE A L'ORANGE- 
MALTESE, OR DUTCH SAUCE WITH ORANGE FLAVOR. 

Prepare a Dutch Sauce according to one of the two receipts 
given. Before straining, scrape the outer rind of I orange and 
add it to the sauce. 



SAUCE FLAM ANDE- -FLEMISH SAUCE. 
Add some French mustard to Dutch Sauce. 



The Post-Gradnaie Cookery Book. 73 

SAUCE BEARNAISE--BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Put in a saucepan 3 finely -chopped shallots, 6 pepper corns. I 
bay leaf and a very small sprig of thyme ; moisten with ^ gill 
of white wine vinegar and allow to reduce nearly dry ; add I 
tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce and 3 raw egg yolks, and set 
the pan in the bain-marie with boiling water, stirring continu- 
ously with a wooden spoon or whip. When sufficiently con- 
sistent i. e., when the yolks have been cooked (without boiling) 
-add three ounces of soft butter, stirring all the time. Season 
with salt, a small pinch of cayenne pepper (and if necessary a 
little lemon juice), strain through an etamine cloth into another 
saucepan, and add I teaspoonful each of chopped tarragon and 
chervil. 

NOTE.- -This sauce can be prepared without Bechamel sauce, 
or, if economy is the object, the quantity of Bechamel may be 
increased. 

SAUCE BEARNAISE VERTE GREEN BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Proceed as for the ordinary Bearnaise Sauce, using I ounce 
of Venetian butter to every 2 ounces of sweet butter. 

SAUCE BEARNAISE ROUGE RED BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Add 3 gills of well reduced tomato sauce to each quart of 
Bearnaise Sauce. 

SAUCE PALOISE--PALOISE SAUCE. 

Put i tablespoonful of finely prepared chopped mint and I 
gill of white wine into saucepan, allow to reduce quite dry, add 
i tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce and 3 egg yolks, and finish to 
cook with 3 ounces of butter (the same as Bearnaise Sauce). 
When done, add i tablespoonful of meat extract. 

SAUCE VALOIS- -VALOIS SAUCE. 

Same as Bearnaise Sauce, with the addition of 2 tablespoonfuls 
of beef extract to i gill of sauce. Its appearance should be of 
a blond tint. 



74 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

SAUCE MAGENTA MAGENTA SAUCE. 

Add to i pint of Red Bearnaise Sauce i teaspoonful each of 
chopped truffles, gherkins and mushrooms. 



SAUCE BEARNAISE AU RAIFORT- -HORSERADISH BEARNAISE 

SAUCE. 

Add 2 gills of fresh and finely grated horseradish to I quart 
of Bearnaise Sauce. 



SAUCES FROIDES COLD SAUCES. 

SAUCE MAYONNAISE MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Put into a bowl 4 egg yolks, a pinch of white pepper and a 
teaspoonful of salt. Stir vigorously, add a dash of vinegar, and 
then slowly drop by drop i pint of olive oil, adding from time to 
time a dash of vinegar, or, if preferred, lemon juice. 

A teaspoonful of English mustard may be added to the yolks 
at the same time with the salt ; this, however, is not necessary. 

SAUCE MAYONNAISE A L/ESTRAGON- -TARRAGON MAYON- 
NAISE SAUCE. 

Prepare the mayonnaise sauce with tarragon vinegar, and add 
some chapped tarragon when the sauce is finished. 

SAUCE TART ARE- -TARTAR SAUCE. 

Add to the above quantity of Mayonnaise Sauce 2 teaspoon- 
fuls each of French Mustard and chopped parsley, I teaspoon- 
ful each of finely chopped gherkins, capers and chervil, and at 
last YZ teaspoonful of chopped tarragon leaves. 

NOTE. It is optional to add a little finely chopped shallots 
and anchovy essence. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Bonk. 75 

SAUCE REMOULADE REMOULADE SAUCE. 

Rub the yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs through a fine sieve, 
place them in a bowl with I tablespoonful of French mustard, 
and dilute with the same amount of tarragon vinegar. Chop 
fine the fillets of 2 anchovies and add ; then add little by little 
3 gills of olive oil with chopped herbs, as for Tartar Sauce. 

SAUCE TYROLIENNE- -TYROLIAN SAUCE. 

Reduce I pint of tomato sauce to a good consistency, and 
while hot, add I pint of mayonnaise ; then strain and put on ice 
to cool. Season highly with paprika, and finish with 2 gills of 
whipped cream. 

SAUCE GERMANIQUE GERMANIQUE SAUCE. 

Throw into boiling water I handful each of chervil, chives, 
spinach and tarragon and 2 handfuls of parsley. Drain and 
refresh in cold water, press to free from humidity; then pound 
in the mortar and rub through a fine sieve ; add the puree to I 
quart of mayonnaise, and finish with a half pint of whipped 
cream. 

SAUCE CUMBERLAND CUMBERLAND SAUCE. 

Shred fine the outer rind of I orange and I lemon ; then par- 
boil in boiling water, and drain. 

Dilute 2 gills of currant jelly and I tablespoonful of English 
mustard with the juice of the orange and lemon and l / 2 gill of 
port wine, adding a pinch of salt and a little cayenne pepper. 

SAUCE SUEDOISE SWEDISH SAUCE. 

Mix i tablespoonful of grated horseradish to */> pint each of 
apple and Mayonnaise sauce. Serve cold. 

SAUCE CHANTILLY- -CHANTILLY SAUCE. 

Same as Swedish Sauce, with the addition of 4 or 5 table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream. 



FISH. 

THE COOKING OF FISH. 

It is utterly impossible to give a full description in this 
treatise of all the fish which the American waters produce. We 
will, however, try to enumerate the typical varieties, and give 
the different methods in which they may be prepared for the 
table. 

Needless to say, the essential quality of fish is freshness ; the 
iiesh should be firm, the gills of a bright red, and the eyes clear 
and prominent. 

Large fish, such as salmon, cod or halibut, should be 
put on the fire in cold water, and as soon as it begins to boil 
the kettle should be removed to the side of the range, so that 
the fish simmers gently until done. This cannot be specified, as 
it varies according to the size of the fish ; here, as on many other 
occasions, experience shows the hand of the master. 

Small fish or slices of large fish should be plunged into boil- 
ing water, although it should not be allowed to bubble. 

Some cooks acidulate the water with vinegar. With few 
exceptions I do not approve of this method ; plain salted water 
is preferable. 

For the white sorts of fish, as cod, halibut or turbot, milk is 
often added to preserve the whiteness of the meat. \Yhile this 
is not absolutely necessary, it certainly is not injurious. 

Broiled fish should be basted liberally with sweet oil, and 
seasoned before being put on the fire. Broil it over a clear 
charcoal fire, diminishing the heat according to the size of the 
fish. \Yhile the fish should be crisp and nicely browned, it 
should never be black, as there is nothing more detestable to the 
taste than charred fish. 

Fish that is sauted should be seasoned and dipped in flour and 
cooked in clarified butter over a good fire. If the fish is large, 
the cooking of it may be concluded in the oven. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 77 

For frying, as a rule, only small fish, or small pieces of fish, 
are used ; they are either dipped jn milk and rolled in flour, or 
are egged and bread-crumbed, and sometimes dipped in frying 
batter. 

If properly cooked, fried fish is second to none. It should be 
immersed in hot fat, lard, butter or oil ; if the fat is not hot 
the fish will be soft, soggy and unfit to be served. 

Fish cooked with fish stock (poche) should be cooked slowly, 
and not allowed to boil, merely to simmer; otherwise the fish is 
liable to become dry and tough. 



ANGUILLE FARCIE A I/ECOSSAISE STUFFED EEL, SCOTCH 

STYLE. 

Cut some eels in pieces about 3 inches long ; split them length- 
wise and remove the bone. Stuff them with fish forcemeat, to 
which add cooked fine herbs. Tie each piece of eel with a string 
and cook with white wine and fish stock. 

\Yhen done, take off the string, drain and dress on a dish, 
and pour over Scotch Sauce. 



ANGUILLE FARCIE A L'AURORE STUFFED EEL, AURORA 

STYLE. 

Prepare the eels as for Scotch Style, using chopped truffles 
instead of cooked fine herbs for the forcemeat. 
Cover the fish with Aurora sauce. 



ANGUILLE FRITE-- FRIED EEL. 

Proceed as for Broiled Eel. \Yhen the eel is cooked and 
cooled, dip in beaten eggs and bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 
Serve with same hot and cold sauces as Fried Sole. 



78 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

ANGUILLE BOUILLIE- -BOILED EEL. 

Eel is boiled but very seldom as a matter of fact, only for 
amateurs, who eat it for its own merits. Serve w r ith melted but- 
ter, Dutch or caper sauce. 

ANGUILLE GRILLEE BROILED EEL. 

Cut the eels in pieces 4 inches in length and cook them in 
slightly acidulated and salted water with onion and faggot ; 
allow to get cold ; then dip in melted butter and bread crumbs 
and broil over brisk fire. 

Serve with same hot and cold sauces as Broiled Salmon. 

NOTE. While it is customary to proceed as explained above, 
it is not at all essential to first cook the eels. They may just as 
well be split and boned, be well seasoned, basted with sweet 
oil, and broiled over a clear fire; or they may be cut into regu- 
lar pieces and broiled without boning. 



BLUEFISH A LA MONTPENSIER--BLUEFISH, MONTPENSIER 

STYLE. 

Cut the bluefish in heart-shaped pieces, season and cook it 
with fish stock. When nearly done, drain the fish and place it 
on a baking dish, laying alternate slices of mushrooms and 
truffles on top, and pour on Italian Sauce. Strew over bread 
crumbs, place a few small pats of butter on top and bake in the 
oven. 

BLUEFISH A LA BERCY- -BLUEFISH, BERCY STYLE. 

Cut the fish in pieces as indicated above. Chop fine 4 shallots, 
place them in a buttered pan, lay 12 pieces of bluefish on top, 
season and moisten with rich fish stock, and cover with a but- 
tered paper ; put to cook. When done, drain the fish and 
arrange it on a dish. Reduce the fish stock almost completely, 
then add I gill of veloute, incorporate 6 ounces of butter, season 
to taste, and finish with lemon juice and chopped parsley, and 
pour the sauce over the fish. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 79 

BLUEFISH SAUTE- -BLUEFISH SAUTED. 
Same as Kingfish or Spanish Mackerel. 

BLUEFISH AU GRATIN : A L'ITALIENNE, A LA CREOLE, A LA 
MORN AY- -BAKED BLUEFISH: ITALIAN FASHION, CRE- 
OLE FASHION, MORN AY STYLE. 

BLUEFISH GRILLE BROILED BLUEFISH. 

The meat of the bluefish is best adapted to be broiled, sauted 
or baked. 

Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Salmon or Cod. 
Hot Sauces: Fleurette, Colbert, pepper, piquant, pimento. 

BLUEFISH GRILLE, DIABLE- -BROILED BLUEFISH, DEVILED. 

When the bluefish is nearly done, remove from the broiler, 
cover with English mustard diluted with Worcestershire sauce 
and olive oil ; strew over bread crumbs, and finish to broil over a 
brisk fire. Serve separate. Pepper sauce, to which English 
mustard has been added. 



BOUILLABAISSE. 

Without the borders of the Mediterranean Coast it is rather 
difficult to obtain the real bouillabaise ; not because cooks are 
less talented elsewhere, but because the necessary fish for the 
preparation of this typical Provincial fish stew, or, rather soup, 
cannot be obtained. 

The essential quality of the fish should be its flavor, but an- 
other dominant factor is its gelatinous substance, without which 
it is difficult to obtain good results. 

Between the gelatinous broth, the oil and the tomato pulp, 
a homogeneous effect should be produced, which in this country 
we cannot obtain unless we prepare a fish stock especially en- 
forced with gelatine. 



8o The Post -Graduate Cookery Book. 

The fish to be used in preference should be of a firm texture, 
such as black bass, sea bass, striped bass, Spanish mackerel, 
kingfish, perch, porgy, etc. To this may be added the eel, the 
lobster and soft shell crab. 

Cut the following fish in pieces all of the same size, I black 
bass, i sea bass, i striped bass, i eel, i small lobster, and at 
last 3 soft crabs, which cut in two only. 

Chop fine 2 onions and the white part of two leeks, fry lightly 
in olive oil, add 2 crushed cloves of garlic and 3 good-sized ripe 
tomatoes previously peeled, freed from seed and cut in small 
pieces. 

Add the fish and a faggot of parsley, thyme, bay leaf and 
fennel, moisten with i l / 2 quarts of fish stock and set on a brisk 
fire. Next add 2 tablespoonfuls of coarsely chopped parsley, 
the pulp of a half lemon cut in slices, l / 2 teaspoonful of powdered 
saffron and sufficient salt and pepper. 

The fish will be cooked in 15 minutes. Dress the fish sym- 
metrically on a dish. Strain the broth into a tureen, and serve 
separately some toasted sippets of bread. 

NOTE. Although this dish may not suit the average Ameri- 
can taste, I thought to add it to the present collection of receipts, 
as it might be of use to one or another in case an amateur of 
bouillabaise should ask to have it prepared ; so much more as 
other American books on cookery have omitted to give the de- 
tails I have given above. 



FILET DE BASS A LA COOUELIN- -FILLETS OF BASS, COQUE- 

LIN STYLE. 

Cook i dozen crayfish with white wine, mirepoix, etc. AYhen 
clone, strain the liquor and retain for further use ; pick the tails 
from the shells and put both aside. 

Take off the fillets of 3 small bass, trim and fold them and 
affix to each at the pointed end a well cleaned crayfish chest ; 
then put the fillets into a buttered saute pan. 

Cut into small dice i onion, i small carrot and a little raw 
ham, add a few pepper corns, 2 bay leaves and a pinch of thyme ; 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 81 

smother all this in butter, and then add the pounded crayfish 
shells; moisten with a glass of white wine and the liquor in 
which the crayfish were cooked, also a little fish stock ; let 
simmer for 10 minutes, then add i pint of tomato sauce ; reduce 
to good consistency, then strain through a sieve and afterward 
through an etamine cloth with the aid of two wooden spoons. 

Put the sauce into a pan, season to taste, and finish with 2 
ounces of sweet butter. 

Fifteen minutes before serving the fish, moisten it with fish 
stock and a little white wine; put on the fire to cook. When 
done, dress a border of Duchesse potatoes on the dish ; put the 
fillets in the center, the crayfish chest uppermost; put on each 
fillet one crayfish tail, previously heated ; pour over the sauce 
and serve. 

FILET DE BASS RAYE A LA MAUDE ADAMS- -FILLETS OF 
STRIPED BASS, MAUDE ADAMS FASHION. 

Follow directions as given for Rolled Fillets of Sole, Conde 
Style. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes in halves, season with salt and pepper, 
lay on each half tomato a small lump of butter, and bake in the 
oven. 

Lay on each half tomato a fillet of bass, cover with Mornay 
sauce and bake of a nice color in a quick oven. 

FILET DE BASS RAYE EN COCOTTE A LA GEORGE SAND- -FIL- 
LET OF STRIPED BASS IN COCOTTE, GEORGE SAND STYLE. 

Remove the fillets from a striped bass, skin and trim them 
nicely, season with pepper and salt, roll up into the shape of a 
barrel and put into buttered cocottes (same as used for eggs). 
Put over each fillet I shrimp, cover with Mornay sauce, sprinkle 
with chopped hard-boiled egg yolks and Parmesan cheese, and 
bake in a slow oven for 15 minutes. 

FILET DE BASS RAYE A LA MALAYENNE--FILLET OF STRIPED 

BASS, MALAY STYLE. 
Lift the fillets of the bass and remove the skin ; fold in two, 



82 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

trim nicely, and cook with a little fish stock ; dish up on a bed 
of rice, and serve with Malay sauce. 



BASS RAYEE GRILLES BROILED STRIPED BASS. 
Same as for Sea Bass. 

BASS RAYEE BOUILLIE- -BOILED STRIPED BASS. 
Same as for Sea Bass. 

AlGUILLETTES DE BASS DE MER A LA ORLY- -AlGUILLETTES 

OF SEA BASS, ORLY STYLE. 

Cut from a Sea bass long narrow fillets, rather small, so 
that two can be given per head ; flatten them lightly, season with 
salt and pepper ; dip in milk first, then in flour. 

Pierce both ends of the fillets with a skewer and put 2 fillets 
on each skewer, and fry in hot lard. Dress on a napkin, garnish 
with fried parsley and serve tomato sauce separate. 

FILET DE BASS DE MER A LA JEAN NETTE- -FILLETS OF SEA 

BASS, JEANNETTE FASHION. 

Prepare, cook and serve the sea bass as explained for Fillet 
of Kingfish, Knapp Fashion. 

Prepare the sauce as directed, using puree of oysters instead 
of puree of clams. 

PUREE OF OYSTERS. 

Stiffen the oysters in their own juice, and proceed as ex- 
plained for Puree of Clams. 

BASS DE MER BOUILLI- -BOILED SEA BASS. 
May be served with any fish sauce of any color. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 83 

BASS DE MER GRILLEE BROILED SEA BASS. 



Butter Sauces : Same as for Broiled Cod. 
Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Salmon. 

BASS DE LAC GRILLEE BROILED LAKE BASS. 
Same as for Sea Bass. 

BASS DE LAC BOUILLIE BOILED LAKE BASS. 
Same as for Sea Bass. 

CABILLAUD ROTI, SAUCE VENITIENNE--ROAST COD, VENE- 
TIAN SAUCE. 

Cut a piece about 4 pounds from the middle part of a cod, 
take off the skin and lay it in a buttered pan. Season the fish 
with salt and pepper, baste it with beaten eggs, and strew over 
bread crumbs ; pour over melted butter and set it to roast in a 
mild oven for three-quarters of an hour, basting it occasionally. 

Serve Venetian sauce separate. 

NOTE.- -The cod should lay on its belly, back uppermost. 

Any other sauce adapted to cod may be served instead of 
Venetian sauce. 

STEAK DE CABILLAUD A LA BONNEFEMME COD STEAK, 

HOUSEWIFE'S STYLE. 

Place the cod steak in a buttered pan with I or 2 chopped 
shallots ; moisten with fish stock and white wine, and cook in a 
moderate oven, basting occasionally. When done, add a little 
cream to the stock in which the cod was cooked and thicken 
with kneaded butter. 

Season to taste, and finish with chopped fine herbs and lemon 
juice. Dress the fish on a dish, pour over the sauce and serve. 



84 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

STEAK DE CABILLAUD A LA MILANAISE COD STEAK, MILAN 

FASHION. 

Season the cod with salt and pepper, place it in a buttered 
dish, sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, and place small pats of 
butter all over the fish, Cook in a moderate oven, basting the 
fish continually. Serve the fish in the dish in which it was 
cooked. 

CROUSTADES DE CABILLAUD A LA BRAGANCE CRUSTS OF COD, 

BRAGANZA STYLE. 

Have ready some cooked codfish. Clear it from skin and 
bones, and break it up into flakes ; mix it with Hungarian sauce, 
add a few chopped mushrooms and truffles, and fill it into small 
crusts. Strew over bread crumbs and melted butter and grad- 
uate under the salamander. 



CROUSTADES DE CABILLAUD A LA DIAZ CRUSTS OF COD, DIAZ 

STYLE. 

Same as above ; add chopped sweet peppers instead of the 
truffles. 

CABILLAUD BOUILLI- -BOILED COD. 

Anchovy Sauce : Dutch, lobster, shrimp, oyster, soft clam, 
parsley, egg, caper, mussel, oyster crab, mussel and shrimp, 
green Dutch, nonpareille, Maltese, Aurora, etc. 

CABILLAUD GRILLE- -BROILED COD (Coo STEAK). 

Butter Sauces : Maitre d'hotel, almond, horseradish, anchovy, 
ravigote, bay. 

Bay Sauce : Add some finely chopped Barbado pickles to 
maitre d'hotel butter. 

Hot Sauces : Bearnaise, green Bearnaise, red Bearnaise, 
horseradish Bearnaise. 

Cold Sauces : Tartar, remoulade, Tyrolian, ravigote, Ger- 
manique, a la Agostini. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 85 

CABILLAUD SAUTE CODFISH SAUTED. 
Same as Kingfish or Spanish Mackerel. 

NOTE. When sauted, the cod may either be cut in steaks or 
the tail part may be filleted. 



CARPE A LA CHAMBORD CARP, CHAMBORD STYLE, 
There is but little demand in this country for this sumptuous 
dish ; perhaps only in rich private houses or for high class 
banquets. 

The traditions of the old school of cookery teach us to lard 
the carp with strips of larding pork ; to stuff it with veal force- 
meat and to garnish it with sweetbreads, cockscombs, etc. 

From the modern point of view, such ideas are incongruous. 
One may claim that the American is proud of his boiled turkey 
with oyster sauce; but while turkey and oyster sauce may be 
well fitting, this dish cannot be named among the classical 
dishes of high class cookery, as Carp, Chambord Style, a dish 
which it is said was invented by the cooks of Catherine of 
Medici. 

RECEIPT. Scale the carp and draw it through the gills, so as 
to leave the belly intact ; stuff it with fish forcemeat and tie the 
head with a string. 

Line a fish kettle with sliced onions and carrots, add a faggot 
of herbs, lay the fish on top, and moisten with half fish stock 
and half claret. Cook in a moderate oven, continually basting. 

Y\ hen done, drain the fish and lay it on a dish ; strain the fish 
stock, reduce it with brown sauce to give it consistency, then 
season to taste. Finish with a few pats of butter and lemon 
juice. Garnish the fish with fish quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, 
shrimps, oysters, fried milts of fish, etc. All this dressed sep- 
arately. 

Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. 

XOTE. If this dish is intended to be very showy, serve it on 
a rice socle. Make large fish quenelles and decorate them with 



86 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

truffles. Make also a few skewers with glaced truffles and 
trussed crayfish and stick them in the carp before serving. 

CARPE BOUILLIE BOILED CARP. 
Sauces : Dutch, caper, Genoise. 

CARPE GRILLEE BROILED CARP. 

Butter Sauces : Maitre d'hotel, anchovy, horseradish. 
Cold Sauces : Same as for Salmon. 

CARPE FRITE FRIED CARP. 

Hot Sauces : Tomato, Colbert. 

Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Salmon. 

MATELOTE D'ANGUILLE MATELOTE OF EELS. 

The Matelote is one of the oldest and most famous dishes of 
French cookery. Many of the inns on the border of the Seine 
have obtained a reputation for the perfect rendition of this dish. 

Cut 3 pounds of cleaned eels in pieces 3 inches long, put them 
into a saucepan and moisten with two-thirds claret and one- 
third fish stock ; add a faggot of herbs, salt and pepper ; let 
simmer for 15 minutes, then add 2 dozen small glaced onions 
and 2 dozen small heads of mushrooms. Simmer for 10 minutes 
more, or longer, according to the size of the eel. Remove the 
faggot, and thicken the gravy with butter kneaded with the same 
amount of flour. Season to taste ; arrange the fish nicely on a 
dish, pour over the sauce, and garnish with heart-shaped pieces 
of bread fried in butter. 

Another method is to cook the fish separately, to prepare a 
Matelote sauce, and add the fish to the sauce just to heat it 
thoroughly. 

MATELOTE D'ANGUILLE ET DE CARPE MATELOTE OF EELS 

AND CARP. 

Proceed as explained above, adding half the amount of cut 
carp. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 87 

GRANDE MATELOTE GRAND MATELOTE. 

Under this name cooks of an earlier period used to serve a 
stew similar to the above, using eels, carp and pike, and gar- 
nishing it with mushrooms, small glaced onions, crayfish, carp's 
milt, fish quenelles, etc. 



MATELOTE A LA NORMANDE NORMAN MATELOTE. 

For this, several sorts of fish (as kingfish, striped bass, 
flounder or Spanish mackerel) may be used. Cook exactly as 
the ordinary Eel Matelote, using white wine instead of claret, and 
omitting the onions, replacing these by chopped shallots. 

When the fish is nearly done, remove it into a clean pan ; re- 
duce the stock with cream veloute sauce to give it consistency, 
season to taste with salt, pepper and lemon juice; strain and 
pour it over the fish, adding the belly part of parboiled oysters. 
Dress on a dish, garnish with fried crusts of bread and trussed 
crayfish. 



FILET DE KINGFISH A LA HAMILTON- -FILLETS OF KINGFISH, 

HAMILTON STYLE. 

Sift and pare the fillets of kingfish ; season and place them in 
a buttered saute pan, moisten with half fish stock and half 
Madeira. When done, drain and dress the fillets on a dish, then 
reduce the fish stock. Have ready a cooked mirepoix of onions, 
mushrooms, carrots and truffles cut in ^4-inch squares, add to 
the reduced stock with brown sauce and a little thick cream. 
Reduce to good consistency, incorporate a few pats of butter, 
season to taste and pour the sauce over the fish. 

FILET DE KINGFISH A LA DIVA- -FILLET OF KINGFISH, DIVA 

FASHION. 

Remove the fillets of a kingfish, take off the skin, cut (the fil- 
lets) through the center in halves, and trim into the shape of a 



88 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

half heart. Butter a saute pan and lay the fillets therein ; 
moisten with a little fish stock, and cook for 3 to 4 minutes on 
one side only; then put them under a light press and allow to 
get cold. 

In the meantime prepare a salpicon of oysters and mushrooms 
as follows : Take the belly parts of I dozen oysters, cut them 
in 4 and cook with a little of their own juice ; next add 6 mush- 
rooms cut in squares and i spoonful of thick Bechamel sauce; 
then when boiling, thicken with I egg yolk, season to taste, and 
put away to cool. 

When the salpicon is cold, put I teaspoonful of it on the 
cooked side of each fillet, cover the whole with cream fish force- 
meat, smooth with the blade of a table knife (dipped in lukewarm 
water), decorate with truffles cut in fanciful shapes, replace in 
the saute pan, moisten with a little fish stock, cover with but- 
tered paper, and cook in a slow oven for from 12 to 15 minutes. 

Serve with Hollandaise sauce finished with lobster butter. 



PAUPIETTES DE KINGFISH AUX FINES HERBES- -ROLLED 
KINGFISH, FINE HERB SAUCE. 

Split the kingfish (leaving the head attached whole, and cut- 
ting the spinal bone right at the beginning of the head) ; season 
the fillets with salt and pepper, and spread over them (on the 
side of the skin) a fish forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs ; 
roll the fillets on themselves in the shape of a spiral, and put on 
each a good-sized mushroom ; place in a saucepan with a little 
fish stock, and cook in a moderate oven for 15 minutes. Dress 
on a dish and pour over fine herb sauce. 

FILET DE KINGFISH A LA KNAPP- -FILLETS OF KINGFISH, 

KNAPP FASHION. 

Lift the fillets, remove the skin, fold, trim and cook with fish 
stock. When they are done, dress them on a dish and keep in 
a warm place. Reduce the stock, add I pint of veloute and I 
gill of cream ; reduce to good consistency ; then add 2 gills of 
puree of clams, heat well, season to taste and finish with 3 
ounces of sweet butter ; pour the sauce over the fillets and serve. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book, 89 

FILET DE KINGFISII A LA VERON- -FILLET OF KINGFISH, 

VERON STYLE. 

Remove the fillets from as many kingfish as are required, free 
them from skin and bones, trim all to the same shape, season 
with salt and pepper, dip in melted butter and bread crumbs, 
and broil over a brisk fire. Serve with green Bearnaise sauce 
separate. 

KINGFISH (UMBRINE) BOUILLI- -BOILED KINGFISH. 
Same sauces as for Boiled Codfish. 

KINGFISH (UMBRINE) GRILLE- -BROILED KINGFISH. 
Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Cod. 

KINGFISH (UMBRINE) SAUTE KINGFISH SAUTED. 

Miller's fashion, with brown butter, Grenoble style, Maxi- 
milian fashion : See Spanish Mackerel. 



AlGUILLETTES DE FLETAN A LA FLORENTINE AlGUILLETTES 

OF HALIBUT, FLORENTINE STYLE. 

Prepare small heart-shaped pieces of halibut, cook them in 
fish stock, and set them on a bed of plain boiled spinach ; cover 
the whole with Mornay sauce, besprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and melted butter, and bake in a brisk oven. 

AlGUILLETTES DE FLETAN A LA \ELUSKO AlGUILLETTES OF 

HALIBUT, XELUSKO STYLE. 

Have ready some heart-shaped pieces of halibut, season with 
salt and curry powder, dip in flour and fry in a sautoir with 
clarified butter. \Yhen done, dress the fish on a bed of plain 



90 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

boiled rice. Remove the butter from the pan, add a gill of port 
wine and I pint of tomato sauce ; reduce well. Season with salt 
and curry powder (a little only) ; incorporate 3 ounces of butter 
and pour over the fish. 



JEUNE FLETAN A LA DUGLERE CHICKEN HALIBUT, DUGLERE 

STYLE. 

Cut a small chicken halibut lengthwise in two, and cut each 
half in slices i inch thick. Butter a good-sized saute pan, and 
arrange the pieces of fish therein ; season with pepper and salt, 
add i large onion chopped very fine, 6 fresh tomatoes,, 
peeled, squeezed and cut in small pieces, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of shredded parsley, i bay leaf, a small sprig of thyme 
and a crushed half clove of garlic ; moisten with 2 gills of white 
wine and 2 gills of fish stock, cover the pan and cook for 25 
minutes. 

Range the pieces of fish on a dish and keep them warm ; re- 
move the bav leaf and thvme and thicken the sauce with a little 

f' 

veloute sauce or with a piece of butter kneaded with a little flour. 
Season to taste, and before serving add a good piece of butter. 

NOTE. Mr. Adolphe Duglere, the inventor of this dish, was 
for a long period maitre d ''hotel and chef of the Cafe Anglais, 
in Paris. It was principally through the genius and ability of 
this famous culinary artist that this restaurant gained its world- 
wide reputation. Mr. Duglere was also the originator of Pota- 
toes Anna. 



COTELETTES DE FLETAN A LA POJARSKY- -HALIBUT CUTLETS, 

POJARSKY STYLE. 

Chop fine i pound of halibut meat, add to it 5 ounces of butter 
and 2 tablespoonfuls of cream ; season with salt, pepper and a 
pinch of nutmeg ; put on ice to become firm ; form some equal 
size cutlets, roll in bread crumbs (so as to be better able to shape 
them), dip in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, fry in hot clarified 
butter ; put a favor frill on each cutlet and serve on a napkin 
with fried parsley as garnishing. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 9 1 

Serve separate a tomato sauce finished with whipped cream 
and seasoned highly with paprika. 



FILET DE FLEX AN A LA VILLENEUVE- -FILLETS OF HALIBUT, 

VlLLENEUVE STYLE. 

Lift the fillets of a young halibut, cut them in heart-shaped 
pieces, and cook with fish stock. When done, drain and range 
them on a dish ; lay a large slice of truffle on each fillet, cover 
with Mornay sauce blended with one-third of Soubise sauce, 
sprinkle over Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake in a 
brisk oven to a nice golden hue. 

FLETAN BOUILLIE- -BOILED HALIBUT. 
Sauces : Same as for Boiled Cod. 

FLETAN GRILLE BROILED HALIBUT (HALIBUT STEAK). 

Butter Sauces, Hot Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled 
Cod. 



MAQUEREAU ESPAGNOL A LA MEUNIERE SPANISH MACK- 
EREL, MILLER'S FASHION. 

Split a Spanish mackerel lengthwise in halves, remove the 
bones, season with salt and pepper, dip in flour and fry (in an 
oblong pan) in clarified butter. 

When the fish is cooked, dress it on a dish, besprinkle with 
freshly chopped parsley and squeeze over the juice of a lemon. 
Remove the butter from the pan, replace it by fresh in equal 
quantity, heat over the fire until the froth falls, and it is turning 
brown, and then pour over the fish and serve. 

Fish cooked in this manner is sometimes called "au beurre 
noisette," hazelnut butter. It can be prepared also as "au beurre 
noir," with black butter. For this the fish is cooked as a la 
Meuniere, omitting the lemon juice. The butter is allowed to 
turn completely brown, then some coarsely chopped parsley is 



92 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

thrown in, and as soon as the humidity is absorbed, a dash of 
vinegar is added, the butter being then poured over the fish for 
serving. 

MAQUEREAU ESPAGNOL A LA GRENOBLOISE SPANISH MACK- 
EREL, GRENOBLE STYLE. 

Proceed as for a la Meuniere, omitting lemon juice, but in- 
stead throwing into the butter sliced lemons (without seeds). 

MAQUEREAU ESPAGNOL A LA RACHEL SPANISH MACKEREL, 

RACHEL FASHION. 

Split a Spanish mackerel lengthwise, take off the skin and 
cut into heart-shaped pieces from 3 to 4 ounces each. Season 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour, and fry in clarified butter. 

Serve with the following sauce : 

Chop fine and fry in butter (without coloring) 3 onions, add 8 
ounces of chopped fresh mushrooms, cook until the butter turns 
clear, moisten with 2 gills of fish stock, reduce to I gill, add 1^/2 
quarts of fish veloute, cook for 5 minutes, rub through a fine 
sieve, put into another pan and reduce with I gill of cream. 
Season to taste and finish with 4 ounces of sweet butter. 

MAQUEREAU ESPAGNOL A LA MAXIMILIAN- -SPANISH MACK- 
EREL, MAXIMILIAN FASHION. 

Prepare and cook the mackerel as for Miller's fashion. 

Cut 2 sweet red peppers and 4 cooked artichoke bottoms into 
small squares. Prepare some hazelnut butter, throw in peppers 
and artichokes, heat well and pour over the fish. Sprinkle over 
some chopped parsley and serve with pieces of lemon separate. 

FILET DE MAQUEREAU ESPAGNOL A LA ROHAN- -FILLETS OF 
SPANISH MACKEREL, ROHAN STYLE. 

Split a Spanish mackerel, free from bones and skin, and cut 
it into heart-shaped pieces ; set them in a pan, season with salt 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 93. 

and pepper and cook with fish stock. When done, drain the fil- 
lets and range them on a dish. 

In the meantime, reduce the fish stock nearly dry, add I pint 
of veloute cream sauce, and reduce to good consistency with 2- 
gills of cream ; season to taste with salt and paprika, and finish 
with 2 ounces of sweet butter and the juice of a half lemon. 
Pour the sauce over the fish and garnish both ends of the dish 
with eggplant, cut in Julienne, dipped in milk and flour and fried 
in hot lard. 

MAQUEREAU ESPAGNOL BOUILLI- -BOILED SPANISH 

MACKEREL. 

Sauces : Dutch, green Dutch, lobster, shrimp. 

MAOUEREAU ESPAGNOL GRILLE- -BROILED SPANISH 

MACKEREL. 

Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Cod. 
Hot Sauces : Fleurette, Colbert. 



PERCHE A LA CALIFORNIENNE- -PERCH, CALIFORNIA STYLE. 

Cut 2 or 3 perch crosswise in 3 or 4 pieces. Place them in a 
buttered sautoir with 3 finely chopped shallots, 3 tomatoes, 
peeled, freed from seeds and cut up, and a tablespoonful of 
coarsely chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper, moisten 
with half fish stock and half claret, and cook over a brisk fire. 
"\Yhen done, dress the fish on a dish, reduce the sauce, and 
thicken it with a piece of butter kneaded with flour. Season to 
taste, finish with lemon juice and pour it over the fish. 

PERCHE BOUILLIE- -BOILED PERCH. 
Sauces : Same as for Boiled Cod. 

PERCHE GRILLEE- -BROILED PERCH. 
Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Cod. 



94 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

PERCHE SAUTE PERCH SAUTED. 
Same as Kingfish. 

PERCHE FRITE FRIED PERCH. 

Hot Sauces : Tomato, Colbert. 

Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Salmon. 



PORGY FARCI A LA CORSICAINE STUFFED PORGY, CORSICAN 

STYLE. 

Split open the porgies and remove the spinal bone. Stuff it 
with fish forcemeat, to which add chopped olives and fillets of 
anchovies, I tablespoonful of each to I quart of forcemeat. 

Tie the porgies with a string and place them over sliced car- 
rots and onions, moisten with half fish stock and half port wine, 
add a faggot of herbs, and cook in a moderate oven, basting the 
fish constantly. When done, drain it and dress it on a dish ; 
strain the fish stock and reduce it with brown sauce to a good 
-consistency, season to taste, and finish with a pat of butter and 
lemon juice. 

PORGY BOUILLI- -BOILED PORGY. 
Sauces : Same as for Boiled Cod. 

PORGY GRILLE- -BROILED PORGY. 
Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Cod. 

PORGY SAUTE- -PORGY SAUTED. 
Same as Kingfish. 

PORGY FRIT- -FRIED PORGY. 
Same sauces as for Fried Perch. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 95 

POMPANO BOUILLI- -BOILED POMPAXO. 

Sauces : Same as for Boiled Salmon. 

POMPANO GRILLE BROILED POMPANO. 

Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Salmon. 
Hot Sauces : Fleurette, Colbert. 



BOUDIN DE BROCHETON A LA THERMIDOR--BOUDIN OF 
PICKEREL, THERMIDOR STYLE. 

Prepare a forcemeat with i pound of pickerel (freed from 
skin and bones), 8 ounces of panada, 6 ounces of butter, i whole 
egg, and 2 egg yolks. 

Pound the fish to a fine pulp. Add the panada, then the but- 
ter (which should be firm), and last the eggs, one after the other. 
Season with salt, red pepper and nutmeg, and rub through a 
fine sieve ; put into a bowl and place on ice for I hour. 

Try the consistency of the forcemeat by plunging a little into 
boiling water, and rectify if necessary. Then chop fine l /> pound 
of cooked lobster meat, 3 ounces mushrooms and 2 ounces of 
truffles ; mix these ingredients with the forcemeat, and with a 
tablespoon divide it into small heaps on the table (besprinkled 
with flour), shape each heap to a nice flat oval, place in a saute 
pan, cover with boiling salted water, set on the fire and remove 
after the first boil. Drain on a towel. When cold, dip in beaten 
eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in hot clarified butter. Serve 
on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley and give American sauce 
separate. 



RED SNAPPER A LA LAFAYETTE- -RED SNAPPER, LAFAYETTE 

FASHION. 
Lift the fillets of a red snapper, free from skin and bones, and 



96 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

cut them into heart-shaped pieces. Season and cook with fish 
stock. 

Have ready the following vegetables cut in ^/J-inch squares 
and cooked with butter : One part each of onions, leeks, carrots 
and celery. (These vegetables should be cooked over a mild 
fire, so that they will not discolor.) 

When the fish is cooked, dress it on a dish, reduce the stock 
in which it was cooked, add 2 tablespoonfuls of the above- 
mentioned vegetables, I pint of veloute, and 2 gills of tomato 
sauce. Season to taste, and finish with 3 ounces of sweet but- 
ter, the juice of half a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Pour the sauce over the fish. 

RED SNAPPER A LA JUSTINE- -RED SNAPPER, JUSTINE 

FASHION. 

Prepare the red snapper as directed for Lafayette Fashion. 
Cook it with fish stock and claret. 

When the fish is done, dress it on a dish and keep it warm. 
Reduce the stock in which the fish \vas cooked, add I pint of 
brown sauce, and finish with 2 ounces of sweet and I ounce of 
lobster butter ; garnish with shrimps and small heads of mush- 
rooms ; pour over the sauce and lay on each end of the dish 
small round lobster croquettes ^4 mcn m diameter. 

RED SNAPPER BOUILLI- -BOILED RED SNAPPER. 

Sauces : Same as for Boiled Salmon. 

RED SNAPPER GRILLE- -BROILED RED SNAPPER. 

This fish is very seldom broiled. When it is, it may be ac- 
companied by the same sauces as Broiled Salmon. 



DARNE DE SAUMON A LA RICHELIEU- -SLICE OF SALMON, 

RICHELIEU STYLE. 

Have a middle cut of salmon and cook it as indicated for Carp, 
Chambord Style, using white wine instead of claret ; finish the 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 97 

sauce with half tomato and half veloute sauce and lobster butter. 
Garnish with mushrooms, shrimps and fried oysters. 



DARNE DE SAUMON A LA BOURGUIGNONNE SLICE OF 
SALMON, BURGUNDY FASHION. 

Lay a slice of salmon in a buttered pan, moisten with fish 
stock and claret or red Burgundy ; cook, and when done, drain 
and dress the fish on a dish. Reduce the stock with brown 
sauce, incorporate a few small pats of butter, and season to 
taste. 

Garnish the fish with small glaced onions and small heads of 
mushrooms ; pour over the sauce, and serve. 

NOTE. Instead of being reduced with brown sauce, the stock 
may be thickened with butter kneaded with flour. 

BORDURE DE SAUMON AUX LUCINES PAPILLONS A LA BARLOW 
-BORDER OF SALMON WITH SOFT CLAMS, BARLOW 

STYLE. 

Pound to a fine pulp 2 pounds of salmon freed from bones and 
skin; add i ounce of butter and 2 gills of thick bechamel; sea- 
son with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Then add the white of 2 eggs, 
rub through a fine sieve, put it into a bowl, and set on ice. 

After some time incorporate gently 2 gills of whipped cream. 
Butter and decorate to your fancy a large border mould ; fill it 
with the forcemeat, and cook in the bain-marie for 35 to 40 
minutes, dish up and fill the center with soft clams, Newburg 
stvle. 



TIMBAL DE SAUMON A LA MALTAISE SALMON TIMBALS, 

MALTESE STYLE. 

Prepare a salmon forcemeat as explained in previous receipt. 
Decorate some small timbal moulds ; line them with the force- 
meat, so as to leave a cavity ; fill this with a salpicon of truffles 
and mushrooms and parboiled oysters, all cut in small squares, 



The Post-Gradiiate Cookery Book. 

mixed with veloute sauce and thickened with egg yolks. Cover 
with forcemeat and cook in the bain-marie for 15 to 20 minutes. 
Unmould, dish up and serve with Maltese sauce. 

COTELETTE DE SAUMON A LA RUSSE SALMON CUTLETS, 

RUSSIAN FASHION. 

Prepare and serve as Halibut Cutlets, Pojarsky Style. 

FILET DE SAUMON AUX NOUILLES A L'AUTRICHIENNE- 
FILLETS OF SALMON WITH NOODLES, AUSTRIAN STYLE. 

Cut and trim some heart-shaped pieces of salmon, which 
season with salt and pepper, and dip in beaten eggs and bread 
crumbs. 

Fry them in clarified butter; dress on a dish, and garnish with 
noodles tossed in butter. Serve separate Hungarian sauce. 

COTELETTES DE SAUMON A LA VENITIENNE SALMON 

CUTLETS, VENETIAN STYLE. 

Remove the fillets from the tail end of a salmon, suppress the 
skin and divide the fillets into pieces of equal size and cutlet 
shape; sprinkle with salt, egg and bread crumb them, and fry 
in clarified butter. When done, decorate with a favor frill and 
serve on a napkin with Venetian sauce separate. 

COTELETTES DE SAUMON A LA VALOIS SALMON CUTLETS, 

VALOIS FASHION. 

Proceed as for Salmon Cutlets, Venetian Style, but instead of 
Venetian sauce serve Valois sauce, separate. 

COTELETTES DE SAUMON A LA VICOMTESSE SALMON CUT- 
LETS, VISCOUNTESS FASHION. 

Prepare and cook the salmon cutlets as stated above; dress 
them on a dish in crown shape, and garnish the center with 
asparagus tips tossed in butter. Serve Bearnaise sauce separate. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 99 

SAUMON BOUILLI-- BOILED SALMON. 

.Sauces: Dutch, lobster, shrimp, ^egg, caper, green Dutch, 
Nonpareil, Genoise. 

SAUMON GRILLE BROILED OR GRILLED SALMON. 

Sauces : Maitre d'hotel, anchovy, butter, Ravigote butter r 
horseradish butter. 

Hot Sauces : Bearnaise, horseradish-Bearnaise, Fleurette, 
red Bearnaise, Colbert. 

Cold Sauces : Tartar, Germanique, Ravigote, Remoulade, 
Tyrolian, Figaro. 

A la Agostini : Add some chopped sweet red peppers to 
maitre d'hotel butter. 

TURBAN DE FILET DE SOLE A LA CARDINAL- -TURBAN OF 
FILLETS OF SOLE, CARDINAL STYLE. 

Remove the fillets of 3 medium-sized soles or flounders. Take 
off the skin and flatten the fillets with a cleaver dipped in cold 
water, trim all to the same size, and shape them to be pointed 
on one end. 

With the trimmings and some more fish, prepare a red fish 
forcemeat. 

Butter liberally a Savarin cake mould of 8 inches in diameter, 
lay the seasoned fish fillets in the mould (the skin side inwards, 
the pointed end facing the center), so that the fillets extend I 
inch on each side of the mould. Fill the hollow space with red 
fish forcemeat, and turn over the ends of the fillets, so as to 
cover the forcemeat. 

Place the mould in a shallow pan (half full of boiling water), 
cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and cook in a slow oven 
for 30 minutes. When ready to serve, turn over on a dish, pour 
over some lobster sauce, and besprinkle with finely chopped 
lobster coral. 

TURBAN DE FILET DE SOLE A LA DUSE- -TURBAN OF 
FILLETS OF SOLE, DUSE STYLE. 

Proceed as explained for Turban of Fillets of Sole, Cardinal 



42 



Tlie Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

"Style, but instead of red fish forcemeat fill the hollow space with 
a rissoto cooked with fish stock, and to which add some chopped 
truffles. Cook the turban rather under-done, unmould on' a 
round dish, pour over Mornay sauce, besprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and gratinate to a nice 
color. 

NOTE. Turbans may as well be made with other kinds of 
filleted fish and different sorts of forcemeats. 



PAUPIETTES DE SOLES A LA CONDE ROLLED FILLETS OF 

SOLE, CONDE STYLE. 

Lift the fillets from 2 or 3 soles, flatten and trim them, season 
with salt and pepper, and put a layer of fish cream forcemeat 
on each ; besprinkle with chopped truffles and roll up in the 
shape of a barrel, tie with a string, cook for 15 minutes with fish 
stock, dress in a cocotte (as used for serving eggs), pour over 
crayfish sauce and place on each a slice of truffle previously 
heated. 



PAUPIETTES DE FILET DE SOLE A LA GEORGETTE ROLLED 
FILLETS OF SOLE, GEORGETTE FASHION. 

Prepare and cook the fillets as stated above. 

Have ready some good-sized baked potatoes, cut them length- 
wise in halves, scoop them out with a spoon, press (the potatoes) 
through a fine sieve, add a piece of butter and some cream, and 
mix with double the amount of Mornay sauce. 

Cover the fillets with this sauce, sprinkle over some grated 
Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake in a brisk oven 
until nicely browned. 

PAUPIETTES DE FILET DE SOLE A LA MARIETTA- -ROLLED 
FILLETS OF SOLE, MARIETTA FASHION. 

Proceed as for Rolled Fillets of Sole, Conde Style. Dress 
each fillet on an artichoke bottom (previously heated), cover 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. IDE 

with white wine sauce and garnish with small fried oysters, two 
to each fillet. 



FILET DE SOLE A LA MARIGNY- -FILLETS OF SOLE, MARIGNY 

STYLE. 

Lift the fillets of sole, fold them, and cook with fish stock ;. 
dish up, one laying on the other, pour over some shrimp sauce 
(it should not be too liquid), and around the fish pour well 
reduced tomato sauce, finished with lobster butter. Sprinkle 
over the shrimp sauce some finely chopped truffles. 

FILET DE SOLE A LA SCHLEY- -FILLETS OF SOLE, SCHLEY 

FASHION. 

Lift the fillets of sole, flatten them lightly and trim them all 
the same size ; season with salt and pepper, spread over each a 
layer of cream fish forcemeat and roll them up in barrel shape ; 
tie with a string and cook with fish stock. 

When cooked, drain, place on a dish, pour over oyster sauce 
and garnish with small crusts filled with fried and curried white 
bait. 



FILET DE SOLE SOUFFLES SOUFFLED FILLETS OF SOLE 

Lift, fold and cook the fillets of sole. Reduce the fish stock 
in which they were cooked, and add to it some Mornay sauce ; 
thicken with egg yolks and then incorporate the whites of eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Place the cooked fillets in an oblong 
case, cover with the above sauce and bake in a brisk oven for 
5 or 6 minutes. 



FILET DE SOLE EN WHITEBAIT ou WHITEBAIT A LA 
PARISIENNE FILLETS OF SOLE AS WHITE- 
BAIT, OR PARISIAN WHITEBAIT. 

Remove the fillets from the soles (or flounders), cut (the 
fillets) in thin strips the size of whitebaits (about 2 inches long 



102 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

and l /4 inch thick), dip in milk and then in a good quantity of 
flour, place in a coarse sieve, shake well to free from all super- 
fluous flour, and fry in very hot lard for 3 or 4 minutes. 
Some cold sauce may be served separate. 

FILET DE SOLE A LA FRANKLIN- -FILLETS OF SOLE, FRANK- 
LIN FASHION. 

Prepare, cook and serve the fillets as directed for Fillets of 
Kingfish, Knapp Fashion. 

Prepare the sauce in the same manner, using Puree of Mus- 
sels instead of Puree of Clams. 

PUREE OF MUSSELS. 

Scrape the mussels well, and wash them in several waters, and 
set them on the fire, as Mussels a la Mariniere ; remove the 
mussels from the shells and proceed as explained for Puree of 
Clams. 



FILET DE SOLE A LA MARGUERY- -FILLETS OF SOLE, 

MARGUERY STYLE. 

Lift the fillets of 2 soles (or flounders), season with salt, place 
them on a buttered dish, moisten with fish stock, and cook 
them in the oven, basting occasionally. 

When done, range them on a dish, garnish one side with small 
shelled shrimps and the other with mussels from which the foot 
and beard have been removed ; keep warm while the following 
sauce is prepared : 

Reduce the stock in which the fish was cooked, add a gill of 
veloute sauce and I raw egg yolk ; incorporate 4 ounces of 
butter ; season to taste ; strain and pour over the fish gratinate 
under the salamander. When this is done, let fall a few drops 
of melted shrimp or lobster butter over the fish. 

SOLE BOUILLIE--BOILED SOLE. 

In the United States we get the real sole only in frozen con- 
dition; it is regrettable that we can obtain it but in that state, 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 103 

for no other fish adapts itself to such a variety of preparations 
as the sole, and in fault of which the flounder is often substi- 
tuted. 

Sauces : Same as for Boiled Cod. 

SOLE GRILLEE- -BROILED SOLE. 
Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Cod. 

SOLE FRITE- -FRIED SOLE. 

Hot Sauces : Tomato, Colbert. 

Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Salmon. 

SOLE SAUTEE SOLE SAUTED. 
Same as Kingfish and Spanish Mackerel. 

SHEEPSHEAD A LA GENLIS SHEEPSHEAD, GENLIS FASHION. 

Remove the fillets of a sheepshead, free from skin and bones, 
cut into neatly trimmed pieces of about 4 ounces each and cook 
with fish stock. 

Cut into short, thin strips I part each of truffles, mushrooms 
and gherkins ; add this garnishing to the fish stock (first re- 
moving the fish and keeping it warm), reduce the stock, moisten 
with I pint of brown sauce, and season to taste with salt and 
paprika. Finish with lemon juice and 3 ounces of sweet butter. 



EPERLANS A LA MARQUISE SMELTS, MARCHIONESS 

FASHION. 

Split some smelts and remove the spinal bones. 

Prepare a fish forcemeat, add to it cooked fine herbs as fol- 
lows : Six shallots chopped fine and fried in butter without 
browning; then 12 fresh mushrooms chopped also; a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a teaspoonful of chopped 
chervil. When the humidity of the mushrooms has evaporated, 
the fine herbs are cooked, and when cold can be mixed with the 
forcemeat. 



104 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Fill the smelts with the stuffing, give them their natural shape, 
dip in beaten eggs and then in fresh bread crumbs, and fry in 
hot lard. 

Serve with Bearnaise sauce separate. 

BROCHETTES D'EPERLANS--BROCHETTES OF SMELTS, OR 

SMELTS ON SKEWERS. 

Prepare the smelts as for frying, either dipped in milk and 
rolled in flour, or bread-crumbed. 

Stick through their eyes a skewer, 4 to 6 smelts to be on one 
skewer. 

Serve same sauces as indicated for fried smelts. 

EPERLANS DESOSSES GRILLES SMELTS BONED AND BROILED, 

Split some good-sized smelts up the back, loosen the back 
bone with the thumb, and cut it at both ends, leaving head and 
tail of the fish intact. 

Baste with olive oil, season with salt, and broil over a brisk 
fire. Serve on a hot dish. 

Serve with sauces, as mentioned for smelts on another page. 

EPERLANS FARCIS A L'ITALIENNE AU GRATIN- -SMELTS, 
STUFFED AND BAKED, ITALIAN STYLE. 

Bone the smelts, as explained previously. Stuff them with 
fish forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs ; range them in a 
buttered dish, cook partially with fish stock, drain and cover 
with Italian sauce. Then besprinkle with bread crumbs and 
melted butter, and bake in a hot oven. \Yhen done, squeeze 
over some lemon juice and strew over some chopped parsley. 

EPERLANS GRILLES- -BROILED SMELTS. 
Same sauces as for Fried Smelts. 

EPERLANS FRITS- -FRIED SMELTS. 

Hot Sauces : Tomato, Colbert, Bearnaise. 
Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Salmon. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 105. 

EPERLANS SAUTES SMELTS SAUTED. 
Same sauces as for Spanish Mackerel. 

EPERLANS DESOSSES GRILLES- -BONELESS SMELTS BROILED. 
Split the smelts lengthwise. 



SHEEPSHEAD A LA CRECY SHEEPSHEAD, CRECY STYLE. 

Prepare and cook the fish as for Sheepshead Genlis Fashion. 

Scrape the red part of 4 large carrots, put it in a saucepan 
with a lump of butter and a dessertspoonful of sugar ; set over 
a slow fire, and let cook gently, until the butter turns clear. 

Reduce the stock in which the fish w r as cooked, add I pint of 
Bechamel, and reduce with 2 gills of thick cream ; then add 2 
tablespoonfuls of the scraped carrots ; season the sauce to taste 
and pour it over the fish. 



SHEEPSHEAD A LA GERARD SHEEPSHEAD, GERARD FASHION. 

Prepare the sheepshead as explained above. Cook in half 
fish stock and half claret; dress the fish on a dish; reduce the 
stock, add I pint of brown sauce, finish with 2 ounces of an- 
chovy butter and the juice of half a lemon. 

Surround the fish with a garnishing of fried oysters and small 
decorated quenelles of fish. 



SHEEPSHEAD BOUILLI- -BOILED SHEEPSHEAD. 
Sauces : Same as for Boiled Salmon. 

SHEEPSHEAD GRILLE- -BROILED SHEEPSHEAD. 

When very young this fish may be served broiled. 
Same sauces as for Broiled Salmon. 



io6 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

ALOSE SAUTEE SHAD SAUTED. 
Same as for Kingfish and Spanish Mackerel. 

ALOSE GRILLEE- -BROILED SHAD, 

Hot Sauce : Fleurette. 

Butter Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Cod. 

ALOSE BOUILLIE--BOILED SHAD. 
Sauces : Same as for Boiled Cod Roe Sauce. 

OEUFS D'ALOSE GRILLEES AU PETIT SALE BROILED SHAD 

ROE WITH BACON. 

Hot Sauces, Cold Sauces, Butter Sauces : Same as for Broiled 
.Salmon. 



FILETS DE TRUITES FRITS A L'ANGLAISE FRIED FILLETS OF 

TROUT, ENGLISH FASHION. 

Prepare some fillets of trout, remove the skin and trim them 
all of uniform size. Season and then bread-crumb, and 5 min- 
utes before serving, fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with 
fried parsley and give separate the following sauce : 

Add to i pint of white wine sauce, 5/2 gill of brown sauce, I 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley and 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon 
juice. 

FILETS DE TRUITES A LA SYLVIA FILLETS OF TROUT, SYLVIA 

STYLE. 

Lift the fillets of trout free from skin, and fold them. Cook 
them in fish stock and white wine. When the fillets are done, 
reduce the stock and incorporate it to Mornay sauce. 

Dress the fillets on a dish, place on each fillet a small half 
tomato cooked in the oven ; place on each tomato a slice of 
trufBe and cover the whole with Mornay sauce ; then besprinkle 
with Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake in the oven. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 107 

TRUITE BOUILLIE BOILED TROUT. 
Sauces : Same as for Salmon. 

TRUITE GRILLEE BROILED TROUT. 

Butter Sauces, Hot Sauces, Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled 
Salmon. 

TRUITE FRITE- -FRIED TROUT. 

Only the smaller kind are fried. 

Cold Sauces : Same as for Broiled Salmon. 

TRUITE SAUTEE- -TROUT SAUTED. 
Same as Kingfish and Spanish Mackerel. 



BLANCH AILLES AU CURRY CURRIED WHITEBAIT. 

Roll the whitebait in flour, put them into a coarse sieve, shake 
well to free from superfluous flour, put in a wire basket, and fry 
in very hot lard for 2 minutes. 

Mix i teaspoonful of curry with 2 tablespoonfuls of salt and 
sprinkle over the whitebaits. 

Serve slices of buttered brown bread with the fish. 



LAVARET AU GRATIN- -BAKED WHITEFISH. 
Same as Bluefish. 

LAVARET GRILLE BROILED WHITEFISH. 
Same as Bluefish. 

LAVARET SAUTE WHITEFISH SAUTED. 
Same as Kingfish or Spanish Mackerel. 



io8 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

HOMARD SOUFFLE LOBSTER SOUFFLE. 

Cook 2 medium-sized lobsters, and allow them to get cold in 
the stock in which they were cooked. 

Split the lobster lengthwise in halves, being careful to keep 
the shells intact. Remove the meat of the lobsters and pound it 
in the mortar with 2 gills of Bechamel and 2 ounces of butter; 
rub through a fine sieve and put in a clean pan on the fire. In- 
corporate 2 gills of thickly reduced Bechamel, season highly with 
salt, nutmeg and red pepper and bind with 4 raw egg yolks with- 
out allowing it to boil ; then add the 4 egg whites whipped to a 
stiff froth. 

Fill the lobster shells two-thirds of their height with this prep- 
aration, and put them to bake in a slow oven for 25 minutes, 
and serve on a folded napkin. 

NOTE.- -The above amount of lobster is enough for 3 or 4 
lobster shells. These souffles may also be cooked in small in- 
dividual cases. To prevent the scorching of the lobster shells 
it is advisable to put a little water in the bottom of the pan in 
which they are baked. 

HOMARD AU GRATIN A LA MORN AY- -BAKED LOBSTER, 

MORNAY STYLE. 

Cut a cooked lobster lengthwise in half, remove the meat 
from the shell, and cut the tail part in neat slices. Cut the re- 
mainder of the lobster in small squares, add some mushrooms 
and truffles cut as the lobster, and bind with enough cream 
sauce to give it some substance. Season highly, and lay this 
preparation inside of the lobster shells, place the sliced lobster 
on top, and cover with Mornay sauce. Strew over some grated 
Parmesan cheese and drop over soni melted lobster butter. 
Bake in a well heated oven for 15 to 20 minutes. 

HOMARD AU GRATIN A LA VICTORIA BAKED LOBSTER, 

VICTORIA STYLE. 

Pound to a fine pulp the shells of 4 lobsters ; fry in 4 ounces 
of butter, i carrot and 2 onions cut fine ; add i small sprig of 
thyme and 2 bay leaves. When the vegetables begin to brown, 



The Past-Graduate Cookery Book. 109 

add the lobster pulp, stir continuously for 5 minutes, then 
moisten with I pint of white wine. After .5 minutes more, add 
I quart of tomato and I quart of veloute sauce ; cook together 
for 15 minutes, then rub through a very fine sieve. 

Put the sauce into a clean saucepan and reduce with I gill 
of cream until of good consistency ; season to taste with salt 
and paprika. 

Cut some small, cooked lobsters in halves ; take out the meat 
and cut into slices the size of a 25-cent piece. Put some of the 
sauce in the lobster shells and range the meat on top with 
alternate slices of mushrooms and truffles ; cover with the sauce, 
sprinkle over some grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter, 
and bake in a hot oven for 12 to 15 minutes. Serve on a napkin. 

HOMARD SAUTE A L'AMERICAINE LOBSTER SAUTED, 

AMERICAN STYLE. 

Had the originator of this dish known the dislike that Ameri- 
cans have to the touching of their food with their fingers he 
might have hesitated in naming it after them. 

Lobster a la Newburg seems to be more en vogue or more 
to the liking of the American people, probably on account of its 
being handled easier with the fork. While some chefs have 
tried to introduce lobster a TAmericaine prepared with cooked 
lobster taken from the shell, we maintain that it is deprived 
not only of its originality in appearance, but also of its charac- 
teristic flavor. 

If the intentions of the originator of this tasty dish should be 
carried out, the lobster must be cut up in its raw state and be 
cooked immediately. 

Modifications can be made to suit the American taste ; instead 
of oil, butter may be used, and garlic may be left out altogether 
if objectionable. 

RECEIPT. 

Wash well 2 young lobsters, cut the claws off the body, and 
divide each in two (cracking the shells). Cut the tails trans- 



no The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

versely in four pieces and divide the head lengthwise in two. 
Season the pieces of lobster with salt and pepper, and fry them 
in smoking hot olive oil (or butter). 

Move the pieces of lobster to have them fried equally on all 
sides. When this is done, remove the lobster on a dish and keep 
it hot. 

Decant the oil and replace it by a piece of butter ; add I finely 
chopped onion (about a tablespoonful), cook the onion for a 
while, then add 3 chopped shallots. A moment later add 3 or 4 
fresh tomatoes, previously peeled, freed from seeds and cut 
into small pieces ; add coarsely chopped parsley, a faggot of 
herbs and a supcon of garlic. Lay the lobster on top of this, 
moisten with 2 gills of white wine and a pony of brandy, cover 
the pan and set on full fire. After ten minutes, add 2 gills each 
of brown and tomato sauce, cook 10 minutes longer, add a 
tablespoonful of chicken or veal glace, and the soft part, which 
is found in the head of the lobster rubbed through a fine sieve. 
Cook for a few minutes more, then incorporate 3 or 4 ounces 
of butter, season highly, add a teaspoonful of chopped chervil 
and a pinch of tarragon, and finish with lemon juice. 

Dress the lobster symmetrically on a dish, and pour over the 
sauce. 

NOTE. Some cooks rub the sauce through an etamine cloth ; 
but it is mostly served as explained above. 



HOMARD SAUTE A LA DUMAS LOBSTER SAUTED, DUMAS 

STYLE. 

Take the meat from 2 boiled lobsters and cut in 1/2 -inch thick 
pieces, reserving the creamy part and coral for later use. 

Heat 2 ounces of butter in a saute pan, throw in the lobster 
and fry for a few minutes without coloring ; add 2 tablespoonfuls 
of cooked mirepoix (carrots, mushrooms and onions), moisten 
with 2 gills of white wine, allow to reduce nearly dry, add 2 
gills of brown sauce, allow to boil, and finish with the creamy 
part of the lobster, the coral and 3 ounces of butter pounded 
and rubbed through a fine sieve. Do not boil any longer. Sea- 
son with salt and paprika, and before serving add the juice of 
half a lemon. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 1 1 1 

HOMARD SAUTE A LA HONGROISE LOBSTER SAUTED, HUN- 
GARIAN FASHION. 

Remove the meat from 3 or 4 cooked lobsters and cut it into 
^2-inch thick slices. 

Heat some butter in a sautoir ; season the lobster with salt 
and plenty of paprika, and put it to fry in the sautoir. After a 
few minutes, moisten with a glass of white wine, allow to reduce 
to half, and then add i pint of veloute cream sauce and I gill 
of thick cream ; reduce to good consistency over a brisk fire, 
season highly and finish with a small lump of butter and the 
juice of half a lemon. 

CROQUETTES DE HOMARD A L'INDIENNE- -LOBSTER CRO- 
QUETTES, INDIAN FASHION. 

Have ready, cooked, with chicken broth, 2 quarts of rice, add 
2 pounds of cooked lobster meat (cut in small squares) and I 
pint of cream sauce, season highly with salt, curry powder and 
chutney, and set in a tin pan to get cold ; then shape into small 
croquettes (any desired shape). Dip them in beaten eggs and 
bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. Serve on a folded napkin, and 
give separate a sauceboatful of curry cream sauce. 



CRABES Moux A LA MARSCHALL SOFT SHELL CRABS, 

MARSCHALL STYLE. 

Remove the shells and lungs of 6 soft-shell crabs ; also cut 
the thin claws, leaving only the two principals. 

Saute the crabs in butter, as indicated in a la Meuniere, with 
the addition of finely shredded green peppers thrown into the 
butter. 

NOTE.- -The green peppers for this purpose should be plunged 
in hot fat, so as to be able to remove the skin with a kitchen 
towel. 

CHAIR DE CRABES A LA MARYLAND CRAB MEAT, MARYLAND 

STYLE. 
Reduce to half I gill of sherry, add I pint of cream sauce and 



ii2 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

2 gills of cream. Season with salt and red pepper, and in- 
corporate 3 ounces of butter. 

Add the crab meat, which should be nicely picked and in 
flakes ; heat well without allowing to boil and serve imme- 
diately. 

CHAIR DE CRABES A LA CREOLE CRAB MEAT, CREOLE STYLE. 

Heat i pint of Creole sauce, add 2 gills of cream sauce; 
season to taste, and finish with 3 ounces of butter ; add the crab 
meat, heat without boiling, and serve. 

CHAIR DE CRABES A LA VICTORIA CRAB MEAT, VICTORIA 

STYLE. 

Prepare as for Maryland Style. Finish the sauce with lobster 
butter and chopped eggs and sliced truffles. 

CHAIR DE CRABES ET CRABES D'HUITRES A LA MARYLAND 
CRAB MEAT AND OYSTER CRABS, MARYLAND STYLE. 

Prepare the crab meat as explained before, for Maryland 
Style. Have ready picked some oyster crabs, plunge them in 
boiling water for I minute, then drain and add to the crab 
meat. 

CHAIR DE CRABES A LA DEWEY- -CRAB MEAT, DEWEY STYLE. 

Prepare as explained for Maryland Style. Add some coarsely 
shredded green peppers and mushrooms sauted in butter. 

NOTE.- -The skin of the green peppers should be removed be- 
fore being shredded. 



HUITRES A LA WALDORF- -OYSTERS, WALDORF STYLE. 

Heat 3 ounces of butter in a saucepan, add 3 dozen oysters, 
I gill of well-picked oyster crabs and I dozen fresh mushrooms 
cut in squares ; cook for a while, then add I stalk of braised 
celery cut in squares ; heat well, season to taste with salt and 



The Post-Gradnate Cookery Book. 113 

cayenne, and finish with 4 ounces of sweet butter. Serve in 
charing dish. 

(This receipt was kindly furnished to me by Mr. Rene Anjard, 
chef at the Waldorf-Astoria, New York.) 

HUITRES A LA PARMENTIER OYSTERS, PARMENTIER STYLE. 

Bake in the oven 12 medium-sized potatoes. When cooked, 
make a horizontal incision on the flat side of each potato (so as 
to make a cover), and remove the interior. With one-third part 
of the potato removed, prepare a rich puree. 

Cook 5 dozen oysters in their own juice, take off the scum 
and drain, add as much cream sauce as is necessary, bind it with 
4 e te" yolks, 2 ounces of butter and a good dash of sherry, and 
season to taste with salt and pepper. 

Put some of the potato puree in each potato, lay on top 5 
pieces of oysters, put the cover in its place, and heat well in the 
oven. Serve on a folded napkin. 

LUCINES ORANGES A LA SOUTH SIDE CLUB- -HARD CLAMS, 

SOUTH SIDE CLUB STYLE. 

Remove the hard part from 4 dozen small clams, put them in 
a saucepan with their own juice, and at the first boil remove 
from the fire and take off the scum. Then add a half-pint of 
cream and thicken lightly with a piece of butter kneaded with 
the same amount of flour. Season to taste and serve with dry 
toast separate. 

LUCINES PAPILLONS A LA MARINIERE SOFT CLAMS, 

MARINER'S FASHION. 

Thoroughly clean some soft clam shells, and place in each the 
belly part of the clam, moisten with a few drops of white wine, 
and besprinkle with a mixture composed of I teaspoonful of 
freshly ground or crushed white pepper, I tablespoonful of 
freshly chopped parsley and I tablespoonful of chopped 
shallots, to which has been added 2 handfuls of fresh bread 
crumbs ; lay on top of each clam a little bit of butter, put 



ii4 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

them in a roasting pan, and place in the oven to cook for 12 to 
15 minutes. When serving press over them a little lemon juice. 
NOTE. Oysters may be prepared in the same style. 

LUCIXES PAPILLOXS ET CRABES D'HUITRES A LA MARYLAND 
-SOFT Cn.MS AXD OYSTER CRABS, MARYLAND 

STYLE. 

Heat in a saute pan, 2 ounces of butter, add 3 dozen soft 
clams, and moisten with 2 gills of sherry ; let cook for 10 min- 
utes ; then add 2 gills of cream sauce ; season to taste and finish 
with 2 ounces of butter. 

Plunge y 2 pint of picked and well-washed oyster crabs in 
boiling salted water for 2 minutes, drain well, and add to the 
clams just before serving. 

LUCINES PAPILLOXS A LA NEWBURG SOFT CLAMS, NEWBURG 

STYLE. 

Cook as above. Keep the sauce somewhat thinner, and bind 
with 3 raw egg yolks and I gill of cream. 

LUCINES PAPILLOXS A LA BONIFACE SOFT CLAMS, BONI- 
FACE STYLE. 

Chop fine 2 green peppers and 2 shallots, which fry in butter 
without browning, then add 4 dozen soft clams (belly part) and 
moisten with a gill of sherry. Simmer gently for 10 minutes, 
add i pint of veloute cream or Bechamel sauce, cook 5 minutes 
longer ; season with salt and red pepper, and incorporate 3 
ounces of butter just before serving. 

LUCINES PAPILLONS A LA GODARD SOFT CLAMS, GODARD 

STYLE. 

Chop fine 3 shallots and 12 medium-sized fresh mushrooms, 
fry lightly in butter, then add 36 soft clams, and moisten with 
2 gills of sherry. Allow to reduce to half, then add 2 gills of 
brown sauce ; season to taste ; add some chopped fine herbs ; 
incorporate 3 ounces of butter, and finish with the juice of half 
a lemon. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 115 

PETONCLES : A LA POULETTE, A LA MARYLAND, A LA NEW- 
BURG, A LA BONIFACE SCALLOPS: POULETTE STYLE, 
MARYLAND STYLE, NEWBURG STYLE, BONIFACE STYLE. 

Cook the scallops in their own gravy; when done, drain and 
finish as explained for soft clams. 

PETONCLES AU CURRY A L'INDIENNE CURRIED SCALLOPS, 

INDIAN STYLE. 

Cook the scallops in their own gravy; when done, drain and 
add some cream curry sauce reduced with some of the scallop 
liquor; season and serve with plain boiled rice separate. 

MOULES A LA MARINIERE MUSSELS, MARINER'S FASHION. 

Scrape 2 gallons of mussels well, and wash them in several 
waters ; let them stand in salted water for 2 hours or so, and 
wash them once more. 

Put them into a saucepan with I finely minced onion, ^ tea- 
spoonful each of powdered bay leaf and thyme and 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of coarsely chopped parsley. Moisten with l /2 pint of dry 
white wine, cover the pan, and set on a brisk fire, tossing them 
occasionally. 

When the mussels are cooked, the shells open ; take off the 
empty shells and set the mussels into a deep dish ; reduce the 
remaining liquid, thicken with a spoonful or two of veloute 
cream sauce, add a pinch of chopped chervil ; season to taste 
with salt and freshly ground black pepper, and finish by in- 
corporating 2 ounces of butter. 

MOULES A LA POULETTE MUSSELS, POULETTE STYLE. 

Prepare as for the above receipt, and bind the sauce with a 
few raw egg yolks and cream. 

MOULES AU CURRY CURRIED MUSSELS. 

Cook the mussels as for Mariner's Fashion, and allow them to 
get cold. Remove them from their shells and heat them in 
cream curry sauce, to which incorporate some of the mussel 
liquor. Serve boiled rice separate. 



n6 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

GRENOUILLE A LA SOUTH SIDE SLUB--FROG LEGS, SOUTH 

SIDE CLUB STYLE. 

Cut 1 8 fresh frog legs at their joints, then free them from all 
their bones. 

Heat 2 ounces of butter in a sautoire ; season the frogs and 
throw them into the hot butter, moving them frequently, and 
after 5 minutes moisten with I gill each of clam juice and thick 
cream ; boil for few minutes, and thicken with butter kneaded 
with flour. Dish up and serve dry toast separate. 

COTELETTE DE GREXOUILLE A LA GlSMONDA--FROG CUTLETS, 

GISMONDA FASHION. 

Free 2 pounds of frog legs from bones, and cut the meat in 
5^-inch pieces. Heat 4 ounces of butter in a saute pan, throw 
in the frog legs, season with salt and pepper, add 6 chopped 
shallots, and 8 ounces of fresh mushrooms cut in squares, 
moisten with a gill of white wine, and allow to reduce nearly 
dry; add sufficient veloute or Bechamel sauce to bind, and season 
to taste with salt and red pepper. 

Fill some cutlet-shaped croustades with this preparation, dust 
over some grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake 
in the oven to a nice golden hue. 

Serve on a folded napkin. 

GRENOUILLES DESOSSEES EN CROUTES A LA THEODORE 



CRUSTS OF BONELESS FROG'S LEGS, THEODORE STYLE. 

Chop fine I onion and I small green pepper, and partially fry 
in butter ; add 6 heads of sliced fresh mushrooms, cook together 
for a few minutes, then add I pound of boneless frogs' legs and 
2 large ripe tomatoes (peeled, squeezed and cut up fine), season 
with pepper and a pinch of paprika, cover the pan and cook the 
legs for 15 minutes in the oven. 

Before serving, add i tablespoonful of beef extract, 2 ounces 
of butter, I teaspoonful of chopped parsley, an atom of garlic, 
and a little lemon juice. Fill the crusts with the frogs' legs, and 
serve on a napkin. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 117 

NAGEOIRES DE TORTUE VERTE AU MARSALA GREEN TURTLE 

FINS, MARSALA SAUCE. 

Scald the forefins of a good-sized turtle (so as to be able to 
remove the outer skin), remove the bones and part of the flesh, 
and fill the fins with chicken or veal forcemeat, to which some 
cooked fine herbs have been added ; give the fins their original 
shape and tie with a string. 

Line a saucepan with a few slices of raw fat ham, onions and 
carrots; lay the fins on top, cover the pan and set over a mild 
fire. After a few minutes moisten with a pint of Marsala \vine, 
let reduce to half, add sufficient good stock to cover the fins, 
and allow to simmer gently until cooked, then drain the fins 
(keeping them warm), reduce the stock in which they were 
cooked, add some brown sauce to it and (if the sauce be still too 
liquid) thicken with arrowroot. Season to taste, and pour this 
sauce over the fins. 

NOTE. The fins are sometimes cooked for soup with the rest 
of the green turtle. They can, however, be used afterward for 
the above dish if care is taken to have them intact from bruises. 
The time for cooking is then naturally lessened, as the turtle is 
already cooked. 

TERRAPENE TERRAPIN. 

To obtain satisfactory results, two things should be kept in 
mind when cooking terrapin. First, to get a good quality of 
terrapin, and second, to cook it as plainly as possible, so as to 
retain the delicate flavor of "the bird." 

There are many different ways of cooking and serving terra- 
pin, but a true connoisseur will never eat it any other way than 
plain. 

Allow the terrapin to swim in a liberal amount of clear water 
for 3 or 4 hours, changing it frequently, so that they will free 
themselves from all impurities. 

Immerse the terrapins (one by one only) in boiling water, just 
long enough to remove the outer skin with a cloth. When all 
the terrapin are clean, put them into a saucepan with boiling 
water to cook, without any condiment or spice except a little 
salt. 



1 1 8 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Three-quarters of an hour is generally sufficient to cook ter- 
rapin of good quality. It is, however, advisable to watch them 
by pressing the feet between the fingers ; if they yield to the 
pressure, they are done ; allow the. terrapin to cool in the liquid 
in which they were cooked ; this will prevent them from drying. 

When cold, remove the bottom shell, and then dissect the ter- 
rapin by joints. Never chop or cut the bones. Remove the 
claws from the feet and cut them in small pieces. Remove the 
gall from the liver and lay the latter in cold water ; also re- 
move the entrails, the head, tail and the white muscles. The 
eggs wash well in cold water, freeing them from the skin, and 
add them to the terrapin, with the liver cut in slices. 

Put the cut terrapin in a sautorie with half sherry and half 
of the liquid in which it was cooked, enough to cover; then set 
on the fire and allow to reduce nearly three-quarters ; then in- 
corporate enough Philadelphia butter in small pieces to give it 
a creamy consistency. Now season with salt and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, or, as many prefer, freshly ground black 
pepper. 

At the Union Club, New York, terrapin is always served as 
described above unless ordered otherwise. It is familiarly 
known as Terrapin a 1'Union Club, although it is really the gen- 
uine Maryland way of cooking it. 

Serve in a chafing dish. 



TERRAPENE A LA PHILADELPHIE- -TERRAPIN, PHILADELPHIA 

STYLE. 

Proceed as indicated in the first receipt for terrapin ; for I 
quart add I pint of cream, and finish with 4 ounces of butter 
pounded with 6 hard-boiled eggs. 

TERRAPENE A LA NEW YORK- -TERRAPIN, NEW YORK 

STYLE. 

Cook as explained in the initial receipt. Before adding the 
butter add some brown sauce, then finish with the butter; sea- 
son highly and serve with quarters of lemon separately. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 1 1<^ 

TERRAPENE A LA BALTIMORE TERRAPIN, BALTIMORE STYLE.. 



Prepare the terrapin as stated previously. Heat some but- 
ter to the nut degree (beurre noisette), throw in the terrapin,, 
and after a few minutes moisten with some of the stock in which 
it was cooked and some Madeira. Boil for a few minutes, then 
thicken with arrowroot or cornstarch diluted with wine. Sea- 
son to taste and finish with a few pats of butter. 

TERRAPENE A LA NEWBURG- -TERRAPIN, XEWBURG STYLE. 

Cook exactly as stated in the initial receipt, but instead of 
adding the butter bind it with a thickening of raw egg yolks, 
cream and butter. To each quart of terrapin use 4 egg yolks, 2 
gills of cream and 2 ounces of butter. Season highly. 

TERRAPENE DESOSSEE- -BONELESS TERRAPIN. 

Boneless terrapin may be cooked in any of the styles men- 
tioned. It should be freed from all bones, which is rather 
tedious to perform. 

It is often served in croquette form, or in small patties, which, 
in my opinion, is a perversion. 



JBEEK, VEAL, ETC. 

FILET DE BOEUF PIQUE LARDED BEEF TENDERLOIN. 

The larded beef tenderloin can fully share the honors with 
the canvasback duck, as far as its appearance on American ban- 
quet bills of fare is concerned ; it rather appears too often for 
a good many people's taste. 

\Yhile we are willing to admit that the larded tenderloin is 
easy to carve and therefore a handy dish to serve for banquets, 
other dishes could well enough be substituted for the eternal 
tenderloin. 

Remove the fat and skin from a beef tenderloin, and lard it 
with fine strips of larding pork, lay it on an oblong dish lined 
with vegetables ; season the meat, pour over a few spoonfuls 
of dripping, and roast in a moderate oven ; 45 minutes is gen- 
erally long enough for a good-sized tenderloin. 

Baste and turn the meat while it is cooking, and 5 minutes 
before it is done brush it over with meat glace. 

The tenderloin may be served with almost any vegetable 
garnish. For further references look under the heading "Gar- 
nishes for Joints," ets. 

The following sauces may be served with the tenderloin : 

Filet de boeuf pique, sauce Bordelaise Larded beef tender- 
loin, Bordeaux sauce. 

Sauce Madere Madeira sauce. 

Sauce poivrade Pepper sauce. 

Sauce Polonaise Polish sauce. 

Sauce truffes- -Truffle sauce. 

Sauce champignons Mushroom sauce. 

NOTE. When using the French filet pique, "sauce" may be 
left out, and "a la" or u au" be put in instead, as "a la Bordelaise, 
a la Poivrade, au Madeire, aux Truffes, aux Champignons. 

CONTREFILET DE BOEUF A LA JARDINIERE SlRLOIN OF BEEF, 

GARDENER'S FASHION. 

On the continent of Europe this joint is very often termed 
roast beef; it is certainly not inferior if well prepared, although 
somewhat different to our own conception of roast beef. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 



121 



Bone a short loin of beef (keeping the tenderloin for other 
use) ; remove the sinew on the thick part of the meat, and fold 
the loin so that the flank lays under the meat ; tie it with strings 
and lay it into an oblong pan lined with vegetables. Season 
the meat, pour over some drippings and put it to roast in a 
moderate oven for from i]/ 2 to 2 hours, according to the size 
of the loin. Keep basting the meat constantly, and before it is 
three-quarters cooked, moisten with consomme or beef broth 
to make the gravy. 

When done, untie the sirloin, place it on a dish and surround 
it with Gardener's garnishing; strain and free the gravy from 
the fat, and serve it separate. 

NOTE. Sirloin cooked as above may be served with any 
number of garnishings, which can be found under their re- 
spective heading. 

BOEUF BRAISE A LA A TOD E- -BRAISED BEEF A LA MODE. 

Bone a short hip of beef and cut it lengthwise in three equal- 
sized pieces ; lard it with long, thick strips of fresh larding pork 
rolled in oil, allspice, chopped parsley and a little crushed garlic. 
Tie the beef, and put it in a stone jar to macerate with a quart of 
white wine and a gill of brandy ; add some sliced carrots and 
onions and a faggot of herbs ; stand it in a cool place for 18 
to 24 hours, turning the beef occasionally. 

When ready to cook, heat some lard or beef suet in a brazing 
pan ; drain and dry the beef, and brown it lightly with 2 or 3 
onions, and 3 or 4 large carrots cut in large pieces. 

When the beef is browned, drain the fat and moisten with 
the strained pickle, in which the beef had been macerated ; allow 
to reduce somewhat, then add 3 or 4 boned and parboiled calf's 
feet and some veal or beef gravy ; cover the pan, and put to 
cook in a moderate oven for 3 to 4 hours, according to the 
quality of the beef. 

When the meat is cooked, put it on a dish, remove the strings, 
garnish it with the calf's feet, glazed small onions and carrots, 
both of the latter cooked separately. 

Strain the gravy, free it from fat, and reduce it with the same 
amount of brown sauce, pour some of it over the meat, and the 
rest serve separate. 



122 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Remarks on braised beef in general : While the foregoing re- 
ceipt may seem elaborate to a good many, it can be modified 
to suit tastes and pocketbooks ; wine and brandy may be omit- 
ted, also the calf's feet. 

The same receipt may be applied to the following different 
styles of serving braised beef. 

BOEUF BRAISE A LA MODE FROID COLD BRAISED BEEF A LA 

MODE. 

Follow the same method as given in the previous receipt, but 
instead of brown sauce add more veal gravy and sufficient gela- 
tine (previously soaked in cold water), to make it firm when 
cold. Try its consistency by placing some of it on ice. Then 
arrange the vegetables on the bottom of a bowl or mould, add 
some of the jelly, and when set, place the meat on top and pour 
over it the rest of the jelly. When perfectly cold, unmould, 
decorate with chopped jelly and serve. 

BOEUF BRAISE A LA NAPOLITAINE- -BRAISED BEEF, NEAPOLI- 
TAN FASHION. 

Finish the gravy with tomato sauce, and serve with a garnish- 
ing of spaghetti, to which add some of the beef sauce. 

NOTE. When braising the beef, add a handful of dried mush- 
rooms, well washed in several waters. 

BOEUF BRAISE A LA BOURGEOISE- -BRAISED BEEF, BOURGEOISE 

STYLE. 

Garnish the beef with small glaced onions, glaced carrots and 
green peas. 

BOEUF BRAISE A LA PIEMOXTAISE BRAISED BEEF, PIED- 
MONT FASHION. 

Finish the beef as for Neapolitan Fashion, and serve with 
Risotto moulded in small timbal moulds. 

Various garnishings, as given under 'that heading, may be 
served with braised beef. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 123 

BOEUF EN DAUBE A LA PROVENCALE STEWED (OR POTTED) 

BEEF, PROVENCAL FASHION. 

Proceed exactly as for Beef a la Mode, with the following ex- 
ceptions : Cut the meat in 2-inch square pieces ; instead of white 
wine, use claret, and instead of brown sauce finish the gravy 
with tomato sauce. To the garnishing may be added glazed 
carrots, small heads. of mushrooms and small stoned olives. 

TERRINE DE BOEUF A LA BOURGUIGNONNE BEEF IN TERRIN, 

BURGUNDY STYLE. 

Cut 5 or 6 pounds of rump of beef in pieces about 2 inches 
square, also cut l / 2 pound of lean salt pork in small squares and 
parboil them. 

Heat some lard or beef suet in a pan ; season the beef, and 
put in the pan to brown lightly with the salt pork, add 4 large 
carrots and 4 large onions ; cut in quarters ; also add a faggot 
of herbs and I clove of garlic. When well browned, drain the 
fat and sprinkle 2 or 3 spoonfuls of flour over the meat ; stir well 
and let cook for a few minutes ; then moisten with I quart of 
claret and enough beef stock to have the stew well covered. Put 
a lid on the pan, and cook the stew in a moderate oven for 
about 3 hours. 

\Yhen the meat is clone, remove it piece by piece into a clean 
pan, reduce the sauce to good consistency, and strain it over 
the meat. Next add 3 dozen small glazed onions and the same 
amount of small heads of mushrooms (which, if fresh, should 
first be sauted in butter) ; give one boil to the stew, and serve 
it in a well-heated tureen. 

ENTRECOTE A LA TYROLIENNE SIRLOIN STEAK, TYROLIAN 

FASHION. 

There are three kinds of sirloin steaks, the small sirloin steak, 
from 10 ounces to I pound; the sirloin steak, from i l / 2 pounds 
to 1^4 pounds, and the extra sirloin steak, which is generally 
cut according to the number of people who are going to par- 
take of it. 

Cook a sirloin steak underdone, and while it is cooking slice 
very fine 2 white onions and smother them over a slow fire. 



124 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Next peel 3 or 4 nice ripe tomatoes, .cut them in halves, and 
saute them in butter, or have them broiled. Add a tablespoon- 
ful of beef extract to the onions, pour them over the steak, and 
garnish with the tomatoes. 

X 

ENTRECOTE A LA CARMEN- -SIRLOIN STEAK, CARMEN 

FASHION. 

Cook a sirloin steak underdone ; put it on a dish, and garnish 
the sides with broiled tomatoes (filled with small squares of 
marrow, parboiled in salted water, drained and tossed with a 
little Bordeaux sauce) ; garnish both ends of the steak with 
souffle potatoes. 

Serve separate in a sauceboat some Bordeaux sauce with 
sliced mushrooms. 

ENTRECOTE A LA MIRABEAU--SIRLOIN STEAK, MIRABEAU 

STYLE. 

Cook the steak underdone and garnish it with filleted an- 
chovies laid across the steak, so as to form a net ; pour around 
the steak Madeira sauce, and garnish with Julienne potatoes. 

NOTE. Some cooks add also a garnishing of stoned olives 
and glazed small onions. 

ENTRECOTE A LA BORDELAISE SIRLOIN STEAK, BORDEAUX 

STYLE. 

Lay on top of the steak some slices of parboiled beef marrow 
and pour over Bordeaux sauce. 

COTE DE BOEUF A L'UNION CLUB RIB STEAK, UNION CLUB 

STYLE. 

Cut from a set of ribs of beef as many rib steaks as are re- 
quired (they should be from i^ to 2 inches in thickness), baste 
with sweet oil, season, and broil over a clear fire. 

Clean and wash 18 fresh mushrooms, saute them in butter, 
and when half cooked, add 3 sweet peppers cut in pieces the size 
of the mushrooms. When done, add I tablespoonful of beef 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 125 

extract and a teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and chervil 
and j/2 teaspoonful of chives. Pour this garnishing over the 
steaks and serve. 

COTE DE BOEUF BRAISE AUX RACINES- -BRAISED RIB STEAK 

WITH VEGETABLES. 

Cut a thick rib steak and lard it with thin strips of larding 
pork ; for the cooking proceed as explained for Braised Beef. 
Garnish with glaced carrots, turnips and small onions. Adjust 
a frill to the rib and serve. 

Any garnish served with braised beef, larded beef tenderloin 
is applicable to this dish. 



TOURNEDOS, GRENADINS, ESCALOPES ET NOISETTES DE FILET 
DE BOEUF- -TouRNEDOS, GRENADINS, ESCALOPES AND 
NOISETTES OF BEEF TENDERLOIN. 

The French meaning of Tourne-dos is that it is cooked in a 
twinkling, or, while the back of the cook is turned. 

In reality it takes somewhat longer to cook, although it is 
but a thin slice of beef tenderloin. 

The Grenadin is a heart-shaped and larded piece of tenderloin 
(although made of veal also) weighing about 3 to 4 ounces. In 
big hotels, where many tenderloins are used, the tail part is gen- 
erally used for the preparation of this dish, and there and then 
it is an economical one, as the tails can be used to advantage. 

Escalope is a derivation of the English collop, and means "a 
small slice or piece of flesh." 

Noisette is a small nut or kernel, or the part from the middle, 
hence the Noisette of beef tenderloin is a slice cut from the 

middle. 

Filet Mignon is a dainty, neat or small beef tenderloin. 

We append a few receipts for tourne-dos, etc. 

Garnishings applicable to all of the above may be found under 
specific heading. 



126 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

FILET MIGNON DE BOEUF A LA TOREADOR SMALL BEEF TEN- 
DERLOIN, TOREADOR'S FASHION. 

Cut and trim a small beef tenderloin steak, and broil under- 
done ; garnish on one side with fresh mushrooms sauted in but- 
ter and on the other side with sweet red peppers sauted in oil. 

While broiling the tenderloin steak, broil a small piece oi 
rump steak, then press all the juice from the latter, pouring it 
over the 'tenderloin steak before serving. 

TOURNEDOS A LA VALOIS- -TOURNEDOS, VALOIS FASHION. 

Cut slices of a beef tenderloin I inch thick and trim to a nice 
round shape ; season with salt, dip in melted butter and fresh- 
grated bread crumbs, and broil over a bright fire. Serve Valois 
sauce separate. 

TOURNEDOS A LA ROYALE- -TOURNEDOS, ROYAL FASHION. 

Saute the tournedos underdone, place them on thin slices of 
bread fried in butter (the same shape as the tournedos). 

Place on each tournedos a slice of fat goose liver, and pour 
over Mornay sauce blended with one-third part Soubise sauce ; 
strew over grated cheese and bread crumbs, pour over a few 
drops of melted butter, and bake in brisk oven. 

TOURNEDOS A LA ROSSINI- -TOURNEDOS, ROSSINI STYLE. 

To serve this dish in perfection it is necessary to have fresh 
fat goose liver cut in thin slices, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
rolled in flour and sauted at the same time as the tournedos. 

Place the fat goose liver on the tournedos, one slice for each, 
and pour over brown truffle sauce. 

TOURNEDOS A LA DUCHESSE- -TOURNEDOS, DUCHESS STYLE. 

Saute the tournedos, dress them on a dish, pour over Colbert 
sauce and garnish with small Duchess potatoes. 

TOURNEDOS A LA CUSSY- -TOURNEDOS, CUSSY STYLE. 

Make a small horizontal incision on the side of the tournedos, 
passing the knife around, so as to divide the meat all over ex- 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 127 

cept on the border line; fill the tournedos with puree of foie 
gras; season with salt and pepper; dip in melted butter and 
bread crumbs, and broil over a brisk fire. Serve Perigueux 
sauce separate. 

BEEFSTEAK A LA SALISBURY SALISBURY STEAK. 

Chop fine some raw beef tenderloin freed from all sinews and 
fat, and season lightly with salt. 

Shape the chopped meat into small round steaks about i inch 
thick and 2^2 inches in diameter ; baste with olive oil, and broil 
over a clear fire. 

NOTE.- -These steaks are generally served to convalescents, 
and should then be served perfectly plain ; if eaten by healthy 
people they may be accompanied by a sauce. 

BEEFSTEAK HACHE A L'AFRICAINE CHOPPED BEEFSTEAK, 

AFRICAN STYLE. 

Prepare and cook a steak as indicated for Salisbury Steak. 
Serve with horseradish sauce and fried bananas. 

BEEFSTEAK HACHE A LA POLONAISE CHOPPED BEEFSTEAK, 

POLISH STYLE. 

Follow the above directions, but garnish the steak with cepes, 
Polish Style. 

QUEUES DE BOEUF GRILLEES, SAUCE BEARNAISE- -BROILED 

OXTAIL, BEARNAISE SAUCE. 

Cut 4 large oxtails into joints 4 inches long, parboil and re- 
fresh under running water. Line a saucepan with slices of raw 
ham, a few carrots and onions (all sliced), l / 2 ounce of pepper 
corns and a faggot of herbs ; lay the oxtail on top, and put the 
saucepan on the range. When the vegetables commence to 
brown, moisten the tails with stock to cover, let simmer for three 
hours, take off and allow the tails to get cold in the stock. Dip 
the tails in melted butter, and then in fresh grated bread crumbs 
and broil over a clear fire. Serve Bearnaise sauce separate. 



128 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Noix DE VEAU PIQUEE BRAISEE LARDED KERNEL OF VEAL 

BRAISED. 

The kernel of veal is taken from the leg, as a rule the part is 
generally used which in beef we term "the round." Leave on 
as much of the udder as possible and free the other side from 
the thin skin, and lard it with thin strips of larding pork. 

Line a saucepan with sliced vegetables, place the kernel there- 
in, add some veal bones or calf's feet, and cook as explained for 
Braised Beef. 

Serve with spinach, sorrel, noodles or any garnishings which 
are adaptable, and as indicated under the headings of Gar- 
nishings. 

Noix DE VEAU EN SURPRISE A LA TOULOUSAINE SURPRISE 
KERNEL OF VEAL, TOULOUSE STYLE. 

Prepare and cook a kernel of veal, as explained in previous 
receipt. When done, make an incision on the larded side of the 
kernel, so as to form a cover ; scoop out the lower part and 
fill the hollow with Toulouse Garnish. Place the cover on top, 
wrap in buttered paper, and heat in a moderate oven for 30 
to 40 minutes. When ready to serve unfold, dress on a dish, 
pour some of the gravy around, and serve the rest separate. 

Noix DE VEAU EN SURPRISE A LA FINANCIERS SURPRISE 
KERNEL OF VEAL, FINANCIER STYLE. 

Proceed as directed in the previous receipt, using Financier 
instead of Toulouse Garnish. 

NOTE.- -Though somewhat extravagant, these two dishes will 
evoke praise from all good livers. 

The garnish may be changed to the taste and fancy of the 
cook or patron. 

ESCALOPES DE VEAU A LA ZIXGARA SLICES OF VEAL, ZIN- 

GARA OR GYPSY FASHION. 

Cut from a kernel (noix) of veal, oblong slices about y 2 inch 
in thickness, flatten them lightly, season with salt, and fry in a 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 129 

saute pan with clarified butter. Have thin slices of raw ham 
of the same size as the slices of veal ; fry these also in butter, 
and arrange both veal and ham alternately on a dish. 

Remove the butter from the pan in which the veal was cooked, 
add y 2 gill each of consomme and tomato sauce, I tablespoonful 
of meat extract and 2 gills of brown sauce, reduce well and 
season with salt and paprika ; incorporate 4 ounces of butter and 
the juice of a lemon, and pour over the meat. 

ESCALOPES DE VEAU A LA POJARSKI- -ESCALOPES OF VEAL, 

POJARSKI STYLE. 

Chop fine I pound of lean veal, season to taste, then pound 
lightly in the mortar and incorporate y 2 gill of cream and 3 
ounces of butter. Put this in a cool place for some time ; then 
prepare small escallops, egg and bread crumb them and fry in 
clarified butter or hot lard ; garnish with some kind of green 
vegetable and serve Pojarski sauce separate. 

Ris DE VEAU PIQUE, BRAISE SWEETBREAD LARDED AND 

BRAISED. 

Choose some nice white sweetbreads, soak them in cold water 
for 2 or 3 hours, changing the water several times, and at last 
put them on the fire to parboil. 

Lard the sweetbreads with fine strips of fat pork ; place them 
in a pan lined with vegetables, and put them to braise with 
rich stock, from 35 to 45 minutes, continually basting the sweet- 
breads with their gravy. 

When done brush them over with meat glace and finish to 
color them in a brisk oven. 

Dish up the sweetbreads, strain the gravy free from fat, and 
reduce with brown sauce. 

Sweetbreads cooked in this way may be garnished with 
most any vegetable garnish or garnishes as Financier, Tou- 
louse, etc. 

RlS DE VEAU, A LA JUNOT SWEETBREAD, JUNOT STYLE. 

Cut some parboiled sweetbreads horizontally in halves, and 
saute them in clarified butter (without browning) until they are 



130 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

cooked; put them under a light press, and when cold trim them 
to a nice oval shape. 

Place on each half of sweetbread a salpicon of foie gras and 
truffles, and cover w r ith chicken cream forcemeat. Smooth the 
surface and decorate nicely, then place in a buttered saute pan 
and cook in a slow oven for 15 minutes. Serve with puree of 
mushrooms. 

ESCALOPE DE Ris DE VEAU A LA DORIA SLICES OF SWEET- 
BREAD, DORIA STYLE. 

Cut 6 sweetbreads horizontally in halves, trim them all the 
same size and shape, and cook in a saute pan over a moderate 
fire, with clarified butter. When nearly done, pour off the but- 
ter, moisten with I cup of thick cream, cook for 5 minutes, and 
then add sufficient veloute sauce to give the cream good con- 
sistency. 

Have 3 small cucumbers peeled and split in quarters, remove 
the seeds and cut each quarter in 3, trim off the edges, put into 
boiling water, salt ; cook until tender and drain. Add the cu- 
cumbers to the sweetbreads, season to taste, lay each slice of 
sweetbread on a toast (fried in butter), and pour over the sauce 
and cucumbers. 

Ris DE VEAU GRILLE A LA MARECH ALE- -BROILED SWEET- 
BREAD, MARSHAL FASHION. 

Steep some nice sweetbreads in cold water for 3 or 4 hours, 
changing the water occasionally. Set them on the fire to par- 
boil, then cool them and split each one in two. Cook these 
slices in white stock and put them under a light press. When 
cold, trim the slices to equal shape, season with salt, dip in 
melted butter and bread crumbs, broil over a brisk fire to a 
good color, and serve with marechale sauce. 

BROCHETTE DE Ris DE VEAU A LA LAMARTINE SKEWERS OF 
SWEETBREAD, LAMARTINE STYLE. 

Cut some parboiled sweetbreads into slices y\ inch thick and 
about as large as a 25-cent piece, saute them in butter, and 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 131 

when done, arrange alternately with some cooked fresh mush- 
rooms (the same size as the sweetbreads) on a skewer. Season 
with pepper and salt, dip the skewer first in melted butter, and 
then in fresh bread crumbs ; broil over a brisk fire and serve 
with truffle sauce separate. 

COQUTLLE DE RlS DE VEAU A LA CARDINAL SHELLS OF 

SWEETBREADS, CARDINAL FASHION. 

Cook some sw r eetbreads in white stock, and when done cut 
them in ^ inch slices, add one-third of the amount of sliced 
lobster and also some sliced mushrooms. 

Have ready some veloute cream sauce, add one-sixth part of 
thickly reduced tomato sauce, season to taste, and finish with 
lobster butter. Then add the sweetbreads, etc., fill some shells 
with the mixture, besprinkle with bread crumbs and melted 
butter, and bake in a brisk oven to a nice color. 

BEIGNETS DE Ris DE VEAU A LA DINO SWEETBREAD FRIT- 
TERS, DINO STYLE. 

Cut slices of cooked sweetbreads, dip them in well reduced 
Madeira sauce, to w r hich cooked fine herbs are added ; place the 
dipped slices of sweetbread on a lightly oiled dish, and set on 
ice ; 10 minutes before serving, dip the sweetbread in frying 
batter and plunge in hot lard without delay. When of a nice 
brown color take them out and serve on a napkin, garnished 
with fried parsley. 

TETE DE VEAU, A LA VINAIGRETTE CALF'S HEAD, VINAI- 
GRETTE SAUCE. 

Bone a calf's head, steep it in lukewarm water for 2 hours ; 
drain and set it on the fire to parboil for 10 minutes ; then drain 
and cool under running water. Wash the head carefully, scrape 
and singe it, and cut it in suitable pieces and put it to cook as 
follows : 

Chop fine 4 ounces of beef suet, melt over the fire, then add 
the same amount of flour, and dilute with 5 quarts of cold water ; 



132 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

add 2 carrots, 3 onions, 3 cloves, a faggot of herbs, salt and a 
dash of vinegar. Stir until boiling; then add the calf's head and 
tongue, and let simmer until done, which takes from I hour to 
I hour and 30 minutes, according to the size and quality of the 
head. 

During this time steep the brain in cold water, then free it 
from the skin, which is best done by holding the brain under 
running water. When the brain is well cleared, put it in a pan 
with cold water, add salt and a dash of vinegar, and boil gently 
for 25 to 30 minutes. 

Drain the calf's head, and dish up on a napkin, put a piece of 
brain on each side, take off the skin from the tongue, cut it in 
slices and lay them alongside the head. 

Serve vinaigrette sauce separate. 



TETE DE VEAU EN TORTUE CALF'S HEAD, TURTLE STYLE. 

Cook the calf's head as explained above, and drain on a towel. 
Have ready some turtle sauce, and add to it equal parts of 
trufrles, mushrooms, small stuffed olives, parboiled gherkins 
and small chicken quenelles, all the size of small olives. 

Dish up the head and pour over the sauce with the garnishing. 
Decorate the dish with eggs fried in oil and trussed crayfish. 



TETE DE VEAU : SAUCE PIQUANTE, A LA POULETTE, A LA 
VENITIENNE, A L'ITALIENNE CALF'S HEAD: PIQUANT 
SAUCE, POULETTE STYLE, VENETIAN STYLE, ITALIAN 
STYLE. 

Prepare the calf's head as indicated above, using the respec- 
tive sauces to cover. 

CERVELLE DE VEAU EN MATELOTE CALF'S BRAINS, 

MARINER'S STYLE. 

Garnish the cooked calf's brain with small glazed onions and 
mushrooms, pour over some claret sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 133 

CERVELLE DE VEAU A LA TURENNE CALF'S BRAINS, 

TURENNE STYLE. 

With a channeled tube affixed to the pastry bag make a 
border on the dish with Duchess Potatoes ; put a layer of 
Mornay sauce on the dish; then on top the brain cut in slices 
(not too thin). Cover with Mornay sauce, besprinkle with 
grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake in the 
oven to a nice color. 



CERVELLE DE VEAU A L'ITALIENNE AU GRATIN- -BAKED 
CALF'S BRAINS, ITALIAN FASHION. 

Proceed as directed above, using Italian instead of Morna\ 
sauce. 



SELLE DE MOUTON ROTI ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

To obtain satisfactory results, it is essential that the mutton 
should be hung long enough to be tender i. e., it should be 
well matured. 

Cut a saddle of mutton, free it from superfluous fat, cut short 
the flaps, roll them up, though not to cover the tenderloin, and 
tie with 3 or 4 strings ; then pour over melted drippings. Sea- 
son and roast in a well heated oven. 

To say how long it takes to roast a saddle of mutton or lamb 
is an impossibility ; it all depends on the size as well as the 
freshness of the meat. Well matured meat is cooked much 
sooner than fresh meat. 

In the United States the mutton is preferred rather under- 
done ; as a matter of fact, much more so than the average 
European likes it. 

In France or Continental Europe the saddles of mutton or 
lamb are very often served braised; many fancy dishes are 
prepared with them, but I refrain to mention them in this 
treatise, as I think such fancy dishes made with a saddle of 
lamb or mutton are out of place here, or at least not to the 
taste of American good-livers. 



134 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Serve the saddle roasted plain, and let it be carved in the 
dining room. 

Serve with garnishings as indicated under that heading. 

CARRE DE MOUTON ROTI--ROAST RACK OF MUTTON. 

Choose a well matured rack of mutton, trim it neatly, and 
make to each rib bone a handle. Tie the rack on 4 or 5 differ- 
ent places to make it retain its shape while cooking. 

Pour over some dripping, season and roast in a well-heated 
oven, being careful not to scorch the chop handles. 

NOTE.- -To prevent scorching it is recommended to wrap the 
handles in oiled or buttered paper. 

CARBONADE DE MOUTON A LA NIVERNAISE CARBONADE OF 

MUTTON, NEVERS FASHION. 

Bone a saddle of mutton, leaving the tenderloin attached as 
much as possible ; cut the flap rather short ; free the fleshy part 
from fat and sinews, and lard with thin strips of fat pork. Sea- 
son, roll together and tie with a string; place in a braising pan 
lined with vegetables, brown lightly, and moisten with veal 
stock. Simmer for 2 hours ; finish the gravy as explained for 
Braised Kernel of Veal. Dish up the Carbonade, and garnish 
with glazed carrots, pour around some of the gravy and serve 
the rest separate. 

NOTE. Carbonade of Mutton may be garnished with almost 
any vegetable garnish. 

Noix DE MOUTON PIQUEE- -LARDED KERNEL OF MUTTON. 

Divide a leg of mutton into three parts, following the divi- 
sions ; free the kernels from the thin skin, and lard with thin 
strips of fat pork ; cook in the same manner as Larded Beef 
Tenderloin, and serve with same garnishings. 

Noix DE MOUTON PIQUEE BRAISEE LARDED AND BRAISED 

KERNEL OF MUTTON. 

Proceed as above, and braise as indicated for Braised Kernel 
of Veal. 



The Post -Graduate Cookery Book. 135 

Serve with Soubise, puree of beans, of chestnuts, of celery 
with spinach, chicory or sorrel, or any fancy garnishing, as in- 
dicated under the heading of Garnishings. 

COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA PROVENCALS MUTTON CUT- 

LETS, PROVENCAL FASHION. 

Trim some nice mutton chops, saute them on one side only 
and put them under a light press. Slice very fine 6 or 8 white 
onions, put them with a piece of butter to smother gently 
over a moderate fire, without allowing them to brown. When 
the onions are soft, add 2 gills of Bechamel sauce and bind with 
2 or 3 raw egg yolks. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg 
and put aside to get cold. 

Trim the chops nicely, and cover the cooked side with the 
above preparation ; smooth the surface, strew over some grated 
Parmesan cheese, sprinkle over each a fe\v drops of melted but- 
ter, place the chops in a buttered saute pan, heat well on the 
range, and finish to cook in a brisk oven. 

Serve with tomato sauce flavored with a supcon of garlic. 

COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA REFORMS MUTTON CUTLETS, 

REFORM CLUB FASHION. 

Take some nicely trimmed mutton chops seasoned with salt 
and pepper, dip them in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, to 
which add one-third part of finely chopped ham. 

Fry the breaded chops in clarified butter to a nice color, and 
serve with the following sauce and garnishing : 

Add to i pint of pepper sauce, i tablespoonful of currant jelly 
and an equal part each of finely shredded gherkins, truffles, 
smoked beef tongue and the white of hard-boiled eggs. 

NOTE.- -This entree w r as originated and first served by the 
famous Alexis Soyer, some sixty years ago, chef at the Reform 
Club of London. 

COTELETTES DE MOUTON BRAISE A LA BONNEFEMME- 

BRAISED MUTTON CUTLETS, HOUSEWIFE'S STYLE. 
Trim nicely 6 mutton chops, season and lay them in a large 



136 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

saute pan with hot butter ; brown them a delicate color ; then 
add 12 small button onions, and allow this to brown lightly; 
then drain the butter and add 18 potato balls scooped out with 
the vegetable spoon and a small faggot of herbs. 

Moisten with rich broth and finish to cook in a moderate 
oven for 30 minutes. 

Dish up the chops in a circle, put the potatoes and onions 
in the center; free the gravy from fat, add a little meat extract 
if necessary, and pour over the chops. Put some frills on the 
bones, and serve. 



COTELETTES DE MOUTON A I/ANGLAISE- -ENGLISH MUTTON 

CHOPS. 

The Englishman makes a difference between a chop and a 
cutlet ; the American designates everything as a chop, whether 
from loin or rack. In England a chop is cut from the loin, and 
a cutlet from the rack. 

The English chop in the United States is a loin chop, while a 
French chop is one from the rack. 

An English chop should always be cut about i l /2 inches thick, 
leaving on quite some fat, and broiled over a clear fire. 

Serve separate whatever sauce be required, as Soubise, Bear- 
naise, tomato, piquant, pepper, etc. The chops may also be gar- 
nished with various garnishings. 

NOTE. In some houses it is customary to serve a kidney 
with the chop ; this, however, is not obligatory. 

NOISETTES DE MOUTON A LA BERRY- -MUTTON NOISETTES, 

BERRY STYLE. 

Cut the noisettes of mutton somewhat thicker than those of 
lamb; saute them over a brisk fire; dress them on small flat 
croquettes (the same shape as the noisettes) made of Duchesse 
potatoes mixed with sweet corn scraped from the cob. 

Pour over Chasseur sauce, and serve. 

NOTE. Noisettes of mutton, or mutton cutlets can, as a 
rule, be prepared as lamb noisettes or cutlets. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 137 

PILAU DE MOUTON A LA GREQUE MUTTON PILAU, 

GREEK FASHION. 

* 

Chop fine i pound of lean mutton and 5 ounces of fat fresh 
pork, season with salt and red pepper, and add I finely chopped 
onion fried in oil without browning. 

Shape this chopped meat into balls about i*/ inches in 
diameter. 

Prepare also very thin slices of mutton about 2 inches wide 
and 4 inches long; season the meat with salt, pepper and nut- 
meg ; sprinkle over chopped onions and green peppers, and roll 
up the slices ; then tie with strings. Roll the balls in flour and 
fry in oil, also the rolls; drain the oil, add a faggot of herbs and 
moisten with half broth and half tomato sauce. 

Cover the pan and cook for 45 minutes to i hour. The sauce 
by this time should be just of the proper consistency. Dress the 
balls and rolls alternately on a bed of rice cooked in broth, add 
2 dozen small cooked okras to the sauce, heat well and pour 
around the meat. 



GIGOT D'AGNEAU DE LAIT A LA ]. AGOSTINI--LEG OF SPRING 

LAMB, ]. AGOSTINI STYLE. 

Cut a leg of spring lamb rather long and bone it completely, 
leaving but a short piece of the shin bone to act as handle. 

Peel 4 large truffles (fresh ones preferably) and 12 large fresh 
mushrooms; cut these in ^-inch squares and saute in butter; 
add a tablespoonful of chicken glaze ; pour on a plate and allow 
to get cold. 

Fill the leg with the above ingredients. Sew up the opening, 
and lay the leg of lamb in a braising pan lined with vegetables 
surrounded with the lamb bones and half a knuckle of veal or 
some veal bones. Brown the leg lightly and moisten with a 
glass of Marsala ; reduce to one-half and moisten with veal 
gravy. Finish to cook in a moderate oven for I hour or so. 

Dish up the leg, strain the gravy free from fat, and thicken 
lightly with arrowroot. 

Put a frill on the shin bone of the leg and serve with the gravy 
separate. 



138 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CARRE D'AGNEAU DE LAIT, GRILLE, SAUCE PALOISE BROILED 
RACK OF SPRING LAMB, PALOISE SAUCE. 

Prepare and trim a rack of spring lamb as for roasting, baste 
with olive oil, season with salt, and broil over a moderate fire. 
Serve Paloise sauce separately. 

STEAK D'AGNEAU DE LAIT SAUTE AUX FINES HERBES 
SPRING LAMB STEAK SAUTED WITH FINE HERBS. 

Cut a thick spring lamb steak from the leg, season it with 
salt and pepper, and saute over a clear fire. When the steak is 
done, remove the butter from the sautoire, moisten with a dash 
of white wine and a tablespoonful of chicken glaze, add a pinch 
each of chopped parsley, chervil and chives, and just a supcon 
of tarragon, incorporate a small piece of butter, and finish with 
a little lemon juice, pour over the steak and serve. 

STEAK D'AGNEAU DE LAIT GRILLE, MAITRE D'HOTEL- 
BROILED SPRING LAMB STEAK, MAITRE D'HOTEL. 

Cut a steak i inch thick from a leg of spring lamb, baste it 
with olive oil, season with salt, and broil over a clear fire. 
Serve on a hot dish with maitre d'hotel butter. 

STEAK D'AGNEAU DE LAIT A LA JUDIC SPRING LAMB STEAK, 

JUDIC STYLE. 

Prepare a lamb steak as indicated above, incorporate to the 
maitre d'hotel a teaspoonful of chicken glace, pour over the 
steak and garnish with Potatoes Anna cooked in small moulds, 

and small tomatoes stuffed with chicken forcemeat. 

i 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU DE LAIT A LA MARQUISE SPRING 

LAMB CUTLETS, MARCHIONESS STYLE. 

Trim some spring lamb cutlets of uniform size, season them 
with salt and pepper, dip in beaten eggs and roll in finely chop- 
ped truffles. Fry in clarified butter, dress on a dish, garnish 
with asparagus tips tossed in butter, and serve separate Chateau 
sauce. 



The Post-Graduaic Cookery Book. 139 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU DE LAIT SAUTEES AU BEURRE NOI- 
SETTES SPRING LAMB CUTLETS SAUTED WITH 

NUT BUTTER. 

Saute the cutlets over a brisk fire. When done, brush them 
over with chicken glaze, heat some butter to the nut degree, 
and pour over the cutlets ; besprinkle with chopped parsley, 
put a frill on each chop, and serve. 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A L' AGNES SORREL LAMB CUTLETS,, 

AGNES SORREL STYLE. 

Cut and trim some nice lamb cutlets, cook them lightly on 
both sides, and let them get cold. 

In the meantime, prepare a forcemeat as follows : Chop fine 
9 ounces of lean pork with 3 ounces of fat and 3 of foie gras ; 
steep 3 ounces of soft bread in milk, press lightly and add to the 
forcemeat ; pound in the mortar, season to taste with salt, pep- 
per and allspice, and add a dash of brandy, 2 of Madeira and a 
tablespoonful of chopped truffles. Put some of the forcemeat 
on both sides of the lamb cutlets, wrap them in pig's caul, dip 
them in melted butter and bread crumbs, and broil over a slow 
charcoal fire. Serve with truffle sauce. 

NOTE. Instead of foie gras, chicken, turkey or calf's liver 
may be used. 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA POMPADOUR- -LAMB CUTLETS, 

POMPADOUR STYLE. 

Make a horizontal incision in the fleshy part of as many lamb 
chops as are required. Introduce in each incision a slice of fat 
goose liver dipped in beef extract ; season the chops with salt 
and pepper ; dip them in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and 
fry in clarified butter ; dress in a circle, fill with puree of chest- 
nuts (or some other puree), put a frill on each chop, and serve 
with Bearnaise sauce separate. 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA VICTOR HUGO- -LAMB CUTLETS, 

VICTOR HUGO STYLE. 
Season, egg and bread crumb as many lamb chops as are 



140 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

needed, fry them in clarified butter, and serve them with horse- 
radish-Bearnaise sauce. 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA SALERNIENNE LAMB CUTLETS, 

SALERNIAN FASHION. 

Season the chops with salt and pepper, dip in beaten eggs 
and roll in bread crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese; 
fry the chops in clarified butter or lard, dress them on a bed 
of risotto with saffron and pour around some tomato sauce 
blended with rich veal gravy. 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU A LA HENRI IV.- -LAMB CUTLETS, 

HENRY IV. STYLE. 

Choose some nice prime lamb chops, saute them on one side 
only and put them under light press to get cold. Then trim 
them all of the same size, lay a teaspoonful of salpicon of truf- 
fles and mushrooms on the cooked side of each chop, cover with 
chicken cream forcemeat, smooth over the surface, and be- 
sprinkle one-half with chopped truffles and the other with chop- 
ped smoked beef tongue. Now lay the chops in a buttered saute 
pan, heat on top of the range, and finish to cook in a mild oven 
for about 10 minutes. Dress on a dish, put a frill on each chop 
and serve with Valois sauce. 

COTELETTES D'AGNEAU FROIDE A LA STRASSBOURGEOISE- 
COLD LAMB CUTLETS, STRASSBURG FASHION. 

Cut from a cooked, cold rack of lamb chops ^4 mcri thick, trim 
nicely and put on ice. Pound in the mortar 4 ounces of pate de 
foie gras with 2 ounces of butter, rub through a fine sieve and 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of whipped cream ; cover each chop with 
this mixture, smoothing the surface with a knife dipped in luke- 
warm water ; set on ice until the foie gras becomes firm, then 
coat with brown, chaudfroid, sauce, decorate with truffles cut 
into fanciful shapes, and brush over with half set jelly. 

Dress the chops on a jelly border, putting a frill on each bone, 
and fill the center of the border with potato salad dressed with 
mavonnaise sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 141 

CHAUDFROID DE COTELETTE D'AGNEAU EN POIRE CHAUD- 
FROID OF LAMB CUTLETS AS PEARS. 

Choose some fine lamb cutlets from the first ribs only, trim 
them well and split them horizontally from the back. Fill them 
with the same forcemeat as used for Squab Chaudfroid, Bohe- 
mian Fashion. Use a good quantity of stuffing, so that the cut- 
lets will look like pears, wrap up the chops in thin slices of lard- 
ing pork, tie them with a string and braise them with good 
stock, in which allow them to grow cold. When they are cold, 
drain and dry. 

Mix some puree of foie gras or some waste foie gras paring 
with the same amount of butter. Spread this preparation over 
the cutlets to give them a smooth appearance and a resemblance 
to a pear, then set on ice. 

Coat the cutlets with green Chaudfroid sauce and when set 
pour over cold melted aspic jelly. 

Set the pears on a dish with the bone upward (so as to repre- 
sent the stem of the pear) and serve. 

NOISETTES D'AGNEAU- -NOISETTES OF LAMB. 

The noisettes of lamb are, as a rule, cut from the saddle ; they 
may, however, be cut from the leg, but the former are of un- 
questionable superiority in quality and flavor. 

The noisette is a cutlet minus the bone ; they should be 
trimmed neatly and freed as much as possible of the fat. Mostly 
all garnishings for tournedos and cutlets , or chops are ap- 
plicable to noisettes. 

NOISETTES D'AGXEAU A LA ROTHSCHILD NOISETTES OF 

LAMB, ROTHSCHILD STYLE. 

Bone a plump saddle of lamb, and cut from the loin slices I 
inch thick ; trim nicely, saute in butter, pour over truffle sauce 
and garnish with small patties (1% inches in diameter) filled 
with puree of pate de foie gras. 

NOISETTES D'AGNEAU A LA MASCAGNI NOISETTES OF LAMB, 

MASCAGNI STYLE. 
Cut noisettes of lamb as explained for Rothschild Style. Cook 



142 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

them underdone, and set each noisette on a half tomato, pre- 
viously bakey in the oven. Cover with Mornay sauce, to which 
add some beef extract ; then besprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese and melted butter, and bake in a brisk oven to a nice 
color. 

NOISETTES D'AGNEAU A LA CLEO- -NOISETTES OF LAMB, CLEO 

STYLE. 

Cut from a loin of lamb 6 nice noisettes, trim them nicely, 
leaving but little fat on ; cook them over a quick fire, and dress 
each of them on an artichoke bottom, previously heated in 
broth. 

Have ^2 pound of small fresh mushrooms sauted in butter ; 
when done, add I teaspoonful of beef extract, I each of chopped 
parsley and chopped chervil, ^2 teaspoonful of chopped chives 
and a pinch of chopped tarragon ; also a few drops of lemon 
juice; pour over the noisettes and serve. 

NOISETTES D'AGNEAU A LA MIREPOIX- -NOISETTES OF LAMB,, 

MIREPOIX STYLE. 

Cut in small squares I gill each of carrots, onions and fresh 
mushrooms ; these put into a small pan with a pat of butter and 
a pinch of sugar, cover the pan and put to braise slowly over a 
mild fire, stirring the vegetables occasionally to prevent them 
sticking to the pan. When the vegetables are nearly done, add 
y^ gill cooked ham cut in small squares ; cook for a while, then 
add i gill each of rich veal gravy and meat glace, simmer for a 
few minutes, then incorporate by degrees 6 ounces of butter, 
stirring the sauce continuously with a wooden spoon. 

Saute the noisettes, dress them on fried crusts of bread or 
potato croquettes of similar shape as the noisettes, and pour 
over the above sauce. 

EPIGRAMME D'AGNEAU- -EPIGRAM ME OF LAMB. 

Cook 2 breasts of lamb in some good stock, garnish with 
vegetables. When done, drain, remove the bones and put the 
breasts under press. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 143 

When cold cut the breasts into triangular pieces the size of 
lamb cutlets, trim them nicely ; season with salt and pepper, 
dip in melted butter, and roll in bread crumbs ; then broil over 
a brisk fire with as many lamb cutlets as there are pieces of 
breast, or as many as are required, counting a piece of breast 
and one cutlet for each guest. 

Dish up the cutlets and breasts alternately and garnish with 
asparagus tips, green peas, Macedoine, or any other garnishing. 

LAMB SWEETBREADS A LA M'ARTYN- -LAMB SWEETBREADS, 

MARTYN FASHION. 

Soak i dozen lamb sweetbreads in cold water for several 
hours, drain, parboil and cook in a good stock. When done, 
put them under light press. When perfectly cold, trim the 
sweetbreads of equal round shape, and prepare the following 
sauce : 

Reduce the stock in which the sweetbreads were cooked, then 
add i pint of veloute sauce, season to taste and bind with 4 egg 
yolks. 

Whip the 4 egg whites, and mix with the sauce. Put a spoon- 
mi on the bottom of a cocotte dish (as served for eggs), lay the 
sweetbread on top, and cover with the remainder of the sauce. 
Pour over a little melted butter and put to bake in a mild oven 
for from 12 to 15 minutes. 

BLANQUETTE D'AGNEAU- -BLANQUF.TTE OF LAMB. 

Bone a shoulder of lamb and cut it in i-inch square pieces; 
steep in lukewarm water for i hour, drain and set on the fire to 
parboil ; then change the water and wash the meat well to clear 
it from scum and coagulated albumen. 

Heat some clarified butter in a pan, throw in the lamb, sea- 
son with salt and pepper and fry without allowing the meat to 
brown. Sprinkle over a handful of flour, stir over the fire for 
a few minutes ; then moisten with white stock ; add i large 
onion stuck with 2 cloves and a faggot of herbs. Let simmer 
for 45 minutes, then remove the onions and the faggot and bind 
the sauce with a pint of cream, 4 egg yolks and 2 or 3 ounces of 
butter. Season to taste and finish with lemon juice. 



144 The Post-Gr actuate Cookery Book. 

CURRY D'AGXEAU A LA MADRAS CURRIED LAMB, MADRAS 

FASHION. 

Cut 4 or 5 pounds of boneless lamb in i-inch square pieces. 
Season with salt and 2 spoonfuls of curry powder, and fry in a 
saucepan in which 4 ounces of clarified butter was previously 
heated. 

Slice fine 4 medium-sized onions, add them to the lamb with 
2 crushed cloves of garlic and sprinkle a good handful of flour 
over the lamb, which cook for 5 minutes, stirring all the time. 
Then moisten with white stock. When boiling, remove the 
scum, and add 5 ripe tomatoes, peeled, freed from seeds and cut 
in quarters. 

Cook the lamb for 40 minutes over a moderate fire, add a 
cup of cream, season to taste, and serve with boiled rice 
separate. 

ROGNONS D'AGNEAU SAUTES AU MADERE LAMB KIDNEYS 

SAUTED, MADEIRA SAUCE. 

To be successful in sauteing kidneys, it is essential to bear in 
mind, first, to saute the kidneys over a brisk fire; second, not 
to allow them to boil in the sauce ; otherwise they will become 
tough and more difficult of digestion. 

Remove the skin from the kidneys and cut them lengthwise 
in two ; remove the hard part and slice each half in 3 or 4, hold- 
ing the knife somewhat slanting ; heat some clarified butter in 
a frying pan, throw in the kidneys when burning hot, toss until 
they are done ; then drain and put them in a vegetable dish with 
a few small pieces of butter over them. Reduce the necessary 
amount of Madeira sauce in a saucepan, add the kidneys, and 
season to taste, and serve immediately. 

ROGNONS SAUTES A LA TURBIGO KIDNEYS SAUTED, TUR- 

BIGO STYLE. 

Proceed as explained above. Garnish with mushrooms and 
small sausages (Chipolata). 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. - 145 

ROGNONS SAUTES A LA VENITIENNE KIDNEYS SAUTED, 

VENETIAN STYLE. 

Cook the kidneys as stated above, add some mushrooms, and 
finish the sauce with anchovy butter. 

ROGNONS SAUTES A LA PORTUGAISE KIDNEYS SAUTED, 

PORTUGUESE FASHION. 

Slice the kidneys and cook them in burning hot butter, drain 
and add them to the following sauce : 

Chop fine 3 or 4 shallots ; then fry in butter without coloring ; 
moisten with a gill of white wine, allow them to reduce ; then 
add 2 fresh tomatoes (peeled and freed from seeds) cut in small 
pieces, cook for a while, then add y* pint of brown sauce and 
a teaspoonful of beef extract. Finish with salt, red pepper, 2 
ounces of butter and the juice of half a lemon. 



ROGNONS SAUTES A LA CARVALHO- -KIDNEYS SAUTED, CAR- 

VALHO STYLE. 

Cut the kidneys lengthwise in half, saute them in butter and 
dress them on slices of bread fried in butter. 

Prepare in a separate pan some Madeira sauce, add sliced 
truffles, mushrooms, cocks' combs and cocks' kidneys ; pour 
over the kidneys and serve. 

ROGNONS SAUTES A LA LUCULLUS- -KIDNEYS SAUTED, 

LUCULLUS FASHION. 

Prepare and cook the kidneys as explained for Carvalho Style. 
Put some puree of foi gras on each slice of bread ; set the 
kidneys thereon, and pour over truffle sauce. 

ROGNONS GRILLES A LA MELBA- -BROILED KIDNEYS, MELBA 

STYLE. 

Remove the skin from as many kidneys as required, split 
them lengthwise from the round side, and run a skewer through 



146 The Post-Gradnate Cookery Book. 

them ; baste with sweet oil, besprinkle with salt, and broil over 
a brisk charcoal fire. 

When done, remove the skewer and set each kidney on a 
broiled fresh mushroom ; fill the cavity of the kidney with freshly 
grated horseradish, and surround the whole with pepper sauce. 

BROCHETTES DE ROGNONS A LA MEYERBEER- -BROCHETTES OF 

KIDNEYS, MEYERBEER STYLE. 

Cut the kidneys in j/2-inch thick slices, saute them in very hot 
butter, and have them underdone. Have ready as many small 
slices of bacon and small heads of fresh mushrooms (both 
cooked in butter). Arrange the kidneys, mushrooms and bacon 
on skewers ; dip in melted butter and bread crumbs, and broil 
over a brisk fire. Serve with Colbert sauce separate. 

JAMBON BRAISE A LA MAILLOT- -BRAISED HAM, MAILLOT 

STYLE. 

Steep a ham in cold water for 48 hours (if fresh, only 24 
hours), trim well, wrap it in a cloth, and put it in a vessel with 
cold water. \Yhen boiling, skim and garnish with I large car- 
rot, 2 onions, one of them stuck with 3 cloves, also add a faggot 
of herbs, allow to simmer gently, and when nearly done, drain 
and trim the ham. Then put it into a saute pan, pour over I 
pint of Madeira and I pint of the stock in which the ham was 
cooked ; cook for 30 minutes longer, basting continuously ; then 
brush it over with meat extract and finish to glaze in the oven. 
Place the ham on a dish and garnish with clusters of vegetables 
as glazed carrots, turnips, string beans, etc. Reduce the stock 
in the saute pan, and finish with Madeira sauce. 

JAMBON BRAISE AUX EPINARDS- -BRAISED HAM WITH 

SPINACH. 

Proceed as directed above ; serve separate some spinach in 
cream. 

Ham may also be served with the following garnishings : 
Jambon braise a la puree de matrons Braised ham with 
puree of chestnuts. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 147 

A la puree de pois With puree of peas. 

Aux nouilles \Yith noodles. 

Aux spaghetti, a la Milanaise With spaghetti, Milan style. 

A la chouxcroute With sauerkraut. 

JAMBON DE VIRGINIE AU CIDRE A LA J. AGOSTINI- -VIRGINIA 

HAM COOKED IN CIDER, J. AGOSTINI STYLE. 

Remove the thigh bone from a Virginia ham, steep it in cold 
water, and allow to soak for at least 48 hours. (Virginia hams 
being more seasoned than the ordinary kind, require to be 
soaked longer.) Place the ham in a kettle of cold water, set on 
the fire and boil for one hour; then refresh the ham under run- 
ning cold water, clean and pare well, put into a braising pan, 
cover with water and add a quart of dry cider ; when boiling, 
garnish with 3 onions (one of them stuck with 3 cloves), two 
carrots and a faggot of herbs, let simmer from 3 to 4 hours, 
according to the size of the ham, and then allow to cool in the 
liquid in which it was cooked. 

One hour before serving, drain the ham, remove the rind and 
aitch bone, place in a deep baking dish with I pint of cider and 

1 quart of the ham liquid, set in a mild oven and baste frequently 
with its gravy. After forty minutes brush over with liquid beef 
extract, and leave in the oven for 10 minutes longer. 

Dress on a dish, put a frill on the handle, and garnish with 
small croquettes of rice and peas, each kind shaped differently, 
so as to be recognized when cooked. 

By this time the ham gravy should be nearly reduced. Put 
it into a small saucepan, add a tablespoonful of currant jelly and 

2 gills of brown sauce, reduce to good consistency and serve 
separate. 

NOTE.- -The above receipt was kindly given to me by Joseph 
Agostini, Esq., to whom I am indebted for many original ideas, 
which during my experience as chef I have brought into prac- 
tice. 

JAMBON DE VIRGINIE SOUFFLE A LA ANTOINE COSTE- 
VIRGINIA HAM SCUFFLED, ANTOINE COSTE STYLE. 

Cook a small Virginia ham as directed in the previous re- 
ceipt ; when cold, make an incision on top of the ham, leaving 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

a margin of ij/^ inches all around. Scoop out the ham as deep 
as possible, and free the scooped out part from sinews and fat. 
Chop fine i*4 pound of it, add i pound of raw chicken breast, 
then pound in the mortar, incorporating by degrees 3 gills of 
cold bechamel sauce and 4 egg whites ; rub through a fine sieve, 
then put in a bowl on ice. After some time work the ham forct- 
meat with a wooden spoon, to make it smooth, and incorporate 
by degrees i quart of whipped cream ; season to taste with 
salt and paprika, and fill the cavity of the ham with the above 
preparation. Decorate the top with truffles and set the ham in 
a braisiere with a little broth, cover and cook in a moderate 
oven from 45 minutes to i hour. Dress the ham on a dish, put 
a frill on the handle, and garnish all around with small spinach 
timbals. Serve Madeira sauce separate. 

Note. This dish is respectfully dedicated to my chef of many years ago, 
Mr. A. Coste, now chef at the Hotel Cecil, London. 

JOUE DE PORC AUX EPIN ARDS- -PORK JOWL WITH SPINACH. 

Proceed as directed for Ham, Maillot Style. Serve with 
spinach in cream, or plain spinach. 

NOTE.- -The jowl is a dish for connoisseurs. It is often 
served for dinners, where the cost is no objection. 

SELLE DE VENAISON, SAUCE POLONAISE SADDLE OF VENI- 
SON, POLISH SAUCE. 

Trim a saddle of venison ; remove all fat and sinews from the 
fleshy part ; cut short the flaps and roll them up. 

Lard the flesh part of the saddle with thin strips of fat pork, 
pour over melted drippings, sprinkle over some salt and roast 
in a hot oven from 40 to 60 minutes, according to the size. 

Serve separate some Polish or port wine sauce, or any suit- 
able sauce, or currant jelly. 

STEAK DE VENAISON A LA ST. JAMES- -VENISON STEAK, ST. 

JAMES FASHION. 

Cut a venison steak i l / 2 inches thick, and broil it underdone 
over a clear fire. Serve it on a hot dish surrounded with Po- 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 149 

tatoes Anna (cooked in small moulds), and serve the following 
sauce separate : 

Dilute i teaspoonful of English mustard with the juice of an 
orange, add I tablespoonful of red currant jelly, allow to melt 
over a slow fire, add I gill of brown sauce and 4 ounces of but- 
ter, stirring with a wooden spoon without ceasing, and season 
highly. Do not allow to boil. 



ESCALOPES DE VENAISON A LA POLONAISE SLICES OF VENI- 
SON, POLISH FASHION. 

Cut small slices I inch in thickness from a leg of venison, 
saute them in hot clarified butter over a brisk fire, and serve 
with Polish sauce. 

COTELETTES DE VENAISON A LA BAY AROISE- -VENISON ClJT- 

LETS, BAVARIAN STYLE. 

Trim some nice venison cutlets ; season them with salt and 
paprika and cook over a brisk fire. Serve with Polish sauce, 
to which add some shredded gherkins. 

COTELETTES DE VENAISON A LA VERNON- -VENISON CUT- 
LETS, VERNON STYLE. 

Prepare and cook the cutlets as stated above, and serve with 
the following sauce : 

Dilute i ounce of bitter chocolate or cocoa with a table- 
spoonful of currant jelly and 2 gills of pepper sauce; strain and 
pour over the cutlets. Garnish with small spaghetti croquettes. 

NOISETTES DE VENAISON A LA LOUISIANNE NOISETTES OF 

VENISON, LOUISIANA STYLE. 

Cut the noisettes from the saddle about I inch thick, cook 
them underdone and dish them up. Pour over port wine sauce,, 
and garnish with sweet potato croquettes. 



150 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

NOISETTES DE VENAISON A LA ROMANOFF NOISETTES OF 

VENISON, ROMANOFF STYLE. 

Proceed as for Breast of Grouse, Romanoff Style. 

NOISETTES DE VENISON, A LA OCCIDENTAL NOISETTES OF 

VENISON, OCCIDENTAL STYLE. 

Same as Breast of Grouse, Occidental Style. 



POULTRY AND QA1VIE. 

POULET SAUTE AU VIN BLANC CHICKEN SAUTED WITH 

WHITE WINE. 

The following receipt for chicken saute will serve as a pattern 
for those succeeding under the heading of Chicken Saute. 

Singe and draw a chicken weighing about 2 pounds. If to 
be served a la carte, dissect the bird in four parts (i. e., two 
breasts and two legs) ; if for table d'hote or American plan, the 
chicken may be cut into smaller pieces ; a heavier bird is then 
preferable. 

Season the chicken with salt and pepper ; heat 2 ounces of 
clarified butter in a saute pan and place the pieces of chicken 
therein. Cover the pan and cook the chicken over a brisk fire. 
When browned on one side, turn them on the other. The 
breasts being of a more delicate texture (and therefore cooked 
quicker than the legs), should be removed a few minutes ahead. 

When the chicken is cooked, put it in another pan to keep 
warm, remove the butter from the pan in which the chicken was 
cooked, add y 2 gill of dry white wine, allow to reduce almost 
dry, then moisten with y 2 gill each of brown veal gravy and 
brown sauce, also add a teaspoonful of chicken glaze. Let the 
sauce reduce to good consistency, season to taste, and finish 
with i ounce of butter and a little lemon juice. 

Put the chicken back into the pan, but do not allow to boil, 
simply roll it in the sauce for a few minutes ; dress the chicken 
on a dish, and pour over the sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 151 

POULET SAUTE A LA BOURGUIGNONNE CHICKEN SAUTED, 

BURGUNDY STYLE. 

Cook the chicken as for chicken with white wine, using claret 
or Burgundy instead of the white wine, and garnish the chicken 
with 12 small glazed button onions and 18 small heads of mush- 
rooms previously cooked in butter. 

POULET SAUTE A LA CASTILLIANNE CHICKEN SAUTED, 

CASTILIAN STYLE. 

\Yhen the chicken is cooked remove it from the pan and keep 
it warm ; put into the pan I finely sliced onion and fry it without 
allowing to brown ; then add a small crushed clove of garlic and 
i ounce of shredded smoked cooked ham, fry I minute longer, 
then add 2 large ripe tomatoes, peeled, the seeds pressed out 
and cut small ; cook over a brisk fire for 5 minutes, then add l /2 
gill of brown sauce, 2 coarsely shredded sweet red peppers and 
a good pinch of coarsely chopped parsley; season to taste, roli 
the chicken in the sauce for 2 minutes without boiling, and 
serve. 

POULET SAUTE A LA CHAMPEAU CHICKEN SAUTED, CHAM- 

PEAU STYLE. 

Prepare the chicken according to the pattern receipt, dress it 
on a dish and garnish it with small potato balls fried in butter, 
and small glazed onions. 

POULET SAUTE AUX CHAMPIGNONS FRAIS CHICKEN- 
SAUTED WITH FRESH MUSHROOMS. 

Ten minutes before the chicken is cooked, add 2 dozen small 
heads of fresh mushrooms, which should be peeled and well 
washed in several waters ; finish the chicken as stated before, 
using 1 sherrv or Madeira instead of white wine. 

o ^ 

POULET SAUTE CHASSEUR CHICKEN SAUTED, HUNTER'S 

STYLE. 
In cookine the chicken use half sweet oil and half butter ; 10 



152 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

minutes before the chicken is cooked add 18 sliced mushrooms. 
When the chicken is done, add 2 chopped shallots. Finish the 
sauce with white wine and I gill each of brown veal stock and 
tomato sauce. 

POULET SAUTE A LA FORESTIERE CHICKEN SAUTED, 

FORESTER'S FASHION. 

Put the chicken on the fire, adding at the same time 18 olive- 
shaped potatoes and 12 very small onions. Ten minutes before 
the chicken is cooked add 12 small heads of mushrooms. Re- 
move chicken and vegetables, and finish the sauce as for chicken 
with white wine. 

POULET SAUTE FROU-FROU CHICKEN SAUTED, FROU-FROU 

FASHION. 

Prepare a chicken sauted with white wine, garnish with Po- 
tatoes Anna, cooked in small moulds, and fried eggplant, cut 
in Julienne about 2 inches long and *4 inch thick. 

POULET SAUTE A LA BOWDOIN CHICKEN SAUTED, BOWDOIN 

FASHION. 

Proceed as for Chicken Sauted with White Wine. When the 
chicken is done, remove it to another pan and keep it warm. 
Moisten the pan with I gill of white wine, allow to reduce 
almost dry, add I tablespoonful each of chopped fresh mush- 
rooms and of Mirepoix Bordelaise, add a gill of rich brown veal 
stock, reduce to half ; then add i tablespoonful of chicken glace, 
a pinch of chopped parsley, 2 ounces of sweet butter and the 
juice of half a lemon ; add the chicken, heat well without boiling, 
and serve in an earthen casserole. Before placing it on the 
table pour over a pony of good brandy, to which set fire; set 
on the table while burning. 

POULET SAUTE AUX FINES HERBES CHICKEN SAUTED WITH 

FINE HERBS. 

When the chicken is cooked, add 2 chopped shallots, fry for 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 153 

i minute, moisten with white wine, and finish the sauce as stated 
previously. Before serving, add a teaspoonful each of chopped 
parsley and chervil, and l / 2 teaspoonful of chopped tarragon. 

POULET SAUTE A L'ESTRAGON- -CHICKEN SAUTED WITH 

TARRAGON. 

Cook the chicken as stated for Chicken with White Wine. 
Before serving, add some blanched tarragon leaves to the sauce. 

POULET SAUTE AUX OKRA A LA LOUISIANNE CHICKEN 
SAUTED WITH OKRA, LOUISIANA STYLE. 

Follow the directions given for Chicken, Portuguese Fashion, 
adding 18 cooked okras. 

POULET SAUTE A LA RACHEL CHICKEN SAUTED, RACHEL 

FASHION. 

Chicken ''sauted w r ith fine herbs." Serve it on a support of 
Potatoes Anna. 

POULET SAUTE A LA PORTUGAISE CHICKEN SAUTED, 

PORTUGUESE FASHION. 

Saute the chicken in half olive oil and half clarified butter. 
When the chicken is cooked, remove it, and fry 3 chopped shal- 
lots in the butter in which the chicken was cooked, moisten with 
3/2 gill of white wine, let reduce, then add I gill of brown veal 
stock, i gill of tomato sauce and i teaspoonful of chicken glaze ; 
allow the sauce to reduce to good consistency, season to taste, 
add the chicken to roll in it for a few minutes, dress it on a dish, 
pour over the sauce, and garnish with stuffed tomatoes. 

POULET SAUTE A LA ZINGARA CHICKEN SAUTED, ZINGARA 

OR GYPSY STYLE. 
Cook the chicken as indicated in the initial receipt. Instead 



154 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

of brown sauce use tomato sauce ; season highly with paprika 
and add some shredded ham. 

Some cooks also add shredded truffles. 

Dish up the chicken and garnish with very small rice cro- 
quettes. 

POULET SAUTE A LA CREME CHICKEN SAUTED IN CREAM. 

Cook the chicken over a slow fire, allowing it to attain but a 
light color. When nearly cooked moisten with 2 gills of cream, 
finish to cook the chicken and add ^ gill of veloute cream sauce, 
season to taste and finish the sauce with I ounce of butter. 

NOTE.- -The above receipt may act as pattern receipt for all 
chicken sauted with cream sauce. These should not be con- 
founded with fricasseed chicken. To increase the savor of this 
dish a little chicken glaze may be added to the sauce. 

POULET SAUTE A LA CUMBERLAND CHICKEN SAUTED, 

CUMBERLAND STYLE. 

Follow directions of pattern receipt, adding 3 finely sliced 
onions smothered in butter without browning; add the cream, 
and finish the sauce with ^2 gill of thickly reduced tomato sauce. 

POULET SAUTE, A LA GORDON- -CHICKEN SAUTED, GORDON 

FASHION. 

Same as Cumberland, with the addition of shredded smoked 
cooked ham and mushrooms. 



POULET AU CURRY- -CURRIED CHICKEN. 

When the chicken is ready to be moistened with cream add I 
tablespoonful of curry powder and 1^2 tablespoonfuls of grated 
onion, cooked for 2 or 3 minutes ; then moisten with cream, 
and finish as the pattern receipt, adding at the last moment 
before serving 2 tablespoonfuls of cocoanut milk. Serve plain 
boiled rice on a separate dish. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 155 

POULET SAUTE A LA HONGROISE CHICKEN SAUTED, 

HUNGARIAN FASHION. 

Season the chicken with salt and paprika (and plenty of it), 
saute over a slow fire, add 2 finely chopped onions (do not allow 
them to brown), and finish as explained for Chicken Sauted in 
Cream. 

XOTE. To proceed correctly sour cream ought to be used 
for this preparation; but this is not always at hand, and the 
sauce may therefore be slightly accidulated with a little lemon 
juice. 

POULET SAUTE A LA REINE CHICKEN SAUTED. QUEEN'S 

* *-w 

FASHION. 

Follow directions given in pattern receipt, adding 4 truffles 
and 12 mushrooms cut in slices. 

POULET SAUTE A LA STANLEY CHICKEN SAUTED, STANLEY 

FASHION. 

Add to a chicken sauted in cream I gill of onion puree, dress 
on a dish and besprinkle the bird with shredded truffles. 

POULET SAUTE A LA PRINCESSE CHICKEN SAUTED, 

PRINCESS FASHION. 

Garnish a chicken sauted in cream with 4 artichoke bottoms 
filled with "asparagus tips as peas." (See receipt.) 

POULET SAUTE AUX CEPES A LA POLONAISE CHICKEN 
SAUTED WITH CEPES, POLISH FASHION. 

When the chicken is cooked, moisten the pan with a table- 
spoonful of wine vinegar, let reduce almost dry, and then finish 
the sauce as explained in the pattern receipt. Cook in a 
separate pan some cepes in butter until they have rendered all 
their humidity, then add them to the sauce. 



156 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

POULET SAUTE A LA VICHY CHICKEN SAUTED, VICHY 

STYLE. 

Have 18 small young carrots peeled and parboiled in salted 
water for 15 minutes, finish to cook the carrots with the chicken, 
and conclude as stated in the pattern receipt. 

POULET SAUTE A LA VIENNOISE CHICKEN SAUTED, 

VIENNESE FASHION. 

Prepare as Chicken, Hungarian Style, add some cucumbers 
scooped out in olive shape and parboiled in salted water. 

POULET EN FRICASSEE CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Choose a fat chicken weighing about 3 pounds, cut it up as 
for saute and steep it in cold water for one hour; then drain 
and set the chicken on the fire in a pan with I quart of water. 
When boiling, skim, add salt, I onion stuck with I clove, i small 
carrot, I stalk of celery and a faggot of parsley with I bay leaf ; 
let simmer for 30 minutes. 

In the meantime prepare a roux about 3 ounces each of flour 
and butter, cook for 5 minutes without browning, and then 
moisten with the strained broth in which the chicken was 
cooked. 

Simmer the sauce for 20 to 30 minutes, during which time 
the chicken is kept warm ; bind the sauce with 4 egg yolks and 
y 2 gill of cream, but do not allow to boil ; season to taste with 
salt, a pinch of pepper, grated nutmeg and a little lemon juice; 
add the pieces of chicken, heat well and serve. 

NOTE.- -The above pattern receipt for fricasseed chicken 
may be varied with different garnishings. The quantity of egg 
yolks for binding the sauce may be diminished according to 
taste. 

POULET EN FRICASSEE A L'ANCIENNE CHICKEN FRICASSEE, 

ANCIENT FASHION. 

Tie in a cloth 12 small button onions and cook them with the 
chicken. Prepare the ' sauce as stated in the pattern receipt. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 157 

Add the onions and 12 heads of mushrooms to the chicken just a 
few minutes before serving. 



POULET EN FRICASSEE AU Riz CHICKEN FRICASSEE WITH 

RICE. 

Cook some rice in chicken broth, and serve it moulded in 
small timbal forms around the chicken. 

POULET EN FRICASSEE A L'AURORE CHICKEN FRICASSEE, 

AURORA FASHION. 

Reduce 2 gills of tomato sauce to I gill, and add it to the 
sauce for the chicken. 

POULET EN FRICASSEE A LA PRINTANIERE CHICKEN FRICAS- 
SEE WITH SPRING VEGETABLES. 

Have i gill each of carrots and turnips scooped out in olive 
shape, parboiled and cooked in chicken stock. Add these 
vegetables to the sauce with T / 2 gill of cooked green peas and 
12 small flowerets of cauliflower. 

POULET EN FRICASSEE A L'!NDIENNE CHICKEN FRICASSEE, 

INDIAN STYLE. 

When preparing the roux for the sauce add I dessertspoonful 
of curry powder, conclude as directed in pattern receipt, and 
serve with plain boiled rice separate. 

POULET EN FRICASSEE A LA RAVIGOTE CHICKEN FRICASSEE, 

RAVIGOTE STYLE. 

Finish the sauce with 2 ounces of Venetian butter and add I 
teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and chervil and l / 2 tea- 
spoonful each of chopped tarragon and tarragon vinegar. 

POULET FRICASSEE EN BISQUE FRICASSEED CHICKEN, 

BISQUE STYLE. 
Prepare the chicken as directed in pattern receipt, finish the 



158 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

sauce with 2 ounces of crayfish butter, and add 2 dozen crayfish 
tails; season with salt, paprika and lemon juice. 

POULET EN FRICASSEE A LA TOULOUSAINE- -FRICASSEED 
CHICKEN, TOULOUSE FASHION. 

Add to the chicken the following garnishing : Eight small 
cocks' combs, 12 cocks' kidneys, 12 small heads of mushrooms, 
2 truffles cut in slices and 12 small chicken quenelles. 

POULET AU Riz AU GRAS CHICKEN WITH RICE COOKED IN 

BROTH. 

Choose a fat 3-pound chicken, truss it, and place it in a pan; 
cover with chicken or veal broth, set on the fire. When boiling, 
skim, add I small carrot, i onion stuck with 2 cloves, and a 
piece of celery. Cover the pan and let simmer for 40 minutes. 

Wash 6 ounces of rice, put it in a pan and moisten it with fat 
chicken broth about three times the height of the rice ; cover the 
pan and cook the rice in the oven for about 20 minutes ; stir the 
rice with a kitchen fork and incorporate with it a small piece of 
butter ; put the rice on a dish and dress the chicken on top. 
Serve with either veloute cream or German sauce. 

Cooked in the above fashion, chickens may be served with 
oyster sauce, celery sauce, parsley sauce, ravigote sauce or 
caper sauce. 

POULET EN CASSEROLE A LA FERMIERE CHICKEN IN THE 

SAUCEPAN, FARMER'S FASHION. 

Prepare a chicken as for roasting ; heat 2 ounces of butter in 
an earthen saucepan large enough to hold the bird ; season the 
chicken and place it in the pan ; cook on top of the range until 
a light golden color is attained; add to the chicken 12 small 
button onions and 18 parboiled potato marbles (scooped out 
with the round vegetable spoon), and finish cooking in the oven, 
basting frequently. 

Cook separate (in different pans) 12 small new carrots and 4 
small new turnips cut in quarters and edges trimmed. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 159 

Five minutes before serving the chicken, untruss it, remove 
the fat from the gravy in the pan ; add a tablespoonful of white 
wine, one of meat extract and ^2 gill of rich veal gravy ; add 
the carrots, the turnips, a good handful of cooked green peas 
and a little powdered sugar ; heat well the vegetables and serve. 

NOTE. In many kitchens the chickens are cooked in copper 
pans ; this practice is wrong, but excusable on account of 
the chickens being cooked more quickly than in the earthen pan, 
and the fact that so many customers become uneasy if kept 
waiting for a few minutes. 

POULET EN CASSEROLE A LA BONNEFEMME CHICKEN IN 
THE SAUCEPAN, GOOD WOMAN'S FASHION. 

Prepare a chicken as directed for Chicken, Farmers' Fashion. 
When the chicken is half cooked, add 18 potato marbles, 8 small 
button onions and 12 small strips of salt pork about I inch long 
and y% inch thick. The garnishing should be parboiled pre- 
viously. When the chicken is cooked, add I gill of brown veal 
gravy. 

POULET EN TERRINE A LA FERMIERE CHICKEN IN TERREEN, 

FARMER'S FASHION. 

Cut up the chicken as for saute, brown it over a brisk fire, 
leaving it underdone ; place the bird in an oval earthen terreen 
(with a tight fitting cover), and prepare the following sauce : 

Remove the butter from the pan in which the chicken was 
cooked, moisten with y 2 gill of Madeira. When reduced to 
half, add 2 gills of brown veal stock and I tablespoonful of 
chicken glace, boil for 5 minutes, then add a good handful of 
vegetables, shredded and cooked as for Julienne soup ; also add 
some cooked green peas, season to taste with salt and a pinch of 
sugar, and pour the sauce and garnishing over the chicken, 
cover tightly and close the opening with a band of paste ; brush 
over the paste with beaten egg, and put the terreen in the oven 
for about 20 to 30 minutes. Serve the chicken in the terreen. 

POULET EN TERRINE AUX TRUFFES CHICKEN IN TERREEX 

WITH TRUFFLES. 
Brown the chicken, as explained for Farmers' Fashion, and 



160 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

place it in the terreen. Moisten the pan with I gill each of 
brown veal gravy and brown sauce, and add two tablespoonfuls 
of chicken glaze. Cut 4 good-sized truffles in thick slices, add 
to the sauce and let simmer for 10 minutes; then pour all over 
the chicken, close up the terreen hermetically with paste, place 
it in the oven and cook for 20 minutes. 

NOTE. Serve in the tureen. Fresh truffles would naturally 
increase the sapidity of this dish. 

POULET ENTIER EN TERRINE A LA DEMIDOFF WHOLE 
CHICKEN IN TERREEN, DEMIDOFF STYLE. 

Scoop out i gill each of carrots and turnips with an oval 
vegetable scoop % mcn l n g; parboil the vegetables and cook 
them in consomme, add the same quantity each of truffles and 
mushrooms cut of the same shape as the vegetables. 

Draw and truss a plump 3-pound chicken, brown it and finish 
the sauce as explained for Chicken in Terreen with Truffles 
minus truffles ; place the chicken in the terreen, pour over the 
sauce and vegetables, add 6 leaves of tarragon. Close the 
tureen hermetically with paste, and cook the chicken in the 
oven for 30 minutes. 

POULET ENTIER EN TERRINE A LA SOUVAROFF WHOLE 
CHICKEN IN TERREEN, SOUVAROFF STYLE. 

Draw a 3-pound tender and fat chicken as explained for 
Capon, Derby Fashion, fill the inside with 8 ounces each of 
fat goose liver and truffles cut in % mcn squares ; truss it of a 
nice shape, brown it, and conclude proceedings as explained for 
Chicken in Terreen with Truffles, with the exception of allowing 
the chicken 15 minutes more to cook in the oven. 

POULET DE GRAIN DESOSSE FARCI A LA FORESTIERE BONED 
SPRING CHICKEN, STUFFED, FORESTER'S FASHION. 

Bone a spring chicken according to regular principles, and 
stuff with the following ingredients : 

Chop fine and fry in butter 4 good-sized shallots (not allow- 
ing them to take color), add 12 fresh mushrooms chopped fine 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 161 

and i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and put aside to get cold ; 
then chop fine 4 or 5 chicken livers, mix them with the mush- 
rooms, etc., add a small handful of fresh grated bread crumbs 
and 2 ounces of butter ; mix thoroughly and season with pep- 
per, salt and a little nutmeg. 

Give to the chicken as nearly as possible its own shape, and 
roast in a brisk oven for 25 minutes. When done, dress on a 
dish. Put i teaspoonful of chicken glaze or beef extract in the 
saucepan with I spoonful of broth, 2 ounces of butter, i tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. 
When thoroughly melted pour over the chicken and serve. 



POUSSIN DESOSSE ET FARCI A LA DAUPHINE- -BONELESS 
SQUAB CHICKEN, DAUPHINE FASHION. 

Cut into quarter-inch squares 3 ounces each of truffles, 
smoked beef tongue, fat goose liver and fresh mushrooms, pre- 
viously cooked ; add these ingredients to i quart of chicken 
cream forcemeat, which should be highly seasoned and 
flavored with a dash of sherry. Fill 2 boneless squab chickens 
with the above preparation, and shape the chickens without 
trussing; roast in the oven for 25 to 30 minutes, dress them on a 
dish garnished with Dauphine potatoes and small artichoke 
bottoms a la Du Barry. Remove the butter from the pan, 
moisten with i gill of brown veal gravy and i tablespoonful of 
chicken glace. When boiling, pour over the chicken. 

POUSSIN DESOSSE A LA LUCULLUS- -BONELESS SQUAB 
CHICKEN, LUCULLUS FASHION. 

Singe, draw and bone a squab chicken ; cut 3 ounces of each 
of fat goose liver and peeled truffles in ^4-inch squares, and fill 
the chicken with these ingredients. Give a nice shape to the 
chicken without trussing, season it and lay it in a buttered pan. 
Pour over some melted butter, and roast it in the oven for 15 
minutes. Dress the chicken on a fried crust of bread. Remove 
the butter from the pan and moisten with l / 2 gill of brown veal 
gravy and i teaspoonful of chicken glaze. Let boil and pour 
over the chicken. 



1 62 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

POITRINE DE POULET A LA FLORIAN BREAST OF CHICKEN, 

FLORIAN FASHION. 

Lift the breasts from as many chickens as are needed, leaving 
the wingbone on ; remove the surrounding meat from the latter, 
and the epidermis from the breast ; season, dip in melted butter, 
and then in bread crumbs, mixed with one-third of finely chop- 
ped ham ; broil over a clear fire and serve with pepper sauce. 

POITRINES DE POULETS A L'OPERA- -BREASTS OF CHICKEN, 

OPERA STYLE. 

Prepare breasts of chicken as described for a la Florian, but 
instead of dipping them in melted butter dip them in beaten 
eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in clarified butter. 

Serve the following sauce separate : 

Opera Sauce. Pound in the mortar 2 ounces of fat goose 
liver (foie gras) with 2 ounces of sweet butter and rub through 
a fine sieve. Heat i pint of cream sauce, add to it 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of beef extract and finish with the goose liver butter ; 
season with salt and paprika. 

POITRINE DE POULET A LA PRINCESSE- -BREAST OF CHICKEN, 

PRINCESS FASHION. 

Remove the breasts from as many chickens as are required 
(2-pound chickens are the best to be used for this purpose) ; 
separate the small fillets which are near the breast bone, and 
lay aside. 

Take off the skin and epidermis of the breasts, trim to a uni- 
form shape, and place in a well-buttered saute pan. 

Remove the sinews of the small fillets, make 5 or 6 bias in- 
cisions half through them, and put in each incision a round slice 
of truffle (y% inch in diameter and previously dipped in the 
beaten white of an egg). Moisten the breasts also with the egg, 
and place the small fillet lengthwise on them, cover with a but- 
tered paper and cook in a slow oven from 10 to 12 minutes. 

Serve with a veloute cream sauce, and artichoke bottoms filled 
with asparagus tips tossed in butter. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 1 63 

POITRINE DE POULET A I/AMIRAL- -BREAST OF CHICKEN, 

ADMIRAL FASHION. 

Prepare the breasts of chicken as described for Princess 
Fashion, using half truffle and half smoked beef tongue to fill 
the incisions of the small fillets. 

When cooked dress the breasts on a bed of rice cooked in 
chicken broth, and serve with veloute cream sauce, blended with 
well reduced tomato sauce. 

JAMBONEAU DE VOLAILLE CHICKEN LEGS, STUFFED. 

When preparing breasts of chicken for a dinner party or ban- 
quet there are the legs to be made use of. Leave on them as 
much of the skin as possible when taking the breasts from the 
chicken; take out the second joint bone and stuff the legs with 
chicken forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs and some chop- 
ped chicken livers ; fold the skin over the stuffing and sew it up. 

Braise the legs with vegetables and a good stock, and finish 
the gravy as indicated for other braised meats. Garnish ac- 
cording to taste. 

JAMBONEAU DE VOLAILLE EN CANETONS CHICKEN LEGS AS 

DUCKLINGS. 

Leave on the chicken legs part of the thigh bone ; remove the 
second joint bone and two-thirds of the drum-stick bone ; stuff 
the legs w r ith the same forcemeat as indicated in the previous 
receipt. 

Truss the legs to form small ducklings, the part of the thigh 
bone to form the bill, the drum-stick the neck, and the second 
joint the body. 

Braise as explained previously, and serve on a bed of noodles 
tossed in butter. The noodles represent the nest. 

CHAUDFROID DE JAMBONEAU DE VOLAILLE EN CANETON- 
CHAUDFROID OF CHICKEN LEGS AS DUCKLINGS. 

Proceed as in the previous receipt, adding small cubes of foie 
gras, ham and truffles to the forcemeat instead of cooked fine 



164 The Post-Gr actuate Cookery Book. 

herbs; when the chicken legs are cooked and cold, cover them 
with chaudfroid sauce, the body brown and the bills yellow ; 
imitate the eye with the white of hard-boiled egg and truffle, 
brush over with partly melted jelly and serve with salad. 

POULET FRITS A LA MARYLAND FRIED CHICKEN, MARY- 
LAND STYLE. 

Cut a 2-pound chicken in four pieces (i. e., two breasts and 
two legs). Season them with salt and pepper, roll in flour, dip 
in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in hot clarified butter 
or lard. 

Serve the chicken with cream sauce and garnishing of corn 
fritters and broiled bacon. 

POULET FRITS A LA VIEN NOISE FRIED CHICKEN, VIENNESE 

FASHION. 

Serve to the chicken separate some tomato sauce seasoned 
with paprika. 

POULET FRIT A LA VILLEROI- -FRIED CHICKEN, VILLEROI 

FASHION. 

Cook a chicken as for fricassee, and allow it to get cold in 
its own liquid, then drain and dry the pieces of chicken on a 
cloth, dip each of them in Villeroi sauce and lay them on an 
oiled pan on ice, to congeal the sauce thoroughly ; then roll the 
chicken in bread crumbs, dip in beaten eggs and again in bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot clarified butter or lard ; dress on a folded 
napkin with fried parsley and serve separate either perigueux or 
tomato sauce. 

Fried chicken may also be served with Bearnaise, Colbert, 
piquant and other suitable sauces. 

Another way of frying chicken is to dip the pieces of chicken 
in frying batter, and to fry them in hot lard. This is what the 
French term Fritot. 

For this purpose the chicken should be cut small and well 
seasoned before being fried. 

Cooked chicken may also be used and served separately to 
any suitable sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 165 

PILAFF DE YOLAILLE A LA VALENCIENNE CHICKEN PILAU, 

VALENCIA FASHION. 

Cut 2 small chickens as for saute, season with salt and pepper, 
and fry them lightly in half butter and half olive oil ; add 2 
finely sliced onions, 3 ounces of lean raw ham cut in squares, 
and i crushed clove of garlic; smother together for a few min- 
utes, then add 3 peeled tomatoes, cut in six or eight parts and 4 
sweet red peppers cut in pieces (not too small), moisten with I 
quart of chicken or veal broth, and when boiling, add 6 ounces 
of Carolina rice. Cover the pan and allow to cook in the oven 
for 20 minutes. Before serving, add a pinch of saffron. 

PILAFF DE VOLAILLE A LA GRECQUE CHICKEN PILAU, 

GREEK FASHION. 

Proceed as for Chicken Pilau, Valencia Fashion, but moisten 
only with J/2 gill of broth ; add 24 small okras, cover the pan and 
cook over a slow fire, adding y 2 gill each of brown and tomato 
sauce when done. Cook the rice separate as follows :- 

Heat 3 ounces of butter in a pan, add 8 ounces of rice and 
stir it continuously for 3 minutes, moisten with I quart of stock 
(either veal or chicken), and finish to cook in the oven. When 
clone stir it with the fork, adding I ounce of butter and season 
to taste. Pour the rice on a dish, leaving a hollow space in the 
center, in which dish up the chicken. 

PILAFF DE VOLAILLE A LA TURQUE- -TURKISH CHICKEN 

PILAU. 

Heat 2 ounces of butter in a saucepan and add to it 6 ounces 
of well picked rice ; stir for a few minutes with a wooden spoon, 
then moisten with i quart of chicken or veal broth ; add 3 peeled 
tomatoes cut up in small pieces, i onion stuck with 2 cloves and 
a faggot of herbs. Add salt, cover and set in the oven to cook 
for 20 to 25 minutes. When done, add a pinch of saffron, re- 
move the onion and faggot, and stir the rice with a fork, adding 
i ounce of butter. 

While the rice is cooking remove the meat from a cooked 
chicken, cut it in small pieces, season with salt and pepper and 
toss in butter. 



1 66 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Butter a Charlotte mould and fill it with alternate layers of 
rice and chicken, being careful to press down the rice gently. 
Set the mould into the oven for 5 or 6 minutes, unmould on a 
dish and surround with tomato sauce. 

NOTE. Instead of a Charlotte mould some other mould may 
be used. 

CHAPON A LA DERBY CAPON, DERBY FASHION. 

Select a good-sized capon, singe and draw it by the front 
opening so as to leave the lower orifice as small as possible, 
which is imperative if success is desired. 

This method of drawing poultry may not be quite as desirable 
so far as speed is concerned, but it is preferable when the bird 
is intended for stuffing. 

After the capon is singed and all the feather stumps are re- 
moved, make an incision on the back of the neck, cut the 
neck as near to the body as possible, and remove the pouch, 
being careful not to injure the skin. Introduce the index or 
middle finger in the aperture, detaching the lungs on both sides 
of the back of the bird. Next cut out the ring on the back 
orifice, and with the index finger detach the fat adhering to the 
rump. 

Introduce through the front aperture the handle of a small 
kitchen ladle, which must be provided with a hook ; place the 
hook behind the gizzard and gently draw out the intestines of 
the bird, being careful not to burst the gall. 

With a little practice the operator will soon become familiar 
with this method. 

Heat in a saucepan 2 ounces of butter ; add to it 4 ounces of 
rice, stirring it for 3 or 4 minutes ; moisten with I quart of 
chicken broth. When boiling, add i onion stuck with 2 cloves ; 
cover and set in the oven to cook for 20 minutes ; then remove 
the onion and add 2 tablespoonfuls of chicken glaze, stir with a 
kitchen fork, and take from the fire. 

Cut into j^-inch squares 4 ounces of fat goose liver (foie 
gras) and 3 ounces of peeled truffles; mix with the rice, season 
to taste and fill up the capon with this preparation. When 
stuffed sew up the openings, truss it to a nice shape, and cover 
with slices of larding pork. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 167 

Butter a braising pan, and line it with 2 carrots and 2 onions 
cut in slices ; lay the capon thereon, add a faggot of herbs and a 
knuckle of veal cut in pieces ; cover the pan, let it stand over a 
slow fire for 20 minutes, turning the capon every once in a while 
from side to side; then moisten with 2 gills of Madeira and 1^2 
quarts of brown veal stock. Cover the pan and put it in the 
oven, basting the capon frequently. Cook the capon from I 
hour and 45 minutes to 2 hours, according to size. 

The capon may be dressed on a support of hominy, which 
should be fancifully carved ; surround with large truffles heated 
in the gravy of the capon. 

Strain the gravy, remove the fat, and if too liquid, thicken 
with a little cornstarch or arrowroot. 

Serve gravy separate. 

CHAPON A LA D'ALBUFERA CAPON, D'ALBUFERA FASHION. 

Proceed exactly as for Capon, Derby Fashion, with the ex- 
ception of the moistening, for which use white veal gravy in- 
stead of brown. Conduct the cooking and dressing in the same 
manner, and finish the gravy with enough veloute cream sauce 
to give it consistency. 

NOTE.- -The sauce should be of a golden hue. 

CHAPON A LA PIEMONTAISE CAPON, PIEDMONTESE 

FASHION. 

Follow the directions given for Capon, Derby Fashion. Cook 
the rice as stated, and acid 2 ounces each of truffles, mushrooms 
and cooked smoked ham cut in small squares. 

Dress the capon on a fried crust of bread, surround it with 
chicken livers sauted in butter ; add I gill of tomato sauce to 
the gravy, and pour some over the capon, and serve the rest 
separate. 

CHAPON A LA DORIA CAPON, DORIA FASHION. 

Singe and draw a capon as instructed for a la Derby; truss it 
to a nice shape, and cover the breast with slices of fat pork ; 
braise it in white veal stock. 

When done, remove the pork and strings, make an incision 
.around the breast, and remove it so as to leave a hollow; cut 



T 68 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

the breasts in slices, and fill the hollow with a garnishing of 
cocks' combs and kidneys, mushrooms and olive-shaped truffles, 
all of this mixed with veloute cream sauce ; replace the breast 
in its old position, and cover the whole with a thickly reduced 
veloute cream sauce, to which add some grated Parmesan 
cheese, and put to bake in a slow oven until nicely colored. 

CHAPON SOUFFLE CAPON SCUFFLED. 

Prepare a capon as indicated for Capon, Doria Fashion. Fill 
it with the same ingredients, and cover it with the breast cut in 
neat slices ; cover the breast with the follo\ying preparation, 
giving the capon its original shape, or at least trying to give 
it a pleasant, somewhat plump appearance. 

Pound fine in the mortar I pound of breast of fowl, add 3 
ounces of foie gras and the whites of 2 eggs ; season with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg and rub through a fine sieve ; set on ice, and 
incorporate 5 gills of thick cream, by degrees only; at last add 
the whipped whites of 2 eggs. 

Set the capon in a saucepan in which it can be handled easily, 
moisten with enough chicken or veal stock to prevent scorching, 
set on the fire, cover and cook in a slow oven for 30 to 40 
minutes. 

Dress on a bed of rice cooked in chicken stock, or on a 
support of hominy, and serve separately some veloute cream 
sauce. 

CHAPON DESOSSE FARCI A LA BANQUIERE BONED CAPON, 

STUFFED, BANKER'S FASHION. 

Singe, draw and bone a Philadelphia capon, laying aside the 
drumsticks. Prepare a forcemeat with I pound each of turkey 
breast, lean pork and fat pork, to which add l / 2 pound of bread 
crumbs soaked in milk. Chop and pound the meat very fine, 
season with allspice, pepper, salt, a half pony of brandy and one 
of sherry, and some truffle juice. Cut into ^-inch squares 4 
ounces of smoked beef tongue, y 2 pound of truffles and I pound 
of fat goose liver (foie gras au naturel) ; mix these ingredients 
with the forcemeat, fill up the capon, and sew the bird together, 
trying to give it as much as possible its natural shape. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 169 

Line the bottom of a braising pan with a few slices of raw 
ham, 3 or 4 sliced carrots, */2 dozen sliced onions, a few parsley 
roots, 2 bay leaves, a sprig of thyme, and I dozen pepper corns ;: 
lay the capon thereon, surround with a few broken veal bones, 
set on the range, and after the vegetables are slightly brow r ned, 
moisten with half veal stock and half consomme ; cover tightly 
and cook in the oven for 2^ hours, basting the capon every 
once in a while. 

When done, strain the gravy, add a pinch of sugar and 
thicken with cornstarch diluted with a little sherry. 

CHAPON TRUFFE- -TRUFFLED CAPON. 

Pick, singe and draw a capon as explained for Capon, Derby 
Fashion, and stuff it with the following preparation : 

Peel 3 pounds of truffles, pound the peelings with I clove of 
garlic, */ teaspoonful of allspice and y 2 gill of brandy; add 1^/2 
pounds of raw 7 leaf lard ; continue to pound and rub through a 
sieve; then add the truffles cut in halves. 

Cut I large truffle in nice slices and place them between the 
skin and the breast of the bird ; truss to a nice shape ; cover the 
breast with slices of fat pork and wrap the capon in a sheet of 
buttered paper ; place it in the ice box for 2 or 3 days so that 
the meat will absorb the flavor of the truffles. 

Roast carefully with the paper around the bird, removing it 
only at the last moment, to allow the bird to take color in case 
that it should be too pale. Truffle sauce may be served to ac- 
company the bird. 

NOTE. If fresh truffles can be obtained, it is preferable, as 
their flavor is naturally far superior to the preserved goods. 

DINDE A LA CHIPOLATA- -TURKEY, CHIPOLATA FASHION. 

Braise a turkey as explained for Capon, Derby Fashion. Add 
2 gills of Madeira sauce to the gravy of the bird, reduce to a 
good consistency, and add 18 small glazed carrots, 12 small 
glazed onions, 12 whole boiled and glazed chestnuts, 12 small 
cooked chipolata sausages and 4 ounces of salt pork, cut in 
small strips I inch long and % inch thick (parboil and cook the 
strips of pork before adding them to the sauce). 



1 70 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Dress the turkey on a dish, and surround it with the garnish- 
ing. 

DlNDONNEAU BRAISE A LA FlNANCIERE SPRING TURKEY 

BRAISED, FINANCIER'S FASHION. 

Cook the turkey as explained for Capon, Derby Fashion. 
Garnish the bird with 12 glazed truffles, 12 slices of sweetbread 
larded and glazed, 12 large decorated quenelles, 24 fresh mush- 
rooms cooked in butter and tossed in chicken glaze, and 18 
cocks' combs and kidneys. 

Add to the turkey gravy 2 gills of Madeira sauce, reduce well 
and serve separate. 

DlNDONNEAU A LA GODARD SPRING TURKEY, GODARD 

FASHION. 

Serve as Turkey, Financier Fashion. The garnishing is the 
same. 

DlNDE BOUILLIE A L'ANGLAISE--BOILED TURKEY, ENGLISH 

FASHION. 

Clean and truss a fat turkey ; cover it with boiling water ; 
when boiling, remove the scum, add 3 onions, one of them stuck 
with 3 cloves ; 2 carrots, a stalk of celery and a faggot of herbs ; 
let simmer gently until the turkey is done. 

Serve with parsley sauce and slices of the salt pork which 
was cooked with the turkey. 

NOTE. Like boiled chicken, boiled turkey may be served with 
any suitable sauce. 

DINDE FARCIE AUX HUITRES TURKEY STUFFED WITH 

OYSTERS. 

Remove the hard part from 3 dozen oysters, cook them in 
their own juice and set aside to cool. 

Mix 6 ounces of soft butter with i gallon of fresh bread 
crumbs, add J/2 gill of the oyster juice and 3 whole eggs; drain 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 171 

the oysters and mix with them the bread; season with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg, and fill a fat, plump turkey with the stuffing. 
Truss the bird ; cover it with slices of fat salt pork and roast 
with care. 

DINDE FARCIE AUX PATATES- -TURKEY STUFFED WITH 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Chop fine 2 large white onions and fry them m 2 ounces of 
butter without browning, add 8 ounces of sausage meat, and 
cook for a few minutes, stirring continuously. 

Soak I pound of white bread (with the crust deprived) in cold 
water. After 5 minutes press out all the water, and mix the 
bread with the onions and sausage meat, add 3 whole eggs and 
2 pounds of sweet potatoes cooked and cut in i-inch squares; 
season the stuffing with salt, pepper, nutmeg, chopped parsley 
and (very little of each) thyme and sage. 

Fill a good turkey with this stuffing, truss the bird, cover it 
with slices of larding pork and roast carefully. 

DINDE FARCIE AUX MARRONS- -TURKEY STUFFED WITH 

CHESTNUTS. 

Prepare the same stuffing as for Turkey Stuffed with Sweet 
Potatoes. Substitute peeled and cooked chestnuts for the sweet 
potatoes. 

OISON FARCI AUX POMMES ET Noix GOSLING STUFFED 
WITH APPLES AND WALNUTS. 

Choose a tender gosling, singe and draw it and prepare the 
following stuffing : 

Chop fine and fry in butter 2 onions, add 6 ounces of sausage 
meat, cook for 5 minutes, then drain off the fat, add the soft 
part of a small loaf of bread previously soaked and pressed, and 
2 whole eggs ; then add 3 or 4 apples, peeled, cut in squares 
and fried in butter, and about 3 dozen walnuts parboiled and 
peeled. 

Fill the gosling with this stuffing, truss and roast in a mod- 
erate oven. 



172 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

OISON FARCI AUX MARRONS GOSLING STUFFED WITH 

CHESTNUTS. 
Proceed as for Turkey Stuffed with Chestnuts. 

RAGOUT D'OISON A LA PAYSANNE STEWED GOSLING, 

PEASANT STYLE. 

Dissect a tender gosling in suitable pieces, season with salt, 
and fry them in butter to a light color, drain the butter, be- 
sprinkle the gosling with a handful of flour and moisten to its 
height with good stock. When it boils, remove the scum, add 
a faggot of herbs, I carrot and an onion stuck with I clove; 
cover the pan and let simmer gently for 45 to 50 minutes. Mean- 
time prepare some small glazed onions, carrots and turnips. 
When the duckling is done, remove the faggot, onion and car- 
rot ; clear the sauce fn *m fat, add a dash of sherry, and the 
glazed vegetables ; also l / 2 pint of cooked green peas ; season 
to taste with salt and a pinch of su^ar. 

CANETON FARCI A L'ALLEMANDE STUFFED DUCKLING, 

GERMAN FASHION. 

Singe, clean and draw 2 ducklings and fill them with the 
following stuffing : 

Chop fine and fry in butter 2 onions. Remove from a sand- 
wich loaf of bread the crust, and soak the soft part in luke 
warm water. Cut 3 peeled raw potatoes in ^-inch squares, and 
set them on the fire to boil in salted water. When the onions 
are fried, add to it 6 ounces of sausage meat. Cook for a while, 
then drain the fat; add the soaked bread, which should be 
pressed lightly, add 2 whole eggs, season to taste with salt, 
pepper, nutmeg, and flavor with thyme, sage and chopped pars- 
ley. Lastly, add the drained potatoes, being careful not to mash 
them. Truss the duckling and roast them in a moderate oven 50 
minutes to I hour. Serve apple sauce separate. 

BALLOTINES DE CANETONS A LA FRENEUSE--BALLOTINES OF 

DUCKLING, FRENEUSE STYLE. 

Take the skin off a duckling, divide it in eight equal parts. 
Bone the bird completely, keeping the breast for further use. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 173 

Free the remainder of the flesh from bones and sinews, add 
the same amount of breast of fowl and half of fat pork; chop 
fine and pound in the mortar, adding one-fourth the amount of 
bread crumbs soaked in milk, a tablespoonful of cooked force- 
meat and I whole egg ; season with salt and allspice. Cut the 
breast in small squares, and saute them in butter just long 
enough to stiffen them ; drain, and when cold add the forcemeat 
with the same amount of foie gras cut in squares. 

Spread the skin of the duckling on the table, divide the 
force-meat in as many parts as there are pieces of skin, wrap 
them up first with the skin and then with a clean, white cloth, 
and cook them for 30 minutes in the stock prepared with the 
bones. 

Meantime, peel as many large white turnips as there are 
ballotines, cut them straight at the bottom and scoop them out 
at the top to make them hold the ballotines ; parboil he turnips 
in salted water for 5 minutes, then drain. 

Set the ballotines in the turnips, and place these in a saute 
pan ; moisten with the stock of the duckling, and cook for about 
20 minutes longer, glazing the duck at last. 

Dish up the ballotines, reduce the stock in which they were 
cooked, and finish with brown sauce ; pour part of it on the 
dish, and the rest serve separate. 

CHAUDFROID DE CANETON A L'ORANGE CHAUDFROID OF 

DUCKLING, ORANGE FLAVOR. 

Carefully roast three ducklings. When cold, lift the breasts 
and legs, remove the skin and trim nicely. 

Prepare an orange chaudfroid sauce as follows : 

Pour into a saucepan I pint of brown sauce, reduce with I gill 
of veal stock and I gill of meat jelly until there is but I pint left, 
add i pony of brown Curacao, the juice of one orange and the 
finely shredded and parboiled outer rind of I orange. 

Before using the sauce, put a little on ice, and if not firm 
enough add a little soaked and melted gelatine. 

Coat the pieces of duckling with the sauce. When stiffened, 
decorate with fanciful pieces of truffles and hard-boiled white 
of egg; brush over with melted jelly; arrange on a dish and 
serve with chopped jelly. 



174 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

PlGEONNEAU A LA CORSICAINE SQUAB, CORSICAN FASHION. 

Singe, draw and truss 6 nice squabs; heat some butter in a 
pan, season the squabs, lay them in the pan and brown them 
lightly all over; drain the butter and moisten with a pint of 
Marsala, reduce to one-half, then add a pint of rich stock. 
Cover the pan, place it in a moderate oven, and cook for 30 
minutes. 

In the meantime soak 4 dozen dried seedless raisins in luke- 
warm water, and set them on the range to parboil. 

Untruss the squabs, dress them on a dish, and garnish with 
clusters of glazed onions and whole glazed chestnuts ; clear the 
gravy from fat, reduce it to a good consistency with brown 
sauce, strain it, add the raisins, boil for a few minutes, and pour 
the sauce over the squabs. 

COTELETTES DE PlGEONNEAUX A LA SYLVIA SQUAB 

CUTLETS, SYLVIA STYLE. 

Split 6 squabs in halves and remove all bones except the 
drumsticks. Saute the squabs lightly on the inner side only, 
and put them under light press. When cold, trim them nicely 
and lay on the inner side a salpicon of truffles, mushrooms and 
foie gras cut in small squares and mixed with well- reduced 
German sauce. Cover with chicken forcemeat and decorate with 
truffles and smoked beef tongue to your fancy. 

Lay the cutlets in a buttered saute pan. Fifteen minutes be- 
fore-serving put it on top of the range, and when the butter 
hisses cover the pan and finish to cook in a moderate oven. 
Dress on a dish, put on each drumstick a favor and serve truffle 
sauce separate. 

COTELETTES DE PIGEONNEAUX A LA VALOIS SQUAB 

CUTLETS, VALOIS STYLE. 

Cut the squabs in halves and free from bone, leaving but the 
drumstick. Season with salt and pepper ; egg and bread-crumb 
them, and fry them in clarified butter ; dish up, put a favor on 
each drumstick, garnish the squabs with asparagus or some 
other vegetable, and serve Valois sauce separate. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 175 

CHAUDFROID DE PIGEONNEAUX A LA BOHEMIENNE CHAUD- 
FROID OF SQUAB, BOHEMIAN FASHION. 

Bone 12 squabs, and cut them lengthwise in halves. Keep the 
bones and carcasses to flavor the sauce. 

Prepare 2 pounds of chicken forcemeat, add to it y\ pound 
of cooked forcemeat, and season highly to taste. 

Cut into 54~ mcn squares 6 ounces each of truffles, smoked 
beef tongue and fat goose liver (foie gras) ; add these ingredients 
to the forcemeat, and fill each half of squab with enough force- 
meat to give it nearly its original size. 

Tie each bird in a small cloth, giving it a round, oval shape 
(like a boned turkey) ; place them in a saucepan with the bones, 
moisten with good stock, and let simmer for 20 to 25 minutes. 
Allow the birds to get hike warm, then put them under light 
pressure, and let them get cold. Strain the broth, reduce it to 
2 gills and incorporate into it i l / 2 pints of brown sauce; reduce 
it for 5 minutes, add I pint of meat jelly; reduce the whole to 
obtain I quart of sauce ; strain and put away to get cold. 

Remove the cloth from the squabs, trim them nicely (taking 
off all the skin), and then coat them with the sauce described 
above. 

Decorate to your fancy with truffles, smoked beef tongue, 
white of hard-boiled egg, etc. ; brush over with melted meat 
jelly, and when cold, arrange artistically on a dish. 

CANARD CANVASBACK ROTI--ROAST CANVASBACK DUCK. 

While there may be many elaborate ways of cooking wild 
ducks, it would really be to spoil or at least deteriorate the 
most delicate and agreeable flavor of the canvasback if cooked 
otherwise than roasted or broiled. The duck should be served 
perfectly plain ; it will furnish its own rich gravy if properly 
prepared. 

Singe, draw and truss a canvasback duck ; clean the head and 
stick it in the upper opening; baste it with butter, besprinkle 
with salt and roast in a hot oven for 18 to 20 minutes, according 
to the size of the duck. When ready to serve, untruss, lift the 
head a little, and pour into the inside a tablespoonful of luke 
warm water ; this is done to make the blood run more freely. 



i-j6 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

In many places the carcass of the duck is pressed after the 
breast is carved. 

CANARD CANVASBACK GRILLE- -BROILED CANVASBACK DUCK. 

Split the canvasback duck, baste it with oil, season with salt 
and broil over a brisk fire. 

CANARD A TETE ROUGE- -REDHEAD DUCK. 

The same can be said of the redhead duck as of the canvas- 
back, although in a lesser degree ; the redhead being somewhat 
.smaller in size, it naturally requires less cooking. 

CANARD SAUVAGE DIT RUDDY- -RUDDY DUCK. 

Many connoisseurs and epicurians prefer the ruddy duck to 
the redhead, claiming that it equals the canvasback in flavor. 
This bird has become scarce in late years, and its price went up 
in consequence. 

Proceed as for canvasback duck. 

CANARD SAUVAGE DIT BRANT- -BRANT DUCK. 

Brant duck is one of the best wild varieties, and may be 
roasted, broiled, sauted or served as salmi. 

POITRINE DE CANARD SAUVAGE DIT BRANT AUX CERISES 
BREAST OF BRANT DUCK WITH CHERRIES. 

Lift the breasts of as many brant ducks as are required ; 
saute them over a brisk fire, leaving them underdone ; dish up 
and pour over some cherry sauce, which prepare as follows : 

Heat some well-reduced port wine sauce and add some stoned 
preserved sour cherries ; if these are not on hand use candied 
ones, soaked in hike warm water ; the sauce may be flavored 
with cinnamon. 



POITRINES DE CANARD SAUVAGE DIT BRANT A 

BREASTS OF BRANT DUCK WITH ORANGES. 
Remove the breasts of 4 brant ducks (or from as many more 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 177 

as necessary), take off the skin and saute in butter over a brisk 
fire (leaving them underdone). 

Remove the butter from the pan in which the breasts were 
cooked, decant with the juice of half a lemon and i orange, and 
add I gill of rather thick orange sauce. 

Dress the breasts on heart-shaped slices of bread previously 
fried in butter, and surround them with sections of seedless 
oranges (these being well freed from all skin) ; pour the sauce 
over and serve. 



CANARD SAUVAGE BIT MALLARD ROTI ou GRILLE ROAST OR 

BROILED MALLARD DUCK. 
Proceed as for Canvasback Duck. 

POITRINE DE CANARD SAUVAGE DIT MALLARD, SAUCE OPORTO 
-BREAST OF MALLARD DUCK, PORT WINE SAUCE. 

Lift the breasts, season and saute them over a brisk fire, leav- 
ing them underdone ; dish up and pour over port wine sauce. 

SALMI DE CANARD SAUVAGE DIT MALLARD A LA BIGARADE 
SALMI OF MALLARD DUCK WITH BIGARADE ORANGES. 

Roast a mallard duck very much underdone ; dissect it in suit- 
able pieces, and place it in a pan ; remove the skin from the 
carcass and chop the latter in small pieces ; fry it in butter, then 
moisten with a glass of Madeira ; reduce to one-half, then 
moisten with 3 gills of brown sauce, let simmer for 15 minutes, 
then strain it into another pan. Reduce and finish as orange 
sauce; pour it over the duck, dish up and garnish with quarters 



of oranges. 



SARCELLE TEAL DUCK. 



There are several varieties of teal ducks, the blue-winged being 
unquestionably the best ; it can be roasted, broiled or cooked in 
anv wav indicated for wild ducks. 



178 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

PERDREAUX BRAISES AUX CHOUX BRAISED PARTRIDGES 

WITH CABBAGE. 

Cut 3 Savoy cabbages in 4 pieces, remove the core, steep 
the cabbage in cold water, then parboil for 15 minutes; drain 
and place it in a saucepan with ^ pound of salt pork ; moisten 
with fat stock, add 2 carrots and I onion, and set on the range. 
Cover the pan, and when it boils place in a moderate oven. 

Truss 2 nice partridges, lard their breasts with thin strips of 
fat pork, and put them to roast ; when nicely browned put them 
in with the cabbage to cook for about i hour. 

When done, drain the cabbage, place it on a dish, untie the 
partridges, glaze them and set them on top ; cut the pork in 
slices and arrange them symmetrically around the cabbage, also 
the carrots, which should be cut in neat slices. 

CHARTREUSE DE PERDREAUX CHARTREUSE OF PARTRIDGE. 

This dish is prepared on the same principle as the former, 
only it is more elaborate in its appearance. 

Cut out strips of carrots and turnips with the round cutter 
1-3 inch in diameter; have the strips all of the same length, 
about i to i l / 2 inches; boil them separately. When done cool 
and drain them. Butter a Charlotte mould liberally, decorate 
the bottom with Brussels sprouts and other vegetables cut in 
fanciful shapes ; line the sides of the mould with the carrots and 
turnips interlaid with strips of cooked string beans. Cut up the 
partridges in suitable pieces ; then fill up the mould with layers 
of cabbage and partridge, starting and finishing with cabbage. 

Place the mould in the bain-marie and heat well in the oven 
for 15 or 20 minutes; unmould on a dish, being careful not to 
derange the vegetables, and surround with Madeira sauce. 

NOTE. An oval shaped mould may be used instead of a 
round Charlotte mould. 

PERDREAU BOUILLI SAUCE AU CELERI- -BOILED PARTRIDGE, 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Truss a partridge, place it in a small saucepan, and moisten it 
with cold chicken broth. When boiling, remove the scum, add 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 179 

i onion stuck with I clove, and I carrot ; cut one large or two 
small stalks of celery in small squares, and add to the partridge. 
When the partridge is done, remove it on a dish, take away 
the onion and carrot, and thicken the broth with a roux; bind 
with 2 yolks and cream ; season to taste, and pour the sauce 
over the partridge. 

PERDREAU FARCI A LA DUMANOIR STUFFED PARTRIDGE, 

DUMANOIR STYLE. 

Bone a partridge, leaving but the legs, stuff it with the same 
forcemeat as indicated for Squab, Bohemian Fashion, and truss 
it to its original shape ; place it in a small braising pan lined with 
vegetables, and set it in a moderate oven for i hour and 30 
minutes, and proceed as for ordinary braised meats. Strain the 
gravy and reduce it with Madeira sauce ; add some sliced truffles 
and pour over the partridge. 

PERDREAU EN TERRINE A LA Sou VAROFF- -PARTRIDGE IN 

TERRIN, SOUVAROFF STYLE. 
Follow directions as given for Chicken, Souvaroff Style. 

PERDREAU EN TERRINE A LA DEMIDOFF- -PARTRIDGE IN 

TERREEN, DEMIDOFF STYLE. 
Proceed as explained for Chicken in Terreen Demidoff Style. 

TERRINE DE PERDREAUX A LA PARISIENNE- -TERREEN OF 
PARTRIDGES, PARISIAN STYLE. 

Lift the breasts of 4 or 5 partridges ; season and saute them 
lightly, and set away to cool. Chop fine 8 ounces each of lean 
pork, fat pork and breast of fo\vl ; add 2 ounces of cooked force- 
meat, and pound fine in the mortar ; season with salt and all- 
spice, and add ^ gill of sherry and a good dash of brandy. 

Line a large terreen with thin slices of fat pork, and fill with 
alternate layers of forcemeat, breast of partridge, forcemeat, 
truffles and foie gras, forcemeat, and so on until the terreen is 



i8o' The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

filled. Cover with slices of pork, cover the terreen, and hermeti- 
cally seal it with paste. 

Place the terreen in a pan partly filled with water and cook in 
a moderate oven for 2 hours and 30 minutes ; allow to get cold, 
then take off the cover, remove the fat and fill with jelly made 
with the bones of the partridges. 

PERDREAUX EN COCOTTE A LA HONGROISE- -PARTRIDGES IN 

COCOTTE, HUNGARIAN FASHION. 

Truss 2 nice partridges, season with salt and paprika, and 
cook in a saute pan ; add 2 small onions and turn the partridge 
from side to side occasionally. When the partridges are done, 
remove them from the pan, untie and place them in an earthen 
pot. 

Drain the butter in which the partridges were cooked, moisten 
with 2 gills of cream, boil for 3 or 4 minutes ; then add a spoon- 
ful of veloute sauce, to give the cream a slight consistency; 
season to taste with salt and paprika, add a tablespoonful of 
chicken glaze, and strain over the partridges ; allow the sauce 
to come just to a boil, and serve immediately. 

POITRINE DE PERDREAUX A LA DARTOIS- -BREASTS OF 
PARTRIDGES, DARTOIS STYLE. 

Remove the breasts from 4 partridges, trim them neatly, sea- 
son w r ith salt and pepper, and saute them over a brisk fire. 

When clone, dress the breasts on a dish. Remove the butter 
from the pan, moisten with 2 tablespoonfuls of white wine 
(allow to reduce) and 2 of beef extract ; add 3 ounces of sweet 
butter, the juic,e of a half lemon, and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley. Pour the sauce over the breasts, and garnish them 
with artichoke bottoms filled with potatoes and truffles (cut in 
squares, sauted in butter and rolled in meat extract). 



POITRINE DE PERDREAUX A LA COMTESSE- -BREAST OF 
PARTRIDGES, COUNTESS STYLE. 

Lift the breasts of partridges, trim them nicely, season, egg 
and bread-crumb them, and fry in clarified butter. 

Dish up and garnish with asparagus tips. Serve Bearnaise 
sauce separately. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 1 8 1 

POITRINE DE PERDREAUX A LA FLORIAN- -BREAST OF 

PARTRIDGES, FLORIAN STYLE. 
Same as Breast of Chicken, Florian Style. 

POITRINE DE PERDREAUX A L'OPERA BREAST OF PARTRIDGES, 

OPERA STYLE. 
Same as Breast of Chicken, Opera Style. 

TETRAS SAUTE A LA VINCENT GROUSE SAUTED, VINCENT 

STYLE. 

Dissect a tender grouse in 4 parts; season and saute them 
over a brisk fire. When done, put them on a dish, moisten the 
pan with a gill of port wine, add a teaspoonful of currant jelly, 
reduce and add I gill of brown sauce ; reduce well, then add 
half the rind of an orange. Dress a border of puree of chest- 
nuts on a dish ; place the bird in the center, and pour the sauce 
over it. 

NOTE. Instead of a border, small timbals of puree of chest- 
nuts may be served on the dish. 

TETRAS BRAISE A L'ESPAGNOLE- -BRAISED GROUSE, SPANISH 

STYLE. 

Prepare 2 grouse for roasting; place them in a braising pan 
lined with vegetables, and cook them, according to the rules, for 
1^2 hours. 

When done, dress the birds on a dish, surround them with 
braised celery, and pour over them their own gravy diluted with 
Madeira sauce. 

SALMI DE TETRAS AUX TRUFFES SALMIS OF GROUSE WITH 

TRUFFLES. 

Truss and roast a grouse underdone ; dissect it in suitable 
pieces and lay them in a saute pan. 

Chop up the carcass, put it in a saucepan with a gill of 



182 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Madeira, set on the fire, allow it to reduce one-half ; then add 2 
gills of brown sauce. Cook for 10 minutes, then strain over the 
dissected bird ; add 3 truffles cut in slices, heat well without boil- 
ing, and dress on a dish ; surround with heart-shaped pieces of 
bread fried in butter. 

POITRINE DE TETRAS A L'OCCIDENTALE- -BREAST OF GROUSE, 

OCCIDENTAL STYLE. 

Lift the breasts of grouse, trim and saute them over a brisk 
fire. 

Have ready I pint of pepper sauce, to which add a table- 
spoonful of red currant jelly. Shred fine I part each of red 
sweet peppers, truffles, gherkins, and the white of a hard-boiled 
egg; add these ingredients to the sauce, and pour over the 
breasts. 

POITRINE DE TETRAS A LA LONDONDERRY- -BREAST OF 
GROUSE, LONDONDERRY STYLE. 

Lift the breasts of 6 grouse, trim and saute them over a brisk 
fire. Dress in a circle on a dish, and pour over Londonderry 
sauce. 

PORTRINE DE TETRAS A LA ROMANOFF- -BREAST OF GROUSE, 

ROMANOFF STYLE. 

Prepare and cook the breasts as described for Londonderry ; 
have ready some port wine sauce, to which add shredded gher- 
kins and truffles, and pour over the breasts. 

BECASSES FLAMBEES AU COGNAC- -WOODCOCKS BURNED 

WITH BRANDY. 

Singe, clean and truss the woodcock, and cook them in a brisk 
oven, leaving them very underdone. Cut them in halves, and 
place them in a chafing dish ; moisten the dish in which the birds 
were cooked with a little gravy and a little chicken glaze, and 
serve separately in a sauce-boat. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 183. 

Upon serving the woodcock pour over them some brandy and 
set fire to it, as soon as the flames are extinguished, pour over 
the gravy. 

BECASSES EN COCOTTE- -\YOODCOCK IN COCOTTE. 

Singe, draw and truss 2 woodcock, chop fine the enfrails, first 
removing the stomach ; add some scraped larding pork or a lit- 
tle butter ; season with salt and butter, and spread this prepara- 
tion on small heart-shaped pieces of toast. 

Heat some butter in a saucepan, put in the woodcock pre- 
viously seasoned with salt, and roast them in a brisk oven, turn- 
ing them occasionally. When done, dress the birds in a cocotte ; 
moisten the pan in which they were cooked with a little rich 
gravy, pour it over the birds, heat the crusts in the oven, and 
surround the woodcock with them. 

CAISES DE BECASSINES A LA FINANCIERS SNIPE IN CASES, 

FINANCIER'S STYLE. 

Lift the breasts of snipe and saute them over a brisk fire. Fill 
some small cases with Financier garnishing, glaze over the 
breasts and set one on top of each case. 

BECASSINES FLAMBEES AU COGNAC SNIPE BURNED WITH 

BRANDY. 

Follow same directions as given for woodcock. 

PETITS PATES DE BECASSINES A L'EPICURIEN- -SMALL SNIPE 

PATTIES. EPICUREAN STYLE. 

Bone 8 or 10 snipe, and stuff them with chicken forcemeat, to 
which add one-eighth part of cooked forcemeat ; lay a piece each 
of truffle and foie gras in each bird, and shape them in round 
balls. 

Line some deep tartlet or patty moulds with short paste, 
place the snipe therein, and cover with a layer of paste, being 
careful to well close the borders. Make a small opening at the 



184 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

top and decorate the cover ; then brush over with beaten egg, 
and bake in a moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes. 

With the bones of the birds prepare a rich stock, strain and 
reduce it with Madeira sauce. 

When the birds are done lift the cover, pour over some of the 
gravy, and serve on a napkin. 

NOTE. This dish may be served cold by adding some gela- 
tine to the stock before filling up the patties. 

PLUVIER PLOVER. 

Plover may be cooked in the same styles as woodcock and 
snipe. 

PLUVIER FARCI A LA DUMANOIR STUFFED PLOVER, 

DUMANOIR STYLE. 
Prepared as Partridge, Dumanoir Style. 

BALLOTINES DE CAILLES AUX TRUFFES BALLOTINES OF QUAIL 

WITH TRUFFLES. 

Bone 12 quail, spread them on a table, besprinkle with salt, 
and put on each a tablespoonful of chicken forcemeat, to which 
add some truffles and smoked beef tongue cut in small squares. 

Roll up the quail in round balls, and tie each in a piece of 
clean white cloth, put them in a pan with the quail bones and 
cover with rich stock and 2 gills of Madeira, let simmer 
gently for 35 to 40 minutes; then untie, dish them up on a dish, 
reduce the stock in which the birds were cooked, and finish 
with brown sauce. 

Strain the sauce, add some sliced truffles, and pour it over the 
birds and serve. 

CAILLES EN TERRINE A LA SOUVAROFF QUAIL IN TERRIN, 

SOUVAROFF STYLE. 

Prepare as Chicken in Tureen, SouvarofT Style. 
Six or eight quail may be put in the same terreen. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 185 

CAILLES EN TERRINE A LA FERMIERE QUAIL IN TERRIN, 

FARMER'S STYLE. 

Follow the directions given for Chicked in Terreen, Farmer's 
Style. 

BALLOTINES DE CAILLES EN CHAUDFROID CHAUDFROID OF 

QUAIL BALLOTINES. 

Prepare and cook as indicated for Ballotines of Quail with 
Truffles. Let them get cold in the stock in which they were 
cooked, and finish as explained for Chaudfroid of Squab. 

COTELETTES DE CAILLES A LA SYLVIA QUAIL CUTLETS, 

SYLVIA STYLE. 

Same as Squab Cutlets, Sylvia Style. 

COTELETTES DE CAILLES A LA VALOIS QUAIL CUTLETS, 

VALOIS STYLE. 
Same as Squab Cutlets, Valois Style. 

BRUANTS SAUTES AU BEURRE--REED BIRDS SAUTED IN 

BUTTER. 

Clean the birds, taking out the stomach ; season with salt, and 
saute them over a very hot fire, leaving them rather underdone. 
Dress them on small pieces of toast ; take out half of the butter 
in which the birds were cooked, replace by fresh butter, heat to 
the nut degree, and pour over the birds, besprinkling them with 
freshly chopped parsley, and serve. 

BRUANT EN SURPRISE REED BIRDS IN SURPRISE POTATOES. 

Prepare and cook some reedbirds as instructed for Vol au 
Vent a la Banquiere. Prepare also some good- sized baked 
potatoes by cutting off a piece on one end and standing the 
tubers upright to cook. 



1 86 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

When baked cut off the tops of the potatoes and scoop them 
out with a vegetable spoon ; place in each potato a bird, and 
pour over it some truffle sauce. Set the cover on the potatoes, 
and put in the oven for 15 minutes. Serve on folded napkins. 

BRUANT A LA LUCULLUS--REED BIRDS, LUCULLUS FASHION. 

Prepare the reedbirds as explained for Yol au Yent a la Ban- 
quiere. Have some large truffles scooped out with a vegetable 
spoon, and place a stuffed bird in each truffle ; put them in a 
saucepan, moisten with Madeira and cook for 25 to 30 minutes 
in a slow oven. 

Dress the reedbirds on a dish ; reduce the remaining Madeira 
with brown sauce to a good consistency, strain and pour over 
the birds. 



MISCELLANEOUS ENTREES. 

VOL AU VENT A LA BANQUIERE- -VoL AU VENT (LARGE 

PATTY), BANKER'S FASHION. 

Bone 24 reedbirds, and spread them on the table ; prepare a 
stuffing of three-fourths chicken forcemeat and one-fourth 
cooked forcemeat ; season highly ; put on each bird I teaspoon- 
ful of stuffing and a piece of fat goose liver (about y 2 inch 
square), and give them a round shape ; lay them on a buttered 
saute pan, quite close together, so as to retain their shape when 
cooking; 15 minutes before serving, pour some melted butter 
over the birds, and put them in the oven to cook for a quarter 
of an hour. Then dress them in the Yol au Yent and pour over 
a thick Madeira sauce with sliced truffles. Serve on folded 
napkin. 

GRAND VOL AU VENT A LA KITTEN CLUB- -LARGE PUFF 
PASTE PATTY, KITTEN CLUB STYLE. 

Boil a partridge in some chicken broth, together with 2 stalks 
of celery. When tender, prepare a sauce with the stock of the 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 187 

partridge, and add to it I pint of cream ; cut the breast of the 
partridge into small pieces, and add it with the celery to the 
sauce; parboil the belly part of 18 oysters, and cook 18 small 
heads of fresh mushrooms in butter ; then add both to the sauce. 
Season to taste ; fill up the patties and serve. 

BOUCHEES A LA MOGADOR SMALL PATTIES, MOGADOR 

STYLE. 

Remove the marrow from 6 marrow bones and cut it in ^- 
inch squares, plunge it into boiling salted water for 2 or 3 min- 
utes, and put it into y 2 pint of well reduced and well seasoned 
Madeira sauce. Add 3 good-sized truffles, cut into %-inch 
cubes ; fill the patties, and serve on folded napkin. 

PETITES BOUCHEES A LA CHASSEUR SMALL PATTIES, 

HUNTER'S FASHION. 

Cut i dozen chicken livers in ^-inch cubes, and saute them 
over a bright fire ; drain and add to I gill of Chasseur sauce, 
heat well (but do not allow to boil), fill the patties, and serve. 

BOUCHEES A LA VOLONTAIRE SMALL PATTIES, VOLUNTEER 

STYLE. 

Cut into ^4-inch squares I part each of cooked turkey or 
chicken breast and smoked beef tongue, truffles, mushrooms, 
Lucca olives and sweet red peppers. Heat these ingredients in 
some well reduced Madeira sauce, and just before serving fill 
up the heated small patties. 

KULIBIAC ou PATES A LA RUSSE KULIBIAC OR RUSSIAN 

PATTIES. 

Cut in very small dice one part each of onion, carrot, turnip, 
celery, mushroom and cabbage ; put the vegetables in a pan 
with a piece of butter, set on the fire and stir until the vege- 
tables have rendered their humidity. Then moisten with chicken 



1 88 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

broth and allow to reduce completely, by which time the vege- 
ables should be cooked. 

Add some well reduced Bechamel or veloute sauce, just 
enough to give the vegetables consistency ; season highly, and 
set in a cool place. 

Roll out some puff paste rather thin, cut out some round 
pieces 2 l / 2 inches in diameter, place a dessertspoonful of the 
above preparation on each, wet the edges and fold over. 

Next place on a baking sheet, brush over with beaten eggs 
and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot on a napkin. 

NOTE.- -These patties may be made with fish or forcemeat 
of different sorts ; keeping this initial receipt in mind, the others 
are easily prepared. 

RISSOLES A LA ROY ALE RISSOLES, ROYAL FASHION. 

Cut into small cubes 6 cocks' combs, 6 cocks' kidneys, 6 large 
fresh mushrooms previously cooked, and 3 truffles ; reduce 2 
gills of veloute sauce with */2 gill of thick cream, add the above 
ingredients, and bind with 3 egg yolks. Season to taste, and 
put away to get cold. 

Roll out some puff paste trimmings to l / inch in thickness ; 
with a round channeled pastry cutter stamp out pieces 3 inches 
in diameter, place one teaspoonful of stuffing on each piece, 
brush the borders of the paste half way around with cold 
water, and turn over the paste, pressing the borders lightly 
together. 

Dip the edges in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and fry the 
rissoles in hot lard. 

To obtain a different effect the rissoles may be brushed over 
with beaten eggs, and crushed vermicelli strewn over. 

They may also be dipped whole into beaten eggs and rolled in 
bread crumbs ; but this procedure is not so much favored, as the 
paste is a compact mass in itself and needs no further wrapping 
of eggs and bread crumbs. 

Rissoles may also be prepared with the following ingredients : 

RISSOLES DE FOIE GRAS FOIE GRAS RISSOLES. 

Proceed as above ; prepare a salpicon of foie gras, truffles and 
mushrooms, and bind with thickly reduced brown sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 189 

RISSOLES A LA MOELLE RISSOLES WITH MARROW. 

Cut some beef marrow in squares, parboil and add well re- 
duced brown sauce ; finish as explained previously. 

RISSOLES AUX HUITRES RISSOLES WITH OYSTERS. 

Parboil some oysters, drain, remove the beards, and cut the 
belly part in squares ; add one-third part mushrooms also cut 
in squares ; reduce some of the oyster liquid with German sauce 
and add the oysters. 

Finish as stated above. 

RISSOLES A LA PUREE DE VOLAILLE RISSOLES WITH PUREE 

OF CHICKEN. 

RISSOLES A LA PUREE DE FAISAN- -RISSOLES WITH PUREE OF 

PHEASANT. 

An infinity of Rissoles may be prepared ; they are often served 
as garnishing" to joints and entrees containing spinach, D'Uxelle 
stuffing, Macedoine of vegetable, ham, sweetbread, etc. 

Rissoles are also prepared of pancakes ; they are prepared in 
the same manner as explained above, and are kept together by 
using chicken or veal forcemeat at the borders. 

ESCALOPES DE FOIE GRAS A LA DIPLOMATS- -FAT GOOSE 
LIVER COLLOPS, DIPLOMAT STYLE. 

Cut slices of cooked plain foie gras ^ inch in thickness ; trim 
them all of the same size, cut the trimmings in small pieces, add 
the same amount of truffles and one-fourth the amount of well 
reduced German sauce. Cover the slices of foie gras on both 
sides with this mixture, and set on an oiled dish in a cool place. 

When very cold, egg and bread-crumb the collops ; fry in hot 
lard, serve on a napkin with fried parsley, and give perigueux 
sauce separate. 

MOUSSELINE DE FOIE GRAS A LA BOHEMIENNE MUSSLIN OF 

FAT GOOSE LIVER, BOHEMIAN FASHION. 
Pound fine 8 ounces of breast of fowl or turkev, then add the 



190 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

same amount of foie gras and 4 ounces of panada ; add by de- 
grees 3 egg yolks, and season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; rub 
through fine sieve and place in a cool place. 

Work the forcemeat well in a bowl to make it smooth, and 
incorporate gently I pint of whipped cream ; try its consistency ; 
if too solid, add some more cream. 

Butter some small timbale moulds, fill with some mous- 
seline preparation, and cook in the bain-marie for 15 minutes. 

Unmould, and dish up and pour over some cream paprika 
sauce. 



MEDALLIONS DE FOIE GRAS A I/AIGLON- -FAT GOOSE LIVER 

MEDALLIONS, AIGLON STYLE. 

Cut some slices of smoked beef tongue l /\ inch in thickness, 
trim them all of the same size and shape (preferably an oblong 
round). 

Cover one side with puree of foie gras, smooth over the 
surface and cover with white chaudfroid sauce ; decorate the 
medallions with truffles, etc., brush over with partly set jelly, 
and dress on a border of aspic jelly. 

ATTEREAUX A LA VILLEROI- -SKEWERS, VILLEROI STYLE. 

Cut some ^4 -inch thick slices of foie gras, truffles, mushrooms 
and smoked beef tongue ; scoop them out round and all of the 
same size ; stick them alternately on to a skewer ; spread over 
some Villeroi sauce, and lay on an oiled dish to get firm ; egg 
and bread-crumb, and fry them in hot lard. Serve on a napkin 
and garnish with fried parsley. 

ATTEREAUX DE FOIE GRAS A LA VILLEROI- -SKEWERS OF FAT 

GOOSE LIVER, VILLEROI STYLE. 

Proceed as above, using but foie gras and truffles. 
NOTE. Skewers of sweetbread, of beef palate, of cocks' kid- 
neys, etc., can be prepared as indicated above. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 191 

PAUPIETTE DE DINDE A LA METTERNICH- -TURKEY ROLLS, 

METTERNICH STYLE. 

Lift the breast of a turkey, cut from it thin slices, beat them 
with the cleaver, and trim them to uniform size, 3 inches wide, 
from 5 to 6 inches long and l /\. inch thick. Prepare a cream 
forcemeat with the trimmings, and put on each slice of turkey 
a layer of forcemeat, sprinkle over chopped truffles, smoked beef 
tongue and pistachio nuts ; roll up the slices and tie each with 
a string; lay in a buttered saute pan, cover, and cook over a 
slow fire for 20 minutes. Remove the strings, and dress the 
rolls on a bed of risotto. 

Pour away the butter in the saute pan, add I gill of white wine 
and let reduce, then add 2 gills of veloute sauce, i gill of cream 
and i tablespoonful of rich veal gravy or meat extract, reduce to 
good consistency, season to taste with salt, paprika and the 
juice of half a lemon. Finish with 2 ounces of sweet butter, 
and pour over the turkey rolls. 

PAUPIETTES DE DINDE A LA THEODORA- -TURKEY ROLLS, 

THEODORA STYLE. 

Proceed as for Turkey Rolls, Metternich Style, but lard the 
slices of turkey with very thin strips of fat pork ; spread the 
slices on the table and stuff them with chicken forcemeat mixed 
with cooked fine herbs and chopped turkey livers ; roll up and 
tie with strings. 

Place the rolls in a pan lined with vegetables, and braise with 
rich stock. When the rolls are done brush them over with 
meat extract, and finish to glaze in the oven; remove the strings 
and dish them up. Strain the gravy free from fat, and thicken 
lightly with arrowroot. 

Garnish the rolls with noodles and small glazed carrots, pour 
some of the gravy around, and serve the rest separate. 

COTELETTES DE DlNDE A LA BANQUIERE- -TURKEY CUTLETS, 

BANKER'S STYLE. 

Chop fine and pound in the mortar i pound of breast of 
turkey, add 4 ounces of beef marrow and 4 ounces of soft white 



192 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

bread soaked in milk ; season to taste with salt, pepper and 
nutmeg, and put on ice to get firm. 

Roll in flour to give it the shape of small cutlets, dip in beaten 
eggs and roll in bread crumbs, and fry in clarified butter ; drain 
and dress on a napkin. Stick in each cutlet a favor, and serve 
bankers' sauce separate. 

COTELETTES DE DINDE A LA SOUTHERLAND- -TURKEY 
CUTLETS, SOUTHERLAND STYLE. 

Proceed as indicated in the previous receipt ; add to the force- 
meat i tablespoonful each of chopped truffles, mushrooms and' 
ham; finish as explained previously; dress on a dish, garnish 
with asparagus tips, and serve Bearnaise sauce separate. 

COTELETTES DE DINDE A LA TOULOUSAINE TURKEY 
CUTLETS, TOULOUSE STYLE. 

Prepare and cook the cutlets as for Turkey Cutlets, Bankers' 
Fashion. Serve with Toulouse garnishing. 

COTELETTE DE DINDE A LA FINANCIERS- -TURKEY CUTLETS, 

FINANCIER'S STYLE. 

Same as above. Serve Financier instead of Toulouse gar- 
nishing. 

COTELETTES DE VOLAILLE A LA Du BARRY CHICKEN 
CUTLETS, Du BARRY STYLE. 

Butter some cutlet-shaped moulds, and fill them with cream 
chicken forcemeat ; put to cook in a moderate oven, but have 
them rather underdone; allow to get cold, then egg and bread 
crumb them, and fry in hot lard. Dress on a dish, garnish with 
puree of cauliflower, and serve separate some Valois sauce. 

COTELETTE DE VOLAILLE A LA MONTGLAS CHICKEN 
CUTLETS, MONTGLAS STYLE. 

Prepare as explained in previous receipt. Serve with Mont- 
glas garnishing. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 193 

COTELETTE DE VOLAILLE A LA LUCULLUS CHICKEN 

CUTLETS, LUCULLUS STYLE. 

Prepare as indicated for Chicken Cutlets, Du Barry Style, 
but add to the forcemeat some foie gras and truffles, cut in 
very small squares. Serve truffle sauce separate. 

BOUDIN DE VOLAILLE A LA LUCULLUS- -BOUDIN OF CHICKEN, 

LUCULLUS STYLE. 

Prepare some chicken forcemeat and keep it rather firm. 
Chop fine I onion, and fry it colorless in butter; drain and add 
it to the forcemeat ; also add a quarter of its amount equal parts 
each of truffles, mushrooms and foie gras cut in very small 
squares ; take a tablespoonful of this preparation at the time 
and lay it on a floured marble or table. Shape into flat oval 
rounds, lay them on a buttered pan and cover with boiling salted 
water ; set on the fire and remove at first boil ; allow to stand 
on the corner of the range for 10 minutes, then withdraw and 
allow to get cold. 

Drain and dry the boudins, egg and bread-crumb them, and 
fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with perigueux sauce 
separate. 

PETITS SOUFFLES DE VOLAILLE A LA FINANCIERE SMALL 
CHICKEN SOUFFLES, FINANCIER'S FASHION. 

Prepare a garnishing of equal parts of truffles, mushrooms, 
olives and goose liver, and bind with thickly reduced Madeira 
sauce. Put a teaspoonful of this preparation into small cases 
(either edible, paper or china), and cover with the following 
preparation : 

Pound 8 ounces of breast of chicken or turkey with I pint of 
Bechamel sauce, rub through a fine sieve, season with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg, and add 2 egg yolks ; whip the whites to a 
stiff froth, and add by degrees. 

AYhen the cases are filled, smooth over the top and brush 
over with melted butter to prevent a crust forming; cook in a 
moderate oven for 12 to 15 minutes, and serve on a napkin. 



1 94 The Post-Gradnate Cookery Book. 

BROCHETTES DE FOIES DE VOLAILLE A LA REINE BRO- 
CHETTES OF CHICKEN LlYERS, QUEEN FASHION. 

Cut the livers into suitable pieces and saute them in butter 
over a brisk fire. Have ready some small pieces of bacon and 
some cocks' kidneys, from which the skin is removed. Arrange 
the liver, bacon and kidneys alternately on a skewer ; season, 
clip in melted butter and bread crumbs, and broil over a clear 
fire. 

Serve with Bearnaise sauce separately. 

OEUFS EN SURPRISE AU NID SURPRISE EGGS IN NEST. 

Have ready i pound of chicken cream forcemeat; with 2 table 
spoons mould some egg-shaped quenelles, as described below : 

Take one spoon filled with forcemeat in the left hand, make a 
hollow space in the center to lay therein a ball of puree of foie 
gras, cover with forcemeat and smooth the surface with a 
table knife dipped in luke warm water; with the other spoon, 
previously dipped in warm water, scoop out the quenelle and 
lay it in a buttered saute pan. When a sufficient quantity of 
quenelles are made; set the pan on the fire, pour some boiling 
salted water on them, let come to a boil, and then remove the 
pan to the corner of the range to allow the quenelles to cook 
without boiling. After 10 minutes put them aside into a bowl; 
when cold, drain and dry them on a cloth; dip them in beaten 
eggs and roll in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard to a nice 
golden hue. 

Dress them in a nest made with Julienne potatoes, and serve 
separate some Pojarsky sauce. 

NOTE.- -The explanation for preparing the nest is given else- 
where. 

CROQUETTES DE VOLAILLE CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Cut the flesh of a cooked chicken or fowl in small squares; 
add one-third of the amount of chopped. mushrooms. 

Reduce the same amount of Bechamel as there is chicken 
meat, thicken with a few egg yolks, add the chicken and mush- 
rooms ; season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg ; put on a 
dish and set it in a cool place to get cold. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 195 

When thoroughly firm shape the preparation in any desired 
form, dip in beaten eggs, and roll in bread crumbs and fry in 
hot lard. 

Serve separate cream, truffle, tomato, Colbert or Bearnaise 
sauce. 

Chicken croquettes may be garnished with peas, asparagus 
tips, carrots or turnips in cream, etc. ; they may also be flavored 
with truffles, etc. 

The same principle in making croquettes is applicable to the 
following : 

Croquettes de Dinde Turkey croquettes. 

Croquettes de Ris de Veau Sweetbread croquettes. 

Croquettes de Foie Gras Fat goose liver croquettes. 

Croquettes de Faisan Pheasant croquettes. 

Croquettes de Pintade Guinea fowl croquettes. 

Croquettes d'Agneau Lamb croquettes. 

Croquettes de Jambon Ham croquettes. 

Croquettes de Ris d'Agneau Lamb sweetbread croquettes. 

CROQUETTES DE VOLAILLE A LA MARIGNY CHICKEN 
CROQUETTES, MARIGNY STYLE. 

Cut into very small dice I pound of cooked chicken breast, 
l /2 pound of mushrooms, 4 ounces of truffles and 4 ounces of 
artichoke bottoms. 

Heat in a sautoire I quart of veloute sauce; when it boils, 
bind it with 4 egg yolks and a little cream ; add to it the above 
ingredients, season to taste, and put it aside to cool. When cold 
form into round balls 2 inches in diameter, dip them in beaten 
eggs and bread crumbs, stick a small branch of parsley in the 
center of each, and fry in hot lard. 

Dress each croquette on a half tomato, previously baked, and 
surround with a light cream sauce. 

CROQUETTES DE JAMBON A LA ZINGARA--HAM CROQUETTES, 

ZINGARA STYLE. 

Chop finely and fry in butter (without browning), I white 
onion ; when the butter turns clear, add 2 chopped sweet pep- 
pers ; fry for a few minutes longer, then add 8 ounces of lean 



196 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

cooked ham (cut in % inch squares), and 8 ounces of boiled 
rice; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg, and moisten with a 
pint of thick cream sauce ; when boiling, incorporate 4 egg 
yolks and 2 ounces of butter. Put away this mixture until cold, 
then shape some croquettes either in balls or cork shape, dip 
in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. Serve 
with highly seasoned tomato sauce separate. 

CROQUETTES A LA LUCULLUS CROQUETTES, LUCULLUS 

FASHION. 

Cut 4 ounces of fat goose liver and 2 ounces of truffles into 
small cubes. Reduce 2 gills of brown sauce to I gill, then add 
the liver and the truffles, season to taste, and put away to get 
cold. 

Prepare some Duchess Potatoes. 

Make of the above salpicon small balls ; shape some round 
potato croquettes, and in the middle put the balls so that they 
are enveloped all around by the potatoes. Dip the croquettes in 
beaten eggs and bread crumbs, fry in hot lard. Serve on a 
napkin and give perigueux sauce separate in a sauce-boat. 

CROQUETTES EN SURPRISE A LA NEPTUNE SURPRISE 
CROQUETTES. NEPTUNE STYLE. 

r<* S 

Have ready some lobster croquette preparation ; make small 
round balls with it, and surround these with potato croquette 
preparation, so that the lobster is completely enveloped by the 
potatoes. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot lard. 

Serve with tomato-paprika sauce separate. 

CROMESOUIS CROMESQUIS. 

The Cromesquis is of Polish or Russian origin, and signifies 
croquette ; modern cooks, however, make a distinction between 
the two, inasmuch as the Cromesquis is wrapped either in a 
very thin slice of larding pork, veal udder or pancake, clipped in 
frying batter and fried, while the croquette is dipped in eggs, 
breaded and then fried. 

To prepare Cromesquis follow the same directions as are 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 197 

given for croquettes ; if of meat, they may be wrapped in larding 
pork or veal udder if such is on hand ; if of oysters, lobster, 
etc., pancakes or oblate (dampened with a wet towel) may be 
used. 

Cromesquis de Filets de Soles Sole Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis d'Huitres Oyster Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis de Clams Clam Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis de Homard Lobster Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis de Volaille Chicken Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis de Foie Gras Goose liver or foie gras Cromes- 
quis. 

Cromesquis de Ris de Veau Sweetbread Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis de Tambon--Ham Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis de Faisans Pheasant Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis de Perdreaux- -Partridge Cromesquis. 

CREPINETTES TRUFFEES- -TRUFFLED CREPINETTES. 

Chop fine 8 ounces each of lean and of fat pork, season with 
salt, pepper and allspice, and add 2 chopped truffles. 

Have ready soaked some pig's caul, divide the forcemeat into 
heaps the size of an egg, give them a flat, oblong shape, and 
wrap them up in the caul. Then baste them with olive oil and 
broil over a clear fire for about 15 minutes. Serve with Madeira 
sauce. 

CREPINETTES DE VOLAILLE AUX TRUFFES CHICKEN 
CREPINETTES WITH TRUFFLES. 

Chop very fine 8 ounces each of chicken breast, lean pork and 
fat pork ; season to taste with salt, pepper and a pinch of all- 
spice ; add a good dash each of sherry and brandy. 

Soak some pig's caul in water, drain and dry. 

Take a good tablespoonful of the forcemeat, roll it, and place 
a few slices of truffles on top, wrapping it in the pig's caul, and 
using as little as possible. 

Dip the crepinettes in melted butter and roll in bread crumbs 
and broil over a clear charcoal fire. Serve with truffle sauce. 

NOTE. The breast of the chicken may be wrapped up in the 
crepinette ; it should, however, be stiffened in hot butter and 
allowed to get cold. See also Crepinettes of Quail. 



198 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CREPINETTES A LA STRASSBOURGEOISE CREPINETTES, 

STRASSBURG STYLE. 

Prepare the crepinettes as indicated in previous receipt, add- 
ing some foie gras cut in small squares to the forcemeat. 

CREPINETTES DE CAILLES CREPINETTES OF QUAIL. 

Prepare in the same manner as the Chicken Crepinettes. Lift 
the breasts of 6 quail and saute them lightly in butter over a 
brisk fire, leaving them underdone ; allow them to get cool, then 
wrap them around with forcemeat and then with pig's caul ; fin- 
ish in the same manner as stated previously. 

NOTE. A little cooked forcemeat may be added to these 
crepinettes. 

CREPINETTES DE PIGEON- -CREPINETTES OF SQUAB. 

Follow the directions as given for Crepinettes of quail, using 
squabs instead of quail. 

NOTE. Any of these crepinettes mentioned may be garnished 
with puree of chestnuts, potatoes, sweet potatoes, lentils, peas, 
beans, etc. 

PIEDS DE PORC FARCIS TRUFFES STUFFED TRUFFLED 

PIGS FEET. 

Have ready cooked some pig's feet. Cut them lengthwise in 
halves, bone them and wrap them up with forcemeat, as ex- 
plained in previous receipt ; finish and cook exactly as crepin- 
ettes, laying in addition a few slices of truffles on each side of 
the pig's feet, the truffles to lay right under the caul. 

Serve with perigueux sauce. 

CROUSTADES A LA REINE CRUSTS, QUEEN FASHION. 

Have ready some tartelette crusts, fill them with cold queen 
garnishing, and cover the top with chicken cream forcemeat ; 
smooth the surface and decorate with fancifully cut truffles. 

Bake in a moderate oven, brushing the forcemeat with melted 
butter to prevent the forming of a crust. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 199 

NOTE. A great variety of crusts may be prepared in this way 
by merely changing the garnishings. 

CROUSTADES DE Riz A LA REGENCE RICE CRUSTS, REGENCY 

STYLE. 

Wash well 2 pounds of rice, put it in a saucepan and moisten 
with twice the amount of chicken or veal broth. Set it on the 
fire to boil, add a pinch of salt and i onion stuck with 2 cloves ; 
cover the saucepan, and put it in the oven. After 30 minutes 
the rice is sufficiently cooked. Remove the onion. Incorporate to 
the rice by degrees 4 ounces of butter and 6 ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese ; season with salt, pepper and a pinch of nut- 
meg. 

Put the rice into a tin pan from ij/2 to 2 inches deep, cover 
it with a buttered paper, and set another pan on top with a light 
weight, so as to press lightly. When the rice is cold, unmould 
on the table, and with a round 2-inch pastry cutter cut out as 
many crusts as are required ; dip them in beaten eggs and fresh 
bread crumbs, and with a smaller cutter (i-inch) make an in- 
cision on top of each crust. 

Fry the crusts in hot lard, drain them, take off the covers, 
scoop out the inside, and keep them hot until used for filling. 

Regency Garnishing. Equal parts of mushrooms, sweet- 
breads, truffles, cocks' combs and kidneys heated with wine. 
When the wine is nearly reduced, add half veloute and half 
Hollandaise sauce ; season to taste and fill the crusts. Serve on 
a folded napkin. 

CROUSTADES DE Riz A LA LUCULLUS RICE CRUSTS, LUCUL- 

LUS FASHION. 

Fill the crusts with 3 parts of fat goose liver, 2 parts mush- 
rooms, and i part of truffles, all cut in small squares and heated 
in Madeira sauce. Serve on a folded napkin. 

CROUSTADES DE Riz A LA TOULOUSAINE RICE CRUSTS, 

TOULOUSE STYLE. 

Have the crusts but \]/ 2 inches high ; fill the center with 



200 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Regency garnishing, except the sweetbread, and set on each 
crust a braised lamb sweetbread ; glaze over and serve on a 
napkin. 

CROUSTADES DE Riz A LA CHANCELIERE RICE CRUSTS, 

CHANCELLOR'S FASHION. 

Same ingredients as for Regency Garnishing. Add stoned 
French olives, and heat in Madeira sauce. Serve on top of each 
crust a decorated chicken quenelle. 

NOTE. For further garnishings see under the heading of 
garnishings for patties and croustades. 

CROUSTADES DE NOUILLES- -NOODLE CRUSTS. 

When the noodles are cooked and drained put them in a 
saucepan with I pint of Bechamel sauce ; heat well ; add 4 ounces 
of butter and 6 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; season to 
taste and bind with 6 egg yolks. 

Put the noodles in a tin pan under light press and finish them 
exactly as rice crusts. 

They may be served with the same garnishings as rice crusts. 

NOTE. See also receipt for Noodles. 

CROQUETTES DE NOUILLES AU JAM BON NOODLE CROQUETTES 

WITH HAM. 

Follow the same directions as for Noodle Crusts. Add some 
cooked lean ham, cut in small squares, or thin strips. When 
cold, shape into croquettes, dip them in beaten eggs and roll in 
bread crumbs ; fry in hot lard, and serve on folded napkin with 
fried parsley. 

Tomato sauce may be served separately. 

CROUSTADES DE FARINA A LA DAUPHINE FARINA CRUSTS, 

DAUPHINE STYLE. 

Stir % pound of farina into 2 quarts of boiling stock ; stir 
continuously until it sets, and then place on the side of the 
range to cook for 25 minutes. Finish with 6 ounces of butter 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 201 

and 8 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and add salt to taste. 
Butter some small round Charlotte moulds, and fill them with 
the cooked farina, smooth the tops, cover with a well-buttered 
paper and put aside to get cold. After 2 hours, remove the 
paper, unmould the farina, and roll in bread crumbs and beaten 
eggs, and again in bread crumbs ; repeat this operation, and 
then with a round pastry cutter make a light incision on the top 
of each crust (to be) ; fry to a nice color in hot lard, and drain. 
Take off the cover and scoop out the inside (being careful not 
to break the crust). 

Cut into ^4 -inch pieces equal parts of cocks' combs and kid- 
neys, truffles, mushrooms and cooked sweetbread ; heat this in 
a little Madeira, then bind with half veloute and half Hollandaise 
sauce. Fill up the crusts, put on their covers, and serve on a 
napkin. 

ATTEREAUX DE FARINA A LA SUISSE- -FARINA SKEWERS, 

Swiss FASHION. 

Cook the farina as explained for Farina Crusts, put into a pan 
to get cold, cut into round pieces ^4 inch in diameter and l /2 inch 
thick, and stick these pieces on a silver skewer with alternate 
slices of Swiss cheese (j4 inch in thickness) ; egg and bread- 
crumb the skewers and fry in hot lard. 

Serve on a folded napkin. 

TlM BALE A LA TALMA- -Tl MB AL, TALMA STYLE. 

Take I quart of cooked spinach chopped very fine, put it in a 
saucepan with 3 ounces of butter and 2 gills of thick Bechamel 
sauce. Season with salt, grated nutmeg and a pinch of sugar; 
take off the range, and when cool add 6 egg yolks and 3 whole 
eggs ; put in a bowl and set on ice to get cold. 

Cut 3 medium-sized sweetbreads in ^2-inch slices ; saute them 
in butter ; when commencing to take color add 6 chopped shal- 
lots and 1 8 fresh mushrooms cut in halves ; moisten with y 2 gill 
of white wine, let reduce, and then add 2 gills of brown sauce. 
When the sweetbreads are cooked, put them aside to get cold. 
(The sauce should be well reduced and not be too abundant.) 

Clean a Charlotte mould of 5 inches in diameter and 4 inches 



202 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

in height; butter it liberally and decorate fancifully with slices 
of smoked beef tongue, and the white of hard-boiled egg. Next 
line the mould with the spinach at least I inch thick ; put the 
sweetbreads in the center and cover with the remainder of the 
spinach. 

Cook the timbal in the bain-marie in a slow oven for three- 
quarters of an hour, let stand 10 minutes before unmoulding. 

Serve small round potato croquettes around the timbal, and 
Madeira sauce separate. 

NOTE.- -These timbals can also be prepared in small moulds ; 
the sweetbreads should then be cut in small squares. 



TlMBALE A LA NELSON- -TlMBAL, NELSON FASHION. 

Pound i pound of beef tenderloin with 8 ounces of panade, 
8 ounces of butter and 2 gills of well reduced brown sauce ; 
season with nutmeg, salt and paprika, and add 3 egg yolks and 
i whole egg. Rub through a fine sieve, set it on ice and in- 
corporate 2 gills of brown sauce. 

Line some buttered timbal moulds with this forcemeat and 
fill the hollow space with a salpicon of marrow, sweet red pep- 
pers, and mushrooms cut in small squares and mixed with thick 
brown sauce, cover the top with a layer of the forcemeat, place 
in a saute pan filled with boiling water about i inch from the 
bottom, and cook in a slow oven for 15 minutes. 

Unmould on a dish and serve with Madeira sauce. 

NOTE. Forcemeats prepared with beef or dark game are 
never finished with cream. It is better to use thickly reduced 
brown sauce for this purpose. 

TlMBALE DE MARRONS A LA ST. HUBERT CHESTNUT 

TIMBALS, ST. HUBERT STYLE. 

To a pint of puree of chestnuts add 3 raw egg yolks ; butter 
some timbal moulds and line them with the puree about ^2 inch 
thick, and fill the hollow with puree of game, either grouse or 
partridge. 

Place the timbals in a pan with water and cook in a moderate 
oven for 15 minutes; dish up and serve with Madeira sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 203 

TlMBALE DE JAMBON A LA SOUVAROFF HAM TlMBAL, 

SOUVAROFF FASHION. 

Rid i pound of lean raw ham of all sinews, and pound it with 
4 ounces of breast of chicken or turkey ; when pounded fine, add 
y 2 pint of cold Bechamel sauce, I whole egg and 2 whites ; 
season with salt and paprika, rub through a fine sieve, put it into 
an earthen bowl and place on ice. 

Work the forcemeat with a wooden spoon, and incorporate by 
degrees i l /2 pints of whipped cream. 

Butter and decorate some timbal moulds, fill them to about 
two-thirds of their height with the ham preparation, dip the in- 
dex in luke warm water and then in the forcemeat, making a 
hollow (thus lining the sides of the mould), fill the hollow with 
a salpicon made of foie gras and truffles (cut in small squares 
and mixed with thickly reduced Madeira sauce). Cover with 
some of the forcemeat and cook in the bain-marie in a medium 
oven. When done, unmould and serve with Madeira sauce. 



TARTELETTES DE JAMBON A LA HONGROISE- -HUNGARIAN 

HAM TARTLETS. 

Pound in the mortar 8 ounces of lean cooked ham, add to it 
gradually 2 ounces of butter and 2 gills of cold Bechamel sauce, 
rub through a fine sieve, season liberally with paprika and in- 
corporate to the puree the yolks and whipped w T hites of 4 eggs. 

Have some half baked puff paste crusts ready and fill these 
with the above mixture. Bake in a slow oven for 10 to 12 
minutes, and serve hot. 

JAMBON A LA CASINO HAM, CASINO STYLE. 

Put into a bowl 3 tablespoonfuls of chutney and 2 of German 
mustard, and dilute with 3 tablespoonfuls of sweet oil. 

Cut some cooked ham in slices, spread the above mixture 
over the ham, and roll in bread crumbs, broil over a brisk fire, 
and serve on a hot dish. 

NOTE. This dish is an excellent relish for the hot season. 



204 The Post-Gr actuate Cookery Book. 

BEIGNETS DE MOELLE A LA D'UXELLE MARROW FRITTERS, 

D'UXELLE FASHION. 

Cut some beef marrow into thick slices and steep in cold 
water for a few hours ; then parboil, drain and allow to get cold. 

Have ready some thickly reduced d'Uxelle sauce, dip the 
slices of marrow therein, and set them on a lightly oiled dish on 
ice. 

When perfectly cold, and when ready to serve, dip the marrow 
in frying batter and fry in smoking hot lard. When done, dress 
on a napkin and garnish with fried parsley. 

NOTE. Instead of being dipped into frying batter, these frit- 
ters may be breaded like croquettes. 

MOELLE SU.R TOAST A LA DIABLE DEVILED MARROW ON 

TOAST. 

Cut some marrow into slices y% inch thick, and parboil them 
in salted water; arrange nicely on trimmed toasts, besprinkle 
with Parmesan cheese mixed with a liberal amount of cayenne, 
place on a baking sheet, and put in the hot oven for 8 or 10 
minutes (or until the marrow be thoroughly hot and lightly 
colored). Serve without delay. 

CREPES A LA ROMAINE ROMAN PANCAKES. 

Prepare some light small pancakes ; fill them with d'Uxelle 
preparation, roll them as French pancakes ; range them on a 
buttered dish ; cover with Mornay sauce ; besprinkle with grated 
Parmesan cheese and some melted butter ; bake in a hot oven, 
and serve immediately. 

CREPES AU CAVIAR PANCAKES WITH CAVIAR. 

Prepare some thin French pancakes and fill them with a thin 
layer of caviar ; fold three or four times, so that they are flat, 
cut in lozenge shape and heat before serving. 

TARTELETTE DE MACARONI A LA BEAUFREMONT MACARONI 

TARTLETS, BEAUFREMONT STYLE. 
Cut some cooked macaroni in pieces of */2 inch in length, toss 



The Post-Gradnate Cookery Book. 205 

them in butter and add a little cream and Bechamel (just enough 
to bind it) ; season to taste, add some grated Parmesan cheese 
and fill into some baked tartelette crusts. 

Sprinkle over some chopped truffles and a few drops of liquid 
beef extract, heat well in the oven, and serve on a napkin. 

CROQUETTES DE SPAGHETTI SPAGHETTI CROQUETTES. 

Break some spaghetti into y 2 -inch pieces, cook in boiling, 
lightly salted water ; drain and toss them in butter, add a little 
Bechamel sauce ; season with salt and pepper, add some grated 
Parmesan cheese and put away in a cool place to get cold. 

Shape into croquettes, bread-crumb them and fry in hot lard. 
Serve on a napkin, with tomato sauce separate. 

CROQUETTES DE SPAGHETTI A LA MILANAISE SPAGHETTI 

CROQUETTES, MILAN FASHION. 

Prepare as explained in the previous receipt, but instead of 
Bechamel use tomato sauce reduced with veal gravy, and add a 
garnishing of shredded mushrooms, truffles and ham or smoked 
beef tongue. 

BEIGNETS DE CHAMPIGNONS A LA NEMOURS MUSHROOM' 

FRITTERS, NEMOURS STYLE. 

Clean and \vash 24 fresh mushrooms, cut them in small cubes 
and cook in butter until they have lost all humidity ; add 2 gills 
of Bechamel sauce, season with salt, pepper and a pinch of nut- 
meg, bind with 2 or 3 egg yolks, and put on ice to cool. 

Cut from a round milk roll slices y\ inch thick and 2 inches in 
diameter, steep them in cream for just I minute, then put on 
each some of the mushroom mixture, smooth over, dip in bread 
crumbs, then in beaten eggs, and then again in bread crumbs. 
Five minutes before serving plunge in very hot fat. Serve on a 
napkin. 

SOUFFLE DE CHAMPIGNONS EN TARTELETTE MUSHROOM 

SOUFFLE IN TARTELETTES. 
Incorporate with a pint of mushroom puree 3 egg yolks ; 



206 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

whip the whites to a stiff froth, and add them also, blending 
gently. 

Fill up some baked tartelette crusts with this preparation and 
bake in a moderate oven from 8 to 10 minutes. 

TARTELETTES A LA PALMERSTON TARTELET, PALMERSTON 

41 

STYLE. 

Prepare as stated above ; place on the bottom of each crust 
a tablespoonful of chicken hash in cream ; finish as above. 

TARTELETTES A LA JARDINIERE- -JARDINIERE TARTELETTES. 

Cut into small squares some young carrots, which cook in 
lightly salted water, and drain ; add the same amount of cooked 
green peas and green asparagus tips cut small ; toss in butter ; 
season with salt and a pinch of sugar ; fill some heated tartelette 
crusts with these vegetables and place in the center a floweret 
of cauliflower heated in salted water and dipped in Dutch sauce. 

Or, the cauliflower may be placed on the vegetables and the 
whole covered with Dutch sauce. 



GARNITURES QARN IS H INGS. 

Under this heading are appended various garnishings for 
fish, joints and entrees ; according to taste and imagination 
these garnishings may be varied infinitely ; to name all garnish- 
ings here would lead too far, there will be found some more with 
the receipts as they are mentioned. 

GARNITURES DE POISSONS FISH GARNISHINGS. 

The list of fish garnishings following may be varied accord- 
ing to the dinner or the house in which the dinner is given. 

To give the full receipt for each style of serving fish would 
occupy too much space, and is not necessary, as there will be 
found enough receipts where the cooking of fish is fully de- 
scribed. 



The Post-Gradnate Cookery Book. 207 

A I/AMIRALE ADMIRAL'S STYLE. 

Fish garnished with mussels dipped in Yilleroi sauce and 
fried ; shrimps and oysters. Shrimp sauce. 

A LA BOURGUIGXOXXE- -BURGUNDY STYLE. 

Fish cooked in claret ; sauce made with the stock in which 
the fish was cooked, garnished with small heads of mushrooms 
and small glazed onions. 

A LA DIEPPOISE DIEPPE FASHION. 

Fish garnished with mussels, shrimps and mushrooms ; fine 
herb sauce. 

A LA GRAND-DUG GRAND DUKE'S FASHION. 

Lay on each fillet of fish a slice of truffle, pour over Mornay 
sauce ; bake in a brisk oven to a nice color and garnish with 
green asparagus tips tossed in butter. 

A LA GRANT GRANT FASHION. 

Fish covered with "\Yhite Wine Sauce," garnished with small 
crusts filled with "fried oyster crabs." 

A LA JOINVILLE- -JOINVILLE STYLE. 

Shrimps, truffles and mushrooms cut in small squares. 
Shrimp sauce. 

NOTE. Some cooks have the above ingredients shredded ; 
the proper way is cut in squares ; instead of shrimps, lobster 
may be used. 

A LA MAINTENON MAINTENON STYLE. 
Oysters and fish quenelles. Anchovy sauce. 

A LA MONTGOLFIER MONTGOLFIER STYLE. 

Fish covered with Venetian sauce ; garnished with quenelles, 
colored with lobster coral, fried mussels. 



208 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

A LA MONTORGUEIL MONTORGUEIL STYLE. 

Fish garnished with "potato marbles," the fish covered with 
"white wine sauce," and the potatoes with red sauce. 

A LA MOSCOVITE MOSCOVITE STYLE. 

Fish covered with "white wine sauce," besprinkled with 
chopped truffles, lobster coral and parsley; garnished with 
small puff paste crescents covered with caviare. 

A LA NORMANDE NORMAN STYLE. 

Fish surrounded with oysters, shrimps and mushrooms, cov- 
ered with "Norman sauce" and garnished with very small fried 
smelts and trussed crayfish. 

A LA PlOMBINO PlOMBINO STYLE. 

Oysters, olives, mushrooms and small glazed onions. Claret 
sauce. 

A LA RENAN--RENAN STYLE. 

Oyster sauce poured over the fish ; garnished w r ith small 
round potato croquettes. 

A LA RlCHE RlCHE STYLE. 

Shrimp sauce with truffles. Place on each fillet of fish a slice 
of truffle. 

A LA ROUEN AISE ROUEN FASHION. 

Fish surrounded with shrimps, mushrooms and fish quen- 
elles ; white wine sauce poured over and garnished with fried 
oysters. 

A LA TURENNE- -TURENNE FASHION. 

Fish served in border of "Duchess potatoes," covered with 
"Mornay sauce," and baked in the oven. 

A LA VERNON- -VERNON STYLE. 

Dress the fish on a bed of rice cooked in fish stock ; pour 
shrimp sauce over the fish and garnish with fried oysters. 



The Post-Gradnatc Cookery Book. 209 

A LA VOISIN- -VoisiN STYLE. 

Dress the fish in a potato border, garnish with sliced lobster, 
mushrooms and truffles ; pour over the fish Mornay sauce fin- 
ished with lobster butter ; besprinkle with cheese, and bake 
in brisk oven. 



GARNITURES POUR GROSSES PIECES ET 
ENTREES-GARNISHINGS FOR JOINTS 

AND ENTREES. 

A L'ALGERIENNE ALGERIAN FASHION. 
Quartered artichokes tossed in butter. Madeira Sauce. 

A L'ANDALOUSE ANDALUSIAN STYLE. 

Tomatoes stuffed with risotto, rolled stuffed cabbage leaves ; 
srravv blended with tomato sauce. 



s 



A L'ARLEQUIN HARLEQUIN FASHION. 

Stuffed tomatoes. Small spinach timbals. Risotto moulded 
in timbals. Madeira Sauce. 

A LA BEUFREMONT BEAUFREMONT STYLE. 

Cooked macaroni cut in J/2-inch long pieces prepared in 
cream ; served in small croustades ; shredded truffles sprinkled 
over. Rich veal gravy blended with tomato sauce on the dish. 

A LA BlGNON- -BlGNON STYLE. 

Oval shaped raw potatoes scooped out ; stuffed and baked in 
a mild oven. 

A LA BOHEMIENNE- -BOHEMIAN STYLE. 

Paprika cream sauce blended with one-third part of tomato 
sauce ; garnished with small tomatoes, stuffed with puree of 
ioie gras. 



2io The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

A LA BOURGEOISE--BURGEOISE FASHION. 

Glazed onions, carrots and turnips (the two latter olive 
shaped) ; peas and flageolet beans dressed in groups around the 
meat. 

A LA BOUQUETIERE BOUQUETIERE STYLE. 

Vegetables, as carrots, turnips, string beans, cauliflower, etc., 
dished up in clusters. The cauliflower should be covered with 
Hollandaise Sauce. Brown gravy. 

A LA BRETONNE BRITTANY FASHION. 

White kidney beans with smothered onions and gravy; or, 
puree of white kidney beans and onions. 

NOTE. Some cooks add tomatoes to the beans, while it is 
not essential, it certainly does no harm. 

A LA CHARTRES CHARTRES STYLE. 



o 



Small tomatoes stuffed with chicken forcemeat. Tarragon 
&ravy. - 

A LA CHORON--CHORON STYLE. 

Artichoke bottoms filled with green peas. Red Bearnaise 
sauce. 

A LA CHERON--CHERON STYLE. 
Artichoke bottoms filled with Macedoine. Bearnaise sauce. 

A LA CLAMART- -CLAMART STYLE. 
Artichoke bottoms filled with puree of peas. 

A LA CLARENCE CLARENCE STYLE. 

Artichoke bottoms, Italian Sauce, to which chopped truffles 
were added. 

A LA CLERMONT--CLERMONT FASHION. 
Stuffed onions. Chateau potatoes. Brown sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 211 

A LA CONDE CONDE FASHION. 

Puree of Lentils. 

A LA COQUELIN--COQUELIN STYLE. 

Very small patties with Soubise puree. Tomato sauce fin- 
ished with butter and chopped tarragon leaves. 

A LA DEMIDOFF DEMIDOFF STYLE. 

Olive-shaped glazed carrots and turnips, mushrooms and 
truffles of the same shape. Madeira sauce with a scent of tar- 
ragon. 

A LA Du BARRY Du BARRY FASHION. 
Puree of Cauliflower. 

A LA DUCHESSE DUCHESS STYLE. 

Small cakes of ;< Duchess potatoes." 

A LA FAVORITE- -FAVORITE STYLE. 

Place the meat on a foie gras toast, pour over Perigordine 
sauce and garnish with small crusts filled with puree of aspara- 
gus. 

A LA FEDORA FEDORA STYLE. 

Artichoke bottoms filled with puree of foie gras. Bordeaux 
sauce with small cubes of parboiled marrow. 

A LA FLORENTINE FLORENTINE STYLE. 

Artichoke bottoms filled with cauliflower in cream, be- 
sprinkled with grated cheese and baked in the oven. Veal 
gravy blended with tomato sauce. 

A LA FLAMANDE FLEMISH STYLE. 

Small balls of stuffed cabbage, glazed carrots and turnips. 
NOTE. Some cooks add small plain boiled potatoes. 



2i-2 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

A LA FORESTIERE- -FORESTER'S STYLE. 

Chateau potatoes. Mushroom heads and glazed small onions. 
Madeira sauce. 

A LA FRENEUSE- FRENEUSE STYLE. 
Puree of white turnips. 

A LA GRECQUE GREEK FASHION. 

Small pieces of eggplant fried. Brown sauce with onions 
and tomatoes cut in pieces. 

A LA JUSSIEUX- -JUSSIEUX STYLE. 

Small glazed onions. Stuffed, braised lettuce. Brown gravy. 

A LA JARDINIERE GARDENER'S STYLE. 
Different sorts of vegetables cooked and tossed in butter. 

A LA LYONNAISE LYONNESE STYLE. 
Small glazed onions. Glazed chestnuts. 

A LA MACMAHON--MACMAHON FASHION. 
Small Potatoes Anna. Small spinach timbals. 

A LA MARTINEZ- -MARTINEZ STYLE. 

The meat dressed on a bed of rice, cooked in chicken broth. 
Shredded sweet peppers in brown sauce, blended with 1-3 part 
tomato sauce. 

A LA MARIGNY--MARIGNY STYLE. 

Small stuffed olives, mushrooms of the same size. Two- 
thirds brown and one-third tomato sauce blended. 

A LA METTERNICH--METTERNICH STYLE. 
Stewed red cabbage. Glazed chestnuts. Madeira sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 213 

A LA MILAN AISE MILAN FASHION. 

Small timbals lined with cooked spaghetti, the inside coated 
with chicken forcemeat and filled with spaghetti cut I inch in 
length, prepared with tomato sauce and grated Parmesan 
cheese and a garnishing of shredded cooked ox tongue, truffles 
and mushrooms. The timbals are cooked in the bain-marie in 
a mild oven and dished up around the meat. 

A LA MONTPENSIER MONTPENSIER STYLE. 

Shredded truffles and mushrooms added to Madeira sauce. 
Artichoke bottoms filled with green peas. 

A LA NESSELRODE NESSELRODE STYLE. 
Puree of chestnuts. 

A L'ODALISQUE ODALISQUE STYLE. 

Small timbals of rice (cooked with chicken broth), mixed 
with chopped truffles and smoked beef tongue. Small slices of 
fried eggplant. 

A L'ODILLION--ODILLION STYLE. 

Small round potato croquettes with chopped ham. Paloise 
sauce. 

A LA PORTUGAISE- -PORTUGUESE STYLE. 

Stuffed tomatoes. Chateau potatoes. 

A LA PROVEN CALE PROVENCAL STYLE. 
Stuffed tomatoes. Stuffed mushrooms. String beans. 

A LA PURITAINE- -PURITAN FASHION. 

String beans and sweet peppers, the latter shredded as string 
beans ; both tossed in butter. Madeira sauce. 

A LA RAPHAEL RAPHAEL STYLE, 

Garnish the dish with small crusts filled with puree of celery, 
and serve with truffle sauce. 



214 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

A LA RICHELIEU- -RICHELIEU FASHION. 

Stuffed tomatoes. Stuffed mushrooms. Braised lettuce. 
Chateau potatoes. Truffle sauce. 

A LA SEGUR SEGUR FASHION. 

Mushrooms sliced fine ; stewed in creame ; served in small 
crusts. Chateaubriand sauce. 

A LA SOUVAROFF- -SOUVAROFF STYLE. 

Cover the meat with Bearnaise sauce ; lay on each Tournedos, 
Noisette or cutlet a glaced slice of truffle. Garnish with Julienne 
potatoes. 

A LA ST. GERMAIN- -ST. GERMAIN STYLE. 
Puree of peas. 

A LA TORTOXI- -TORTONI STYLE. 

Same as Florentine style, instead of tomato sauce serve Red 
Bearnaise sauce. 

A LA TRIANON- -TRIANON STYLE. 

Puree of carrots. Puree of potatoes. Spinach in cream. 
Arranged in groups around the meat. 

GARNITURES POUR VOL-AU-VENT BOUCHERS ET 

CROUSTADES GARNISHINGS FOR LARGE AND 

SMALL PATTIES AND CRUSTS. 

The garnishing of patties may be varied according to the 
taste and fancy of the cook. The one thing to be kept in mind 
is that the garnishing should always be cut according to the 
size of the patties to be filled ; it would not do to fill a large 
vol-au-vent with puree of chicken or any other puree, while it is 
entirely in ks place for the small bouchee. 

Following is a list of garnishings, for which the receipts may 
be found in another part of the book (see Index). 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 215 

Bouchees a la Puree de Volaille Small Patties with Puree 
of Chicken. 

Bouchee's a la Puree de Foie-Gras Small Patties with Puree 
of Fat Goose Liver. 

Bouchees a la Puree de Perdreaux Small Patties with Puree 
of Partridge. 

Bouchees a la Puree de Faisans Small Patties with Puree of 
Pheasant. 

Bouchees a la Puree de Tetras Small Patties with Puree of 
Grouse. 

Bouchees a la Puree de Truffes Small Patties with Puree of 
Truffles. 

Bouchees a la Puree de Champignons Small Patties with 
Puree of Mushrooms. 

Bouchees a la Puree de Celeri Small Patties with Puree of 
Celery. 

Bouchees a la Puree de Chouxfleurs Small Patties with 
Puree of Cauliflower. 

Vol-au- Vents d'Huitres a la Poulette Oyster Patties, Pou- 
lette Style. 

Vol-au-Vents de Filet de Sole a la Creme Creamed Fillets 
of Sole Patties. 

Yol-au- Vents de Volaille aux Truffes Chicken and Truffles 
Patties. 

Vol-au-Vents de Ris de Veau au Supreme Creamed Sweet- 
bread Patties. 

Vol-au-Vents de Volaille et Ris d'Agneau a la Creme Pat- 
ties of Chicken and Lamb Sxveetbread in Cream. 

Vol-au-Vents de Homard a la Newburg Patties of Lobster, 
Newburg Style. 

Vol-au-Vents de Crabes d'Huitres a la Maryland Patties of 
Oyster Crabs, Maryland Style. 

Vol-au-Vents de Crevettes Patties of Shrimp. 

Vol-au-Vents d'Ecrevisses Patties of Crayfish. 



A LA FINANCIERE- -FINANCIER'S STYLE. 

Mushrooms, truffles, olives, chicken quenelles, cocks' combs 
and kidneys, sweetbread and foie gras or chicken livers ; brown 
sauce. 



2 1 6 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

DES GOURMETS GOURMET'S FASHION. 

Chicken truffles, mushrooms and artichokes. Banker's 
sauce. 

A LA ROSA BONHEUR--ROSA BONHEUR STYLE. 
Chicken and mushrooms. Banker's sauce. 

A LA DAUPHINE--DAUPHINE STYLE. 
Cocks' combs and kidneys in Hollandaise sauce. 

A L'INVALIDE- -INVALID'S FASHION. 
Chicken and sweetbread. Banker's sauce. 

A LA MEYERBEER MEYERBEER STYLE. 
Lamb kidneys, mushrooms and truffles in Madeira sauce. 

A LA MONTGLAS MONTGLAS STYLE. 

Truffles, mushrooms, smoked beef tongue and chicken. Bank- 
er's sauce. 

A LA NAPOLITAINE NEAPOLITAN STYLE. 

Ham, mushrooms, truffles and cooked macaroni heated in 
rich veal gravy, blended with tomato sauce. 

A LA NESLE NESLE STYLE. 
Chicken and chicken quenelles. Yeloute cream sauce. 

A LA PALERMITAINE--PALERMITAN STYLE. 

Macaroni, breast of partridge or quail, artichoke bottoms 
and ham heated in rich veal gravy, blended with tomato sauce. 

I 

A LA REINE QUEEN STYLE. 
Truffles, mushrooms and chicken. Yeloute cream sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 2 1 7 

A LA ROYALE ROYAL FASHION. 
Foie gras, chicken, mushrooms and sweetbread. Banker's 



t> 
sauce. 



A LA RICHELIEU RICHELIEU STYLE. 



Lamb sweetbread, smoked beef tongue, truffles, mushrooms 
and chicken quenelles. 

NOTE. If for a large vol-au-vent, the lamb sweetbreads may 
be larded and braised, and served on top of the vol-au-vent. 

A LA TOULOUSAINE TOULOUSIAN STYLE. 

Chicken, sweetbread, cocks' combs and kidneys, mushrooms, 
truffles, chicken quenelles and fat goose liver (foie gras). Ger- 
man sauce. 

A LA VALENCIENNE- -VALENCIA STYLE. 

Mushrooms, chicken, smoked beef tongue and sweet peppers. 
Veal gravy and tomato sauce blended. 

A LA MARINIERE MARINER'S STYLE. 

Shrimps, oysters, lobster, scallops, etc., in white wine sauce 
with fine herbs. 

A LA NANTUA NANTUA STYLE. 
Crayfish tails and truffles ; crayfish sauce. 

A LA CHESAPEAKE CHESAPEAKE STYLE. 

Oysters, celery and oyster crabs in cream sauce with sherry 
flavor. 

A LA COMTESSE COUNTESS FASHION. 

Shrimps and asparagus tips in cream sauce, finished with 
shrimp butter. 



VEQETABLKS. 

ASPERGES: SAUCE HOLLANDAISE, SAUCE MALTAISE, SAUCE 
MOUSSELINE, SAUCE CREME, BEURRE FONDU- -ASPARA- 
GUS : DUTCH SAUCE, MALTESE SAUCE, MUSSLIN SAUCE, 
CREAM SAUCE, MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 

There are different kinds of asparagus, which cook differ- 
ently, some faster than others. Asparagus should never 
be overdone, and if possible should be served immediately after 
being cooked. 

Scrape the bottom part of the stems and steep in cold water : 
tie them in bunches of I dozen or more. If the asparagus are 
thin, have all the heads even, and cut the bottom part so as to 
have the asparagus of uniform length ; put them to cook in 
lightly salted boiling water. 

When done, drain and serve on a napkin. Serve sauce sepa- 
rate. 

POINTES D' ASPERGES A LA MILANAISE ASPARAGUS TIPS, 

MILAN FASHION. 

Break the asparagus tips about 23/2 to 3 inches from the stem, 
tie in small bunches, and cook in salted water. When done, 
drain well and range on pieces of toast ; sprinkle over some 
grated Parmesan cheese, and pour over some butter heated to 
the "hazelnut" degree. 

POINTES D'ASPERGES A L'IMPERIALE ASPARAGUS TIPS, 

IMPERIAL STYLE. 

Cut some green asparagus tips about I inch in length, and 
cook in lightly salted water. When done, drain, toss them in 
butter, and season with salt and a pinch of sugar. 

When serving, make a hollow in the center, which fill with 
truffles (cut the same as the tips) tossed in butter and finished 
with rich veal gravy or beef extract. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 219 

POINTES D'ASPERGES EN PETITS Pois ASPARAGUS TIPS AS 

PEAS. 

To prepare this dish properly the thin, green asparagus are 
required. 

Clean and wash the tips in several waters, cut in small pieces 
so as to resemble good-sized peas, and throw into boiling water 
with a little soda to keep them green. When cooked, drain, toss 
in butter, and season with salt and a pinch of sugar. 

POINTES D'ASPERGES A LA CHANTILLY- -ASPARAGUS TIPS, 

CHANTILLY STYLE. 

Cook the asparagus as explained for Asparagus Tips as Peas, 
toss them in butter, season with salt and a pinch of sugar, and 
serve them in small croustades, leaving a hollow in the center. 
Put in this hollow a spoonful of whipped cream. 

POINTES D'ASPERGES FRITES, SAUCE M ALT AISE- -FRIED 
ASPARAGUS TIPS, MALTESE SAUCE. 

Cook the asparagus tips as explained previously ; when cold, 
roll in flour, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot lard. 
Serve Maltese sauce separate. 

NOTE.- -The tips may also be dipped into frying batter instead 
of eggs and bread crumbs. 

POINTES D'ASPERGES A LA COLBERT ASPARAGUS TIPS, 

COLBERT STYLE. 

Prepare the tips in cream, and serve with poached eggs on 
top. 

PUREE D'ASPERGES PUREE OF ASPARAGUS. 
Proceed as for "Puree of Cauliflower." 

ARTICHAUTS BOUILLIS, SAUCE HOLLANDAISE BOILED 
ARTICHOKES, DUTCH SAUCE. 

Cut off the stems of the artichokes, take off the outer leaves, 
pare the bottoms, and rub with lemon so that they will not 



220 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

discolor. Cut off the top of the artichoke and clip the top of 
each leaf. 

Throw them into boiling water (lightly salted), and cook them 
over a brisk fire until done. This boiling varies, according to 
the quality of the plant, from 30 minutes to i hour. 

When done, drain them upside down, so that all the water 
escapes, then dress them on a napkin and serve Dutch sauce or 
melted butter separate. 

NOTE. For private dinners or for American-plan half of a 
good-sized artichoke is enough for one person. Cut the arti- 
choke in half, and with a silver spoon remove the seeds ; these 
may also be removed before cooking, as is explained for arti- 
chokes, Barigoule Style. 

ARTICHAUTS A LA BARIGOULE ARTICHOKES, BARIGOULE 

STYLE. 

Prepare the artichokes as for boiling. Furthermore, remove 
the leaves in the center and scoop out the seeds ; place the arti- 
chokes in acidulated water until all are ready, and parboil for 
5 minutes ; then refresh under running water, drain and fill with 
d'Uxelle stuffing. Cover each artichoke with a slice of fat pork, 
tie them with a string and set them in a saucepan lined with 
sliced vegetables and slices of smoked fat ham ; moisten with 
white wine and good stock, and boil for I hour. 

When the artichokes are done, dress them on a dish, first 
removing the strings and the pork ; strain the stock in which 
they were cooked, remove the fat, and reduce, adding some 
Italian sauce; pour some over the artichokes, and serve the 
rest separate. 

ARTICHAUTS FROIDS A L'HUILE ou A LA VINAIGRETTE 

COLD ARTICHOKES WITH FRENCH DRESSING OR 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

Serve the plain boiled artichokes cold with the sauce separate. 

FONDS D' ARTICHAUTS ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. 

Although considerably cheaper in the United States to buy 
the canned bottoms, it is needless to sav that the fresh vege- 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 221 

table is of superior quality. There are two different methods 
of preparing artichoke bottoms : 

1. To prepare them from the raw artichoke. 

2. To cook the artichoke first. 

First Method. Choose 12 medium-sized artichokes, cut off 
the stems and two-thirds of the upper part, scoop out the seeds 
and pare the bottom to a nice round shape ; rub with lemon 
juice and throw into acidulated water. 

When all the bottoms are pared cook them in I quart of boil- 
ing water, to which add 4 ounces of butter, the juice of a lemon 
and a pinch of salt ; let simmer for 25 to 30 minutes. 

Second Method. Cook the artichokes as explained for 
Boiled Artichokes, leaving them rather underdone ; remove the 
outside leaves ; scoop out the seeds, and pare the bottom nicely ; 
blanch by boiling I quart of water with 4 ounces of butter, the 
juice of a lemon and a pinch of salt ; add the artichokes and boil 
for 5 or 6 minutes. 

NOTE. Artichoke bottoms may be stuffed in many ways, 
with d'Uxelle stuffing, with various purees, as puree of mush- 
rooms, chestnuts, peas, etc. They may also be served with peas, 
asparagus tips, spinach, etc. 

FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA MORNAY ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, 

MORNAY STYLE. 

Fill the bottoms with puree of foie gras, pour over Mornay 
sauce and gratinate to a nice golden hue. 

FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA SUISSE ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, 

Swiss .STYLE. 

Place the bottoms on a baking dish, add 3 ounces of Swiss 
(Gruyere) cheese cut in very small cubes to I pint of cream 
sauce, pour over the bottoms, besprinkle with bread crumbs 
and melted butter, and bake in a brisk oven to a nice color. 

FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA Du BARRY ARTICHOKE BOT- 
TOMS, Du BARRY STYLE. 

Fill artichoke bottoms with cooked cauliflower, cover with 



222 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Mornay sauce, besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and 
melted butter, and bake to a nice color in a brisk oven. 

FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA PRINCESSE ARTICHOKE BOT- 
TOMS, PRINCESS FASHION. 

Fill artichoke bottoms with Asparagus tips as Peas, and cover 
with Hollandaise sauce. 

FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA BAYARD ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, 

BAYARD STYLE. 

Fill some cooked artichoke bottoms with puree of pate de 
foie gras, cover with chicken cream forcemeat, smooth the 
surface with a knife dipped in lukewarm water, and decorate 
to your fancy. Then range in a buttered saute pan, moisten 
with broth about ^2 inch high from the bottom, and cook for 
10 to 15 minutes. 

Shred fine i part each of truffles, mushrooms, smoked beef 
tongue and breast of chicken ; heat in Madeira sauce, and pour 
on a dish. 

Dress the artichokes over the garnishing. 

FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA COLBERT ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS, 

COLBERT FASHION. 

Pick out some small cooked artichoke bottoms and lay in 
each some puree of foie gras, place one bottom on top of the 
other (so that the puree is in between), stick a small wooden 
skewer through them to hold them together, dip in frying batter 
and fry in very hot lard. Remove the skewer and dress on a 
folded napkin with fried parsley. 

Serve Colbert sauce separate. 

FONDS D'ARTICHAUTS A LA POMPADOUR ARTICHOKE BOT- 
TOMS, POMPADOUR STYLE. 

Heat the artichoke bottoms in chicken stock, and before serv- 
ing fill them with a puree of fresh mushrooms thickened with a 
few egg yolks. Serve with Madeira sauce on the dish. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 223 

AUBERGINE FARCIE STUFFED EGGPLANT. 

Cut a medium-sized eggplant lengthwise in 4 parts ; make 
crosswise incisions on the inner side, being careful not to cut 
too deep; fry the plant in hot lard, drain on a cloth (the cut side 
to lay downward). Remove the pulp of the plant, so as to leave 
but the skin ; chop fine and put it into a bowl, add I finely 
chopped onion fried colorless in butter, add I gill of d'Uxelle, 
2 handfuls of bread crumbs, and 3 egg yolks; season with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg; fill the eggplant, smoothing the surface, to 
give it its original appearance ; strew over bread crumbs, place 
a few small lumps of butter on each, and bake in a moderate 
oven for 15 minutes. Serve with brown sauce. 

AUBERGINE FARCIE A LA TURQUE STUFFED EGGPLANT, 

TURKISH FASHION. 

Prepare the eggplant as explained for Stuffed Eggplant, but 
use the following stuffing : 

Chop fine and fry colorless in olive oil I onion and I clove of 
garlic, add half of the chopped eggplant, the same amount of 
roast mutton or lamb cut in very small squares and I pint of 
rice cooked with chicken broth. Season with salt, red pepper 
and a small pinch of powdered saffron ; add a little well reduced 
tomato sauce and some chopped parsley. 

Finish as explained before, and serve with tomato sauce. 



AUBERGINE A LA MORN AY AU GRATIN- -BAKED EGGPLANT, 

MORNAY STYLE. 

Peel I eggplant and cut it in j^-inch slices; salt them lightly 
and put away for I or 2 hours to extract the humidity ; then 
press them lightly, dry and dip them in flour, fry in very hot 
clarified butter, and drain. 

Place a little Alornay sauce on a baking dish, lay the eggplant 
on top, cover with some more Mornay sauce, besprinkle with 
grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake in a brisk 
oven to a nice golden hue. 



224 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

AUBERGINE A L'!TALIENNE AU GRATIN- -BAKED EGGPLANT, 

ITALIAN FASHION. 

Prepare as explained for previous receipt, using Italian in- 
stead of Mornay sauce. 

AUBERGINE DIABLEE GRILLEE DEVILED AND BROILED 

EGGPLANT. 

Cut the eggplant in %-inch slices, salt and leave them stand 
for I or 2 hours; after that time press lightly and dry with a 
cloth ; then cover with the following preparation : 

Put into a bowl 2 raw egg yolks, dilute with 4 tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil and i of Worcestershire sauce, and add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of English mustard ; bread-crumb the eggplant, and broil 
over a moderate fire ; before serving, pour over some melted 
butter. 

CEPES A LA POLONAISE CEPES, POLISH FASHION. 

In the United States cepes are obtainable only in the pre- 
served state. 

Wash them well to free them from the slimy substance ; if too 
large, cut them in suitable pieces and dry them well with a 
towel. 

Fry the cepes in butter and moisten with cream. Allow to 
reduce and add a little Bechamel sauce, to give it its proper con- 
sistency ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and finish with a 
pat of butter, a little lemon juice, some chopped fennel or 
chopped parsley. 

NOTE. Sour cream should be used, but lemon juice may be 
substituted. 

CHAMPIGNONS SAUTES A LA MINUTE MUSHROOMS SAUTED. 

Peel and wash I pound of mushrooms ; drain and dry in a 
towel. 

Heat 3 ounces of butter in an omelette pan ; when it comes to 
the nut degree, throw in the mushrooms and cook over a brisk 
fire, seasoning with salt and pepper, and serve on pieces of dry 
toast ; besprinkle with chopped parsley. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 225 

CHAMPIGNONS GRILLEES- -BROILED MUSHROOMS. 

Only the larger variety of mushrooms should be used for 
broiling. Wash them well, cut off the stems, drain and dry; 
baste with olive oil ; season with salt and pepper, and broil over 
a moderate charcoal fire. Serve on pieces of buttered toast, the 
bottom side of the mushroom upward, place some maitre 
d'hotel butter on top, and serve. 

CHAMPIGNONS A LA CREME MUSHROOMS IN CREAM. 

Peel and wash 2 pounds of white mushrooms, drain and dry. 

Heat 4 ounces of butter in a saucepan, throw in the mush- 
rooms, season, and cook over a moderate fire. 

When nearly done, add 2 gills of cream, let reduce to half ; 
then add 3 gills of cream sauce, season to taste, incorporate 2 
ounces of butter, and serve. 

CROUTES DE CHAMPIGNONS A LA CREME CRUSTS OF 

MUSHROOMS IN CREAM. 

Fill some tartelette crusts with the above preparation ; or 
cut some French rolls in halves, scoop out the soft part, dip 
in melted butter, and dry them in the oven. 

COQUILLES DE CHAMPIGNONS GRATINEES BAKED MUSH- 

ROOMS IN SHELLS. 

Fill some shells with mushrooms in cream, strew over bread 
crumbs and melted butter, and bake in a hot oven to a nice 
golden hue. 

CHAMPIGNONS FARCIS STUFFED MUSHROOMS. 

Pick out nice heads of mushrooms. Wash and dry them well, 
scoop out the black part and fill them with d'Uxelle stuffing. 
Strew breadcrumbs over them, and place a small lump of butter 
on each. Place them on a buttered baking dish and cook in a 
brisk oven from 10 to 15 minutes, according to their size. Serve 
with Madeira sauce. 



226 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

NOTE. Mushrooms may be stuffed with chicken or veal 
forcemeat, to which some cooked fine herbs may be added. 

BOUCHEES AUX CHAMPIGNONS A LA CREME SMALL 

PATTIES WITH MUSHROOMS IN CREAM. 

Cut the mushrooms in cubes, and prepare them as explained 
for Mushrooms in Cream. Fill some patty crusts, and serve on 
a napkin. 

CROQUETTES DE CHAMPIGNONS MUSHROOM CROQUETTES. 

Cut the mushrooms in cubes, cook them in butter and 
moisten with an equal amount of thickly reduced Bechamel 
sauce, bind with egg yolks, and season to taste ; then put them 
away in a cool place, and when thoroughly cold, shape and 
finish as other croquettes. 

CELERI BRAISE AU Jus- -BRAISED CELERY WITH GRAVY. 

Choose some nice white stalk celery, cut off the tops, trim 
the outside leaves, and point the roots. 

Let the celery remain in running cold water for 2 hours to 
free it from sand and earth, parboil for 15 minutes, immerse in 
cold water, drain and tie them in bunches of three, place them 
in a sauce pan with sliced carrots and onions underneath. 
Next moisten with white stock and cover with slices of larding 
pork, or, what is better still, the fat from a loin of veal. 

Let the celery simmer gently for 2 hours, then drain, dress 
on a dish, and pour over some rich gravy blended with brown 
sauce. 

CELERI BRAISE AU VELOUTE BRAISED CELERY WITH 

VELOUTE. 

Proceed exactly as described above, but instead of gravy pour 
Veloute cream sauce over the celery. 

CELERI AU PARMESAN- -CELERY WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. 
Follow directions as given for Leeks with Parmesan Cheese. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 227 

CHICOREE A LA CREME CHICORY WITH CREAM. 

I 

Choose 12 heads of chicory, clean and wash them well, parboil 
for 25 minutes in salted water, drain, and cool in cold water ; 
press with the hands to extract as much as possible of the 
humidity, and chop very fine. 

Heat in a saucepan 4 ounces of butter, put in the chicory, 
and stir over the fire for 10 minutes ; then add one-fouth the 
amount of Bechamel well reduced with cream, season to taste 
with salt, a pinch of sugar and grated nutmeg; add 2 ounces of 
butter before serving. 

If served as a vegetable, garnish the same as spinach, either 
with eggs or small triangular bread crusts fried in butter. 



CHOUX FARCI A LA CHATELAINE STUFFED CABBAGE, 

CHATELAINE STYLE. 

Choose a firm head of cabbage, remove the outer leaves, and 
parboil the head for 20 minutes ; refresh under running water, 
and drain on a towel. Remove the stalk by making an incision 
around it with a long thin knife ; take out the inner leaves to 
make room for the stuffing, which prepare as follows : 

To 24 pounds of sausage meat add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
cooked fine herbs, 2 or 3 finely chopped chicken livers, 2 hand- 
fuls of bread crumbs and from 8 to 12 peeled and cooked chest- 
nuts ; season to taste and fill up the cabbage ; cover it with a 
slice of salt pork. Line a saucepan with vegetables, put in the 
cabbage, moisten with broth, and cook for at least i hour in 
a mild oven. Serve with brown sauce blended with rich gravy. 

XOTE. To keep the cabbage intact while cooking, it is ad- 
visable to tie it with a string from all sides. 

CHOUX FARCI POUR GARNITURE STUFFED CABBAGE FOR 

GARNISHING. 

Stuffed cabbage may be prepared for garnishing, as ex- 
plained above, but instead of a whole head being used, only a 
few leaves should be taken ; these may either be rolled or small 
heads may be shaped ; the chestnuts may either be bruised or 
left out entirelv. 



228 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

PAUPIETTES DE CHOUX A LA PIEMONTAISE CABBAGE ROLLS, 

PlEDMONTESE FASHION. 

Parboil the cabbage leaves for 15 minutes; prepare the stuff- 
ing as explained before, replacing the chestnuts by rice par- 
boiled in salted water ; fill and roll up the cabbage leaves 

Line a saucepan with vegetables and slices of fat smoked ham, 
place the rolled cabbage thereon, moisten with stock and cook 
for 30 minutes. 

Drain the rolls; strain the stock in which they were cooked, 
take off the fat, and reduce the stock with half each of brown 
and tomato sauce, season, and pour over the rolls. 

CONCOMBRES A LA CREME CUCUMBERS IN CREAM. 

Cut a medium-sized cucumber lengthwise in 4; cut from this 
uniform sized pieces about i to i l / 2 inches long; pare these 
pieces nicely; parboil for a few minutes, and drain. Set them 
in a sautoir with a piece of butter, season with salt and a pinch 
of sugar, cover the pan, and place it over a mild fire to cook 
slowly until tender, then add some cream sauce, shufHe gently 
and season to taste. 

CONCOMBRES A L'ESPAGNOLES CUCUMBERS, SPANISH 

STYLE. 

Cook as above, but instead of cream sauce add half Madeira 
and half tomato sauce. 

CONCOMBRES FARCIS STUFFED CUCUMBERS. 

Peel some cucumbers, cut them lengthwise in half, remove 
the seeds with a vegetable scoop and parboil the cucumbers 
for 3 or 4 minutes; then drain and stuff them with sausage 
meat to which d'Uxelle and bread crumbs are added. Cover the 
cucumbers with thin slices of fat salt pork, and place them in a 
buttered pan ; moisten with a little stock and cook them in a 
slow oven from 30 to 40 minutes. Serve with brown sauce. 

NOTE. If to be served as a garnishing, pick out cucumbers 
not too large, cut them transversely in pieces 2 inches in 
length, peel and scoop them out, and finish as explained above. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 229 

CHOUX MARIN BOUILLI : SAUCE CREME, SAUCE HOLLAN- 
DAISE, SAUCE MALTAISE BOILED SEA KALE : CREAM 
SAUCE, DUTCH SAUCE, MALTESE SAUCE. 

Take off the leaves, wash and tie in bundles the same as as- 
paragus, boil in lightly salted water, and when done, drain, 
serve on a napkin, and give the above sauces separately. 

CHOUX MARIN BRAISE : Au Jus, AU VELOUTE, A LA MOELLE, 
AU PARMESAN- -BRAISED SEA KALE: WITH GRAVY, 
WITH VELOUTE, WITH MARROW, WITH PARMESAN 
CHEESE. 

j 

Proceed as in Braised Celery. 

CHOUX DE BRUXELLES SAUTE BRUSSEL SPROUTS SAUTED. 

Clean the sprouts, wash them well and boil in an abundance 
of lightly salted water ; immerse in cold water as soon as they 
are done, and drain. 

Heat some butter in an omelet pan, add the sprouts, season 
with salt, pepper and nutmeg; toss over the fire until thor- 
oughly hot, and serve. 

CHOUX DE BRUXELLES A L'ANGLAISE BRUSSEL SPROUTS, 

ENGLISH FASHION. 

Boil the sprouts as shown above, but do not refresh them. 
When done, drain on a towel, so that all humidity will be ab- 
sorbed ; dress on a dish, and place a few pats of butter on top. 

CELERI RAVE BRAISE AU Jus BRAISED CELERIAC WITH 

GRAVY. 

Peel and wash the celeriac, and cook as indicated for Braised 
Celery with gravy. 

CELERI RAVE A LA CREME CELERIAC IN CREAM. 

Cook the celeriac in salted water, drain, slice and heat in 
cream sauce. 



230 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CELERI RAVE A LA POULETTE CELERIAC, POULETTE STYLE. 
Prepare a celeriac in cream, but heat in poulette sauce. 

CHOUXFLEUR BOUILLI, SAUCE HOLLANAISE BOILED 
CAULIFLOWER, DUTCH SAUCE. 

Although belonging to the cabbage tribe, cauliflower is a 
favorite with nearly everybody. 

Choose a firm head of cauliflower, cut off the stem and re- 
move all the green leaves ; lay it in cold water, being careful to 
free it from insects. 

Boil in plenty of lightly salted water for about 30 minutes. 
Drain and serve on a napkin. Serve Dutch sauce separate. 

NOTE. In England it is customary to leave some of the green 
leaves on the cauliflower. If the heads are small, this method 
is to be recommended, as it gives the cauliflower a most pleas- 
ing aspect. 

CHOUXFLEUR A LA MILANAISE CAULIFLOWER, MILAN 

FASHION. 

Proceed as indicated for Asparagus Tips, Milan Fashion. 

CHOUXFLEUR A LA POLONAISE ou A LA PARISIENNE- 
CAULIFLOWER, POLISH OR PARISIAN STYLE. 

Cauliflower served under these names is nothing more than 
plain boiled cauliflower with bread crumbs fried in butter poured 
over before serving. I have mentioned it here for the benefit 
of those to whom these names were unknown. 

CHOUXFLEUR FROID COLD CAULIFLOWER. 

Cold cauliflower may be served with mayonnaise tartar, re- 
moulade, or vinaigrette sauce, or just plain French dressing. 

CHOUXFLEUR A LA CARDINAL CAULIFLOWER, CARDINAL'S 

FASHION. 

Cook a cauliflower as instructed above ; drain it and dress it 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 231 

on a dish, pour over some crayfish sauce, and besprinkle with 
finely chopped lobster coral. 

NOTE. It may occasionally happen that the cauliflower is not 
as firm as it should be, or that it is a trifle too much cooked 
and falls apart ; to give it a good appearance when serving, just 
place it into a dome-shaped mould, press it lightly, and then 
unmould. 

CHOUXFLEUR AU GRATIN- -BAKED CAULIFLOWER. 

Spread some cream sauce on the bottom of a baking dish ; 
separate a cooked head of cauliflower into flowerets ; season 
these with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and lay them in 
dome-shape over the sauce on the baking dish ; cover with thick 
cream sauce, strew over some grated Parmesan cheese, place a 
few small pats of butter on top, and bake in a brisk oven. 

NOTE. For American plan or private dinners this dish may 
be prepared and served in small individual shells or cases. 

CHOUXFLEUR A LA VILLEROI CAULIFLOWER, VILLEROI 

STYLE. 

Divide a cooked head of cauliflower into flowerets, dip into 
Villeroi sauce, place on an oiled dish, and put on ice to get thor- 
oughly cold ; egg and bread-crumb twice, and fry in very hot 
lard to a nice color. 

CHOUXFLEUR A LA FLORENTINE CAULIFLOWER, FLOREN- 
TINE STYLE. 

Divide a head of cooked cauliflower into flowerets, season 
with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, roll in flour, dip in beaten 
eggs and fry in hot butter. Serve on a napkin. 

MOUSSE DE CHOUXFLEUR A LA DU BARRY- -MOUSSE OF 
CAULIFLOWER, DU BARRY STYLE. 

Cook a head of cauliflower (weighing about i pound) in 
salted water, allow to get cold, press in a napkin (to free from 
water), and rub through a hair sieve. 



232 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Reduce to good consistency 3 gills of Bechamel sauce, add 
the puree of cauliflower and 2 ounces of butter ; season to taste 
with salt and nutmeg, and remove from the fire. After 10 min- 
utes add 4 egg yolks and the whites whipped to a stiff froth. 

Fill some small entree cases three-fourths of their height with 
the above preparation, and cook in a mild oven from 8 to 10 
minutes. 

PUREE DE CHOUXFLEUR--PUREE OF CAULIFLOWER. 

Rub one head of cooked cauliflower through a fine sieve, put 
it into a saucepan with a pint of Bechamel sauce, and I gill of 
cream ; allow to reduce to good consistency ; season to taste 
with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, and finish with a pat of 
butter. 

TlMBALES DE CHOUXFLEUR POUR GARNITURE CAULIFLOWER 

TlMBALS FOR GARNISHING. 

Add to I pint of Cauliflower Puree I whole egg and 3 yolks ; 
decorate some buttered timbals with truffles, smoked beef 
tongue, etc., fill with the cauliflower preparation, and cook for 
15 to 20 minutes in the bain-marie in a slow oven. 

CARDON BRAISE- -BRAISED CARDOON. 

Cardoon is served but seldom in the United States, although 
this plant merits more recognition. Of late years it has been 
imported in larger quantities, and it may be that it will be cul- 
tivated in this country before long. 

It is cooked and served exactly as celery. 

CHOUXRAVE A LA CREME- -KOHLRABI IN CREAM. 

Peel some young kohlrabi ; wash, cut in ^J-inch slices, and 
boil in lightly salted water. When done, drain and add to 
cream sauce ; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg, and finish 
with a pat of butter. 

CHOUXRAVE FARCI STUFFED KOHLRABI. 
Choose some young plants of uniform size, peel them and 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 233 

cut tops and bottoms straight; then scoop them out and par- 
boil ; stuff and finish to cook as indicated for Stuffed Cucumbers. 

GARROTTES A LA NIVERNAISE CARROTS, NIVERNAISK 

FASHION. 

Peel some young carrots of uniform size ; parboil, drain and 
put them in a sautoire with a lump of butter; cover with 
chicken broth, season with salt and sugar, and set on brisk fire. 
If the liquid is reduced before the carrots are cooked, add some 
more broth. When the carrots are done, add some rich veal 
gravy, and thicken lightly with a little butter, kneaded with 
the same amount of flour. 

CARROTTES NOUVELLES A LA CREME NEW CARROTS IN 

CREAM. 

Cook as above, but instead of veal gravy add cream, and 
finish with butter. 

CARROTTES A LA VICHY CARROTS, VICHY STYLE. 

Peel some tender carrots, cut them in ^4-inch slices ; then 
parboil and drain. 

Place the carrots in a sautoire, add salt and a pinch of sugar, 
and moisten with Vichy water to cover the carrots ; set on the 
fire and allow to reduce completely ; finish as Carrots in Cream. 

CARROTTES A L'ANDALOUSE CARROTS, ANDALUSIAN STYLE. 

Clean I dozen young carrots, and slice fine. Heat 2 spoonfuls 
of the best olive oil in a saucepan, put in the carrots and be- 
sprinkle with a pinch of salt, i tablespoonful of rock candy or 
brown sugar ; cook slowly, and when the carrots become dry 
(i. e., when all the liquid is evaporated), pour off the oil and 
add a pony of Malaga wine. Serve without bruising the carrots. 

EPINARDS A L'ANGLAISE SPINACH, ENGLISH FASHION. 
Free the spinach from the stems, wash several times in an 



234 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

abundance of water, and then put it into a saucepan of lightly 
salted boiling water. Turn the spinach with a wooden spoon, so 
that it becomes immersed completely; boil for 15 minutes, 
drain, press lightly, dress in a dish, and lay a few pats of butter 
on top. 

EPINARDS A LA CREME SPINACH WITH CREAM. 

Cook the spinach as explained above ; refresh it, then drain 
and press it to extract as much of the moisture as possible ; 
chop it fine or rub it through a sieve, put it in a pan with 
Bechamel sauce and a little cream ; season with salt, nutmeg 
and a pinch of sugar ; heat some butter to the nut degree, add 
it to the spinach, mix vigorously, and serve with hard-boiled 
eggs cut in quarters. 

EPINARDS AU Jus SPINACH WITH GRAVY. 

Prepare the spinach as explained for Spinach with Cream, but 
instead of Bechamel sauce use Yeloute, and in place of cream 
use rich veal gravy. 

TIMBALE D'EPINARDS POUR GARNITURES SPINACH TIM- 

BALS FOR GARNISHING. 

Have ready I quart of Spinach with Cream. Beat together 
2 w r hole eggs and 4 egg yolks, and add to the spinach. 

Butter some small timbal moulds, decorate them with sliced 
cooked beef tongue or ham cut in fanciful shapes ; fill them up 
with the spinach, and cook in the bain-marie for 15 or 20 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

EPINARDS FARCIS STUFFED SPINACH. 

Choose some extra large spinach leaves, \vash them and scald 
them with boiling water; then cool by laying them in cold 
water. Next drain and spread the leaves on a towel so as to dry 
them completely. Cover each leaf with chicken or veal force- 
meat to which cooked fine herbs are added; roll up the leaves 
and place them in a buttered sautoir, pour over a little con- 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 235 

somme, and cook in a mild oven for about 10 minutes. Dress 
on a dish, and serve with brown sauce. 

NOTE. If the leaves are small, 2 or 3 may be used for one 
roll. 

GUMBO A LA CREOLE STEWED OKRA, CREOLE STYLE. 

Scald 6 ripe tomatoes, peel and free them from seeds ; cut 
in quarters and put them in a saucepan with 2 ounces of but- 
ter, add 24 dwarf okras from which the stems have been cut ; 
season with salt and red pepper ; moisten with 2 gills of broth, 
and set on the fire to simmer for about 30 minutes. 

NOTE. This dish may be flavored with onions or garlic and 
green peppers. 

GUMBO AUX FINES HERBES STEWED OKRA WITH FINE 

HERBS. 

Cut both ends from 3 dozen dwarf okra, put them in a pan 
with 2 ounces of butter and 2 gills of chicken broth ; season 
with salt and red pepper ; simmer over a slow fire for 30 minutes, 
and when done add some chopped parsley, chervil and chives. 

HARICOTS VERTS A L'ANGLAISE STRING BEANS, ENGLISH 

FASHION. 

Break off the ends of the beans, taking with them the strings, 
being careful to remove all the stringy part. 

Wash them and throw them into lightly salted water, allow 
to cook slowly (without covering the pan) until done ; then 
drain. Arrange in a vegetable dish, and lay on the top small 
pats of fresh butter, and serve. 

NOTE. It is impossible to obtain always the same kind of 
string beans ; sometimes they are tough and stringly ; at other 
times they are young and tender, with barely any strings. 

At one time during my experience at the Union Club, we had 
quite some trouble in freeing the beans from their strings, and 
yet leave the beans whole, as the majority of the members 
wished to have them served. At length the idea struck me to 
boil the beans before stringing. Success was assured, and there- 
after we had no more complaints. 



236 The Post-Gr actuate Cookery Book. 

HARICOTS VERTS A LA GRECQUE STRING BEANS, GREEK 

FASHION. 

Have 3 pounds of string beans free from their strings ; parboil 
them for 15 minutes, and refresh under running water. 

Fry 2 finely sliced onions in 2 ounces of butter, without allow- 
ing them to take color ; moisten with I gill of consomme and 2 
gills of tomato sauce ; add the beans, and finish to cook slowly. 
Season to taste, and finish with a small pat of butter before 
serving. 

NOTE. When the beans are cooked, the sauce should be re- 
duced to good consistency. 

HARICOTS VERTS ET MAIS A LA CREME STRING BEANS AND 

CORN IN CREAM. 

Cut the kernels of 6 ears of cooked corn lengthwise from end 
to end, and with the back of the knife press out the corn. (The 
result of this procedure is that the corn becomes hulled, and 
consequently of easier digestion.) 

Put the corn into a saucepan with sufficient quantity of string 
beans, moisten with I gill of cream, heat well, thicken with a 
little Bechamel sauce, and season with salt and pepper; add I 
ounce of butter before serving. 

HARICOTS VERTS A LA RUSSE STRING BEANS, RUSSIAN 

FASHION. 

Prepare the string beans as for Greek Fashion, but instead 
of tomato sauce moisten with cream and finish with a pat of 
butter and a little lemon juice. 

HARICOTS VERTS MAITRE D'HOTEL STRING BEANS, MAITRE 

D'HOTEL. 

Cook the string beans as for English Fashion. Heat a piece 
of butter in a saute pan, toss the beans therein, season with salt 
and pepper, add some chopped parsley, and finish with a few 
drops of lemon juice. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 237 

HARICOTS PANACHES MIXED BEANS. 

For this dish string beans are indispensable. To these may 
be added French flageolets and white or Lima beans. The 
beans are cooked before being mixed, and then tossed in butter. 

HARICOTS DE LIMA AU BEURRE LIMA BEANS WITH BUTTER. 

Have some Lima beans shelled and washed ; plunge them into 
boiling, lightly salted water, and allow them to cook over a 
brisk fire until done ; then drain and toss with a piece of butter. 

HARICOTS DE LIMA MAITRE D'HOTEL LIMA BEANS, MAITRE 

D'HOTEL STYLE. 

Toss the beans in butter, add just a little Veloute sauce, finish 
with chopped parsley and a little lemon juice. 

LAITUES BRAISEES AU Jus BRAISED LETTUCE WITH GRAVY. 

Choose some nice heads of lettuce, trim and wash them in 
several waters, parboil in salted water, drain, and when cold, 
press them to extract all or most of the humidity ; then season 
well, envelop them 4 by 4 in thin slices of fat salt pork, tie 
together, put in a pan lined with thin slices of carrots and 
onions, moisten with fat veal or soup stock, cover the pan, and 
cook in the oven for 2 hours if large heads, let cook longer. 

When this is done drain the lettuce, take off strings and pork 
(if the heads are large, cut them lengthwise in halves), fold them 
so as to give a triangular shape, and arrange them in a saute 
pan ; take off the fat from the stock in which the lettuce was 
cooked, strain and reduce to two-thirds, add a little meat extract 
and a little butter, pour over the lettuce, and heat well (but do 
not let boil). 

LAITUES FARCIES STUFFED LETTUCE. 

Follow the same formula as for Braised Lettuce, but before 
ranging the lettuce in the saute pan, open each head and stuff 
with chicken forcemeat mixed with cooked fine herbs ; then 
fold each lettuce, arrange in a buttered saute pan, moisten with 



238 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

a little consomme, cover with a buttered paper, cook for 12 to 
15 minutes in the oven, dress on the dish, and pour over gravy 
as prepared for Braised Lettuce. 



MARRONS GLACES POUR GARNITURE GLAZED CHESTNUTS 

FOR GARNISHING. 

Slit some chestnuts crosswise on their flat side ; roast them 
for a few minutes in the oven until the outer skin can be taken 
off; then throw them into boiling water in order to be able to 
remove the second skin. When this is done, place them in a 
saute pan, cover them with consomme, and simmer gently until 
done. By this time the consomme should be nearly all ab- 
sorbed by the chestnuts. 

Before serving, glace over with meat extract. 

PUREE DE MARRONS- -PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. 

Cook the chestnuts as stated above ; rub them through a fine 
sieve, adding a stalk of celery, and finish with a little brown 
sauce and a good piece of butter. 

MAIZE BOUILLI- -BOILED CORN. 

It is desirable that the corn should be white and young, and 
the grains should be full, so that the milk will spurt from them 
if pressed with the finger nail. 

Take off the husks, cut off the stem and free the cob from all 
the threads ; put the corn to boil in lightly salted water from 
15 to 20 minutes. 

If the corn is to be kept, a little milk may be added to the 
water in which it was cooked. 

MAIZE AU BEURRE CORN CUT OFF. 

Split the grains lengthwise, and with the back of the knife 
lightly press upon the ear of corn, thus removing the corn and 
leaving the hulls on the ear. Toss the corn with butter, season 
with salt and pepper. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 239 

MAIZE A LA CREME AU GRATIN--CORN IN CREAM AND 

BAKED. 

Cut off the corn as explained before, add some butter and a 
little cream sauce ; season to taste, put into a baking dish, 
sprinkle over bread crumbs and melted butter, and bake in the 
oven. 

MAIZE ET TOMATES STEWED CORN AND TOMATOES. 

Peel 6 tomatoes, cut them in quarters and free them from 
seeds ; stew them in butter, season with salt and pepper ; then 
add I pint of corn cut from the cob. 

SUCCOTASH SUCCOTASH. 

Cut off the corn, add the same amount of young Lima beans ; 
season to taste, add butter and a little thick cream ; heat thor- 
oughly and serve. 

BEIGNETS DE MAIZE CORN FRITTERS. 

Dilute 3 tablespoonfuls of flour with sufficient milk to make 
a liquid batter, add 2 whole eggs, the yolks of 2, and then the 
corn grated off from 9 raw ears ; season with salt, nutmeg and a 
pinch of sugar. 

Heat some lard in a large omelet pan, drop in spoonfuls of 
the batter, so as to form small cakes, and fry on both sides to a 
nice golden color ; drain and serve on a napkin. 

NOTE. Some cooks simply cut off the corn of the cooked ear 
and add it to the batter. A little baking powder may be added 
to the batter. 

CREPES DE MAIS ET LUCINES ORANGES CORN AND CLAM 

FRITTERS. 

Dilute 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with sufficient cold milk to 
make a liquid batter, add 2 whole eggs, the yolks of 2, the grated 
corn from 6 cobs, and 36 finely chopped Little Neck clams ; 
season with salt, nutmeg and a pinch of sugar. 

Cook as explained in previous receipt. 



240 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

NAVETS NOUVEAUX A LA POULETTE NEW TURNIPS, 

POULETTE STYLE. 

Cut I dozen young turnips into quarters and trim the edges ; 
parboil in salted water, drain and put them into a sautoir with 
a piece of butter, and cover with chicken broth ; season with 
salt and a good pinch of sugar; cover the pan and set over a 
brisk fire. When the liquid is nearly reduced, the turnips 
should be cooked. 

Moisten with 2 gills of cream sauce, allow to boil, and bind 
with 2 egg yolks, I gill of cream and a little butter ; season to 
taste and serve. 

NOUILLES NOODLES. 

Prepare a paste with the following ingredients : I pound of 
flour, 4 whole eggs and 4 yolks, I ounce of butter and a good 
pinch of salt. Divide the paste in small patches, and let it rest 
for 30 minutes; then roll it out to 1-16 of an inch in thickness; 
let these pieces dry for 15 minutes; then cut them into 3 or 4 
inch strips, put several of these together, flour them liberally, 
and cut them in very fine shreds ; shake them up to prevent 
their sticking together. 

To cook them plunge the noodles in 2 gallons of salted boil- 
ing water ; let simmer for 10 minutes ; then drain. Toss in 
butter, add some Parmesan cheese if desired, or serve plain. 

NOUILLES A LA MILANAISE NOODLES, MILAN FASHION. 

Make y 2 pound of noodles. When cooked and drained, heat 
2 ounces of butter in a saucepan, add the noodles, i gill of well 
reduced tomato sauce, I gill of rich veal gravy, and a garnishing 
of equal parts of finely shredded mushrooms, truffles and 
smoked beef tongue ; add 3 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese 
and 2 ounces of butter. Season to taste, and serve. 

PUREE D'OSEILLE POUR GARNITURE- -PUREE OF SORREL FOR 

GARNISHING. 

Pick i peck of sorrel and wash it in an abundance of water 
several times. Heat 3 ounces of butter in a saucepan, throw in 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 241 

the sorrel, stirring continuously until all moisture has evapo- 
rated ; then rub through a fine sieve. 

Reduce I pint of Bechamel sauce with I gill of cream, add 
the sorrel puree, season with salt, nutmeg and a pinch of sugar, 
thicken with 3 egg yolks diluted with ^ gill of cream, and 
finish with a piece of butter. 

NOTE. To diminish the acidity of this vegetable a certain 
amount of spinach may be added. 

OlGNONS A LA CREME A L'AMERICAINE ONIONS IN CREAM, 

AMERICAN STYLE. 

Pick out some nice white onions, peel and boil them in lightly 
salted water. When done, drain and put to simmer in cream 
for about 10 minutes. Season with salt and pepper, and thicken 
the cream lightly with kneaded butter. 

OIGNONS FARCIS STUFFED ONIONS. 

Choose some white medium-sized onions, peel them, being 
careful not to cut off the root too close, otherwise the onion 
would fall apart while cooking. 

Scoop out the onions and parboil them for 10 minutes in 
salted water, drain and fill them with the stuffing as explained 
for Stuffed Cucumbers. 

Line a sautoire with sliced carrots, onions and fat ham ; add 
a faggot of herbs, and place the onions therein ; cover each 
onion with a thin slice of fat pork, moisten with good stock, 
and cook for I hour in a moderate oven. 

PIMENTS VERTS FARCIS A LA CHINOISE STUFFED GREEN 

PEPPERS, CHINESE FASHION. 

Dip some green peppers in hot fat for i minute or so, be- 
sprinkle with salt, and remove the skin with the aid of a cloth. 
Cut the lower part of the pepper near the stem, and remove all 
the seeds ; wash in hot water, and lay on a towel. 

Put 3 ounces of butter in a pan. When hot, add 2 chopped 
onions. When half done, add 8 ounces of rice, 4 ounces of lean 
chopped ham, and the chopped trimmings of the green peppers; 



242 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

stir for 2 minutes, and then moisten with double its height of 
veal or chicken broth; let cook slowly for 18 to 20 minutes; 
season with salt, a pinch of powdered ginger and a very little 
saffron. 

Fill the peppers with this mixture, turn them upside down on 
a buttered pan and bake in the oven until thoroughly hot. 

Serve with brown sauce. 

PIMENTS VERTS FARCIS A LA D'UXELLE STUFFED GREEN 

PEPPER, D'UXELLE STYLE. 

Proceed as for Stuffed Green Peppers, Chinese Fashion, using 
d'Uxelle stuffing instead of the rice. 

PIMENTS VERTS FARCIS AUX CREVETTES A L'INDIENNE- 
GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH SHRIMPS, INDIAN 

FASHION. 

Remove the skin from the peppers, and prepare the following 
stuffing : 

Chop fine 2 onions and I green pepper ; fry in butter without 
browning, add I quart of boiled rice ; season with salt and I 
teaspoonful of curry powder; moisten with I gill of broth, add 
24 peeled shrimps cut in small pieces, and fill the peppers with 
this preparation. Finish as other stuffed peppers. 

PIMENTS ROUGES FARCIS A LA D'UXELLE, A LA CHINOISE- 
STUFFED RED PEPPERS, D'UXELLE STYLE, CHINESE 

FASHION. 

Proceed as indicated for Stuffed Green Peppers. 
These peppers are generally used canned; they are imported 
from Spain. 

PIMENTS ROUGES SAUTES A L'ESPAGNOLE SWEET PEPPERS 

SAUTED, SPANISH STYLE. 

Heat some oil (or butter) in an omelet pan, throw in the pep- 
pers, cut in pieces about I inch square ; season with salt. When 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 243- 

dry, add a little chopped shallots, toss for a few seconds, re- 
move the fat, then add a little brown sauce and chopped parsley. 

POIREAUX BRAISES AU Jus ET AU PARMESAN- -LEEKS 
BRAISED WITH GRAVY AND WITH PARMESAN 

CHEESE. 

Procure some young and tender leeks, clean and soak them 
for a few hours in cold water ; parboil and put them to braise as 
prescribed for Braised Celery. 

The leeks may be served with gravy or they may be arranged 
with Parmesan cheese as follows : 

Arrange the braised leeks on a dish, sprinkle over some 
grated Parmesan cheese, pour over some hazelnut butter, and 
bake in a brisk oven for a few minutes. 

PETITS Pois A I/ANGLAISE GREEN PEAS, ENGLISH 

FASHION. 

Boil 2 quarts of shelled and picked green peas in slightly 
salted boiling water. When done, drain, dish up and lay pats 
of butter here and there over the peas. 

NOTE. In England it is customary to cook a sprig of green 
mint with the peas ; it gives them a most pleasant flavor, which 
the English people believe to be indispensable \vhen eating peas. 



PETITS Pois A LA FRANCAISE GREEN PEAS, FRENCH 

FASHION. 

Put 2 quarts of young shelled peas in a saucepan with 12 
spring onions, I head of lettuce tied with a string and a small 
piece of butter ; moisten with a glass of water ; cover the pan 
and cook over a good fire. When done, take out the lettuce, 
untie it and cut it up ; add it to the peas ; season with salt and 
sugar, and finish with a piece of butter kneaded with a little 
flour. 

NOTE.- -To succeed in cooking peas in this way, it is essential 
to have them voungf and tender. 



244 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

PETITS Pois A LA PAYSANNE GREEN PEAS, PEASANT STYLE. 

Cook the peas as indicated for French Style, adding 3 ounces 
of salt pork cut into small strips and parboiled for 5 minutes. 

PETITS Pois AU JAMBON- -GREEN PEAS WITH HAM. 
Cook as Peas, Peasant Style, using ham instead of salt pork. 

PETITS Pois AUX LAITUES GREEN PEAS WITH LETTUCE. 

Prepare as explained for Green Peas, French Fashion, leav- 
ing out the spring onions. 

PETITS Pois AU BEURRE GREEN PEAS WITH BUTTER. 

Cook the peas as for English fashion, drain and toss them 
with a piece of butter, season with salt and sugar. 

CROQUETTES DE Pois CASSES CROQUETTES OF SPLIT PEAS. 

Soak l / 2 pound of split green peas for 3 or 4 hours. Put them 
into a saucepan with enough water to cover. When boiling, 
take off the scum and add *4 pound of salt pork, I onion stuck 
with I clove, and I small carrot. Cover the pan, put in the 
oven and cook for 3 hours. Next remove the pork, the onion 
and carrot ; rub the peas through a fine sieve, put back into a 
clean saucepan, season with salt and a pinch of sugar, add 2 
ounces of butter and 4 egg yolks, put aside to cool, shape into 
croquettes, dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry. 

POMMES DE TERRE A LA DUCHESSE--DUCHESS POTATOES. 

Boil 4 pounds of mealy potatoes in salted water, drain, allow 
to dry, and mash them fine. Add 3 ounces of butter and 4 egg 
yolks, season with salt and nutmeg. 

Besprinkle the table with flour, give the desired shapes to the 
potatoes, either lozenges, round, oval or like a small dinner 
roll; put them on a buttered baking sheet, brush them over with 
beaten eggs, and bake in the oven. 

Duchess potatoes may also be dressed on a buttered baking 
sheet with the pastry bag, to which a channeled tube is attached. 



The Post-Gradnate Cookery Book. 245 

POMMES CROQUETTES POTATO CROQUETTES. 



Follow directions as given for "Duchess potatoes." 
Sprinkle some flour on the table, give the desired shape to 

the croquettes, either pears, balls or corks, dip them in beaten 

egg, roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. 

POMMES DE TERRE FONDANTES MELTING POTATOES. 

Boil some good-sized potatoes in salted water ; when done, 
drain and put in the oven for a few minutes, to evaporate their 
humidity; then take the potatoes and press each firmly in a 
towel to give it the shape of a ball ; place them in a sautepan, 
liberally buttered ; pour over some consomme, on each potato 
lay a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and set to bake in a 
moderate oven from fifteen to twenty minutes ; by that time 
the potatoes should have absorbed all the liquid. Upon eating, 
the potatoes will melt in the mouth therefore the name. 

POMMES DE TERRE A LA PRINCESSE POTATOES, PRINCESS 

FASHION. 

Prepare the potatoes as explained for "Melting Potatoes," 
but, instead of moistening them with consomme, use half milk 
and half cream (both boiled previously). Allow the potatoes 
to absorb all the liquid, then add a little more cream, besprinkle 
with grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter and bake to a 
nice golden hue. 

POMMES DE TERRE ANNA POTATOES ANNA. 

Select one dozen long-shaped potatoes, trim them all to the 
same round appearance, slice very fine, wash, drain, dry in a 
cloth and season with salt and pepper. Butter a pan liberally 
with clarified butter, and range the potatoes slice by slice in 
the pan ; make 5 or 6 layers of potatoes, and then pour over 3 
ounces of melted butter ; cover the panj put on the range for 
a few minutes, then put in the oven to let cook for twenty 
minutes ; next pour off the butter and turn the potatoes by 
sliding them first on the cover and from there back to the pan,; 
cook for 15 minutes longer and serve. The outside should 



246 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

be crisp and of a golden color, while the inside should be soft 
and mellow. 

A special pan should be used for the preparation of these 
potatoes, but, if this be not at hand, an ordinary omelette pan 
will answer the purpose. 

NOTE. As mentioned previously, these potatoes were orig- 
inated at the "Cafe Ano-lais" in Paris. 



POMMES DE TERRE MIREILLE MIREILLE POTATOES. 

Proceed as for "Potatoes Anna," making alternate layers of 
potatoes and sliced artichoke bottoms, finish to cook and 
serve as "Potatoes Anna." 

NOTE. It is best to use fresh artichokes for the above dish, 
but if none can be obtained, the canned artichoke bottoms will 
answer the purpose. 

POMMES HACHEES AUX TRUFFES- -HASHED POTATOES WITH 

TRUFFLES. 

Chop 6 or 8 cooked and peeled potatoes, heat 2 ounces of 
butter in an omelette pan, add the potatoes, season with salt 
and a pinch of pepper ; then add I or 2 chopped truffles ; toss 
well the potatoes ; then bring them towards the outer part of 
the pan, just opposite to the handle, and allow them to brown; 
then turn on a dish. 

POMMES DE TERRE A L'!MPERIALE- -POTATOES, IMPERIAL 

STYLE. 

Pick out some nice, oblong, good-sized potatoes, all of the 
same shape and size ; cut off one end ; stand them on a roasting 
pan and put to bake in the oven. 

When done cut off the top of each potato ; scoop out the in- 
terior and mash it ; add a good piece of butter and some cream ; 
season with salt and a little grated nutmeg; add some chopped 
truffles, and for about 8 potatoes add the whipped whites of 2 
eggs ; fill the potatoes and set the cover on top of each potato. 
Bake in a medium oven and serve on a napkin. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 247 

POMMES JULIENNE- -JULIENNE POTATOES. 

Shred some peeled potatoes very fine, ]/% of an inch thick,, 
leaving them from 2 to 3 inches in length ; wash well ; drain 
and dry on a cloth and fry in very hot fat until crisp. 



POMMES SOUFFLEES SOUFFLEED POTATOES. 

To obtain a good result, choose some good-sized mealy 
potatoes ; have them peeled and cut them lengthwise in slices 
Y& of an inch in thickness. \Yash, drain and dry them, and 
fry in medium hot fat, until they commence to swim on the 
surface ; remove them from the fat into a frying basket ; allow 
the fat to get very hot, and when ready to serve plunge in the 
potatoes, all at once, moving them gently with the skimmer 
until nicely browned; drain, besprinkle with salt and serve on a 
napkin. 

NID DE POMMES DE TERRE SOUFFLEES NEST OF SOUFFLEED 

POTATOES. 

To make a nest, shred some potatoes, as indicated for 
"Julienne Potatoes" ; procure a double nest basket, as can be 
had now from dealers in cooking utensils, and line the outer 
basket with the potatoes, so that it is covered all over ; put the 
inner basket right over and fasten it firmly, then fry to a nice 
color ; unmould and fill with souffleed potatoes. 

XOTE.- -These nests are also used to serve entrees in. If a 
sauce is to be poured over the entree line the nest with thin 
pancakes. 

POMMES GAUFFRETTE- -\YAFFLE POTATOES. 

Have ready some good-sized peeled potatoes ; slice them over 
a channeled vegetable sheer, turning the potato for each slice 
in the opposite direction, so that the channels will run on one 
side from east to west and on the opposite side from south to 
north ; if the slices are not too thick small perforations will 
come through; wash, drain and dry and fry in hot fat; be- 
sprinkle with salt and serve on a napkin. 



248 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. ' 

CROQUETTES DE Riz POUR GARNITURE RICE CROQUETTES 

FOR GARNISHING. 

Heat 3 ounces of butter in a saucepan, put in 4 ounces of 
rice, stir for a few minutes, moisten with I quart of fat chicken 
broth, cover the pan and cook in the oven for 30 minutes. Sea- 
son to taste with salt, pepper and a pinch of nutmeg, add I gill 
of veloute or cream sauce, and bind with 4 egg yolks. 

When cold form some little cork shaped or round croquettes, 
dip in beaten eggs and fresh grated bread crumbs, and fry in 
hot lard or clarified butter. 

NOTE. Grated Parmesan cheese may be added to the rice if 
desired. 

SALSIFIS A LA CREMEOU A LA POULETTE OYSTER PLANT WITH 

CREAM OR POULETTE SAUCE. 

Scrape the oyster plant well and put it into acidulated 
water until all is scraped, then tie them into bundles of 8 or 
more. 

Dilute 2 ounces of flour with 2 quarts of water ; add the 
juice of a lemon, sufficient salt and 4 ounces of chopped beef 
suet ; cook for 30 minutes, then add the oyster plant and let 
simmer slowly until done; then drain, put on a dish, pour over 
cream or poulette sauce. 

SALSIFIS FRITS FRIED OYSTER PLANT. 

Cook the oyster plant as explained above ; dip it in frying bat- 
ter and fry in hot lard ; serve on a napkin. 

SPAGHETTI A LA BOIELDIEU- -SPAGHETTI, BOIELDIEU STYLE. 

Boil I pound of spaghetti in salted water ; when cooked, drain 
and put back in the saucepan and add 4 ounces of butter and 
the same quantity of grated Parmesan cheese (in small parts 
at a time). 

When serving, make a hollow in the center and fill with the 
following garnishing : 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 249 

% 

Reduce I pint of tomato sauce to good consistency, add 2 
tablespoonfuls of beef extract and 12 heads of mushrooms cut 
in slices. Remove the skin of a veal kidney, slice very fine, 
saute in butter over a brisk fire, drain and add to the sauce with 
2 ounces of butter. Season well with salt and paprika. 

SPAGHETTI A LA ROYALE SPAGHETTI, ROYAL FASHION. 

Cook the spaghetti and finish them with butter and grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

Garnish the center with fresh mushrooms and truffles sliced, 
sauted in butter and stewed in Madeira sauce. 

TOMATES FARCIES A LA MADRAS STUFFED TOMATOES, 

MADRAS FASHION. 

Choose some ripe but firm tomatoes, make a circular in- 
cision on the side of the stem the size of a 25~cent piece. Scoop 
out the interior of the tomato and fill with the following stuf- 
fing : 

Chop fine and fry lightly in butter I onion, add 3 ounces 
of chopped cooked ham and i quart of boiled rice, season with 
salt and a heaping teaspoonful of curry powder ; when the 
tomatoes are filled strew bread crumbs over the stuffing ; place 
a small lump of butter on each and bake in a moderate oven 
for 15 to 20 minutes. 

TOMATES FARCIES A LA D'UXELLE STUFFED TOMATOES, 

D'UXELLE STYLE. 

Prepare the tomatoes as for ''Madras fashion," fill with 
d'Uxelle stuffing. 

TOMATES A LA PROVENCALE- -TOMATOES, PROVENCAL 

FASHION. 

Cut some ripe tomatoes horizontally in halves and squeeze 
lightly to free from seeds ; season with salt and pepper ; peel and 
crush 3 cloves of garlic ; chop fine with a small handful of 
parsley and mix with 2 handfuls of bread crumbs ; strew this 



250 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

mixture over the tomatoes ; place them on an oiled pan ; put 5 
or 6 drops of olive oil on each half tomato and bake in a brisk 
oven from 10 to 12 minutes. 



TOMATES AU GRATIN A L'INDIENNE- -BAKED TOMATOES, 

INDIAN FASHION. 

Scald i dozen ripe tomatoes, peel and free them from seeds 
and cut then in quarters. Put in a pan with i ounce of but- 
ter, season with salt and a teaspoonful of curry powder and 
allow to stew over a mild fire until most of the liquid has 
evaporated. 

Parboil 3 ounces of rice in salted water for 10 minutes, and 
then drain. Arrange alternate layers of rice and tomatoes in a 
buttered baking dish (tomatoes to be put in first and last), be- 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and melted butter and bake in the 
oven for about 20 minutes. 

TOPINAMBOUR A LA CREME GIRASOLE (JERUSALEM ARTI- 
CHOKES) IN CREAM. 

Webster says that Jerusalem is a mere corruption of the 
Italian Girasole, i.e., Sunflower, or Turnsole. 

As a matter of fact the Girasole is no artichoke at all, it is a 
tuber and bears no other resemblance except in flavor. 

Peel and wash the Girasoles : boil them in lightly salted 
water ; when done drain and add to cream sauce. 

PUREE DE TOPINAMBOUR- -PUREE OF GIRASOLES. 
Prepare as indicated for "Puree of Cauliflower." 



SALADS. 

SALADES SALADS. 

There are in existence several treatises on salads, and as a 
matter of fact it may be stated that of late there has been a 
constant demand "for something new" in this line. 

Appended is given a score of elaborate specimens, the major- 
ity of which are entirely new, and published for the first time. 

SALADE A L'EGYPTIENNE- -EGYPTIAN SALAD. 

Take some cold boiled corn on the cob, split the grain length- 
wise and, with the back of a table knife, press out the interior ; 
mix this with an equal quantity of cold boiled rice, add a little 
chopped sweet red pepper, mix with mayonnaise dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves, decorating with chopped eggs and boneless 
anchovies. 

SALADE A LA LOUISIANNE LOUISIANA SALAD. 

Small ripe tomatoes peeled and quartered, cooked okra, sliced 
potatoes ; seasoned with French dressing ; some chopped green 
peppers and a chopped egg. 

SALADE ECOSSAISE SCOTCH SALAD. 

Cut in very fine slices one part each of raw smoked salmon, 
cooked potatoes and truffles, add the same amount of crisp let- 
tuce leaves, season with French dressing and a dash of Worces- 
tershire sauce. Sprinkle over some chopped hard-boiled eggs. 

SALADE A LA MEXICAINE MEXICAN SALAD. 

Shred (not too fine) equal parts of celery, ham, chicken, pota- 
toes and sweet peppers, dress with mayonnaise sauce and season 
highly. 

Put a few crisp leaves of lettuce in some shells, lay some of the 
salad on top and garnish with raw tomatoes and chopped hard- 
boiled eggs. 



252 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

SALADE A LA MILIKEN MILIKEN SALAD. - 

Cut into very small dice 8 red sweet peppers and 8 peeled 
truffles, add to this double the amount of cold boiled rice, season 
with pepper and salt, and a dash of tarragon vinegar, and dress 
with mayonnaise sauce. Serve on leaves of lettuce. 

SALADE A LA OXFORD OXFORD SALAD. 

Cut in shreds, one part each of truffles, cooked breast of 
chicken, the white of hard-boiled eggs, celery and gherkins ; 
rub the yolk of the eggs through a fine sieve, add some English 
mustard and dilute with oil and vinegar ; dress the salad and 
serve on lettuce leaves ; garnish with sliced tomatoes. 

T 



SALADE A LA RUSSE RUSSIAN SALAD. 

Russian salad, which may be served either in jelly or in a 
salad bowl, is really nothing more nor less than an elaborate 
vegetable salad to which different sorts of meats and fish are 
added. 

Cut in small dice equal parts of cooked carrots, turnips, beets, 
potatoes, string beans and asparagus tips (if in season) ; add 
some green peas and gherkins, boneless anchovies and some 
breast of chicken, turkey or partridge (all of these ingredients 
cut as small as the vegetables). Season with salt, red pepper, 
oil and vinegar. If served in a salad bow r l, decorate with beets, 
capers, gherkins, boneless anchovies, hard-boiled eggs and 
caviar. 

Instead of oil and vinegar the salad may be dressed with 
mayonnaise sauce, 

If served in jelly the salad may be dished up in mould which 
is especially made for Russian salad. 

Coat the mould with clear aspic jelly, decorate with the vege- 
tables and set aside in a cool place ; season the salad with salt, 
pepper and mayonnaise dressing, and add some partly melted 
jelly; put the salad into the jelly-coated mould and place in the 
ice box for 3 hours ; when set, turn the salad into a dish. 

NOTE. For American plan or table d'hote, the salad may also 
be served on crisp lettuce leaves. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 253 



TOMATES AUX CREVETTES A LA RAVIGOTE- -TOMATOES WITH 

SHRIMPS, RAVIGOTE SAUCE. 

Plunge some large ripe tomatoes into a basin of boiling water 
(long enough to remove the skin), let get cold ; then in each 
make an incision I inch in diameter where the stem was at- 
tached, and with a round vegetable scoop hollow out and 
squeeze lightly to free from all seeds ; season with salt, and lay 
on a towel or sieve with the aperture downward. 

Five minutes before serving, fill the tomatoes with shrimp 
salad seasoned with ravigote sauce, and serve on a napkin. 

TOMATES A LA Du BARRY TOMATOES, Du BARRY STYLE. 

Choose 12 large ripe tomatoes, scald and peel them, cut a 
small slice off the top of each, scoop out with the vegetable 
spoon, season with salt and lay upside down on a wire sieve. 
When ready to serve, fill with cold cooked cauliflower, cover 
with mayonnaise sauce and serve on folded napkin. 

TOMATES A LA RUSSE TOMATOES, RUSSIAN FASHION. 

Peel some small round tomatoes (all of the same size), make 
an incision on the side of the stem of each and remove the inside 
with a vegetable scoop, season with salt and turn them upside 
down in a hair sieve, so as to free them from all humidity ; fill 
the cavity with Russian salad (receipt given above), set in a 
cold place, and serve on a folded napkin. 

SALADE A LA NASH- -VEGETABLE SALAD, NASH STYLE. 

Cooked potatoes, young carrots, truffles and cauliflower. The 
three first cut in slices, marinated with some dry white wine, 
well seasoned with salt and freshly ground white pepper or 
mignonette, and dressed with mayonnaise, with a dash of tar- 
ragon vinegar and a little chopped tarragon. 

SALADE A LA LORETTE LORETTE SALAD. 

Cut into small squares equal parts of celery and fresh pine- 
apples ; dress with mayonnaise, and serve on lettuce leaves. 



254 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

SALADE A LA BRUNSWICK- -BRUNSWICK SALAD. 

Shredded celery and truffles dressed with mayonnaise, and 
served on artichoke bottoms. 

SALADE DEMIDOFF--DEMIDOFF SALAD. 

One part each of sliced potatoes, truffles and cooked car- 
rots, each of them seasoned and macerated in white wine. This 
salad may either be dressed with French dressing or mayon- 
naise sauce. 

SALADE DEMIDEUIL ou ROMANOFF--DEMIDEUIL OR 

ROMANOFF SALAD. 
Same as Demidoff Salad minus the carrots. 

SALADE SCANDINAVIENNE SCANDINAVIAN SALAD. 

Cut into shreds I inch long one part each of potatoes, beets, 
gherkins, hard-boiled eggs and pickled herrings ; season with 
salt, pepper, vinegar and whipped cream ; serve in a bowl gar- 
nished with lettuce leaves, or if for American plan, serve on 
lettuce leaves. 

NOTE.- -This salad may be served as a hors d'oeuvres. 

SALADE A LA CAROLINE CAROLINA SALAD. 

Scald and peel some nice ripe tomatoes, make an incision on 
the side of the stem and scoop out the interior of the tomato. 

Chop fine some green peppers, add to them some cold boiled 
rice ; season with salt and pepper, and dress with mayonnaise 
sauce ; fill up the tomatoes and set them in a cold place until 
ready to serve. 

SALADE DE PETONCLE ET CELERI- -S GALLOP AND CELERY 

SALAD. 

Cook the scallops in their own gravy and allow them to get 
cold ; then cut them in halves, add the same amount of celery, 
cut of the same shape ; season highly, and dress with mayon- 
naise sauce. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 255 

SALADE A LA CAROLA CAROLA SALAD. 

Sliced potatoes, artichokes and pickled lamb tongues seasoned 
very highly and dressed with vinaigrette sauce. 

SALADE A LA BEAULIEU- -BEAULIEU SALAD. 

Slice some sour apples into pieces the size of a nickel, add the 
same amount of peeled walnuts and crisp celery ; dress with 
mayonnaise sauce. 

SALADE A LA FORMOSA FORMOSA SALAD. 

Same as described above, with the addition of sliced lean 
cooked ham and sweet red peppers. 



ENTREMETS DE DOUCEUR 
ET DESSERTS SWEET 

DISHES AND DESSERTS. 

Originally it was not our intention to publish any receipts for 

sweet dishes in this treatise ; but, while appearing serially in 

'The Caterer/' there were so many requests for sweet fancy 

dishes of easy preparation, that we decided to append receipts 

for a few of such dishes principally those which have not 

before been published. 

POMMES A LA PARISIEXXE APPLES, PARISIAN STYLE. 

Cut some medium-sized apples in halves, score out the pit, 
peel and cook them in light syrup and drain ; place each half 
apple on a piece of sponge cake previously saturated with 
kirschwasser and covered with apricot marmalade ; cover the 
apple with Italian meringue; decorate with almonds and brown 
in the oven. 



256 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

POMMES A LA ClTATELAINE APPLES, CHATELAINE STYLE. 

Score out some sour apples, peel and cook them in light 
syrup, drain and put them to cool ; with the apple peelings pre- 
pare some jelly, strain and put away to get cold; fill the hollow 
of the apples with the jelly; set them on a dish, pour over some 
English cream sauce, flavored with curacao, and strew over it 
sojne pulverized macaroons. 



POIRES A LA SOLFERINO- -PEARS, SOLFERINO STYLE. 

Peel and cut in halves 6 cooking pears and remove the cores 
with a round vegetable scoop. 

Set the pears in a copper saucepan and cook with port wine 
and syrup flavored with vanilla. When done pour into a bowl 
and set on ice to become cold. 

Have ready some rice cooked as follows : Pick a half pound 
of rice, wash it and parboil it in boiling water for 5 minutes, 
drain and put in a saucepan, moisten with i pint of milk and 2 
gills of cream, add 2 ounces of butter, a small piece of lemon 
peel and some vanilla to flavor and let cook without stirring. 
When done and somewhat cooled incorporate 4 egg yolks and 
4 ounces of powdered sugar. 

When the rice is thoroughly cold, dress it on a dish and 
range the pears (which should be drained on a hair sieve) nicely 
,on top. 

If the syrup should be too thin, set it on the fire to reduce. 

Decorate the rice and pears with whipped cream to which 
some maraschino has been added ; pour a little of the syrup 
on the dish and serve the remainder separate with the pears. 

PECHES A L'EAU DE VIE, A LA NINETTE BRANDY PEACHES, 

NINETTE STYLE. 

Remove the kernels from brandy peaches without breaking 
the latter, put in their stead kernels made of almond paste mixed 
with melted chocolate. 

Soak some large macaroons with curacao, place on each 
macaroon a brandy peach pour over an English cream sauce 
and decorate peaches with candied cherries and angelica. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 257 

SAUCE ANGLAISE ENGLISH CREAM SAUCE. 

Beat together 4 egg yolks, 4 ounces of powdered sugar and 
j/2 ounce of cornstarch, add a pint of boiling milk flavored with 
vanilla, and put on the fire to thicken without permitting it to 
boil. Strain the sauce, and when cold mix with it 2 table- 
spoonfuls of whipped cream. 

PECHES A LA CARDINAL PEACHES, CARDINAL STYLE. 

Plunge some fresh peaches in boiling water just long enough 
to remove their skins ; cut them in halves, remove the pit and 
cook the peaches in a light syrup for a few minutes only; drain 
and put them on a dish, a crystal one preferred. 

Prepare sauce by diluting some strawberry jam with the 
syrup in which the peaches were cooked ; strain and put on 
ice ; when very cold pour it over the peaches and strew over 
some shredded almonds, previously peeled. 

PECHES A LA SULTANE PEACHES, SULTAN'S FASHION. 

Cook the peaches as in previous receipt, and serve with 
vanilla ice cream in the center ; decorate with candied fruit. 

NOTE. Different sorts of fruit may be served in this man- 
ner. 

PRAISES A LA CREOLE SRAWBERRIES, CREOLE STYLE. 

Have ready some rice cooked in milk with vanilla flavor, 
place it in a border mould and when cold unmould on a dish ; 
have ready some stewed sliced pineapple, lay the slices sym- 
metrically on the rice border and fill the center with straw- 
berries macerated in a little syrup of 25 degrees, and flavored 
with kirschwasser ; decorate with varicolored candied fruits. 

CROUTE DE CERISES AU MARASQUIN- -CRUSTS OF CHERRIES 

WITH MARASCHINO. 

Cut from a sandwich loaf slices of bread *4 of an inch thick, 
cut these out with a round pastry cutter 2 inches in diameter. 



258 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

sprinkle over some powdered sugar, arrange on a baking sheet, 
and put in the oven to brown. 

Stone 2 pounds of cherries and set to stew in a syrup made 
with 2 gills of water and 8 ounces of sugar. Perfume with a 
little stick of cinnamon. "When cooked, add a gill of mara- 
schino, range the crusts in a circle on a dish and pour over the 
cherries. 

BEIGNETS DE CERISES, GLACES GLAZED CHERRY FRITTERS. 

Stone the required quantity of cherries and stick them on 
small wooden skewers (8 to 10 pieces on each) ; dip each 
skewer in frying batter and fry in very hot lard to a rich golden 
hue. 

Remove the skewers, besprinkle the fritters with powdered 
vanilla sugar and glaze in a brisk oven, or under the sala- 
mander, and serve on a napkin. 

NoTE.--\Yhen cherries are out of season, preserved cherries 
may be used. \Yash them in warm water and put them to 
macerate in kirschwasser for 30 minutes. 

TlMBALE DE MARRONS A LA HENRIOT CHESTNUT TlMBAL, 

HENRIOT STYLE. 

Peel and cook in milk some chestnuts, and rub them through 
a fine sieve ; dilute 8 ounces of the puree with enough syrup 
at 24 degrees to obtain a smooth paste. 

Place 8 ounces of sweet butter in a bowl and work it with 
a w r ooden spoon until it becomes quite creamy ; flavor with 
vanilla and maraschino, and mix with the chestnut puree ; fill 
up a timbal mould with this preparation, and set in a cool place 
until very firm. 

When ready to serve, plunge the mould in hot water ; dish 
up and pour over it English cream sauce. 

CHARLOTTE A LA NESSELRODE CHARLOTTE, NESSELRODE 

FASHION. 

Prepare a plain meringue paste with 12 whites of eggs and I 
pound of powdered sugar ; put the paste into a pastry bag with 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 259 

a ^2-inch tube and dress them on bands of paper, giving the 
meringues the shape of "lady fingers" (about 4 inches long and 
^4-inch wide), range the paper bands on a wet board, dust 
over the meringues with powdered sugar and cook them in a 
very slack oven. Let them dry well before using. 

Line the bottom and the sides of a charlotte mould with 
paper, cut some of the meringues into triangles, place these on 
the bottom of the mould and line the mould all around with 
the meringues (which should be well trimmed, the same as for 
a charlotte russe). When this is done fill up the center with 
the following preparation : 

Parboil I pound of chestnuts, peel them and put to cook in 
a saucepan with milk flavored with vanilla. When the chest- 
nuts are done (which takes about 2 hours), drain them, rub 
through a fine sieve and add 2 gills of syrup at 25 degrees, so 
as to form a smooth paste. 

Put into a bowl 4 egg yolks and 4 ounces of sugar, mix well 
and dilute with I pint of boiling water. Put this mixture back 
into the saucepan, set it on the fire, whip continuously and al- 
low to thicken, but not to boil, add 2 ounces of leaf gelatine 
(previously steeped in cold water), and when it is dissolved 
strain the mixture into a clean bowl, adding it by degrees to the 
puree of chestnuts. Lastly, add I quart of whipped cream and 
i ounce each of citron and orange peel cut in very small squares 
and soaked in maraschino for I hour. 

Set the charlotte in a cool place for 2 hours and 30 minutes 
at least, then unmould, decorate with whipped cream and sur- 
round with glaced chestnuts. 



CROQUETTES DE M AKRONS SAUCE SABAYON- -CHESTNUT 
CROQUETTES, SABAYON SAUCE. 

Parboil and peel some chestnuts, cook them in a light syrup, 
with a vanilla stick. When done, pass through a sieve and 
thicken with a few egg yolks (as potato croquettes). When 
cold, shape into convenient forms (as a pear, for instance, with 
an imitation stick of angelica), pass them in the beaten egg 
yolks and bread crumbs, and fry in hot leaf lard. Serve on a 
napkin, with sabayon separate. 



260 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CROQUETTES DE POMMES DE TERRE A LA JACKSON- -POTATO 

CROQUETTES, JACKSON STYLE. 

Bake 20 good-sized potatoes in the oven, cut them in halves, 
remove the inside and press through a fine sieve. 

Weigh 24 ounces of this potato pulp, put it into a pan with 
4 ounces of butter and 4 ounces of powdered sugar, add 2 gills 
of cream, 4 ounces of powdered macaroons, 6 egg yolks, vanilla 
flavoring, and a pinch of salt. Set this mixture on the range 
and stir continuously until it boils it should by then have be- 
come rather firm. Put aside to cool, then shape some cro- 
quettes, dip them in beaten eggs, and bread crumbs fried in 
hot lard, dust over with powdered sugar and serve on a folded 
napkin. 

Give separate some apricot sauce. 

CROQUETTES DE Riz A LA D'EGMONT--RICE CROQUETTES, 

D'EGMONT STYLE. 

Cook the rice in the same manner as for ordinary rice cro- 
quettes. When cooked, add for each l / 2 pound of rice 4 ounces 
of pistachio nuts, previously scalded, peeled and pounded in 
the mortar and 12 bitter almonds and i ounce of citron. The 
rice should show a light green appearance ; if not, add a little 
green coloring. 

Shape the croquettes into the desired forms, dip in beaten 
eggs and fresh bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Serve with brandy sauce separate. 

BEIGNETS A LA POLONAISE POLISH FRITTERS. 

Prepare some light pancakes, spread over them some marme- 
lade mixed with crushed macaroons, roll them up and cut in 
pieces 3 inches long ; dip in frying batter and fry in hot lard. 
Serve with fruit sauce separate. 

BEIGNETS SOUFFLE QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Put into a saucepan I pint of water with 4 ounces of butter, 
a pinch of salt and I ounce of sugar ; when the water boils pour 
into it 8 ounces of sifted flour,,, work vigorously until the paste 



The Post-Graduatc Cookery Book. 261 

detaches from the pan, then remove from the fire ; after 5 
minutes incorporate 10 raw eggs, one by one. 

Heat some lard in a deep pan, and with a tablespoon drop in 
bits of the paste the size of a small egg. Keep the heat in- 
creasing until the fritters have expanded 4 times their original 
size ; drain and roll in vanilla sugar. 

BEIGNETS EN SURPRISE SURPRISE FRITTERS. 

Prepare as explained in previous receipt ; when the fritters are 
done introduce into the fritters by means of a small aperture, 
some kind of a marmalade, roll in sugar and serve on a napkin. 

CREPES A LA WHITTIER PANCAKES, WHITTIER STYLE. 

Cook some light French pancakes and fill them with the 
following preparation : 

Make i tablespoonful of butter creamy, then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of currant jelly and a good pinch of powdered cinna- 
mon ; roll up the pancakes, sprinkle over powdered vanilla sugar 
and glaze them in a brisk oven. 

PUDDING SOUFFLE A LA MORN AY SOUFFLE PUDDING, 

MORN AY STYLE. 

Put 8 ounces of sweet butter into a basin ; work it well with 
a spoon until it becomes foamy ; add 8 ounces of powdered 
sugar, 6 egg yolks (one at a time), and, last, 2 gills of thick 
cream and vanilla flavor. Then beat the 6 egg whites to a stiff 
froth and incorporate them gradually with the mixture. 

Butter a cylindrical shaped mould, dust it with cornstarch 
and fill it with alternate layers of the above preparation and 
sponge cake (cut in squares and saturated with rum). Set the 
mould into the bain-marie and let cook in a slow oven for 40 
minutes. Before unmoulding allow to set for about 10 minutes. 

Pour over the following sauce : 

Sauce. Put into a saucepan equal quantities of apple marma- 
lade and apricot jam, dilute with a little syrup and boil for 10 
or 15 minutes (if too liquid, thicken with a little arrowroot and 
strain) ; finish with whipped cream and flavor with rum or 
kirschwasser. 



262 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

PUDDING MOUSSELINE A LA VANILLE- -VANILLA MUSLIN 

PUDDING. 

Take 6 ounces of powdered sugar, 2 ounces of butter, 10 egg 
yolks and some vanilla flavoring ; put all into a saucepan and 
whip vigorously over a slow fire until they become frothy (as 
cream sauce) ; then take from the fire and incorporate 4 raw 
egg yolks and the whites of 10 eggs whipped to a stiff froth. 

Butter some cylindrical-shaped moulds and fill them three- 
quarters of their height with the above preparation ; set them 
in a pan with boiling water ; cover the pan and finish to cook in 
a slack oven. 

When done, unmould on a dish and pour over some Sabayon 
sauce. 

SAUCE SABAYON- -SABAYON SAUCE. 

Put into a copper pan or basin 4 egg yolks and I whole egg, 
with 4 ounces of powdered sugar and a half wineglassful of 
dry white wine or Madeira; set over a slow fire, whip vigor- 
ously until it becomes frothy and of good consistency ; remove 
from the fire and serve immediately. 

NOTE. Sabayon may be prepared with rum, kirschwasser, 
etc. Liquors may also be replaced by lemon juice. 



PUDDING SOUFFLE A LA SAVOYADE, SAUCE AUX FRUITS 

SAVOY PUDDING, FRUIT SAUCE. 

Add 4 ounces of butter to i pint of boiling milk ; as soon as 
the butter is melted pour in 4 ounces of sifted flour and work 
vigorously; then change the paste into another pan and, after 
10 minutes, add a gill of cream, 10 egg yolks, and 5 ounces of 
Gervais cheese (pressed through a fine sieve), add either lemon 
or vanilla flavoring and the 10 egg whites whipped to a stiff 
froth. 

Butter a pudding mould, pour in the preparation and cook 
in the bain-marie for I hour (in a mild oven), unmould and serve 
with apricot fruit sauce. 

-If no Gervais cheese is on hand, ordinary cream or 
Neufchatel cheese may be used. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 263 

SAUCE APRICOTS AUX FRUITS APRICOT FRUIT SAUCE. 

Dilute i pint of apricot jam with the same quantity of light 
syrup, allow to boil and then strain into another pan. 

Cut in small squares all kinds of preserved fruits on hand- 
such as pears, peaches, pineapples, cherries, angelica, etc.- 
add to the sauce and allow to boil once more. If too liquid, 
thicken with a little cornstarch diluted with water. 

This sauce may be flavored with kirsch or rum. 

PUDDING A LA MARECHALE MARSHAL PUDDING. 

Beat together until quite foamy 8 ounces of butter with 8 
ounces of powdered sugar, add 10 egg yolks and 10 egg whites 
whipped to a stiff froth. 

Previously to creaming butter and sugar, cut into small 
squares 8 ounces of Graham bread, which saturate with 2 gills 
of claret and I gill of rum, add 2 tablets of finely grated choco- 
late, a good pinch of powdered cinnamon and y 2 ounce each 
of currants, citron and orange peel ; the two latter cut in fine 
dice. 

Mix the whole well ; fill some buttered cylindrical shaped 
mould and cook in the bain-marie for 45 minutes. 

Serve with Sabayon sauce. 

PUDDING DE FARINA, SAUCE AUX FRUITS- -FARINA PUDDING, 

FRUIT SAUCE. 

Pour into I quart of boiling milk 10 ounces of farina; cook 
for 25 minutes ; then add a pinch of salt, 2 ounces of sugar and 
2 ounces of butter; mix well; after 10 minutes add 8 raw egg 
yolks and 6 egg whites whipped to a stiff froth. 

Butter a cylindrical mould, fill to three-quarters of its height 
with the pudding preparation, and cook in the bain-marie for 
45 minutes. 

Dish up and pour over fruit sauce. 

NOTE.- -The same formula as the above may be applied to 
all other puddings made with farinaceous ingredients. 

SOUFFLE A LA VANILLE- -VANILLA SOUFFLE. 
Dilute 6 ounces of sugar, 2 ounces of flour and a small pinch 



264 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

of salt with i pint of milk ; add a small stick of vanilla ; set on 
the fire and stir until boiling, being careful to obtain a smooth 
paste ; take it from the fire, remove the vanilla and incorporate 
a small piece of butter, about i ounce ; then add by degrees 3 
raw egg yolks. 

Whip to a firm froth 6 egg whites and incorporate them gent- 
ly to the above preparation. 

Butter a souffle case, besprinkle with powdered sugar, fill 
with the souffle preparation and set it on the hot range for a 
minute or so ; then put to cook in a moderate oven for about 
20 minutes, and serve immediately. 

NOTE. Instead of serving one large case, small individual 
cases can be substituted. 

SOU'FFLE AU CHOCOLAT CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 

Prepare as vanilla souffle, adding 2 tablets of chocolate 
heated in the oven, and increasing the egg whites to 7 instead 
of 6. 

SOUFFLE A I/ORANGE ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

Proceed as for 'Vanilla Souffle," adding the finely grated 
outer rind of an orange and a few drops of red coloring. 

NOTE. Orange souffles may be served in orange shells, i. e. r 
oranges cut in halves and scooped out. Lemon souffles, in 
fact, any flavor may be served as souffle. 

SOUFFLE A LA D'ORLEANS SOUFFLE, D'ORLEANS STYLE. 

Prepare a vanilla souffle, add a good dash of maraschino, 
crush some macaroons, saturate them with kirschwasser and 
add to the souffle ; add also some candied fruit cut up fine and 
macerated in kirschwasser. 

OMELETTE SOUFLEE A LA VANILLE- -VANILLA PUFF 

OMELET. 

Mix in a bowl 3 egg yolks, with 6 tablespoonfuls of powdered 
sugar, adding some vanilla flavoring; when this preparation 
is quite foamy and light, whip 6 egg whites to a stiff froth, and 
gently incorporate them to the yolks. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 265 

Butter an oblong dish, strew over some powdered sugar, 
place the egg mass on top, smooth it over, giving it an oblong 
shape; dredge over some powdered sugar and cook in a hot 
oven from 7 to 10 minutes ; serve immediately. 

NOTE.- -These puff omelets may be flavored with almonds^ 
lemons, chocolate, orange blossom, etc. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLEE A LA STEPHANIE- -PUFF OMELET, 

STEPHANY STYLE. 

Prepare an ordinary vanilla puff omelet with 4 volks and 8 
whites, and mix with it 4 lady fingers, cut in small cubes and 
moistened with a pony of maraschino ; dress the omelet 
with a hollow in the center. When cooked, pour a pony of 
kirsch in the hollow, set fire to it and serve. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLEE A LA NORYEGIENNE ou A LA ALASKA- 
PUFF OMELET, NORWEGIAN OR ALASKA STYLE. 

Cut a piece of sponge cake I inch thick to the shape of the 
dish, place on the cake some ice cream, whatever flavor is pre- 
ferred ; but not water ice. Cover the whole with a vanilla puff 
omelet preparation at least I inch thick, and cook in a brisk 
oven just long enough to cook the eggs; serve immediately. 
The sponge cake may be saturated with liquors, but this is 
optional. 

OMELETTE SOUFFLEE EN SURPRISE SURPRISE PUFF 

OMELET. 

Prepare a piece of sponge cake, as in previous receipt, make 
a hollow in center and fill with preserved fruits mixed with 
apricot jam ; finish as stated in previous receipts. 

XOTE. An infinite variety of puff omelets may be prepared 
by simply changing the flavor and ingredients. 

GAUFFRES A L'ALLEMANDE GERMAN WAFERS. 

Pound 8 ounces of peeled almonds with 4 ounces of sugar 
and 2 egg whites. 



266 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

Have ready some waxed baking sheets, put some of the 
paste on them, the size of a walnut, and spread it with a knife 
to 3 inches in diameter ; strew over some finely chopped 
almonds and bake in a moderate oven ; when done press the 
wafers on a round stick to curve them. 

MACARONS AUX CHOCOLAT- -CHOCOLATE MACAROONS. 

Pound in the mortar 8 ounces of peeled almonds with 4 
ounces of powdered sugar, the same amount of softened choco- 
late and the whites of two eggs added in small parts at the 
time ; shape into small balls and dress on a sheet of paper in 
regular rows. 

Allow them to dry for a few hours, then bake in a moderate 
oven. 

When done, turn over the sheet of paper and moisten the 
back of it with a brush dipped in water ; allow to soak for a 
while, then remove the macaroons. 

BATONS AUX AMANDES VANILLES- -VANILLA ALMOND 

STICKS. 

Pound 8 ounces of peeled almonds with I pound of icing 
sugar and 4 ounces of vanilla sugar, add 5 whites of eggs and 
put the mixture in a cool place to rest for 2 hours. Roll out 
the paste about % inch thick, cut it in bands 2.^/2 inches wide 
and cover with royal vanilla icing ; cut the band into strips */2 
inch wide, place these strips on a baking sheet (previously but- 
tered and besprinkled with flour), and cook in a slack oven. 

NOTE.- -These sticks make an excellent accompaniment to 
ice creams. 

BISCUITS A LA CUILLIER--LADY FINGERS. 

Put into a bowl 6 egg yolks and mix with 6 ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, stirring until quite foamy; flavor with lemon or 
vanilla ; whip the 6 egg whites to a stiff froth ; add them to the 
sugar and yolks, and then incorporate 5 ounces of sifted flour, 
mixing the preparation thoroughly, yet carefully. 

Provide a pastry bag with a round tube J/ inch in diam- 



Tlie Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 267 

eter; fill the bag with the above preparation and force some 
of it out on paper, giving it the shape of a finger about 3 inches 
long; dredge over some powdered sugar, lay it on a baking 
sheet and bake in a medium oven for 12 minutes. 



BISCUITS A LA CUILLER PRALINES AUX AMANDES LADY 

FINGERS WITH ALMONDS. 

Proceed as for lady fingers, but shape them somewhat 
smaller, before dredging them with sugar ; besprinkle them with 
finely chopped almonds, and bake in a medium oven. 

These fingers may be made smaller, and two of them may be 
stuck together by coating the flat side with apricot jam. 

BOUCHEES DE DAMES LADIES* BOUCHEES. 

Put some lady finger preparation in a pastry bag provided 
with a round tube, and place small heaps, the size of small 
macaroons, on paper over a baking sheet. Bake in a x:ool oven, 
and when done detach from the paper, hollow the bottom some- 
what, put in some marmalade and stick two of the cakes to- 
gether; cover with fondant icing. 

GlMBLETTES SuiSSE SWISS GlMBLETS. 

Prepare a dough with 8 ounces of flour, 5 ounces of powdered 
sugar, 6 ounces of butter and the grated outer rind of a lemon. 
Place on ice for 30 minutes, then roll out to l /4 inch in 
thickness ; cut out pieces 2 inches in diameter ; cut out a round 
piece from the center of each, brush over with egg and bake 
in a brisk oven. 



LANGUES DE CHATS CATS' TONGUES. 

Beat well together, until quite foamy, 10 ounces of sugar and 
3 eggs, add vanilla flavor and then incorporate 8 ounces of 
sifted flour. 

Put the preparation in a pastry bag and dress on a waxed 
baking sheet like very small lady fingers and bake in a hot oven. 



268 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CROQUETS CROQUETS. 

Work until quite foamy 8 ounces of powdered sugar and 4 
egg whites, add 6 ounces of sifted flour and 6 ounces of 
shredded almonds ; dress on a waxed baking sheet in the shape 
of a ringer and bake in a hot oven. 

VIENNOIS- -VIENNESE CAKES. 

Beat 8 ounces of butter until creamy, add 10 egg yolks, 6 
ounces of sugar with vanilla flavor and at last 6 ounces of flour, 
2 ounces of cornstarch and the stiff froth of 2 egg whites. 
Place this preparation over a paper on a baking sheet to the 
thickness of ^ inch ; bake in a moderate oven ; when 
done cover half of the cake \vith marmalade, place the other on 
top, pour over some icing and cut in small sticks or lozenges. 

TARTELETTES A LA MARECH ALE- -MARSHAL TARTLETS. 

Line some small tartlet moulds with puff paste trimmings 
rolled out rather thin, garnish the center with plain macaroon 
preparation and bake in a moderate oven. 

TARTELETTES A LA JAMAIQUE- -JAMAICA TARTLETS. 

Line some small tartlet moulds, as in previous receipts, and 
fill with the following preparation : 

Pound in the mortar 4 ounces of peeled almonds, with 5 
whole eggs, add 6 ounces of powdered sugar, 4 ounces of 
melted butter, i ounce of sifted flour and I gill of rhum ; bake 
in a moderate oven and dip the top in rhum icing. 

PUITS D' AMOUR CUPID'S OR LOVE WELLS. 

Roll out some puff paste (to which 6 turns were given) to %. 
inch in thickness, and with a channeled pastry cutter 2 inches 
in diameter cut out as many pieces as wanted. 

Cut out a round piece from the center of each so as to obtain 
rings ; roll out the paste trimmings to the same thickness as be- 
fore, and cut out as many pieces as there are rings ; place them 
on a baking sheet, moisten and lay the rings on top, brush over 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 269- 

with egg and bake in a hot oven. When nearly done besprinkle 
with powdered sugar and finish to bake to a nice color. Fill 
the center with jelly or marmalade. 

GLACE A VANILLE VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Dilute 8 egg yolks with a little water, add 8 ounces of pow- 
dered sugar, beat well and then incorporate by degrees I quart 
of boiling cream or milk, or I pint of each, add a half vanilla 
bean split open, set on the fire, stirring continuously until the 
egg yolks are cooked, but do not allow to boil. Strain at once 
and put to freeze immediately. 

When freezing ices, it is essential to work them well with 
the spatula so as to make them as smooth as butter. 

GLACE AUX PRAISES A LA CREME STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Mix i pint of fresh strawberry pulp with I pint of cream and 
i pound of powdered sugar, add vanilla flavor and the juice of 
a half lemon. Strain through a hair sieve and put to freeze. 

GLACE AUX PRAISES A I/EAU STRAWBERRY WATER ICE. 

To i pint of fresh strawberry pulp add i pint of syrup at 35 
degrees, and the juice of i lemon. Set to freeze. 

GLACE A LA TOMATE TOMATO WATER ICE. 

Wash 2 pounds of sound ripe tomatoes, cut them in quarters, 
put them in a saucepan and stew them for 30 minutes over a 
slow fire, then rub through a fine hair sieve and set aside to cool. 

When cold add enough syrup to bring the preparation to 20 
degrees, add the juice of i lemon and set to freeze as other 
water ices. 

SORBET CARDINAL CARDINAL SHERBET. 

Put into a freezer i quart of raspberry pulp, I pint of grated 
pineapple, i quart of syrup at 30 degrees, and the juice of 4 
lemons and 2 oranges ; set to freeze, and when half frozen add 4 
whites of eggs made into Italian meringue and 2 gills of mara- 
schino. Finish freezing and serve in glasses. 



270 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

SORBET AU CHAMPAGNE CHAMPAGNE SHERBET. 

Press the juice of 5 lemons and 3 oranges into a bowl, add I 
quart of syrup at 20 degrees, and dilute with champagne until 
it reaches 15 degrees; put to freeze and 10 minutes before 
serving add Italian meringue made with 4 egg whites. 



SORBET A LA CALIFORNIENNE CALIFORNIA SHERBET. 

The juice of 4 lemons and 6 oranges, I quart of syrup at 20 
degrees; dilute with California claret to 15 degrees, proceed as 
before, and finish with Italian meringue made with 4 egg 
whites. 

GRANIT AUX PRAISES STRAWBERRY GRANIT. 

The granits are prepared as are the sherbets, minus the 
Italian meringue. They are, as a rule, preferred by gentlemen, 
being not quite as sweet. Following is an initial receipt, after 
which any amount of varieties may be prepared : 

Rub some fresh strawberries through a sieve ; enough to ob- 
tain i quart of pulp, add i quart of syrup at 20 degrees and 
dilute with champagne or white wine to 15 degrees; freeze and 
serve as sherbet. 



PLOMBIERE DE FRAMBOISE- -RASPBERRY PLOMBIERE. 

To 3 pints of fresh raspberry pulp add 8 ounces of sugar and 
2 gills of water, so that it will weigh 24 degrees ; freeze, and 
when half frozen add i pint of whipped cream ; filll up a mould, 
cover tightly and pack in ice and salt for i hour, then unmould 
and garnish with small cakes. 

NOTE.- -The same as above may be prepared with other fresh 
fruits. 

PLOMBIERE A L J AN AN AS- -PINEAPPLE PLOMBIERE. 

Peel and cut a medium-sized pineapple in small squares, pour 
over i pint of boiling syrup at 30 degrees, cover and allow to 
get cold, then dilute with water to 24 degrees, and some lemon 
juice to taste, freeze and finish with i pint of whipped cream, as 
stated above. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 271 

GLACE PAN-AMERICAIN- -PAN- AMERICAN ICE CREAM. 

Put into a saucepan 16 yolks of eggs with i pound of sugar ; 
dilute with I quart of cream and I quart of milk ; add I vanilla 
bean, slit open ; set on fire and heat to the boiling point (stir- 
ring continuously), and then set on ice and whip vigorously un- 
til cold. 

Cut into small dice 4 ounces of candied pineapple, and 2 
ounces each of angelica and citron, and steep in a half gill of 
kirschwasser for 2 or 3 hours. Set the cream to freeze ; when 
half frozen, add the fruit, I quart of whipped cream and 8 ounces 
of crushed macaroons saturated with rum, and finish to freeze. 

Line a melon-shaped mould with strawberry ice cream about 
*/2 inch thick ; fill the mould with the above ice cream, put a 
paper over, cover tightly, and lay in crushed ice and salt for 
an hour or so until needed. 

MOUSSE AU THE A LA CHINOISE--MOUSSE OF TEA, CHINESE 

STYLE. 

Pour i pint of boiling water over i ounce of black tea, allow 
to infuse in the bain-marie for 20 minutes, and then drain. By 
this method you will have obtained about y 2 pint of tea; add to 
it 8 ounces of cut sugar, or enough to make a syrup of 35 de- 
grees. 

Put into a copper basin 5 egg yolks and a small vanilla stick, 
add slowly the syrup, whip in the bain-marie for 5 minutes, then 
place the basin on ice and continue whipping until cold. Add I 
pint of whipped cream and 4 ounces of candied or preserved 
pineapple, previously soaked in maraschino. 

Line a charlotte mould with paper, pour in the mousse mix- 
ture, put a piece of paper over and cover hermetically. Place 
in crushed and salted ice for at least 2 hours ; when ready to 
serve, plunge into cold water, unmould on a folded napkin, re- 
move paper and serve with small cakes (separate). 

SAB A YON GLACE- -FROZEN SAB A YON. 

Place in a saucepan i whole egg, 8 yolks, 6 ounces of sugar, 
2 gills of champagne and y 2 gill of good brandy ; set on a 
slow fire and whip vigorously until of the consistency of 



272 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

whipped cream, then take off the fire and set on ice ; keep 
whipping until cold, add two gills of whipped cream, pour into 
a melon-shaped ice cream mould, close hermetically and lay in 
crushed and salted ice for 2 hours. When ready to serve, 
plunge into lukewarm water and unmould on a folded napkin. 

MOUSSE DE PRAISES A L'AMERICAINE STRAWBERRY MOUSSE, 

AMERICAN FASHION. 

Rub through a hair sieve enough raw strawberries to make 
i quart, add the juice of a y 2 lemon and 8 ounces of icing sugar; 
beat well and then add i quart of whipped cream. 

Fill a dome-shaped mould with this preparation, cover and 
plaster up the crevices with butter or paste. Pack in ice and 
salt for about 2 hours. 

When ready to serve, turn out on a dish, garnish with fresh 
strawberries and decorate with whipped cream. 

PUDDING GLACE A LA PORTO Rico- -FROZEN PORTO Rico 

PUDDING. 

Cut 6 ounces of preserved figs in small pieces and macerate 
them in rhum for i hour. 

Meantime prepare a cream with 10 egg yolks, i quart of 
cream and 8 ounces of sugar ; set this on the fire and whip vig- 
orously until it thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Strain 
and when cold put to freeze ; when half frozen, add a half pint 
of whipped cream and the figs. 

Line a mould with raspberry water ice and fill with the above 
preparation ; cover the mould tightly and pack in ice and salt 
for i hour and 30 minutes. 

PUDDING GLACE A LA PALERMITAINE- -FROZEN PUDDING, 

PALERMO STYLE. 

Prepare an Italian meringue with 5 egg whites, add a pony 
of maraschino and i pint of whipped cream; fill up a mould, 
cover hermetically and pack in ice and salt for i hour, after 
which time remove. Then take off the cover and remove the 
inside of the pudding, which will be rather soft. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 273 

Fill the hollow with various preserved fruits ; pack again in 
ice for ^4 of an hour, then unmould and garnish with small 
cakes. 



AUXILIARY RKCEIPTS. 

GELEE DE VIANDE ASPIC OR MEAT JELLY. 

In preparing meat jelly, it is essential to use such meats as 
contain a good deal of gelatinous matter. 

Put into a stock boiler, veal knuckles, soaked pig's skin, 
chicken giblets and calf's feet, moisten with good broth, gar- 
nish with carrots, onions, leeks, celery, parsley roots, cloves 
and a little thyme and bay leaves ; let simmer for 4 hours, skim- 
ming and clearing the broth from the fat and impurities which 
may rise. 

Put a gill of the broth on ice to try its firmness before clari- 
fying; then add the necessary quantity of soaked gelatine (clear 
leaf gelatine is the best). 

Clarify with a small quantity of lean chopped beef, mixed 
with a few egg whites. 

The jelly may be flavored with Madeira or dry white wine. 
A little tarragon and chervil added 2 minutes before the jelly 
is strained is liked by many ; this, however, is discretionary. 
Season to taste, and then strain the jelly through a close nap- 
kin, or, better still, a felt jelly bag, and set in a bowl on ice. 

Jelly should be light, clear and amber-like in color. 

GELEE DE VOLAILLE CHICKEN JELLY. 

Follow same directions as for "Meat Jelly," using but 
chicken. 

GELEE DE GIBIER GAME JELLY. 

Prepared as "Meat Jelly," using carcasses and trimmings of 
game. 



274 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

FARCE DE VOLAILLE A LA CREME CHICKEN CREAM FORCE- 
MEAT. 

There are several methods of preparing chicken forcemeat, 
the most popular is the one where panada is used ; there are 
again two sorts of panadas, the difference, however, is very 
small. 

Pound in the mortar i pound of chicken or turkey breast, 
freed from skin and nerves ; add 6 ounces of panada and 4 
ounces of butter; during the course of pounding add I whole 
egg and the white of 2 eggs. Rub the forcemeat through a fine 
wire sieve and put it in a bowl on ice, then work vigorously 
with a wooden spoon, and add by degrees 3 gills of whipped 
cream. Season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. 

NOTE.- -This means 3 gills of cream before being whipped ; 
it is always better to try the consistency of the forcemeat so 
that it may be rectified in time. 

FARCE DE VEAU A LA CREME- -\"EAL CREAM FORCE-MEAT. 

Follow same directions as given for chicken cream force- 
meat. 

NOTE.- -This forcemeat may be prepared so as to yield more 
profit by adding well reduced Bechamel or Veloute sauce; 
should this be clone, then add more eggs, i egg to i gill of 
sauce. 

FARCE DE GIBIER GAME FORCE-MEAT. 

One pound of game, 6 ounces of panada, 8 ounces of butter, 
2 yolks and 3 whites of eggs and 3 gills of brown sauce well re- 
duced, with essence of game prepared from the bones or car- 
casses. 

When all these ingredients are well pounded, rub them 
through a fine sieve, put in a bowl, on ice, and incorporate 2 
more gills of well reduced brown sauce. Season with salt, 
cayenne and nutmeg. 

FARCE A GRATIX- -FORCE-MEAT COOKED. 
Fry 2 ounces of salt pork in 2 ounces of butter, add i small 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 275 

chopped onion and 2 shallots, a small sprig of thyme and I bay 
leaf. 

Cut i pound of chicken livers in ^-inch pieces, and saute 
them until well done; season with salt and pepper; pound in 
the mortar and rub through a fine sieve. 

NOTE. This forcemeat is usually mixed with other force- 
meats ; it should be used judiciously; for matter of economy, 
or, if no chicken livers are on hand, calf's liver may be used, 
and on the other hand, if to be used for exceptional purposes, 
one-third part of fat goose liver (foie gras) may be added to the 
chicken livers. 

FARCE DE POISSON--FISH FORCE-MEAT. 

Pound in the mortar i pound of pike or bass, add 6 to 8 
ounces of panada, 6 ounces of butter, 2 yolks and 3 whites of 
eggs, rub through a fine sieve ; set in a bowl on ice, and in- 
corporate 3 gills of cream (which can be whipped if desired) ; try 
the consistency of the forcemeat, if too firm, add more cream. 

Redfish forcemeat. Prepare by adding 2 ounces of raw 
lobster spawn to each pound of boned and skinned fish, or re- 
duce a pint of tomato sauce to 2 gills, and add to the forcemeat 
when cold. \Yhen the forcemeat is thus colored, it is advisable 
to add i more egg to the pounded fish. 

PANADE POUR FARCE- -PAN ADA FOR FORCE-MEAT. 

1. Soak l / 2 pound of soft bread in i pint of milk, press 
out the liquid and put it (the bread) in a saucepan with 2 ounces 
of butter ; work vigorously until the panada becomes dry and 
detaches from the spoon and pan ; remove from the fire and keep 
in a cool place until needed. 

2. Put i pint of milk to boil with 2 ounces of butter, add 4 
ounces of flour, work vigorously with a wooden spoon until 
dry, put on a plate and keep in a cool place until required. 

NOTE. We give the preference to panada No. 2. 

FARCE A GALANTINE DE VOLAILLE- -FORCE-MEAT FOR 

BONED TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 
Chop fine 10 ounces of chicken or turkey meat, with 6 ounces 



276 The Post-Gr actuate Cookery Book. 



of veal and I pound each of fat pork and lean pork ; pound in 
the mortar and add 4 ounces of soft bread, soaked in milk ; 
season with salt, pepper and a little allspice. 

PATE A FRIRE FRYING BATTER. 

Dilute 8 ounces of flour with 2 gills of water, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of olive oil and 4 egg yolks ; add a pinch of salt and beat to a 
smooth paste. 

Before using, beat the egg whites to a stiff froth and incor- 
porate with the batter. 

PATEE FEUILLETEE ou FEUILLETAGE PUFF PASTE. 

Place i pound of sifted flour on the pastry board, make a 
hollow in the center, add a pinch of salt, 2 ounces of butter and, 
by degrees, 2 gills of ice-cold water, mixing it with the flour to 
a smooth, flexible paste, \vhich should not adhere to the fingers. 
Let the paste rest for 15 minutes, and meantime place 14 
ounces of good butter in a wet towel, kneading it until it at- 
tains the same consistency as the paste. 

Roll out the paste to a square, put the butter in the middle 
and cover the butter by folding the corners of the paste to the 
center. 

Then roll out the paste to 3 feet, fold it in 3 parts, one part 
to be over the other ; if in a hurry, the second turn may be 
given at once, but it is better to let the paste rest for 5 minutes 
before giving the next turn, always keeping it in a cool place. 

Roll out the paste once more and fold it again in three parts ; 
this is the second turn ; keep on rolling out and folding in 
three parts until 5 turns are given in all ; the paste is then ready 
for use. 

Sometimes more turns are given, especially for fine pastry. 

GRAND VOL- AU-VENT- -LARGE PUFF PASTE PATTY. 

A vol-au-vent may be prepared of different size ; for a party 
of 5 or 6 persons one of 6 inches in diameter is large enough. 
It is preferable that they should not be made too large, 7 inches 
in diameter at the utmost. 

Have ready i pound of puff paste ; give it 6 l /> turns ; roll it 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 277 

out to about 24 of an inch in thickness ; mark the size with a 
round shaped pasteboard and with a pointed knife, holding it 
slanting outwards, cut out the paste. 

Sprinkle a few drops of water on a baking sheet and place the 
vol-au-vent thereon, the wider part uppermost, groove the 
edge lightly and then brush over with beaten egg. Make a 
circular incision V 2 inch deep, leaving a margin of I inch 
on the outside ; set in a rather hot oven, and bake from 25 to 
30 minutes. 

If the vol-au-vent should color too quickly, place over it a 
sheet of paper ; do not take it out before done, as it is liable to 
collapse. When baked, take off the cover and remove all the 
unbaked paste inside the patty, set it in the oven for a few 
minutes to dry, and then fill with the various garnishings. 



PETITS VOL-AU-VENT ou BOUCHEES SMALL PUFF PASTE 

PATTIES. 

Follow same directions as for large puff paste patties, using 
a fluted paste cutter 2^ inches in diameter, and a plain iJ/- 
inch cutter to cut out the cover. 

The paste should be rolled out to about J4 inch in thickness. 

NOTE. If intended as a side dish, the patties may be made 
still smaller, and if served as a garnish, a I 1 /? inch paste cutter 
is sufficiently large. 

CROUTONS SOUFFLES POUR POTAGE A LA CREME SCUFFLED 

CRUSTS FOR CREAM SOUPS. 

Put into a saucepan I gill of water, with I ounce of butter 
and a pinch of salt ; set on the range, when boiling add 2 
ounces of flour; stir vigorously until smooth, take off the range, 
and after a few minutes add 2 eggs, one at the time. 

Put on ice, and when very cold roll out in long strings; cut 
into pieces l /\ inch ; roll in a sieve, using plenty of flour to 
make them round, and fry in hot lard. 

NOTE.- -These crusts may also be baked (See Consomme 
Infanta Style). 



278 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

CROUTE A TARTLETTE- -TARTLET CRUSTS. 

Roll out some puff paste trimmings to J /s inch thickness, line 
with it some tartlet moulds of 3 inches in diameter, fill up with 
split peas or dried beans, and bake in a quick oven. When done, 
remove the beans or peas. 

CROUTONS FRITS POUR POT AGE- -FRIED CRUSTS FOR SOUPS. 

Cut some of the soft part of a loaf of sandwich bread into 
^4-inch squares, fry in hot clarified butter to a nice golden color 
and drain. It is preferable to serve these crusts separate on a 
dish, with the soup. 

CROUTONS POUR ENTREES CRUSTS FOR ENTREES. 

Cut some soft bread in heart-shaped pieces 2 to 2 l / 2 inches 
long 2/s-inch in thickness ; fry in hot clarified butter. 

CROUTONS POUR LEGUMES CRUSTS FOR VEGETABLES. 

Cut the crusts as the former, only somewhat smaller and 
thinner, or, instead of heart-shaped, they may be cut triangular. 

D'UXELLE. 

Fry in 2 ounces of butter i finely chopped onion ; when 
nearly done add 6 chopped shallots and a small crushed 
clove of garlic; to this add 2 ounces of lean ham cut in very 
small squares and 8 ounces of chopped fresh mushrooms ; when 
the humidity of the mushrooms is evaporated, moisten with I 
gill of white wine, and reduce to one-quarter; add I gill of 
brown and ^ gill of tomato sauce ; cook for a few minutes 
longer; add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley and season to 
taste. 

XOTE. If to be used for fish, leave out the ham. 

PUREE DE LUCINES ORANGES PUREE OF CLAMS. 

Have 50 large hard clams opened and set them with their 
own juice on the fire. Allow the clams to stiffen (but do not 
boil), drain them, pound in the mortar, moisten with half of 
their juice and rub through a fine sieve. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 279 

Reduce I quart of Bechamel until very thick and then add 
the clams. If too liquid, reduce more. Season to taste and 
finish with 3 ounces of butter. 

PUREE D'HUITRES PUREE OF OYSTERS. 
Proceed as for "Puree of Clams." 

PUREE DE MOULES--PUREE OF MUSSELS. 
Follow directions as given for "Puree of Clams." 

PUREE DE CHAMPIGNONS PUREE OF MUSHROOMS. 

Wash, drain and chop fine 2 pounds of fresh mushrooms, toss 
them with 4 ounces of butter until their humidity is all evap- 
orated, then add I quart of Bechamel sauce and cook over a 
slow fire for 15 minutes; rub through a fine sieve; then return 
them to a clean saucepan; heat without boiling and season to 
taste. 

NOTE. Peelings and stems of mushrooms will answer for 
this purpose ; if intended to be mixed with forcemeats the puree 
requires to be reduced; it may also be thickened with egg yolks. 

PUREE ou SAUCE A LA SOUBISE--PUREE OR SAUCE SOUBISE. 

Slice and parboil 6 peelel white onions ; drain and press them ; 
put them in a saucepan with 4 ounces of butter; cover the pan 
tightly and set it on the corner of the range, allowing the 
onions to cook without browning; when done, add a pint of 
thick Bechamel sauce ; rub through a fine sieve and return to 
the saucepan. Season to taste with salt and cayenne, and 
finish with 2 ounces of sweet butter. 

PUREE DE YOLAILLE--PUREE OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY. 

Prepare a large chicken or fowl for boiling; when cooked 
and cold, remove all the meat from the bones and pound it fine 
with 2 or 3 spoonfuls of Veloute ; then rub through a fine sieve. 

Reduce 3 pints of Veloute with some of the broth in which 
the chicken was cooked and I pint of cream; when very thick 



280 The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 

add the chicken puree ; season to taste and finish with a. piece 
of butter. 

NOTE. Do not allow to boil after the puree is mixed with 
the Veloute. 

PUREE DE PERDREAU- -PUREE OF PARTRIDGE. 

Proceed as for "Puree of Chicken." 

All other purees are prepared in the same manner ; for dark 
meats well-reduced brown sauce may be used. 

BEURRE D'ANCHOIES ANCHOVY BUTTER. 

Soak and wash i dozen anchovies, wipe them well and free 
from bones ; then pound with 4 ounces of butter and rub 
through a fine sieve. 

An easier method is to mix the prepared anchovy paste with 
the butter. 

Any variety of butter may be prepared by following the prin- 
ciples indicated in the various receipts for almond butter, 
caviare butter, herring butter, saffron butter, etc. We enumer- 
ate a few as follows : 

BEURRE D'ECREVISSE CRAYFISH BUTTER. 

1. Pound in the mortar the shells of 50 crayfish to a fine 
pulp, then add 8 ounces of sweet butter and rub through a fine 
sieve. 

NOTE : To be used the same day. 

2. Pound the shells of 50 crayfish to a fine pulp, add 8 
ounces of butter ; heat the mixture in a pan, then moisten with 
3 quarts of water ; the butter will now rise to the top ; when 
cold take off the butter, melt it in a small saucepan, strain 
through a cloth, put in a bowl, and keep for further use. 

BEURRE DE HOMARD LOBSTER BUTTER. 

1. Proceed as for crayfish butter No. 2. 

2. Take the coral of a cooked lobster and pound it with 6 
ounces of butter ; rub through a fine sieve and put away until 
needed. 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 281 

BEURRE A LA PORTUGAISE- -BUTTER, PORTUGUESE FASHIOX. 

Blend 4 hard-boiled egg yolks with 2 gills of thickly reduced 
tomato sauce ; add the butter and rub through a fine sieve. 

BEURRE DE RAIFORT- -HORSERADISH BUTTER. 

Scrape a good-sized horseradish very fine, pound, add 8 
ounces of butter and juice of I lemon ; rub through a sieve. 

BEURRE A L'INDIENNE--!XDIAX BUTTER. 

Add curry and chutney to the butter, and rub through a fine 
sieve. 

BEURRE DE MOXTPELLIER--MONTPELLIER BUTTER. 

Blanch a handful each of parsley, tarragon, chervil, 
burnet, chives and spinach ; press well to extract all hu- 
midity and pound in the mortar with 6 hard-boiled yolks 
of eggs, 4 anchovies, 3 or 4 gherkins, and a small handful of 
capers ; add 8 ounces of butter, season with salt, cayenne and a 
dash of tarragon vinegar, then rub through a fine sieve. 

BEURRE VENITIEXXE- -VENETIAN BUTTER. 

Parboil (in a copper pan of boiling water) 3 sliced 
shallots and I handful each of spinach leaves, tarragon and 
chervil ; drain and cool in cold water, press firmly and 
pound in the mortar with two boned anchovies, rub through a 
fine sieve and put aside until required. 

BEURRE MAXIE- -KNEADED BUTTER. 

This butter is often of great usefulness to the cook ; the 
proportions are generally */? each of butter and fiour, but it is 
preferable to use a little less of the latter. 

Mix well 6 ounces of butter with 4 ounces of flour, add to the 
boiling sauce or stock, but do not allow to boil afterwards, as 
the sauce is liable to flavor the flour. 



282 



The Post-Graduate Cookery Book. 



PERSIL FRIT FRIED PARSLEY. 



Pick, wash, drain and drip a good handful of parsley. Put 
it in a frying basket and plunge in very hot fat ; leave until 
quite crisp, then drain and keep hot until needed. 




ERRATA. 



On page 43, in receipt for * Bisque of Crayfish," read 
''2 dozen of the head shells," instead of "2 ounces." 

On page 248, read " Salsifis a la Creme ou a la, etc., 
instead of "Cremeou." 

On page 276, read "Pate Feuilletee," instead of "Patee- -." 



SECOND EDITION OF 

"How TO MAKE MONEY 
IN A COUNTRY HOTEL " 

By J. ELLIOTT LANE. 

" A book that will probably be purchased by every 
hotel manager and department head in America." 

ss T TOW to Make Money in a Country Hotel," appeared 
first in serial form in THE CATERER during 1900, 
and January and February of 1901, and met with 
such speedy recognition and widespread interest that it added 
hundreds of subscribers to its already large subscription list. 
The reason for the great success of this work, which is now in 
its second edition, is probably to be found in the fact that Mr. 
Lane does not content himself with merely advising "greater 
economy," or "better business methods' -instead he gets 
right down to a practical hold of the subject and shows how to 
economize and how to increase one's trade. 

Every page of the book is full of interest to every hotel 
man who is in the business to make money. It is addressed 
primarily to country hotels, but it should be in tJie hands of 
every proprietor and every department head, no matter what the 
class of the establishment. It contains many ideas and much 
information found in no other work published. 

In addition to its technical value to every one in the 
business, it has a special, almost absorbing, interest as a study 
of the life and possibilities of a country hotel proprietor that 
will cause it to be read over and over again by every steward, 
chef and head waiter who expects one day to possess a hotel 
of his own. 

200 pages, handsomely bound in cloth, only $2.00 

THE CATERER PUBLISHING CO., 
23 PARK ROW, - - NEW YORK CITY. 



The Encyclopedia of Practical Cookery. 

Eight bi volumes; nearly 2,000 pages; about 2,300 illustrations 
-Handsomely bound in Cloth, only $20 the complete set. 







"AHE Encyclopedia of Practical Cookery is the most valu- 
able and comprehensive culinary work published. It 
contains receipts for almost every known dish and in- 
formation on every subject in the food and culinary world. 
It is to the man in the hotel, club or high-class restaurant 
business what the Encyclopedia Britannica is to the newspaper 
man almost indispensable as a general reference work. 
Whether you merely desire to make sure of the spelling of a 
word or the accuracy of a receipt, or whether you wish to read 
up on some subject new to public interest such as the Belgian 
hare, or the special products of the Philippines you can al- 
ways rely on being able to post yourself from this work. In 
fact, the library or equipment of a manager, steward or chef 
is really not complete without the Encyclopedia of Practical 
Cookery no one can know, or at all events can remember, 
everything, and a reliable, comprehensive work of reference 
is a necessity to the man who wishes to keep himself thorough- 
ly informed on all topics pertaining to his profession. With 
the Encyclopedia one need not plead want of knowledge on 
any subject pertaining to it, directly or indirectly. 

The Encyclopedia represents five years' work by several 
of the most famous men in the culinary profession. Its con- 
tents were edited by Theodore Francis Garrett, with the assist- 
ance of a number of the most famous European chefs W. 
Rawsonand MM. Corblet, Detraz, Fiorillo, Lecomte,Thoumire, 
Norwak, Reichert, Hey wood and Wallace. // is beautifully 
illustrated with colored plates and 2,jjo engravings. 



THE CATERER PUBLISHING CO., 

23 PARK ROW, = = = NEW YORK. 



Creasey Ice Breakers 

Chefs, cater- 
ers. restaurants 
and hotels find 
CREASEY ICE 
BREAKERS to be 
most efficient 
and economical 
machines the 
greatest savers 
of time and ice. 

Easy to operate (hand or power) 
break ice to any size required rapid 
cutters. Right in design and con- 
struction Made in fourteen sizes 
to suit every requirement. 



Send for New Catalogue 17- B, iv 
gives full particulars. 




Jos. S. Levering Wharton, 

MANUFACTURER, 

3122 N. 17th St., Philadelphia, Pa. 



^ ^^r- -^^ -^^ -^^ -^^ -^^ -^^ -^^ -^^ -^^ -^ 

A New Principle in 

{BAKING 

And the Riht One. 



Every Part of Every Article Baked 
In this Oven will be Baked 

EXACTLY ALIKE, 
Top, Bottom, Sides and Ends. 

Accomplished by means of our new 
principle of dry air circulation, completely 
enveloping on all sides with intensely hot 
air the articles to be baked. 

Light, portable, easily managed, re- 
quires little foundation. For further in- 
formation, circular matter, write 

TheG. S. Blodgctt Company 

BURLINGTON, VERMONT, U.S.A. 



r ^ 



* 



* 
* 
* 

* 
* 
i 









* 

* 



IDEAL 
SUMMER DESSERTS 



Junket Puddings 



AND 



Junket Ice Cream 



Write us for Description 



CHR. HANSEN'S LABORATORY 

Box 3013 
LITTLE FALLS, N. Y. 



M. O'BRIEN & SON, 

Fruits and Vegetables. 



EGGS AND HOW TO USE THEM. 

BY ADOLPHE MEYER, chef of the 
famous Union Club, New York, and 
author of " The Post-Graduate Cookery 
Book," etc. Price, $1.00. Identically the 
same edition ndrertined and sold by other 
pnblisherx fur $1.50. 

This book (150 pages, handsomely 
bound in cloth) contains receipts for the 
preparation of eggs in 500 different 
manners. 

The Caterer Publishing Co., 

23 PARK ROW, NEW YORK. 





Refrigerators 
Cooling Rooms^ 

BUILT TO ORDER. 

For Hotels, Clubs, Hospitals, Sanitariums, 
Colleges, Residences, Etc. 

Also a full line of stock sizes ready for immediate shipment. 
ALL WORK GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY SATISFACTORY. 

All Public Institutions, Physicians and Public Men using 
the McCRAV RKFRIGF.RATORS have given our system highest 
praise. 

Refrigerators and Cooling Rooms for Artificial 
Refrigeration a Specialty. 

The McCray Refrigerators are made in all sizes, from the 
smallest refrigerator to the largest cold storage, and for any 
purpose required. A complete line of stock sizes also. 



McCRAY REFRIGERATORS 
SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES 



CATALOGUES AND ESTIMATES FREE. 

CATALOGUES : No. 38 for Residence. No. 45 for Hotels, Public Institutions, 
etc. ; No. 56 for Grocers and Meat Markets. 

McCray Refrigerator Co., 

154 Mill Street, KENDALLVILLE, IND. 

BRANCH OKRICES: 

NEW YORK 341 Broadway. BOSTON 52 Commercial Street. ST. LOUIS 404 
N. Third Street. CHICAGO 55 Wabash Avenue. DETROIT 7 and 9 Clifford Street. 
PITTSBURGH 545 Liberty Street. TORONTO, CAN. 28 Wellington Street, West. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 620 F Street, N. W. SAN FRANCISCO io3 Front Street. 
COLUMBIA, S. C. 1210 Main Street. BIRMINGHAM, ALA. 1820 Third Avenue. 
COLUMBUS, O. 356 N. High Street. 

Address MAIN OFFICE, Unless You Reside in One of the Above Named Cities. 




Vortex Style A. 
Capacity, 3.600 pieces per hour. 



..OUR NEW.. 



"Down Wash" 
Machine 

Is the simplest and most 
efficient machine yet 



roduced 



With it the most fragile china can be 

washed. 
Any woman can handle it. 

It requires only 1-8 horse power when 

running at its full capacity. 
No gearing or intricate parts to wear out. 
Cannot be injured by careless or ignorant 

help. 
Sold on liberal terms of payment. 

SEND FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE. 



Hamilton-Low Co., 



Main Office, - 215 East 42d Street. 

Branch Office, 23 Park Row, New York. 



