NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 




3 3433 07736242 8 




J 







o 



THE FIRELESS COOKER 

HOW TO MAKE IT 

HOW TO USE IT 

WHAT TO COOK 



BT 

CAROLINE B. LOVEWELL 

FRANCES D. WHITTEMORE 

HANNAH W. LYON 



ib.ee more atatelg mmtatotta, < mg soul, 
.s tbe afenft aeaaona roll! 

Ijg loro-oaulieo past ! 
eacb. efe temple, nobler tfyatt tl|e laat, 
tb.ee from ijeaoen mttb. a botnc ntore 6aat, 
itfou at leitgtb, art free, 
tb.ine oirtgroftm ab,ell bg Itfe'e unreatotg aea." 



THE HOME PUBLISHING CO. 

TOPEKA, KANSAS 

1908 



PIT" 

A U jj Ld<*' Li 




- 
* 






Copyright, igo8 
By CAROLINE B. LOVEWELL and FRANCES D. WHITTEMORK. 






K. M. IVES & SONS, PRINTERS 
_ TOPEKA, KANSAS 



(Dje ftioman faljo moitlb make ilje best use of all ijer time, 

fcrljo fooulb secure ti|e greatest results fiitti| iije most 

ecouomtcal outlay of energy, ifye momart 

prepares the batly foob; our sister, 

foljoeoer auo mi|ere6er sl|e 

ntay be, tips book is 

affectionately 

bebicateo. 



o 

UJ 
Q 



Rafale of Contents. 

Weights and Measures vi 

The Fireless Cooker 1 

The Promethean Cooker 

The Steamer Cooker 17 

Cooking Utensils 21 

How to Use It 23 

How to Cook in a Refrigerator 29 

The Insulated Oven 31 

An Insulated Cold Box 34 

An Insulated Pail 35 

A Suggestion - 36 

Recipes 37 



OTetgfjte anb 

2 cupfuls of granulated sugar 1 pound 

2i cupfuls of powdered sugar 1 pound 

2 rounded tablespoonf uls powdered sugar 1 ounce 

1 heaping tablespoonf ul granulated sugar 1 ounce 

1 heaping tablespoonful of butter ... 2 ounces 

Butter size of an egg 2 ounces 

1 cupful of butter 2 ounces 

4 cupfuls of flour . 1 pound 

1 heaping quart of flour 1 pound 

2 gills 1 cup 

1 pint of milk or water 1 pound 

1 tablespoonful of liquid J ounce 

2 cups of chopped meat 1 pound 

1J cups of rice . 1 pound 

2 cups of raisins packed 1 pound 

2i cups of currants 1 pound 

2 cups of stale bread crumbs 2 pounds 



The cup used in measuring is the cooking cup, 
marked with halves and quarters, which is equal 
to half a pint. 

A spoonful of sugar, flour, etc., means a 
rounding spoonful, as much rounding from the 
spoon as is held in the bowl. 

A spoonful of salt or spices means only as 
much as the bowl will hold. 

One-half spoonful means half the contents of 
the bowl divided lengthwise. 

A heaping spoonful means as much as the 
spoon can be made to hold. 



VI 



3 to 4 eggs to one pint of milk for custards. 

1 saltspoonful of salt to one quart of milk for 
custards. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla to one quart of milk for 

custards. 

2 ounces of gelatine to 1| quarts of liquid. 

4 heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch to one 

quart of milk. 
2 heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder to one 

quart of flour. 
1 even teaspoonful of baking powder to 1 cupful 

of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda to 1 pint of sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful of soda to J pint of molasses. 
1 teaspoonful of baking powder is equivalent to J 

teaspoonful of soda and 1 teaspoonful of 

cream of tartar. 

i cup of yeast to 1 pint of liquid. 
i cake of compressed yeast to one pint of liquid. 
1 teaspoonful of salt to one quart of soup stock. 
A pinch of salt or spice is one saltspoonful. 



vn 




THE FIRELESS COOKER. 




Jf treleste Cooker 



A fireless cooker consists of a kettle or other 
vessel that can be heated, enclosed in a box or 
other outer shape, with enough insulating ma- 
terial between them to prevent the heat in the 
kettle from escaping. Food brought to a boiling 
point over a fire and enclosed in such a way must 
continue to cook. It is an easy matter to make 
such a contrivance. After choosing a good kettle 
with a tight cover, select a box large enough to 
allow six or eight inches of insulating material. 
This must be so adjusted as to form a compart- 
ment for the kettle in the middle of the box. 
Make a firm cylindrical shape to fit loosely around 
the kettle, and fasten a circular bottom to it. For 
the packing use wool, cotton, ground cork, crum- 
pled newspaper, or some other nonconductor of 
heat. Fill the bottom of the box to a depth of 
three inches, and place the metal or pasteboard 
cylinder upon it. Pack all around the cylinder up 
even with the top. Press the packing down very 
hard. The top of the insulating material may be 
neatly covered with cloth or metal or with a board 
having a round hole in it. A thick cushion is now 
needed to insulate the space above the kettle and 
the lid of the box should be held closely down. 
This simple compartment with its single kettle 
will prove that a fireless cooker is a most useful 
article in any home. Another compartment with 
another kettle in it is easily added; then two 
kettles in each compartment, one above the other. 



Jf treleste Cooker 2 

The ease with which a fireless cooker can be 
constructed, the small outlay necessary to insure 
a perfectly efficient and reliable cooker, and the 
great comfort, convenience, and saving the cooker 
has been to us, the past two years, have led us to 
place this wonderful and practical plan of cooking 
before you. The directions and explanations are 
the outgrowth of tests and experiments, and this 
volume is put forth in the hope of helping others. 
We hope that the conservative or skeptical may 
be induced to make a cooker, even if ever so 
simple, and by experimenting realize the good of 
which it is capable. 

The primary object is to save the time and 
strength of the cook. Women may be so busy in 
the doing, in the laborious service of the Biblical 
Martha, that they find no time to accept the in- 
vitation, "Come ye apart and rest awhile," where- 
by to gain steadiness of purpose and power to 
meet the exigencies which must arise in all daily 
life. 

The fireless cooker saves fuel also, and utilizes 
many of the cheapest and most nutritious foods. 
It wins to our glad service the tough but nutri- 
tious meats and all kinds of dried beans, peas, 
lentils, corn, and fruits which we seldom use be- 
cause of the time and fuel required to make them 
tender and palatable. The result is that the house- 
wife who is so disposed, may keep a much larger 
per cent of the family income out of the kitchen 
and yet "set a good table" of the most deliciously 
cooked food. 



3 Cije Jf treleste Cooker 

We have adapted our old tried and favorite 
recipes to the cooker; and many new combina- 
tions result from the use of the articles requiring 
long cooking. The recipes herein given may sup- 
ply a family with nutritious and wholesome food, 
of pleasing variety, and tempting alike to the eye 
and the palate. Supplement fresh fruits and salad 
greens, delicate crackers, cheeses, nuts, salad oils, 
sauces, and candies, according to your taste and 
pleasure, and the most fastidious are satisfied. 

The manager of a cooking box will be willing to 
study it and its possibilities somewhat as she does 
a new sewing machine and its attachments. Use 
a little wise forethought, some careful attention 
to the menu, and, with recipes skilfully concocted, 
the result will be a delight. The cooker may not 
do all the work any more than the sewing ma- 
chine does, but it certainly deserves a large place 
in our culinary department. 

Busy women, mothers, teachers, students, and 
all those who have work outside as well as in the 
home, may prepare wholesome, nutritious, eco- 
nomical, and attractive dishes, with very little 
time spent over the kitchen fire. 

Many dishes, like the meat and potato stew, 
vegetable soups, etc., will serve for a complete 
dinner, with the addition of a dessert of fresh 
fruits or of a dainty pudding. All of these can be 
prepared in the cooker early in the morning and 
be ready for the midday meal or for the dinner at 
night. 

By this method cookery becomes truly labora- 
tory work, and it is probable that fireless cookers 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 4 

of one kind or another will soon be found in 
nearly every home ; on the ranch of the cattle man, 
in the tenement of the wage-earner, and in the 
home of the rich. They are already used in 
Europe. In Sweden they are built into the house 
adjacent to the kitchen chimney. Hotels in this 
country are adopting them. The United States 
army is proving their value at the government 
posts, and also in the field. Their principal value 
in the army is as a time saver. Breakfast is 
prepared during the evening thus avoiding the 
necessity of the cook's rising before daylight. On 
the march, after breakfast is served, dinner is 
prepared, placed in the cookers and on the wagons, 
and served immediately on arrival in camp, in- 
stead of several hours later as has been the cus- 
tom. The big packing companies appreciate this 
method and use immense boiling cookers to boil 
their hams for the market, and claim that they 
save thereby twenty per cent of shrinkage. 

The idea of fireless cooking is still in the process 
of development, and the most finished cooker of 
to-day will, no doubt, seem to the future house- 
keeper as crude and primitive as does the Indian 
bake oven to us. The cooker need not be of home 
construction. There are several manufactured 
cookers on the market. Some of them are of 
unquestioned merit ; and we should be glad, if you 
wish, to put you in communication with the man- 
ufacturers of those which seem to us the most 
desirable. But we are pledged to no cooker 
company. Our plea is for the idea, the method, 
which is so full of promise to the housekeeper. 



5 3Clje Jf trelestf Cooker 

It will save countless steps and much anxiety. It 
is capable of doing a large part of your cooking 
while you sleep. And we would like to make 
the plea so strong that every housekeeper, every 
mother who gleans hints of helpfulness from this 
little book, may be induced to adopt the method 
in her home. What we plead for is a clear recog- 
nition of the principle that viands heated to a 
cooking temperature will continue to cook if sur- 
rounded by nonconducting material. Our refrig- 
erators keep the heat from going in, while our 
cookers keep the heat from going out. 

A few blank pages are introduced so that each 
housewife may adapt and insert her own favor- 
ite rules. 



PROMETHEAN 



COOKER. 




rometijean Cooker 

During the two years and more in which we 
have experimented with the Fireless Cooker we 
have tried many models and devices. We have 
cooked in boxes of various sizes and shapes, in 
trunks, in a tin bread box, a wooden bucket, and in 
a barrel; and we have not slighted the pantry 
drawer nor forgotten the ice box. In all these 
experiments we have had a good degree of suc- 
cess and the food has really cooked. While we 
confess that we have a choice as to material, 
size, and proportion, we have reached the con- 
clusion that any receptacle that can be tightly 
closed, and in which packing can be placed, may 
be made to serve as a cooker. 

These tests have clearly demonstrated the prin- 
ciple upon which the fireless cooker is based ; that 
of the conservation of heat. When food is heated 
to the boiling point and kept at that temperature 
or a little below for a certain length of time by 
placing it under conditions where the heat cannot 
escape, the food is bound to cook. It could not 
do otherwise. 

There is a great variety of plans and models 
with which we are familiar. Many have decided 
merit and accomplish the object for which they 
were constructed, but we have found that the 
cooker illustrated on the opposite page, because 
of its compact form, its large capacity, and the 
varied sizes of the utensils used, makes a most 
desirable and complete cooker for the use of the 
average family. 



Jf irelestf Coofeer 8 

We have thought that it might be helpful to de- 
scribe this cooker and its construction in detail 
so that you may if you choose, with but little 
time spent in planning and fitting, make a sim- 
ilar one for your own use. 

First select your box and packing material. The 
latter may be any one of several substances; 
wool, cotton, excelsior, crushed paper, ground 
cork, or asbestos wool or fiber. All of these 
materials have been used with most excellent re- 
sults. We do not recommend hay which was used 
in the original cooker, the "Norwegian Hay Box," 
but any good nonconductor of heat which is avail- 
able will make good packing. 

You may find in your store-room a quantity of 
cotton which has seen honorable service in some 
other capacity and has been discarded. This, if 
thoroughly washed, sterilized, and dried, will 
make good packing. 

The cooker illustrated we packed with three 
different kinds of material to test their efficiency. 
One compartment is packed with wool, a fleece 
having been thoroughly washed and dried. The 
second compartment is packed with ground cork 
with sufficient cotton above to hold it down sol- 
idly and keep it in place. So far as we can judge 
there is no difference in the effectiveness of the 
different materials here used. The ground cork 
is used for packing the foreign grapes that come 
to our markets and may be obtained from any 
grocer. If paper is used, it should be torn into 
small pieces, wrinkled and crushed, and packed 
down solidly. This is much liked by some who 
have experimented extensively. 



to jfflafee 3t 



Now for the box. Procure a box the inside 
measurements of which are twenty-eight inches 
in length, height without the cover seventeen 
inches, and width fifteen inches. This is a size 
that may be found among almost any collection 
of packing boxes and may be had for a trifle. 
Select one that is smooth and free from knots and 
cracks. If there are heavy battens at the corners 
on the outside as is often the case in this class 
of boxes, take them off and put them inside the 
box as corner stays. The box will then present 
a more attractive appearance. Put a thin board 
partition through the center, dividing the box into 
two equal compartments. About two and one- 
half inches from the top of the inside of the box 
fasten a narrow strip of wood on each of the four 
sides of the two compartments for the inside cov- 
ering to rest upon. Now have a good fitting 
cover made with cleats or stays across, so that 
it will not warp. This may be made in two sec- 
tions if desired. Fasten on the lid with two good 
strap hinges. By the addition of four ball bear- 
ing casters and two fastenings for the cover, 
which are window locks of a pattern that is easily 
obtained, the box is ready for packing. 

To pack the box get some fine grained strong 
pasteboard like that in the suit cases used by the 
drygoods merchants for delivering their goods. 
This is especially good for the purpose as it will 
not break easily and keeps its place well. For 
compartment A B make from this board two 
cylinders leaving the turned edges at the top to 
strengthen them. For the large cylinder cut a cir- 



Jf trelesft Cooker 10 

cular piece of the board twelve inches in diameter ; 
around this sew a strip of the same twelve inches 
wide, leaving a generous margin to overlap as 
you sew the sides together with a stout needle 
and thread. 

The second cylinder made in the same manner 
should be nine inches in diameter and six and 
one-half inches in depth. Cover these cylinders 
on the inside with a light padding of some sort 
sewed on lightly. 

Now put into the compartment A B two and 
one-half inches of packing material pressing it 
down firmly and evenly. Place the large cylinder 
in the center, hold it firmly in place, and fill the 
space around it until it reaches the top of the cyl- 
inder. Press and pack it down as hard as possible, 
for upon the manner of packing the cooker depends 
very largely the success of the cooking. If ground 
cork is used, put over it some cotton or wool to 
keep it well in place. Now place the small cylin- 
der in the center of the bottom of the large one 
and pack around that in the same manner, adding 
the cotton at the top as before. 

For compartment C D make the cylinder for 
the lower portion nine and three-fourths inches 
in diameter and eight inches in depth, following 
the directions given for the other cylinders. The 
upper portion is flaring, being eleven inches in 
diameter at the top, and at the bottom the size 
of the lower cylinder, nine and three-fourths 
inches, and four and one-half inches deep. Sew 
the lower edge of the flaring portion to the top of 
the lower cylinder and cover with the padding. 



11 ^oto to iflake 3t 

Pack the lower part of the compartment as you 
did the first to the depth of two and one-half 
inches. Place the cylinder in center ana pack 
solidly the space between that and the sides of 
the compartment. The cooker is now ready for 
the lining. 

The lining material used in the cooker illustra- 
ted was a firm cotton covert of a light brown or 
mode shade, and it has been very satisfactory. 
We would suggest a finely woven crash, or some 
similar material, as more suitable to use about 
the cooking, than the dark, rough cotton flannels 
that have been so much employed; but any firm 
cloth may be used according to your taste and 
convenience. It will require about three and one- 
half yards of material twenty-seven inches wide 
to line the box. The measurements given allow 
for ample seams. 

For the top of each compartment there should 
be prepared a piece of heavy pasteboard or thin 
wood just the length and width of the inside 
measurements of the compartment. This is to 
rest upon the narrow strips of wood before men- 
tioned. Circular holes eleven inches in diameter 
should be cut in each of the pasteboard covers. 
We like the pasteboard better than wood and pre- 
pared ours, because we could not find as heavy 
board as we wished, by gluing together two ordi- 
nary thicknesses of pasteboard and drying it 
under pressure. It keeps its place well and still 
is a little more yielding than the thin wood. What 
is called proof-reading board is excellent for the 
purpose when it can be obtained at the printers. 



Sflfje Jf trelestf Coofeer 12 

Now cut from the lining material two pieces 
about two and one-half inches larger each way 
than the pasteboard covers. From the center 
of each cut a circle ten inches in diameter. For 
compartment A B cut a circular piece nine 
inches in diameter. Around this sew a piece 
twenty-seven and one-fourth inches long and 
seven inches wide, joining it at the ends. Cut 
another strip thirty-six inches long and six and 
one-half inches wide. Join the ends and sew it 
to the circular opening in the top lining. There 
is now an uncovered space between the upper 
and lower lining portions. These are joined by 
a circular piece eleven inches in diameter from 
the center of which is cut a circle nine inches in 
diameter. Now join the inside edge of the cir- 
cular piece to the lower cylinder lining, and the 
outer edge to the upper lining. Place the top 
lining over the pasteboard cover, fold over the 
edges smoothly, and glue them to the under side. 

Compartment C D is covered in a similar man- 
ner, the circular piece for the bottom of the cyl- 
inder being nine and one-half inches in diameter, 
and the piece to be sewed around it thirty inches 
long and eight inches wide. To the opening in 
the top lining sew a strip thirty-seven inches 
long and five and one-half inches wide, and join 
the ends. Sew the lower edge of this to the top 
of the cylinder lining just made, and lay the extra 
fullness in small plaits. Place the top lining over 
the board cover and glue as before. The com- 
pleted linings may now be placed in their respect- 
ive compartments resting on the narrow strips 
of wood. 



13 J|oto to jilafee 3t 

Compartment A B may be lined by joining to 
the top opening a piece of the' material thirty- 
seven inches long, the width being equal to the 
depth of the entire cylinder plus three inches. 
This is to be laid in small plaits as it is joined to 
the circular bottom. This will not make so 
smooth a cover but may seem more simple. 

We shall now want some cushions. These must 
be of varied sizes to meet the different needs. 
First two cushions are made by cutting for each 
two pieces of the lining material fifteen inches 
long and fourteen inches wide and joining them 
with a strip of the same cloth three inches wide. 
Fill them evenly and firmly with the packing ma- 
terial. Cotton is especially good for this pur- 
pose. They should just fill the space above the 
cylinders. By sewing together the two round 
pieces cut from the top lining and filling lightly 
with cotton a very useful little cushion may be 
made to place between the dishes. Then there 
should be a medium sized cushion about twelve 
inches square filled with cotton or any material 
that will bear crushing. This may be used when 
only the lower compartments are in use, pushing 
it well down over the kettle and placing the 
square one over it. Experience will teach the 
best use to be made of the cushions. 

To make the linings removable, cover the board 
tops of the compartments permanently with the 
lining material, with the edges glued to the under 
side. Then hem the upper edges of the cylinder 
linings and fasten them to the tops with some of 
the snap fasteners found at the dry goods stores. 



Jf trelestf Cooler 14 

They may then be removed and cleansed as often 
as you choose. 

The special advantage of the little pocket B is 
that small quantities of food may be put into the 
kettle, heated to boiling and placed directly in the 
cooker, without first inclosing in a larger vessel, 
thus saving the time and fuel consumed in heat- 
ing a large body of water. 

v The utensils used with the cooker are a Berlin 
kettle holding about seven quarts, measuring six 
inches in depth and ten and one-half inches in 
diameter; a bucket or kettle seven and one-half 
inches deep and nine inches in diameter, holding 
eight quarts; a smaller bucket of three and one- 
half quarts ; and a shallow kettle or baking pan of 
two and one-half quarts capacity. These are all 
of granite ware with tight fitting lids. 

If the wood of the box is even in color, and of 
good grain, it may be finished with any of the 
handsome wood stains that are so much used, or 
it may be painted as your taste may suggest. In 
any case you have a fireless cooker that would 
be an attractive addition to the furnishing of any 
kitchen and that will pay you many times over 
for the time and small amount of money involved 
in the making. If the description, in the read- 
ing, seems elaborate or complicated, be assured it 
will be a simple matter to work it out. 

One need not be confined to the size and ca- 
pacity of the cooker here described or to the ma- 
terial used in its construction. Very handsome 
boxes may be made especially for the purpose and 
finished in as ornamental a manner as one chooses. 



15 Jloto to JHafee 3ft 



The description is given merely as a suggestive 
plan that may be easily and inexpensively carried 
out, and because the cooker described has been 
such a capable and efficient helper in our kitchen 
during the many months in which it has been 
used. It has never disappointed us nor refused 
to do our bidding. 

We have called this box the "Promethean 
Cooker" since the meaning of the word, "fore- 
thought," so well expresses one of the chief merits 
of this method of cooking. 



Steamer Cooker 



As a supplement to the "Promethean Cooker", 
for cooking larger quantities of food and for 
making experiments we constructed our "Steamer 
Cooker" with a single large compartment. The 
Steamer Cooker is so called because of the suc- 
cessful steaming which has been possible by its 
use. This does not mean boiling. A deep wire 
basket is placed in the boiler as illustrated and 




the dish containing the pudding, or whatever is 
to be steamed, is placed in the rack, which holds 
it well out of the water. The large amount of 
water supplies a large quantity of heat which 
cooks the food to perfection, and as quickly as 



jTtrele&s Cooker 18 

when it is steamed over the fire. This plan may 
be carried out successfully in the large kettle of 
the "Promethean Cooker". Those who have had 
the kettles over which food was steaming "go 
dry" and consequently the cooking retarded will 
appreciate this method of steaming. As there 
is no evaporation, all the steam generated must 
remain until the box is opened, and the food is 
sure to cook. 

The box of the "Steamer Cooker" measures 
eighteen inches in length and width and is four- 
teen inches high. In this cooker we use a copper 
boiler with a strong bail and tight fitting cover 
which we had made for the purpose. This boiler 
is twelve inches in diameter, eight and one-fourth 
inches high, and holds three gallons. The box is 
made and packed in a similar manner to the Pro- 
methean Cooker. Such a cooking box would be 
found most useful in any family of medium size 
and may be very simply and inexpensively con- 
structed. A large granite kettle may be obtained 
suitable for the purpose, in place of the copper 
boiler and will be cheaper. In it may be prepared 
the Saturday night's supper of Boston baked 
beans and brown bread and at the same time a 
dainty dessert. 

These dishes may be made ready early in the 
morning, requiring but a short time over the fire, 
then shut up in the box and rolled under the table, 
needing no further care. When the Saturday's 
work is done, the clean, cool kitchen may be 
closed, and without a suggestion of heat or steam, 
or a thought of a fire to watch, a supper to delight 



19 



to iHafee 3t 



the heart of any housewife will be ready at the 
appointed time, attractive and appetizing. This 
is possible in the hottest day of summer. Many 
uses for such a box may be found in every family, 
the boiling of a ham or chicken, and the cooking 
of a holiday dinner being among them. 




We have a still larger boiler of granite ware 
holding four and one-half gallons and inclosed in 
a box of suitable size with three and one-half 
inches of packing around it. The diameter of this 
boiler is fourteen inches and the height eight and 
one-half inches. We have found this very useful 
for special purposes. In it one may cook enough 
delicious Boston brown bread for a whole church 
supper or picnic, if the batter is placed in deep 
twenty-five ounce baking powder cans. The 
greater part of a dinner for harvest hands may 
be put into the boiler early in the morning while 



Jf trelesft Coofeer 20 

it is cool, thus relieving the labor of the house- 
wife. It may cook a ham in one night and the 
next may boil eight or ten pounds of beef and so 
solve the problem of meat for many men and for 
many a day. 

The large boilers should be broad rather than 
deep so that several jars or cans may be placed 
side by side. These receptacles should reach 
nearly to the top of the boiler thus allowing a 
large body of hot water and insuring perfect 
cooking. 



Coofetns Utensil* 

The ingenious woman can adapt the utensils in 
her pantry to the new uses required by this 
method of cookery. Porcelain, granite-ware, 
aluminum, crockery, and stone-ware are all excel- 
lent. Tin rusts and should be avoided in steam- 
ing. However, tin pans or lids already on hand 
may be safely used if coated with clear drippings 
or cottolene and baked. This will darken the tin 
but not injure it and will prolong its usefulness. 

The most serious problem is to secure tight, 
non-rusting lids. Aluminum covers are already 
to be obtained in the large cities. Granite jelly 
pans and pie pans make excellent covers, because 
they do not rust, and have no hole in the center. 
Every hole invites defeat. But the ideal cover 
fits down in an inch or more, or over on the out- 
side as much, and must not be of tin. 

Stone jars are quite perfect because they hold 
heat so well. With care they may be used instead 
of kettles over a flame. 

It is a good plan to have three or four pans, 
varying in depth, which fit into and upon the big 
steaming kettles. These pans may hold vegeta- 
bles, fruits, escalloped foods and puddings, double 
boiler fashion, with a hot pan or the hot lid of 
the kettle for a cover ; and if the food is to brown, 
a hot soapstone griddle should be placed above it. 

Casseroles and other tasteful forms of bak- 
ing dishes, and brown ware for steaming and 
baking puddings and escalloped foods, suitable to 



fltfje Jf irelesft Coofeer 22 

be placed on the dining table, may be used since 
they are not in danger of cracking from too in- 
tense heat. A saving in the number of dishes 
used may thus be effected. 

A sheet iron or granite roaster with its own 
cover is invaluable for roasting in the insulated 
oven. Heat it and its contents and cover while it 
is over the flame, and then lock it in the oven with 
some hot soapstones or fire brick. 

Have several wire tea stands, baskets of differ- 
ent sizes, some wire toasting frames, and perfo- 
rated pans to protect the delicate ware from direct 
contact with very hot soapstone. These are also 
useful to support closed dishes in the big steaming 
kettles permitting the use of more water. A wire 
basket inverted over food will support a soap- 
stone griddle very close to the food to make a 
brown crust. A meringue is quickly browned in 
this way on a table, without heating the oven 
at all. 

For the large boilers and for all the kettles used 
to enclose smaller vessels there should be a rack 
of some sort to allow a free circulation of water 
underneath the dishes containing the food. The 
rack may be of wire; several tea stands may be 
placed side by side in a wide kettle; perforated 
tin or even wood may be used. We had a rack 
made of the cover of a lard can perforated with 
three-quarter inch holes. You will be able to 
work out these details as the need arises. 



to Use 3t 

While the Fireless Cooker does many wonderful 
and unexpected things, it will not generate its own 
heat. That must be supplied in abundance from 
other sources. When steaming or boiling it is 
essential to have your cooker kettle and its con- 
tents very hot. Put it into the box as quickly as 
possible. Close the box immediately and do not 
open it again until the food has had time to cook. 
If for any reason you must open the box before 
the food is cooked, the kettle must be reheated or 
the cooking will not be done. 

Time tables for cooking with the fireless cooker 
serve as an approximate guide only, for the time 
must depend upon both the cooker and the food. 
Meats may be tough or tender; fowls old or 
young ; vegetables old and pithy, or fresh and suc- 
culent ; fruits may be sweet or sour ; and, all these 
qualities affect the readiness with which they 
yield to the influence of heat. The variations are 
as great as when cooking on coal ranges. Then 
there is a difference in cookers. Some of them are 
so well packed as to conserve the heat better than 
others. The covers of kettles vary. If a kettle 
of water is scalding hot after standing in the 
cooker twelve or fifteen hours, you may have faith 
in your equipment. Generally speaking, the box 
will require twice or three times as long as a gas 
or coal range. But, undoubtedly, the longer cook- 
ing at the lower temperature is a gain in pro- 
ducing digestible food and in preserving its flavor. 



Jftreless Cooker 24 

Do not expect a very small quantity of water 
or food to keep hot ten hours. If you want to 
cook a small amount for a long time, put it into a 
small jar or can or pail, and set this into your 
large kettle of hot water. It will keep hot much 
longer. The larger the body of heat the longer 
it will stay hot. Press the cover down tight as 
you lift the kettle into the cooker. You can hear 
the boiling at the last instant as you close the lid. 

When the homemade cooker is well constructed 
and packed and properly used, it is entirely effi- 
cient and sanitary. As the cooking vessels do 
not come in contact with the packing material, 
being effectively separated from it by the board 
cylinders, and are tightly closed with well fitting 
lids, the absorption of odors or grease by the 
packing and cushions is impossible. We find 
that the cooker made and planned for our own 
special needs is most satisfactory and often more 
effective and useful than some of the manufac- 
tured articles. 

Do not wait to prepare an elaborate box. Select 
any box that you may find convenient and make 
a temporary cooker, following the directions 
given, and fitting it to any kettles that you may 
have. Be sure to pack the filling down hard and 
to cover closely when you put the food into the 
box. The experiment will be an interesting one 
and you will have the benefit of the plan at once. 
Then make the more complete and finished cooker 
as you find it convenient to do so. 

When water is brought to the boiling point 
(212 degrees), additional fuel is used, not to in- 



25 otD to *e 3t 



crease the heat, but to keep the water boiling. 
When a high temperature can be maintained by 
other means, the time and attention of the cook is 
saved, as well as fuel, and there is no need to 
discuss the wisdom of a cooking box. 

This magical box, unlike Pandora's, will solve 
the problem of domestic service in many homes. 
Trained servants will hail it with joy, and seeing 
its benefits, will reap the blessings; while un- 
trained help can be taught to accomplish good re- 
sults with few failures. It w r ould help any maid 
to have a breakfast box packed with three com- 
partments; one for a coffee pot, one for an oat- 
meal kettle, and one for a kettle of water fitted 
under a skillet for ham, breakfast bacon, or hash. 

The cooker is a boon to a woman with guests, 
and especially to the hostess who "does her own 
work," or has incompetent help. It is invaluable 
to people who do light housekeeping and it will 
make housekeeping light to those who acquire the 
cooker habit. Women need no longer suffer from 
headaches and nervous exhaustion due f o standing 
over heated stoves. 

Water may be heated in the evening and be 
kept hot for the early morning riser. Hot \vater or 
ice may be enclosed in these boxes and will prove 
a blessing in the sick room. Baby's milk may be 
kept warm at night. 

Yeast bread may be set in the cooker to rise 
over night. A uniform temperature is thereby 
assured. 

With a two or three burner gas flat, an insu- 
lated oven and a good tireless cooker, the meals 



Jf trelestf Cooker 26 

for a large family may be prepared and the black, 
unsightly, and expensive range may be dismissed 
from the kitchen. 

This box is as useful in the winter as in the 
summer. It saves the time of the housewife on 
short days with their precious hours; for we use 
more of the foods requiring long cooking in winter 
than in summer. 

Did you ever have the rice or tapioca or maca- 
roni that you were preparing for dinner, rise up 
and refuse to stay in the kettle? And if, by 
constant watching, you succeeded in keeping it 
in subjection, did it not take revenge by sticking 
to the pot? It is well known to the experienced 
cook that all foods containing a large percentage 
of starch have a seeming ambition to rise in the 
cooking and must be carefully watched that they 
may not boil over. Although as a rule these arti- 
cles do not require long cooking, wouldn't it be a 
relief to place them over the fire only long enough 
to bring them to the boiling point, and then shut 
them up in a box where they will not need watch- 
ing but will continue to cook? 

While reapers, listers, gangplows, potato dig- 
gers, separators, and countless other mechanical 
devices have mitigated the drudgery of farm la- 
bor, the question of feeding the laborer must be 
answered, and here the burden falls upon the 
housewife, and machinery has not as yet brought 
much respite to her never ending toil. We believe 
that the fireless cooker will be a boon to these toil- 
ers, in giving hours of rest and respite \vhen pre- 
paring the regular meals for the "men folks." It 



27 oto to *e 3t 



saves much anxiety in watching the cooking of 
food. At the same time the meals will be better 
served and always on time. Hot appetizing 
lunches may be served in the field and in many 
cases long journeys can be saved for the men, 
who will thus accomplish more work. 

Planning for these things will be in itself an 
education and will raise kitchen work to the plane 
of skilled labor. It is not so much the work 
which crushes life out of our women as the 
monotony of tasks that never end and that never 
stimulate thought. There must be periods of 
rest, such as the fireless cooker will bring when 
doing its work, when the mistress can rest her 
weary hands and at the proper time be fresh to 
complete the preparation for the coming meal. 

In your initial experiments in this method of 
cooking remember hot food, tight lids, and tight 
coverings as the most essential points. Then 
don't distrub the food until the given time. Re- 
member that half-heated and carelessly packed 
kettles and pails will result in failure of some 
sort. Give the plan a good honest chance to 
win and it will do so every time. 

Considerable self-control may be required dur- 
ing your first experiment to resist the temptation 
to open the cooker and lift the lids "just to see 
if it is cooking." But this, like all temptations, 
should be firmly put aside. However, if the temp- 
tation proves too strong and a peep is not to be 
resisted, the kettle must be returned to the fire 
and brought again to the boiling point, then 
placed in the cooker, tightly covered, to remain 
its allotted time. 



Jf irelestf Cooker 28 

The use of a cooking box on Sunday makes pos- 
sible a day of genuine rest. A good dinner left 
in the box will be found ready for the table on 
returning from church, with the desirable flavors 
all retained and no steaming odors permeating 
the parlor nor even the pantry. Even the water 
used in steaming is ready for the dish washing. 

An overheated or disorderly kitchen full of 
steam, smoke, and vegetable odors, may be trans- 
formed into a room perpetually attractive and 
neat. 



to Coofe in a Refrigerator 



I hear you exclaim, "What next? Are we to 
be treated to a new Wonder-book? To boil, 
steam, stew, and even bake! in a refrigerator! 




COOKER FOR BOILING AND BAKING 



This surely is a paradox, a dream of an enthusi- 
ast carried beyond the bounds of possibility." 

But no, it is entirely possible, and is being ac- 
complished every day in our kitchens. We wish 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 30 

it were possible to share with you some of the 
products of our experiments. We can do so only 
by presenting to you our plans and methods, trust- 
ing that you will be inspired to adopt these meth- 
ods and to reap their benefits without delay. 

The discarded ice box with its insulating lining 
will make a satisfactory and complete cooker. 
The part prepared to preserve ice provides space 
for two large kettles to be used for all moist heat. 
The heavy lid which excluded heat will now retain 
it. Only a little additional packing is necessary 
to fit around the curved kettle forms. Packing 
material may be wool, cotton, crumpled news- 
paper, sawdust, ground cork, excelsior, or as- 
bestos. 

The lower part makes a fine oven. Remove 
the shelves and slip in a gasoline oven. Insulate 
the space between the oven and the lining of the 
refrigerator with asbestos wool, making it very 
tight. Supply heat by a very hot soapstone or 
fire brick slabs, heated over a flame while you are 
preparing the food for the oven. Place meat, 
potatoes, pies, etc., in ordinary baking pans, heat- 
ing as much as seems wise over the flame. Then 
put the hot fire brick or stone and the food into 
the oven just as quickly as possible. Tightly 
close doors of both oven and refrigerator and do 
not open them until the allotted time. We found 
it best to have two more buttons put on the oven 
door to hold it more tightly closed. We fitted in 
an asbestos slab from the secondhand store for 
a floor, filling the space below it with asbestos 
w r ool. After that was in there was no space to 
be heated that was not needed in baking. 



ben 

The methods of steaming and boiling by the 
plans which have been given, are so efficient that 
it would seem that no more could be desired. But 
there are some foods that can never be acceptable 
unless they are baked. The golden brown color 
produced by dry heat is gratifying to the eye. A 
crispy crust, too, is desirable. Certainly an oven 
is necessary to completely satisfy us. 

It proves to be perfectly feasible to insulate an 
oven, and heat it by means of soapstone griddles 
and fire brick. The size of the oven, the quality 
of its insulation, the force of the fire, and the po- 
sition of the stone slabs in relation to the flame, 
are all factors to be considered in heating the 
oven. A bit of paper to test the heat of the stone 
slabs, a glance at the clock, and some innate good 
sense, will combine in determining to a nicety just 
how much heat is being transferred from the 
flame to the oven. The merchants supply soap- 
stone griddles with good handles; and it is easy 
to have suitable and convenient handles put on 
other soapstone slabs by which to lift them. When 
attention to all these details has produced an oven 
which will remain heated for an entire day, with 
no more fire and a cool kitchen, no one can ques- 
tion the value of an insulated oven. The moment 
the hot stones enter the oven the heat begins to 
distribute itself evenly throughout the enclosure, 
and the consequence is that the baking is uniform, 
and a loaf of bread, for instance, will have an 
evenly browned crust over the entire surface. 



Qtfje Jf ireleste Cooker 32 

Breads, meats, apples, potatoes, cookies, cakes, 
custards, anything, may be baked in an insulated 
oven, and more certainly just right than in an 
oven with a fluctuating temperature. Perhaps 
the greatest advantage is in baking foods which 
require a long time, because the oven will hold 
its heat all day or all night. Repeated opening, 
of course, cools it. But even so, baking day is 
divested of that constant care of a big fire, and 
you may cool the air of the room to your liking. 
The baking of many pies, cakes, cookies, etc., in 
close succession requires the reheating of a par- 
tially cooled slab only a few times. 

Suppose an oven to be heated for gems or bis- 
cuits for breakfast. At ten o'clock bread may 
be baked by putting in with it one freshly heated 
slab. An hour later take out the bread and put 
in a cake with one opening of the oven and no 
additional heat. Some thoroughly heated vege- 
tables and meat for dinner may be put in with 
the cake. A shortcake may follow; and when 
it is taken out put in beans, already very hot 
from the cooker kettle to remain several hours. 

The time required for baking food is necessarily 
determined by the size of the oven and the amount 
of heat you can put into it and keep there. It 
will be an easy task to learn the secrets of your 
own stove. Suppose you try something that your 
family likes and that you make frequently for 
your first effort. Your knowledge of cooking and 
cookery by old methods will avail to supply the 
lack where these suggestions are faulty. A long 
acquaintance with an oven of this kind will justify 
a close attachment to it. 



33 oto to JB*e it 



You can bake in your stew kettles. It is easier 
and takes less fuel to heat the stones for a single 
kettle than to heat the larger stones for an entire 
oven. The kettle affords room for one deep dish 
of food and one hot stone below and one above it. 
Two shallow pans of biscuits, or two layers of 
cake may be put in at the same time. Put the 
hot kettle, filled with its food and the hot stones, 
in the pocket in the box. The things will bake 
in about the time that they will in an oven. A 
wide kettle and two soapstone griddles are needed 
for this work. We used hot stove lids for our 
first experiments. Use wire teastands to separate 
the dish containing the food from direct contact 
with a too hot stone. 



insulateb Colb pox 



A box used solely for preserving cold foods is a 
practical help in many homes. Stone jars make the 

best compart- 
ments, because 
they hold a given 
temperature re- 
markably well. 
Select large jars 
and pack them 
side by side in a 
good box. The 




COLD BOX 



jars should touch 
each other, with wide insulation at all of the 
outer edges. Have good stoneware covers and a 
thick, firm cushion for the top. A pail of ice 
set in the middle jar will chill them all. It will 
keep them cold a day or two after the ice 
has changed to ice water. When ice cannot be 
obtained, the temperature may be lowered many 
degrees by very cold water. Keep this cold 
box in your very coldest corner. This may be 
used instead of a refrigerator, or as a useful ad- 
junct to one. A small piece of ice will give gen- 
erous service if the insulation is good. It may 
hold gelatines, custards, fresh fruits, salads, veg- 
etables, cold meats, and frozen creams in fine 
condition for the table. 



Your grocer will smile when you tell him your 
plan for his discarded candy pail. But you can 

accept his implied 
skepticism with equa- 
nimity, knowing that 
"he laughs best who 
laughs last/' 

This pail may be 
lined in such a way as 
to have a deep roomy 
compartment for a 
number of vessels. It 
may one day carry 
coffee, beans, escal- 
loped dishes and 
other hot foods to 
church suppers or to skating or boating parties. 
Another day it will keep cold things cold for you, 
and carry butter, ice cream, salads, fruits, and 
sandwiches on automobile trips, or to picnics and 
other outings. 




INSULATED PAIL 



uggrstion 



For cooking a dinner in one kettle all at one time : 
Roast beef in jar resting upon a wire frame, and 

surrounded 
by potatoes. Es- 
calloped tomatoes 
in the deep pan 
and fish in the 
shallow pan at 
the top. Heat 
each dish and its 
contents alone, 
before placing in 
the cooker kettle. 
Boiling water 

should reach two-thirds the height of the meat 
jar. Then cook all over the flame a few minutes 
before consigning them to the box. This combi- 
nation may safely remain in the cooker from four 
to six hours. In any case the potatoes should be 
dried over a flame before serving. 

Another plan: Let the jar contain a pudding 
and be surrounded by beets, or turnips or cab- 
bage. Place escalloped potatoes in the deep pan, 
and lamb or pork chops in the shallow pan. This 
combination may safely remain in the cooker eight 
or ten hours. 




"When in culinary doubt, consult the French." 

Soups have much to recommend them. While 
their nutritive value is high, they may be made 
of the cheapest materials. The skill of the cook 
is shown in the flavors secured by the appetizing 
combinations of seasoning. Now that we have 
cooking boxes to help in the long time which is 
necessary for preparing them, soups may well 
have a much more important place in the menu 
than we have heretofore given them. A fine 
soup aids in digestion and adds to the general 
sum of happiness. 

Soups may be prepared, seasoned, and made 
ready for the table, and placed in the cooker sev- 
eral hours before they are needed. The fire is 
then free for the preparation of the remainder of 
the dinner. The soup will require no further 
care, and there will be no boiling away, the flavor 
will be improved, and it will be found sufficiently 
hot for the table. 

Broivn Soup Stock. 

Take six pounds of the shin of beef, the middle 
of the round, or the neck. Cut the lean meat 
into inch pieces and have the bones well cracked. 
Put the fat and if needed a little butter into a 
frying-pan with a medium sized onion. When 
browned take them out and put them into the 
cooker kettle. To the remaining fat add one- 
half the meat and when it is well browned, put it 
into the kettle. Pour a little hot water into the 



Jf ireleste Coofeer 38 

frying pan and then into the kettle with the re- 
mainder of the lean meat, the bones, and any 
trimmings of veal, poultry or beef, either cooked 
or raw that you may have. Pour over all about 
five quarts of cold water. Heat very slowly and 
skim carefully. When it is clear and boiling con- 
sign it to the cooker for ten hours or over night. 

In the morning reheat and add one-half cup 
each of chopped carrot and turnip, one-half table^ 
spoonful of pepper corns, one tablespoonful of 
salt, one bay leaf, one-third cup of green celery 
leaves chopped, and two sprigs of parsley. Re- 
move to the cooker when boiling and let remain 
one hour. Then strain and cool. 

Unseasoned Soup Stock. 

Have the butcher cut into small pieces one large 
shin of beef. Wash thoroughly and put into the 
cooker vessel with four quarts of cold water, and 
any bone trimmings or bits of cold meat that you 
may have. Let stand half an hour, then heat grad- 
ually to the boiling point. Boil a few minutes, 
skimming carefully as the scum rises so that none 
will boil in. Now put on the cover tightly and 
remove to the cooker to remain about twelve 
hours. At the end of that time strain into a jar 
or crock to cool. When fully cold take off every 
particle of fat. This stock may be used as a 
foundation for all sorts of clear or thickened 
soups and must be made a day or two before 
needed for use. 

Seasoned Soup Stock. 

Proceed as for unseasoned stock. After strain- 
ing, add one onion, one small turnip, a small car- 



39 OTimt to Cook 



rot, a handful of celery tops, one bay leaf, a sprig 
of parsley, a tablespoonful of salt and a few pep- 
per corns. Bring to the boiling point and return to 
the cooker for one or two hours, as convenient. 
Then strain, and when cold skim well. The stock 
is ready for use, and will keep several days. 

White Stock. 

White stock is made from chicken or veal or 
from both combined, following the directions giv- 
en for unseasoned stock. It is usually used with 
celery or rice and for the more delicate soups. It 
also makes a desirable addition to thickened cream 
soups. 

To Clarify Soup. 

Take cold seasoned soup stock and to each quart 
of stock add one egg beaten lightly and the 
crushed shell. Heat to boiling and let boil rap- 
idly for five minutes. Add the juice of half a 
lemon and strain through cheesecloth. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. This may be used 
as a clear soup; or rice, vermicelli, or vegetables 
may be added. Serve with cheese fingers. 

Bean Soup. 

One-half cup of navy beans. One-half cup of 
lima beans. Put them into one quart of boiling 
water with salt, pepper, and one bay leaf. Boil 
five minutes. Place in cooker four hours. Strain 
out the beans and mash them. Put them back 
into the soup and beat hard with an egg beater. 
Strain. Pour in one cup of rich cream. Reheat 
and serve. 



Jf treless Coofeer 40 

Bean Porridge. 

Soak one pint of navy beans in warm water six 
or eight hours, adding a small teaspoonful of 
soda. Take three pounds of lean beef; the 
cheapest cuts will do. Cut into small pieces and 
put it into a cooker kettle with three quarts of 
cold water. Heat very slowly and after skim- 
ming thoroughly add the soaked beans which have 
been well drained. Boil fifteen minutes and 
place it in the cooker to remain over night. In 
the morning take out a portion of the meat as 
there will be more than you will wish to serve 
with the soup. Cut the remainder into very 
small pieces and return to the kettle. Thicken 
the porridge with three tablespoonfuls of corn 
meal wet with cold water. Add to it one table- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pepper, 
and put it boiling hot into the cooker and leave it 
until you are ready for the dinner. 

Bean Porridge, Another Way. 

A quick way of making bean porridge when the 
cooked materials are at hand. Take two quarts 
of plain soup stock, one quart of cooked navy 
beans, and one and one-half cups of cooked beef, 
cut into very small pieces. Season with two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt and one-fourth teaspoonful of 
pepper. Put all the ingredients into a cooker ket- 
tle and when it is boiling, thicken with three table- 
spoonfuls of cornmeal wet up with cold water. 
This will be ready for the table if placed in the 
cooker for one hour, or will be equally good if 
prepared early and allowed to remain until it 
is time for serving. 



41 ataatat to cook 

Black Bean Soup. 

Soak a pint of beans over night, next morning 
cover them with fresh water, bring to the boil- 
ing point, and strain. Place in your cooker ket- 
tle, add two quarts of fresh water, boil ten min- 
utes, and put in a cooker two hours. Take out 
and place over the fire; add an onion stuck with 
eight whole cloves, two bay leaves, half a teaspoon 
of powdered cinnamon, a saltspoon of white pep- 
per, a teaspoon of salt, and a stalk of minced cel- 
ery. Boil a few moments and place in a cooker 
again two hours. Press the vegetables through 
a colander and blend a tablespoon of butter with 
them. Return them to the liquid. If too thick, 
add hot water. Dice two hard boiled eggs, add 
a teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce, a little grated 
lemon peel, and a grate or two of nutmeg, adding 
as the puree is served. Pass toasted crackers or 
browned croutons. 

Bean and Tomato Soup. 

One pint of navy beans cooked in the cooking 
box. Mash to a pulp and press through a soup 
strainer. To the pulp add one quart of unsea- 
soned soup stock, one pint of stewed or canned 
tomatoes, one onion sliced, one bay leaf, a stalk 
of celery or some green celery tops. 

Bring all to the boiling point and place in the 
cooker one or two hours. Just before serving 
strain, rubbing through as much pulp as possible, 
strainer to be fine enough to retain the seeds. 
Add one rounded tablespoon each of butter and 
flour rubbed to a paste. Season to taste with 
pepper and salt. Bring to the boiling point and 
serve with toasted crackers. 



Jf trelesg Coofeer 42 

Beef Tea. 

Cut lean beef into small pieces and put it in a 
granite or porcelain pail with a tight lid. Set 
the pail in a cooker kettle with boiling water. 
Keep it over a flame until the meat is boiling 
hot. Set it in the cooker three or four hours. 
Strain and season to taste. 

Cinderella Soup. 

To two tablespoons of rice add all left over 
vegetables, meats, and bones, which are not to be 
utilized in other ways, but are dainty and good. 
Cover with boiling water. Boil a few minutes 
and place promptly in the cooker. At night strain. 
Season and serve on a poached egg in each bowl. 

Green Corn Soup. 

Grate twelve ears of uncooked corn ; add to this 
three pints of white stock. When it boils remove 
to the cooker for two hours. Then reheat and 
stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour and one of but- 
ter beaten together, one-third of a cup of cracker 
crumbs, and one hard boiled egg chopped fine. 
Season to taste with salt, pepper, and celery salt, 
and, if liked, a little chopped parsley. 

Esau's Pottage. 

Half a cup of lentils soaked several hours. Chop 
together one carrot, one parsnip, one turnip, and 
one small onion. Mix with the lentils and sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and one grate of nutmeg. 
Rub butter the size of an almond into a teaspoon- 
ful of flour. Heat it with the vegetables and one 
quart of milk. Cover and stand in a kettle of boil- 



43 . ^fjat to Cook 



ing water. Boil ten minutes and place in the 
cooker six hours. Eat hot. 

Hasty Soup. 

Strain one pint of canned tomatoes, rubbing 
through the pulp. Add one pint of water and a 
large cup of canned corn. When boiling, thicken 
with one tablespoonful of flour and two of but- 
ter rubbed together. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper and shut in the box until time to serve. 
Heat and add a pinch of soda and pour into it 
a cup of rich, hot cream. Serve with croutons. 

Italian Soup. 

Cook in plenty of water three pounds of veal, 
seasoning with salt and pepper, and flavoring with 
thyme, marjoram, a bay leaf, and parsley. Boil 
ten minutes after it is skimmed, and set in a 
cooker four or five hours. Take out the meat. 
Strain. Reheat and put into it cooked macaroni 
cut into short lengths and a sprinkling of grated 
cheese. 

Lentil Soup. 

Half a cup of lentils soaked over night, one car- 
rot, one parsnip, one turnip, one small onion ot 
other vegetable, all cut up small. Add a quart of 
boiling water. Season with salt, black pepper, 
and a teaspoon of butter. Boil a few minutes 
and set in the cooker about six hours. Strain or 
leave the vegetables in. 

Mock Oyster Soup. 

Cut up enough thoroughly ripe tomatoes to 
make one quart; add one and one-half pints of 
hot water, bring to boiling point, and place in the 



Jf trele&s Coofeer 44 

cooker one or two hours. A short time before 
serving strain the tomatoes, rubbing through the 
sieve as much pulp as possible. Place over the 
fire. Add one level teaspoonful of soda and at 
once pour into it one and one-half pints of rich 
milk. When boiling add three-fourths of a cup 
of fine cracker crumbs and two tablespoonfuls of 
butter. Season well with pepper and salt and a 
pinch of red pepper. Boil up once and serve. 
This may be made of canned tomatoes, using one 
and one-half pints. Serve with cheese fingers. 

Split Pea Soup. 

Soak one cup of split peas all night in two cups 
of warm water. In the morning boil them hard 
ten minutes in fresh water. Strain and crush the 
peas. Rub into them one tablespoon of flour. 
Return them to the water, add a bay leaf, celery 
tops, salt, pepper. Boil a few minutes and place 
in a cooker four hours. Just before serving strain 
out the celery tops and bay leaf. 

Scotch Broth. 

Take three pounds of mutton cut from the fore 
quarter. Wipe and trim and cut into one inch 
cubes. Put the meat, with the bones cracked, into 
a cooker kettle with three pints of cold water or 
just enough to cover. Bring to the boiling point. 
Skim and add one-half cup of barley which has 
been soaked in cold water over night. Boil fifteen 
minutes, and while it is boiling, fry, but do not 
brown, in two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-fourth 
cup each of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery cut 
into one-half inch dice. Add vegetables to the 
soup and season with salt and pepper to taste. 



45 Sgfjat to Cook 



Brown two tablespoonfuls of flour in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter and add to the boiling soup. When it 
thickens shut away in the box and leave until just 
before time to serve. Then remove the bones and 
reheat the broth for the table. Rice may be 
used in place of the barley. Wash it well and put 
it into the kettle when you do the vegetables. 

Rice and Potato Soup. 

Into three pints of boiling water and one pint 
of milk put two cups of sliced potato, one 
onion cut fine, one-half cup of well washed rice, 
and one stalk of celery cut into small pieces or 
some celery leaves. Boil five minutes over the fire 
and place in the cooker for two hours or more. 
When ready to serve put the kettle over the fire 
and mash the potato fine. Add two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and one of flour. Season with two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt and one-fourth teaspoon of pep- 
per. Just before sending to the table stir in a 
cupful of whipped cream. 

Swiss Potato Soup. 

Pare and cut into small pieces enough turnip 
to make one pint ; add three pints of sliced potato 
and one quart of water. Place over the flame and 
boil about five minutes, then remove to the cook- 
ing box for three hours. When done, drain and 
rub through a colander or soup strainer. Add one 
and one-half pints of milk, two level tablespoon- 
fuls of butter, one cup of thin cream, salt and 
pepper to taste. If too thick, add cream or hot 
milk to make the proper consistency. 



jFireless Cooker 46 

Tomato Bouillon. 

Take two quarts of stock made in the cooker ac- 
cording to directions for unseasoned soup stock. 
Place in the cooker kettle with one medium sized 
onion, one and one-half cups of stew r ed or canned 
tomato and a few celery tops. Place on the fire 
and heat to the boiling point. Then cover closely 
and remove to the cooking box for one hour or 
more. When ready to serve, strain the soup and 
return to the kettle, and bring again to the boil- 
ing point. When it is boiling hot, stir into it one 
level tablespoonful of cornstarch wet up with cold 
water; add one tablespoonful of salt, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of pepper, with a dash of red pepper. 
Serve with croutons. 

Tomato Soup. 

Take one quart of stewed or canned tomatoes, 
one pint of rich soup stock, a small bay leaf, one 
stalk of celery, or a handful of celery tops, a 
sprig of parsley, one small onion, and one tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Blend together three table- 
spoonfuls each of butter and flour, and stir into 
the boiling soup. When it is smooth, add two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of black 
pepper, and a dash of red pepper. 

Turkey Soup. 

Cover the bones of a turkey or other fowl with 
six cups of hot water. Add a bunch of celery tops, 
some parsley, a small bay leaf, pepper, salt, and 
one-half cup of uncooked rice. Boil five minutes 
and place in the cooker four hours. Strain 
through a colander that will not hold back the 



47 Wfat to Cook 

rice. Add one cup of cream and beat the soup 
with an egg beater. Serve at once with a des- 
sert spoonful of stiff whipped cream on each 
portion, and pass small croutons. 

Soup Without Meat. 

Into a small cooker kettle put one-third of a cup- 
ful of butter, and one-third of a cup each of cel- 
ery, turnip, and onion, one quarter of a cupful of 
carrot, and one and one-half cupfuls of potato. 
Cut the vegetables into very small pieces and heat 
them in the butter for ten minutes. Then pour 
over them one quart of boiling water. When at 
the boiling point remove to the cooker to remain 
two hours or more if convenient. When you are 
ready to serve the soup, put it over the fire, 
thicken it with a tablespoonful of flour, and sea- 
son with two small teaspoonfuls of salt, one-third 
of a teaspoonful of black pepper, and a pinch of 
cayenne. When the soup boils up again, it is 
ready for the table. Serve with toasted crackers. 

Soup With Rice. 

For this soup take about two pounds of raw 
meat, which may be any of the cheapest cuts, trim- 
mings from steaks or chops, or any stringy pieces 
that are not suitable for the table. Cut into very 
small pieces and add to them any cold meat, 
chicken, bone, or gristle that you may have. 
Pour over them two quarts of cold water and 
slice in one medium sized onion. Bring slowly to 
the boiling point and skim carefully. When no 
more scum rises, put it into the cooker to remain 
five or six hours, or it may remain all night. Then 
strain, and cool the liquor, and skim off all the 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 48 

fat. An hour before wanted for the table put it 
again into the cooker kettle and add one-half cup 
of well washed rice. When it boils, stir in a tea- 
spoonful of cornstarch wet with cold water, two 
teaspoons of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pep- 
per, and a little celery salt. Place it in the cooker 
until it is time to serve. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Have the butcher split a soup bone. Cut the 
meat on it into small pieces; cover well with cold 
water and after it begins to boil skim it and set 
it in the cooker over night. In the morning strain 
and remove the fat. Add one carrot, two medium 
onions, one parsnip, one oyster plant, one turnip, 
two potatoes, a quarter of a small cabbage, and 
some celery, all cut into bits. Add a teaspoonful 
of salt and saltspoonful of pepper to a quart of 
liquid. Let boil fifteen minutes, and place in 
cooker until luncheon. If all these vegetables 
cannot be obtained, use instead those you can get 
and half a cup of oatmeal or half a cup of pearl 
barley. Strain and serve hot. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Dice one-half cup each of carrot, turnip, and 
celery and one and one-half cupfuls of potato. Cut 
half an onion into bits. Saute all except the potato 
in four tablespoonfuls of hot butter. Add the 
potatoes, cover and cook two minutes. Add salt, 
pepper, and one-half tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley. Pour in five cupfuls of boiling water. 
Boil three minutes and place in the cooker three 
hours. Strain the vegetables out. Mash them 
and put them in again or not, as you choose. 



49 JSHfjat to Coofe 

Vegetables in Soup. 

Take a shank of beef, cut the meat into small 
pieces and have the bone cracked fine. Put it over 
the fire in just enough cold water to cover. Bring 
slowly to boiling point, skim thoroughly, and when 
fully boiling place in the cooker. In the morning 
strain, cool, and skim. Two hours before dinner 
place three pints of the stock over the fire and 
when boiling add to it one cup each of sliced 
potato, chopped cabbage, grated corn, young green 
beans, and peeled tomatoes. Add one onion and a 
small carrot cut fine. Thicken with one table- 
spoonful of flour. Heat to boiling and put into 
the cooker until wanted for the dinner. 

A Nutritious Vegetable Soup. 

One and one-half pounds of lean beef chopped 
very fine, three pints of cold water, a small turnip, 
one-half a carrot, one large onion, four medium 
sized potatoes. Cut the vegetables into very small 
pieces. Add one cup of chopped cabbage and a 
piece of bay leaf. Cook over the fire ten minutes 
and three hours in the cooker. When ready to 
take up season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
send to the table without straining. Beets sliced 
and pickled are a good relish with this soup. 

Neiv England Vegetable Soup. 

The day before you want the soup prepare a 
shank of beef. Have it cut into small pieces at 
the market. Wash it well and place it in the 
cooker kettle with three quarts of cold water; if 
that is not sufficient to cover the meat, add a lit- 
tle more water. Bring it slowly to the boiling 
point. Skim thoroughly as the scum rises. When 



Jf irelestf Cooker 50 

it is clear, cover the kettle and remove to the 
cooker to remain twelve hours; then take it out 
and strain into a jar or crock. 

The next morning skim off all the fat. Put the 
liquor into the cooker kettle and place over the 
fire with one-half cup of uncooked rice. When it 
boils put it into the cooking box. About two hours 
before it is wanted for the table, place it over the 
fire. Have ready four potatoes, two onions, two 
slices of turnip, one-half a carrot, cut into quite 
small pieces, and put them with one cup of 
chopped cabbage into the soup. When boiling re- 
turn to the cooker. 

When ready to serve, reheat. If the rice has 
not thickened the soup sufficiently, add a table- 
spoonful of flour made smooth with a little cold 
water. Season well with pepper and salt. 

Cream of Asparagus Soup. 

One large bunch or one can of asparagus. Cut 
the tips from the asparagus and lay them aside. 
Put the stalks in just enough boiling water to 
cover them. Boil over the flame five minutes and 
remove to the cooker for one hour and a half. 
Then press through a sieve as much of the pulp 
as possible. Return it to the kettle with one cup 
of the water in which the asparagus was boiled 
and four cups of milk. Put it over the fire and 
when it boils, stir in a thickening made with two 
tablespoonfuls of flour wet with a little cold 
water. Add two tablespoonfuls of butter. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper. Add the reserved 
tips ; boil five minutes and place in the cooker for 
thirty-five minutes or until the soup is required 
for the table. 



51 MHjat to Cook 

Cream of Chicken. 

Break the bones of a fowl when it comes from 
the table, and put them with the left over meat 
and gravy into a cooker kettle. Cover the bones 
with hot water ; salt and let boil five minutes, and 
place in cooker two or three hours. Take out and 
strain. Cool and remove the fat. Heat and 
thicken with the fat blended with one tablespoon 
of flour. Add a cup of cream. Serve with egg 
balls made as follows : Yolks of three hard boiled 
eggs and of one raw egg rubbed smooth with a 
teaspoon of flour and a good pinch of salt. Make 
into small balls and cook in the soup at the last 
minute. 

Cream of Corn Soup. 

Two cups of grated or canned corn, two cups of 
milk, and one cup of water. Bring to the boiling 
point and place in the cooker two hours or more. 
When ready to serve reheat and add one-third of 
a cup of cracker crumbs, and a rounded table- 
spoonful of butter blended with one level table- 
spoonful of flour. Season with two teaspoonfuls 
of salt, and pepper to taste. 

Cream of Lima Bean Soup. 

Soak over night one and one-half cupfuls of 
dried beans. In the morning drain and add three 
pints of cold water and one-fourth teaspoonful of 
soda. Bring them slowly to a boil, cook ten min- 
utes over the flame, and place in the cooker for 
four hours. Brown one-third cup each of finely 
chopped carrot and onion in two generous table- 
spoons of butter, cooking about ten minutes or 



QTfje Jf irelestf Cooker 52 

until the flavor is well extracted. Mash the beans 
through a soup strainer ; then put them back into 
the water in which they were cooked. Beat them 
well to separate the hulls from the pulp and then 
strain again and return to the kettle. Drain the 
butter from the vegetables and stir smoothly into 
it one tablespoonful of flour and add to the boil- 
ing soup. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a 
pinch of cayenne. 

Cream of Pea Soup. 

Shell peas. Cook the pods in enough water to 
cover them. Throw the pods away and use the 
water to cook the peas. Boil and set in the cooker 
an hour and a half. Take out and rub through a 
colander. Season and thicken with a tablespoon 
of flour and a salt spoon of sugar rubbed together 
with a tablespoon of butter. 

Cream of Spinach. 

One quart of cream or milk. Thicken it with 
one tablespoon of butter blended with one table- 
spoon of flour, salt, pepper, and a teaspoon of 
minced parsley. When it boils put into it one 
cup of cold cooked spinach. Place in cooker until 
needed. Serve with chopped boiled egg in each 
bowl and a sprig of parsley- on top. 

Cream Vegetable. 

Cut fine one-eighth of a medium sized cabbage, 
one carrot, one potato, one-half turnip, one-half 
onion, and one-half cup of celery. Cover with two 
quarts of boiling water. Salt to taste and add cay- 
enne pepper. Boil on the stove ten minutes and in 
a cooker two hours. When ready to serve strain 



53 Wfat to Coofe 



and add one cup of hot cream. Put six or eight 
cubes of hot buttered toast in each bowl. 

Puree of Barley Corn. 

Blanch one cup of barley corn by boiling ten 
minutes, and cool quickly in cold water. Drain. 
Put it into three pints of white stock, boil five 
minutes and set it in the cooker four or five hours. 
Rub the grain through a sieve. Heat again over 
the flame and add a tablespoon of butter, one cup 
of cream, and salt and pepper to taste. 

Bean Puree. 

One cup of navy beans, one teaspoon salt, two 
or three dashes of pepper, one bay leaf, three cups 
of water. Boil ten minutes and set in a cooker 
five hours. Take out, and remove the bay leaf. 
Rub the beans through a colander to remove the 
hulls. Return them to the soup and add one cup 
of cream. Serve with a tablespoon of whipped 
cream to each bowl and a bit of parsley. 

Chestnut Puree. 

Remove the shells from a quart of chestnuts. 
Cover with chicken or veal stock. Heat and boil 
ten minutes and place in a cooker two hours. 
Strain and press the nuts through a sieve. Mix 
again and add a pint of cream. Salt, pepper, and 
boil. Serve with hot croutons. 

Dried Pea Puree. 

Soak one cup of dried peas several hours. Pour 
over them one quart of boiling water and when it 
has boiled ten minutes, set in the cooker three 
hours or longer. Take out, strain, and mash a por- 



Jf ireltstf Coofeer 54 

tion of the pulp. Add a teaspoon of butter. Sea- 
son. Boil all together and add one cup of cream. 
Serve. 

Fine Flavored Puree. 

Cover one cup of dried beans with cold salted 
water. Let this come to the boiling point, then 
drain and cover with boiling water; add salt, an 
inch cube of lean salt pork, a large onion, and a 
generous handful of celery stalks. There should 
be about five cups of water. Boil ten minutes over 
the fire and place in a cooker five or six hours. 
Press through a sieve and add tiny slices of lemon. 

Potato Puree. 

Pare and cut into thin slices eight medium sized 
potatoes and one large onion. Pour over them 
enough boiling water to cover them. Boil two 
minutes and put into the cooker for one hour or 
more. Then press through a sieve. Add one 
quart of milk, one-half pint of the water in which 
the potatoes were boiled, and two generous table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Season well with salt, pep- 
per, and celery salt, with a little chopped parsley. 
Serve with croutons. 



accompaniments 

Cheese Fingers. 

Trim the crusts from thin slices of light bread, 
butter them lightly and sprinkle with grated 
cheese. Then cut them into narrow strips and 
brown in the oven. 

Croutons. 

Croutons are prepared by trimming the crusts 
from medium thick slices of breat cut into dice. 



55 IBijat to Cook 

They may be browned in butter in a frying pan, 
or dropped into boiling fat and then drained well 
before being sent to the table. Or the slices of 
bread may be buttered, then cut into tiny squares, 
placed on a tin, and browned in the oven. 

Egg Balls for Soup. 

Take the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, one 
teaspoonful of flour made smooth with the yolk 
of one raw egg, and one-half teaspoonful of salt. 
Mix and make into small balls and drop into boil- 
ing soup just before serving. 

A Garnish for Soups. 

One egg, one cup of milk, flour to make a thin 
batter, salt, one tablespoonful of parsley, and a bit 
of onion. Bake quite brown. Cut into narrow 
strips or half-inch squares, and drop into a clear 
soup just before serving. 

Soup Sticks. 

One-half pint of flour, one teaspoon of baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of butter. Sift the baking powder and 
salt with the flour, then rub in the butter and mix 
with one-half cup of milk like biscuit dough. Roll 
out and cut into pieces the size of a lead pencil, 
and bake in the cooker oven ten minutes. 

Serve with soups : Saratoga flakes slightly but- 
tered, sprinkled with cheese and browned. 



Cftotce 



Cfjotce Recipes 



Jfistf) 

"The silvery fish, 

Grazing at large in meadows submarine, 
Fresh from the wave now cheers 
Our festive board." 

To Boil Fish. 

To boil fresh fish, lay it on a wire basket, or 
confine in a bit of cheesecloth to prevent its 
breaking to pieces when you take it up. Put it 
into boiling water skin side down. To six pounds 
fish add three teaspoonfuls of salt and one table- 
spoon of vinegar, to make the fish more firm. Boil 
five minutes and set in the cooker two hours. 
Serve with a butter sauce, and garnish with cold 
boiled eggs and parsley. 

Codfish a la Mode. 

One tea cup of codfish, picked up fine, two 
cups of mashed potatoes. One pint of milk or 
cream, and two eggs well beaten. One-half tea 
cup of butter and salt and pepper to taste. Mix 
all ingredients and bake between hot stones 
twenty-five minutes. 

Fish Chowder. 

Three kinds of fish, cut into small square pieces, 
and enough to make three cupfuls. One pint of 
water or fish stock, one tablespoon each of olive 
oil and jelly. One medium tomato, or half a cup 
if canned. Chop the tomato with one small onion. 
One teaspoon butter. A saltspoon each of parsley, 
thyme, bay leaf, a pinch of cayenne, and salt to 
taste. Heat to boiling in a casserole, and set in a 



59 Wfat to Cook 



well heated cooker oven. It may safely remain 
two hours. Serve hot with toast. 

Italian Fish. 

Cook one-quarter of a pound of macaroni until 
tender, drain and rinse it with cold water. Free 
a pint of cooked fish from bones and skin, and 
flake it. Put half of it in a cooking dish. Add 
half the macaroni, then a tablespoon of melted 
butter and a tablespoon of melted cheese. Sprinkle 
with a salt spoon of salt and a dash of cayenne. 
Add the remainder of the fish and macaroni. Sea- 
son as before. Heat and place in a cooker steamer 
or oven an hour. Brown the top and serve hot. 

Fish may be baked in the insulated oven in 
about the same time that we have accorded it in 
our old ovens, and there will be less to discard 
because the heat of the insulated oven is evenly 
distributed. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

Mix in a saucepan over the fire, one tablespoon 
of butter and one of flour. When melted add 
gradually one and one-half cups of boiling water. 
Stir into this the yolks of three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, three table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil, and, if liked, a little mus- 
tard. To be served with fish. 

Fish and Oysters. 

Shred one pint of halibut or codfish. Season 
with onion, salt, pepper, and a tablespoon of chop- 
ped salt pork. Add a pint of oysters with one 
tablespoon of flour rubbed into the liquor. Heat 
to boiling and place in the cooker two hours. 



3Ff)e Jf irelestf Cooker 60 

Steamed Fish. 

Make a cheesecloth bag. Put fresh fish in the 
bag and slip above it the cover of your kettle. 
Put the cover on the kettle half full of boiling 
water. Steam the suspended fish five minutes 
over the fire. Remove kettle to fireless cooker 
three hours or longer, depending upon the thick- 
ness of the fish. Other food may be cooked below 
the fish. 

Sauce for fish : One cup boiling milk thickened 
with one tablespoon of flour and one of butter rub- 
bed together. Season with salt, paprika, and 
and three drops of onion juice. Lastly add one 
well beaten egg. 

Stuffed Fish. 

Take four pounds of nice fresh fish. Sprinkle 
salt inside and out. For the stuffing take one- 
half cup bacon, one cup bread crumbs, a tiny 
onion, salt, and pepper. Chop and mix well and 
put into the fish. Tie together in paraffin paper. 
Suspend in a cheesecloth bag enclosing the lid of 
a kettle half full of boiling water. Steam over a 
fire ten minutes. Place in a cooker three hours. 
Prepare a cream dressing, adding two hard boiled 
eggs chopped fine. Garnish with lemon and pars- 
ley. Cook vegetables or other food in the water 
below the fish. 

Creamed Oysters. 

For twenty-five oysters, take one-half pint of 
cream, one tablespoon of flour, one tablespoon of 
butter, one tablespoon of chopped parsley, and a 
blade of mace. Put cream or milk on to boil in 
double boiler. Rub butter and flour together. 



61 ^ijat to Cook 



Drain the oysters and put into a hot spider. Put 
butter and flour into hot cream and add the hot 
oysters. Take stale bread cut in slices two inches 
thick, hollow out the inside, leaving a thin crust, 
brush them with melted butter and brown. Fill 
them with oysters and send hot to the table. 

Oyster Dumplings. 

Sift two cupf uls of flour with a teaspoon of bak- 
ing powder and a little salt. Warm two-thirds of 
a cup of oyster liquor if it seems sweet and fresh ; 
if not, take milk, and soften a tablespoon of butter 
in it. Make a soft dough of the flour and liquid. 
Roll out to the thickness of half an inch. Cut into 
rounds. Place three or four oysters in the center 
and season with salt, pepper, mace, and lemon 
juice. Moisten the edges and draw them together. 
Place side by side in a round pan. Bake in a hot, 
dry cooker kettle with hot stones above and below, 
or in a cooker oven. Make a thickened sauce of 
the oyster liquor, or of milk, seasoned with 
chopped parsley. These may be steamed instead, 
if preferred or if more convenient. In that case 
steam over the fire fifteen minutes and lift care- 
fully into a cooker for one hour. 

Salmon in a Mold. 

One can of salmon, picked over and rubbed 
smooth. Add one tablespoon of melted butter, 
one-half cup of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, and 
three well beaten eggs. Put into a buttered dish. 
Heat through over a fire, and set into a cooker 
steamer three hours, or oven one hour. 



Jf trele** Coofeer 62 

Salmon Loaf. 

One quart of salmon, one cup of cracker crumbs, 
two tablespoons of melted butter, three eggs, 
beaten separately, pepper, and salt. A grate or 
two of the rind and juice of one lemon. Put in 
a mould and place over hot water in a cooker ket- 
tle. Boil five minutes and place in cooker for two 
hours. Longer will not injure it. Brown the top. 

Salmon Shells. 

To one can of salmon carefully picked and 
shredded add one egg well beaten, one-half cup of 
cream, one-half cup bread crumbs, a teaspoon 
sugar, a bit of salt and pepper. Butter shells and 
sprinkle with crumbs. Fill the shells with the sal- 
mon mixture, and sprinkle the top with crumbs 
and a few small lumps of butter. Bake half an 
hour between two hot slabs in cooker oven. 



Cfjoice Recipes; 



Choice &ECIPES 



(game antr $oultrp 

"All that a woman has to do in this world, is con- 
tained within the duties of a daughter, a sister, a wife, 
and a mother." STEELE. 

Cracked Corn and Chicken. 

Scald two cups of cracked corn or hominy 
samp, in one quart of water. Let stand to cool. 
Cut a fowl into small pieces. Season them and 
dredge them with flour. Saute in hot fat and 
place in the cooker kettle with the hominy. Cook 
ten minutes and place in the box five or six hours. 

Creamed Chicken. 

Boil one large chicken for one-half hour and 
place in cooker five or six hours. Cool and cut in 
small pieces. Put into a baking dish. Heat one 
quart of cream in a double boiler; smooth three 
tablespoons of flour into five tablespoons of milk, 
and stir into cream, making a white sauce. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. (Don't boil.) Take 
one can of mushrooms, drain off liquor and pour 
scalding water over, then drain. Add mushrooms 
to the chicken and pour white sauce over all. 
Sprinkle cracker crumbs on top. Put into mod- 
erate oven and bake thirty minutes. 

Creamed Chicken Pie. 

Take a three-pound chicken, cut it up, put it in 
your cooker kettle, and cover well with water. 
When it reaches the boiling point, skim, add salt 
and parsley, and after a brisk boil of fifteen 
minutes on the stove put it in the cooker until 
tender. It will take from one to four or five 
hours, depending upon the age of the fowl. 



Jf treles& Coofeer 66 

Make a biscuit or pie paste. Line a buttered 
pan with a portion of it. Take a square of heavy 
unbleached cotton. Crumple it and put it in the 
paste-lined dish. Make a covering with the re- 
mainder of the crust. Put it on, taking care to 
have the cloth protect both edges so they will 
not unite in baking. Make a few incisions for air 
holes in the upper crust. Bake this in a quick 
oven. When done remove the cover and the cloth. 
Arrange the pieces of cooked chicken on the lower 
crust. To the broth add a tablespoon of butter 
blended with two tablespoons of flour, and a little 
cold water. Boil five minutes. Beat one egg-yolk 
with a tablespoon of cream ; add this to the broth, 
but do not let it boil. Pour this thickpr<ed broth 
over the contents of the pie, replace the cover, 
and serve hot. 

Fried Chicken. 

Have ready over the fire the large cooker kettle 
filled with hot water. Place over it a deep pan 
that will serve as a cover, fitting . closely into the 
kettle. Clean and cut the chicken into pieces ; lay 
in salt and water, changing it several times. Roll 
each piece in flour and brown in a frying pan con- 
taining a mixture of lard and butter, seasoning 
well with salt and pepper. When it becomes a rich 
brown on both sides put it into the pan over the 
kettle of boiling water and cover with the kettle 
lid. To the gravy remaining in the frying pan 
add two cups of rich milk. Boil and thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls of flour. Season with salt and 
pepper and pour it over the chicken. Cover close- 
ly. Cook over the fire fifteen minutes and in the 
cooker two hours. 



67 OTfjat to Cook 



An old chicken may be fried according to the 
above recipe, but must be boiled in the cooker the 
day before it is to be served. Boil as follows: 
After the chicken is cut and salted in the usual 
manner, put it into a closed kettle or deep dish 
that can be closely covered, without water, and 
immerse it in the large kettle. The boiling water 
should come up to within two inches of the top 
of the kettle that contains the chicken. Boil until 
it is thoroughly heated through, about thirty min- 
utes. Then remove the kettle carefully covered 
to the cooker. Leave for twelve hours or over 
night. Reheat in the morning, if necessary, and 
leave until time to fry for dinner according to the 
directions given above. This is a delicious way of 
serving old chickens. 

Fried Chicken. 

Disjoint a chicken and roll the pieces in flour 
seasoned to taste. Place in a skillet containing 
three tablespoons of drippings or butter. Heat 
and turn the pieces as they brown. Pour over a 
cup of rich cream. When hot again place in cook- 
er oven between hot slabs. It may remain an hour 
or longer. 

Chicken Fricassee. 

Disjoint the chicken; roll in flour and brown in 
a little fat; as the pieces brown, pack them in the 
cooker kettle. When all are in, make some gravy 
in the skillet where the browning was done. Put 
this into the kettle and add enough water to cover 
chicken. Season with salt and pepper. Boil twen- 
ty minutes and place in cooking box over night. 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 68 

Reheat in the morning and it will be a very tough 
chicken if it is not tender at luncheon. If the fowl 
is young, shorten the time accordingly. 

Chicken Pot Pie. 

After the chicken has been prepared and cut 
into pieces for cooking, follow the directions 
given for Veal Pot Pie. 

* 

Young Duck. 

Take a well cleaned young duck. Fill with a 
savory dressing. Truss and fit neatly into a small 
baking pan. Heat and place in an insulated oven 
one hour or longer if convenient. Mince the gib- 
lets and cook them in a cooker kettle. Blend some 
of the fat from the baked duck with a tablespoon 
of flour and thicken the broth from the giblets. 
Pour this gravy over the giblets in a bowl. 

Fowl in a Casserole. 

Soak a pint of dried lima beans. Bring them 
to a boil in fresh water and set in a cooker two 
hours. Take out and drain. Put them in a cas- 
serole with two cups of diced chicken or other 
fowl, a sliced onion, half a cup of strained tomato, 
and a cup of the bean broth. Add other season- 
ing as desired. Salt and sprinkle with bread 
crumbs and a little chopped parsley. Bake in the 
cooker oven one hour. Serve hot. 

How to Roast an Old Fowl. 

Prepare the fowl as usual for baking but do 
not put in the dressing. Put the fowl whole into 
a kettle with a tightly fitting lid. Place it on a 
rack in a large kettle or boiler. Nearly fill the 
outer vessel with boiling water, taking care that 



69 JJBfjat to Cook 

there is not so much that it will boil into the 
chicken. Boil over the fire until the chicken is 
thoroughly heated, about forty minutes. Then 
with both lids tightly closed remove it to the 
cooker and let it remain twelve hours. This may 
be prepared at night. In the morning reheat and 
place in the cooker until time to roast for dinner, 
which should be one and a half or two hours. 
Then stuff the fowl, rub with melted butter, and 
dust with flour, salt, and pepper. Put into a bak- 
ing pan in an insulated oven and proceed as with 
any roast. 

By steaming in the closed kettle before roast- 
ing, the meat becomes tender without extracting 
the juices as in ordinary steaming or boiling. 

Turkey., 

Clean, rub well with pepper and lemon juice, 
and stuff with bread stuffing, sewing it in well. 
Truss the legs and wings close to the body, and 
pin the fowl in a cheesecloth to preserve the 
shape. Put into boiling salted water, or if you 
have a very large kettle, use a wire basket to 
hold the turkey above the water. Let it steam 
over the fire half an hour, and set it in the 
cooker three hours, or longer if it is very large. 
Remove from the cooker. Coat with melted butter 
and dust with a very little flour. Brown in the 
cooker oven one hour. Serve with oyster, celery, 
or lemon sauce. Garnish with a border of parsley. 

Rabbit en Casserole. 

Cut and slice the rabbit. Dip each piece into 
flour seasoned with salt and pepper. Fry in two 
ounces of butter until each piece is delicately 



Jfirele&s Cooker 

browned but not cooked. Add a finely minced 
small onion, one clove of crushed garlic, a tea- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, one of ground gin- 
ger, and a pinch of ground mace. Moisten with 
one cup of brown stock. Add six mushrooms and 
a half a cup of boiled rice. Boil in a casserole 
five minutes and set in a well-heated cooker oven 
three hours, with the cover on the casserole. 

Jugged Rabbit the English Way. 

Cut a fresh rabbit in handsome pieces. Roll in 
flour and fry to a good brown in half a cup of 
mixed fats. Lift the brown pieces into a stew- 
pan. Mix two tablespoons of flour with the fat 
left in the pan. Stir until smooth, add salt, pep- 
per, a teaspoon of lemon juice, half a glass of 
apple jelly, and stir in two cups of water. Pour 
this sauce over the rabbit in the stewpan. Insert 
a bay leaf, two cloves, and three allspice in a 
cheesecloth bag. Boil five minutes and set in the 
cooker three hours. Take out the bag of spices 
before serving. 



Cfjotce 



Cfjotce Recipes 



jWcats 

"Yet come with me to the forest, you shall bring the 
hunting homeward." LONGFELLOW. 

Baked Beef. 

Chop one pint of cold beef with a little ham; 
add one cup of bread or cracker crumbs, two 
beaten eggs, and salt, pepper, and butter to taste. 
Moisten with stock or gravy. Heat and place in 
the cooker oven one hour. 

Boiling Meats. 

The most simple of culinary processes is not 
often performed to perfection. Put your meat 
into boiling water. The less water, provided the 
meat be covered with it, the more savory will be 
the meat and the better the broth. When the 
water is coming to the boil, a scum will rise. This 
must be carefully taken off. When you have 
skimmed well, put in half a cup of cold water, 
which will throw up the rest of he scum. Skim 
again. After it boils again five minutes set it in 
the cooker two hours or more, according to the 
quantity and thickness. Boiled meat is more 
easily digested than either baked or roasted meat 
because of the over-heating of the fat in the oven. 

Braised Beef. 

About a two-pound piece of beef (chuck or a bit 
of rib roast), sliced onions, potatoes, two or three 
carrots sliced, a bay leaf, salt, and pepper. Put a 
layer of onions and the other vegetables into a 
kettle, lay the meat in and cover with the rest of 
the vegetables, lay the bay leaf on and pour over 



Jf ireleste Coofeer 74 

one pint of boiling water in which you put salt 
and a dash of red pepper. Cover closely and place 
in the cooker kettle with hot water, and boil twen- 
ty minutes. Then place in the cooker five hours. 
Before serving set the inner kettle on the stove 
and thicken the gravy with a little flour mixed 
smooth with cold water. Serve hot. 

Brisket of Beef. 

Two pounds of beef coarsely ground. Add one 
cup of chopped celery. Season with salt and pep- 
per. Add one tablespoon of vinegar, and one cup 
of water. Heat and put into cooker two hours. 
Longer will not injure it. Take out and reheat, 
incorporating one ounce of gelatin dissolved in 
a bit of cold water. Cool in a mold. Slice and 
garnish with celery tops. 

Cannelon of Beef. 

Two pounds of round steak, ground, one cup 
of fine bread crumbs, one tablespoon of butter, 
salt and pepper, and one onion finely chopped. 
Make into a roll and wrap in pie crust or biscuit 
dough. Bake in oven. Serve with brown sauce. 

Brown Sauce. 

Heat three tablespoons of butter in a pan and 
when it browns, add two tablespoons of flour. Stir 
until a dark brown and place an asbestos pad un- 
der it. Add gradually one and a half cups of 
stock. Stir until it boils, season with salt and 
pepper, and add a tablespoon of tomato catsup. 

New England Boiled Dinner 
With Mustard Sauce. 

The night before the dinner is to be served pre- 
pare four pounds of corned beef, washing it thor- 



75 Wfat to Cook 

oughly and trimming as seems necessary. Put 
it into the large kettle and nearly fill with cold 
water. Heat slowly, boil fifteen minutes and skim, 
then place in the cooker for the night. In the 
morning reheat and leave in the cooker until time 
to prepare the vegetables. About two hours be- 
fore the dinner hour place over the fire and put 
into the kettle with the meat two onions and four 
turnips sliced, two parsnips and two carrots cut 
into small pieces, and one small head of cabbage, 
which should have been cut into quarters and 
soaked one hour in cold water, then drained and 
tied in cheesecloth. When the contents of the 
kettle are boiling, remove to the cooker for one 
hour, then reheat and add eight medium sized po- 
tatoes cut in halves. When it is again boiling, re- 
turn to the cooker until time to serve. Take up 
the meat on a large platter, surround with the 
vegetables, and send to the table. A number of 
beets should be prepared in a separate cooker ket- 
tle and made ready to serve with the other veg- 
etables, slicing and arranging them around the 
dish. 
Mustard Sauce for the Above. 

Into one-half cup of boiling water stir one 
teaspoonful each of butter and flour, creamed to- 
gether. Mix smoothly two tablespoonfuls of mus- 
tard with a little vinegar and add to the sauce, 
with one tablespoonful of sugar and a little pep- 
per and salt. Cook five minutes and pour into a 
mustard cup for the table. 

Pocket Steak Dinner. 

Buy a flank steak and ask the butcher to cut a 
large pocket in it. Fill the pocket with this dress- 



Jfirelestf Cooker 76 

ing : Two cups bread or cracker crumbs, one-half 
cup chopped mixed pickle, one beaten egg, a table- 
spoon of clear meat drippings. Moisten with one- 
third cup of stock or half a cup of gravy. Sew 
the pocket together, or pin it with toothpicks. 
Place the stuffed steak on two bay leaves in a 
pan with a good tight lid. Pare and dice two 
or three potatoes and tuck around and under 
the steak. Stick three cloves in the meat. Pour 
over all one cup of thickened stock or gravy. Add 
a good sprinkling of salt and a few dashes of 
pepper, and another bay leaf. Cover firmly. Place 
on a wire tray above boiling water in a big 
cooker kettle. Boil hard over a fire ten minutes 
and in a cooker three hours. Serve on a platter 
with the potato arranged around the steak. Re- 
move the toothpicks, cloves and bay leaves. Serve 
with parsley as a garnish. 

English Pasties. 

Four cups of flour, one cup of butter, one-half 
teaspoon of salt, two teaspoons of baking powder. 
Make a crust, adding a little ice water; roll out 
thin and cut it into circles the size of a saucer. 
Take one pound of round steak, one onion, one 
potato, one-fourth cup of chopped pork, one-half 
teaspoonful of salt, and a dash of red pepper. 
Cut the meat, onions, and potatoes in dice, mix, 
and divide into six parts. Place one part of the 
pie on the crust, put bits of butter over, and fold 
the crust over, making half moons, and seal by 
wetting the edges and pressing together. Bake 
in a moderate oven for forty minutes. These are 
fine for lunches. 



77 aSHijat to Cook 



Boiled Flank. 

Take two pounds of flank steak and rub salt into 
it. Let it stand while you prepare a dressing of 
bread crumbs as you would for turkey. Spread 
the dressing over the steak. Roll it up very tight 
and tie a piece of cloth around it. Boil in a cas- 
serole fifteen minutes over a fire and several hours 
in a cooker. 

Hamburg Steak. 

Put three thin slices of salt pork into the bot- 
tom of a round casserole, and a layer of Hamburg 
steak on this; then two more pieces of pork and 
another layer of steak. Sprinkle both layers of 
steak with cracker crumbs. Season with onions 
cut into bits. Pour over all one and one-half cups 
of sweet milk well salted and peppered. Cover 
tight. Heat. When all is thoroughly heated, set 
into a cooker oven three hours. 

Beef Hash. 

Equal parts of chopped meat and potatoes, both 
already cooked. Season \vith salt, pepper, and 
onion or nutmeg. Wet with stock or gravy. Crisp 
bacon chopped or minced celery tops add to the 
flavor. Mix well while cold. Heat and place in 
the cooker oven two hours. Do not stir. Serve 
in the baking dish. 

Beef and Hominy. 

Cut one pound of beef into cubes and put it into 
a jar with one pint of cracked corn which has 
been soaked over night in enough water to cover 
it. Slice in one small onion. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Cook over the flame ten minutes, and place 
in the cooker five hours. 



Jf irele&s Coofeer 78 

Beef Loaf. 

Three pounds of beef prepared as for Hamburg 
steak, three eggs, eight water crackers, three level 
teaspoons of salt, one-half teaspoonful of pow- 
dered sage, and a pinch of red pepper. Also the 
grated rind and juice of one lemon. A little fat 
pork added to the beef improves it. Mix all to- 
gether, forming into three loaves, using a little 
flour to form the loaves. Place in kettle over hot 
water in the cooker kettle and boil hard for twenty 
minutes, then place in cooker for five hours. Place 
in oven a few moments to brown. Should you 
form this amount into one loaf, you should boil it 
thirty-five minutes before putting into cooker. 
The small loaves slice better. 

Beef and Oysters. 

Heat three pounds of beef in a stone jar with 
the liquor from one can of oysters. Season with 
salt and pepper. Place in a cooker four hours. 
The flavor of the oyster is absorbed by the beef 
and the dish is a very appetizing one. Just before 
serving add the oysters and cook three minutes 
over the flame. A spoonful of flour to thicken the 
sauce while the oysters are cooking is one change. 
Another is made by the addition of a few crum- 
bled crackers. 

Potted Meat. 

Put four pounds of lean beef into a stone jar 
without water. Immerse the jar in a kettle of 
boiling water. -Cover both jar and kettle. Boil 
half an hour on the stove, and place all in a 
cooker over night. In the morning open it and 



79 3Hfjat to Cook 

let it cool. Remove all skin and gristle, and mince 
the good meat. To each pound of meat add half 
a cup of clarified butter, salt, pepper, half a grated 
nutmeg, and a powdered bay leaf. Moisten with 
the meat juices from the jar. Press into a mold. 
Slice cold. 

Pot Roast. 

Wash the meat, season to taste, brown on all 
sides over a flame, and place in a stone jar, dry; 
no water whatever. Cover perfectly. Put the jar 
into a kettle of hot water. Boil fifteen minutes, or 
until the meat is heated through. Place in a 
cooker three to six hours depending upon whether 
you prefer it rare, or well done. Even tough 
meats become tender by this method. The juice 
at the bottom will be very rich, and a portion of 
it may be seasoned, thickened, and a cup of boil- 
ing water added for a gravy. 

Roast Beef. 

Take five pounds of sirloin beef. Put it into a 
hot skillet, turning and searing it on all sides. 
Lift into a granite pan, and cover. Set it in a 
larger vessel of boiling water. When the meat 
has become heated through to the middle, and the 
water is still boiling, set all into the cooking box 
three hours. Any meat may be roasted in an in- 
sulated oven exactly as it has usually been done in 
ordinary ovens. 

Roast Beef Relish. 

Slice cold roast beef thin. Make a gravy of 
three tablespoons of butter, one of flour, one table- 
spoonful of tomato catsup, one tablespoon of vin- 



Jf irelestf Coofeer so 

egar, one teaspoon of -currant jelly, half teaspoon 
of made mustard. Put meat and all in a saucepan, 
cover and set in a kettle of boiling water. Steam 
an hour in cooker. 

Beef Roll 

Make a biscuit dough and roll thin. Spread 
with Hamburg steak, season with salt, pepper, 
chopped celery, and chopped parsley. Roll like 
jelly cake. Lay in a mold above boiling water. 
Cover the mold. Cook on the stove twenty-five 
minutes, and three hours in a cooker. 

Steak Rolled and Stuffed. 

Use two pounds of steak, two ounces of lean 
ham, one-quarter pound of suet, one lemon rind, 
one teaspoon of parsley, one teaspoon of mixed 
sweet herbs, six ounces of bread crumbs, and two 
eggs. Cut the steak rather thin and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Chop the ham, suet, lemon rind, 
parsley, and sweet herbs; add seasoning, bread 
crumbs, and eggs well beaten; mix well. Spread 
the dressing over the steak, roll up and tie. Ten 
minutes over the flame ; three hours in the cooker. 

Timbale of Beef. 

One and one-half pints of cold cooked beef chop- 
ped fine, one level teaspoon of salt, one-half tea- 
spoon of pepper, same of onion juice, one teaspoon 
of chopped parsley, one tablespoon of butter, 
one cup of stock or milk, and two eggs. One- 
half cup of grated bread crumbs. Mix all ingredi- 
ents, beat eggs and melt the butter, and place in a 
well buttered mould. Place in cooker vessel in hot 
water. Cook for twenty minutes and place in 



81 Wfat to Cook 

cooker for five hours. Turn out on platter and 
pour around it brown sauce. Serve hot. 

Boiled Tongue. 

Cover a large fresh tongue with water. Boil 
ten minutes. Place in cooker nine hours. Cool 

and remove the skin. 

f 

Boiled Tongue Another Method. 

Place a mildly salted beef tongue in a kettle of 
cold water. Bring slowly to a boil. Plunge into 
cold water, peel, and trim. Brown on all sides in 
fat in a hot skillet. Place the tongue in a heated 
pan. Fry in the skillet one sliced onion, one car- 
rot, one stalk of celery diced, one sprig of parsley 
cut fine, a quarter of a bay leaf, and one chopped 
cucumber pickle. Place the vegetables under the 
meat and around the sides of it. Add one-half cup 
of strained tomato and one cup of hot water. 
Cover. Heat and cook half an hour. Place in 
cooker four or five hours according to the size of 
the tongue. 

Tyrone Loaf. 

One pound of beef steak ground fine, three- 
fourths of a pound of stuffed sausage, one and 
one-half cups of uncooked oat flakes, and about 
one cup of stewed tomato. Put into a small jar 
or earthenware pot; first a layer of beef with a 
little salt and pepper, then a layer of sausage cut 
into small pieces and rolled in flour, next a part of 
the oatmeal moistened with the tomato and sea- 
soned with pepper and salt, then a layer of the 
beef, sausage, and oatmeal until all is used, adding 
the tomato at the last. Place the jar in a cooker 



$ ireiestf Coofeer 82 

vessel with boiling water around it. Cook over 
the fire thirty minutes and in the cooker five hours. 

Lamb With Celery. 

Take breast of lamb, two pounds. Rub over 
with flour, salt, and pepper. Brown in mixed fats. 
Add one cup of cream, and one cup of chopped 
celery. Heat through and place in cooker two 
hours. 

Cold Leg of Lamb. 

Immerse in water. Put salt, pepper, and two 
bay leaves in the water, and plan to save the liquor 
for soup. Boil fifteen minutes on the stove and 
set into the cooker five or six hours, depending 
upon the weight of the meat. Slice the cold meat 
and serve with a sauce. 

Sauce: One egg cooked hard; mash the yolk 
and chop the white. To the yolk add one teaspoon 
sugar, saltspoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one 
tablespoon of olive oil, and two tablespoons of 
vinegar. Mix well and sprinkle the chopped white 
on top. 

Lamb With Tomatoes and Rice. 

Two cups of cooked lamb, diced and free from 
fat and gristle, two cups of lamb broth or gravy, 
one cup of strained tomato, salt and pepper. Heat 
and when boiling stir in two-thirds of a cup rice 
(uncooked) . Heat and boil ten minutes and place 
in a cooker two hours. 

Mutton Ball. 

Salt the meat and sprinkle chopped parsley 
over it. Roll, skewer, and tie it to make it quite 
round. Immerse in cold water to cover it. Bring 



83 l^fjat to Cook 

the water to a boil and skim. Afterwards boil 
again for ten minutes and place in a cooker three 
or four hours according to the size of the meat. 
Press between two boards with a heavy weight as 
it cools. Slice and eat cold. 

Mutton Chop. 

Cook one sliced onion in two tablespoons of but- 
ter. Roll each chop in flour with salt and pepper. 
Brown each chop in the butter, and add half a cup 
of boiling water. Boil ten minutes and place in 
cooker two hours. 

Pork Chops. 

Brown both sides of each chop over a flame in 
a granite sauce pan. Set the pan, all thoroughly 
heated, in a dry hot kettle with hot stones directly 
below and above it. Heat again and set in a cook- 
er an hour or longer. A delicious dish. 

Leg of Pork. 

Let it lie in cold salted water an hour to make 
it white in color. Drain and roll it in a well 
floured cheesecloth. Put it in your cooker kettle, 
allowing plenty of cold water to cover it. Bring 
the water to a boil. Skim ten or fifteen minutes. 
Set it in the cooker seven hours. Serve with apple 
sauce. 

Sausage on Hominy. 

Scald two cups of hominy with two cups of boil- 
ing water. Season with salt. Boil ten minutes 
and place in the cooker three hours or longer. 
Spread over this partly cooked corn half a pound 
of sausage. Reheat and place in the cooker oven 
two hours. 



Jf trele&s Cooker 84 

Stuffed Tenderloins. 

First nearly fill the large cooker kettle with 
water and place over it a shallow granite or earth- 
enware dish that will fit closely to serve as a lid 
to the kettle while the water is heating. Prepare 
as many of the tenderloins as may be required for 
the dinner by cutting across the meat, making 
rounded slices of medium thickness. 

Prepare a dressing of bread crumbs moistened 
with hot water and seasoned highly with butter, 
salt, pepper, and powdered sage. Place together 
two pieces of about equal size, fill the space be- 
tween them with the dressing, and fasten the 
edges together with toothpicks or, what is better, 
sew together with twine. Proceed in the same 
manner with the remaining slices until all are 
used. 

Put some sweet drippings into a frying pan and 
when hot brown in it the tenderloins. When they 
are well browned on both sides, remove them to 
the pan over the cooker kettle and cover closely. 
The water by this time should be boiling. Pour 
into the frying pan enough hot water to make a 
good gravy, thicken it with flour, and season with 
salt and pepper, adding a little of the dressing. 
When this is boiling hot, pour it over the meat. 
Cover and cook over the fire about fifteen minutes 
or enough to heat thoroughly. Then remove the 
kettle, closely covered, to the cooker for two hours, 
or if more convenient it may remain several hours. 
The tenderloins may be served on a platter gar- 
nished with parsley and the gravy served sepa- 
rately. 



85 Mfmt to Cook 

Scrapple. 

In the forenoon prepare four pigs' feet by a 
good thorough scrubbing. Put them with two 
pounds of liver into a kettle and cover with boiling 
water. Boil one-half hour on the stove and put 
into the cooker until night. Reheat to boiling 
point and return to box until morning; cool 
enough to remove fat; take meat from bones and 
run through meat chopper; strain liquor; return 
the chopped meat to liquor and when it boils, add 
cornmeal until very thick ; add salt, pepper, sweet 
marjoram, and sage; stir until thoroughly boiling, 
then place in cooker for six hours. Mold and 
when cold slice and fry. This makes a hearty 
heat-producing dish for winter mornings. 

Ham a la Venison. 

Spread thin slices of cold boiled ham with a lit- 
tle made mustard and a dash of cayenne pepper. 
Melt over hot water a tablespoon of butter and 
half of a small tumbler of currant jelly. Put in 
the slices of ham. It should brown nicely but not 
scorch. 

Boiled Ham. 

Put a whole ham in a vessel with a good tight 
lid. Cover with cold water. Heat and boil fifteen 
minutes. Set the hot vessel, water, ham, and all 
inside a clean box or keg with several inches of 
crumpled paper in the bottom. Pack paper or any 
convenient material around the sides. Cover with 
a thick cushion of similar packing. Place a weight 
on top to keep it all tight and hot. Let stand 
twelve hours. Open. The water will be scalding 



Jf ireleste Cooker 



86 



hot. Let it cool and then lift the ham out. Re- 
move the skin. Place in a roasting pan. Cover 




the ham with' a half inch layer of brown sugar 
and stick cloves all over it. Bake twenty minutes 
or until well browned. 

Egg Sauce. 

Blend together two rounded tablespoonf uls each 
of butter and flour. When smooth add one and 
one-half cups of boiling water. Simmer a few 
minutes. Season well with salt and pepper and 
into the sauce slice four or five hard boiled eggs. 
Boil up once and pour into small dish for the table. 
To be served with cold boiled ham. 

Rolled Ham and Steak. 

Roll a one-pound slice of ham in two pounds of 
round steak and tie securely. Place the roll on a 
wire stand in a granite pail. Put one cup of 
boiling water in the pail. Cover. Set the pail 
inside a kettle of boiling water. Boil fifteen min- 
utes. Place in the cooker three hours. Thicken 
the gravy with browned flour. Serve with baked 
potatoes. 



87 OTftat to Cook 

Veal. 

The veal of calves from four to six weeks old is 
the best. The meat should be clear and firm, and 
the fat white. The hindquarter is the choicest 
joint, and is divided into the loin and leg. The 
neck or f orequarter is used for fricasses and stews 
and for pies or chops. 

Baked Veal. 

Lay in a heated and buttered casserole one and 
one-half pounds of veal seak. Add one-half cup 
of seasoned stock or cream. Spread over the steak 
a dressing made of two cups of bread crumbs, one 
onion chopped fine, a beaten egg, a tablespoon of 
melted butter, salt, and pepper. Sprinkle with 
stock or cream and cracker crumbs. Heat and 
cook ten minutes and place in a dry cooker kettle 
with heated soapstones above and below it. Let 
it stay three hours. Serve with jelly. 

Veal Birds. 

Two pounds of veal steak cut very thin and 
cut into four-inch squares. Season these with 
onion, salt, and pepper and wrap them around the 
small bits of veal and a few narrow strips of salt 
pork. Skewer each roll with two tooth picks. 
Roll in beaten egg and in flour, and brown in hot 
fat. Lift into a sauce pan with good cover. Pour 
over the birds a gravy made with the fat thick- 
ened with flour and a pint of rich milk. Heat 
all over a pot of boiling water, which may then 
be placed in a fireless cooker for a couple of hours. 

Calf's Liver. 

Take a calf's liver, soak in salt water for a half 
hour, then skin and take out any veins that you 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 88 

can, then lay strips of bacon on the top of it. 
Lay the liver on thick layers of onions sliced, sea- 
spn with salt and pepper, and over all squeeze a 
half lemon. Pour over this one-half pint of boil- 
ing water, cover closely and place the kettle into 
the cooker kettle with hot water around it, and 
boil for one-half hour. Place in cooker for five 
hours. 

A Veal Dinner. 

Have the butcher cut out the bone from a 
knuckle of veal. Roll and tie the meat in one solid 
piece. Cover meat and bone with water and boil 
five minutes. Set in the cooker two hours. Take 
out the bone and add six onions, eight potatoes, 
and salt and pepper to taste. Heat to boiling and 
set into the cooker one hour. At the end of that 
time invert a wire basket over the food in the ket- 
tle and set it on a flame. Cover the bottom of the 
basket with baking powder dumplings. When it 
boils, don't lift the cover, but set all into the 
cooker ten or fifteen minutes. 

Veal Loaf. 

One and one-half pounds of chopped veal and 
about one-eighth pound of salt pork cut very fine, 
one beaten egg, one-half cup each of cracker 
crumbs and smeet milk, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, one-third of a teaspoonful of pulverized sage, 
two teaspoonfuls of salt, and one-third teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Mix all the ingredients together 
thoroughly and put into a small jar or can holding 
about three pints, sprinkle the top with cracker, 
crumbs, put a tight cover on the jar, and place it 
on the rack in the large cooker kettle. If the jar 



89 mfat to Cook 



Is not deep enough to come nearly to the top of 
the kettle, place under it an extra rack or any 
article that will raise it sufficiently. This will 
allow a larger body of hot water which will aid 
in the cooking. Now pour boiling water into the 
kettle until it reaches within two and a half inches 
of the top of the jar. Boil on the fire thirty min- 
utes and remove to the cooker for five hours or 
more. When ready to take out, the loaf may be 
placed in the oven a few minutes if desired, to 
brown on the top. Pour off the extra liquor and 
the loaf is ready for use. It may be served hot or 
used for slicing cold. Garnish with parsley. 

Veal Mold. 

Two cups of finely chopped cooked veal. A 
tablespoon of minced celery. Salt and pepper to 
taste. One cup of fine bread crumbs. Enough 
gravy or stock to moisten. One beaten egg. Mix 
very thoroughly. Place in a round bowl, cover, 
and heat. Place in a cooker oven an hour, or 
longer if convenient. Slice cold. 

Veal Pot Pie. 

Wipe and trim about three pounds of veal, and 
put it into a cooker kettle. Pour over enough 
boiling water to cover it. Boil twenty minutes, 
skim it wellj and leave it in the cooker for six 
hours or more; then season highly with pepper 
and salt. It may be prepared at night to remain 
in the cooker over night or in the morning and 
reheated after three or four hours if necessary, 
and then seasoned. Half an hour before dinner 
put the kettle over the fire while you prepare the 
dumplings. 



Jf treleste Coofeer 90 

Dumplings: Sift two cups of flour with two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, and into it rub one tablespoon- 
ful of shortening. Break an egg into a cup, 
fill with sweet milk and stir it into the flour. Roll 
out and cut with a biscuit cutter and put into the 
kettle wih the meat. The meat must be boiling 
rapidly and the lid placed on tightly. If there is 
not enough of the meat to keep the dumplings out 
of the liquor, invert a wire basket over it and on 
it place the dumplings. Cook them twelve min- 
utes, take out the meat, and put it in the center of 
a large platter with the dumplings around it. 
Thicken the gravy left in the ketle, adding a little 
more water or seasoning if necessary. Pour a 
little of the gravy over the meat and serve the re- 
mainder in a gravy tureen. 

Rice With Veal. 

Line a well-buttered mold with dry boiled rice, 
and fill the center with chopped veal which has 
been cooked and seasoned with butter, pepper, 
salt, and celery seed. Bake in cooker oven one 
hour. Serve with tomato sauce. 
Veal and Tongue Roll. 

Have a breast of veal boned and spread out flat ; 
rub in salt and pepper and lay two cups of chopped 
cold tongue, two beaten eggs, and one cup of 
bread crumbs, mixed. Roll tightly. Wrap in 
cheesecloth and tie. Immerse in water seasoned 
with salt, cloves, celery, onion, and parsley. Boil 
over the flame fifteen minutes. Remove to cooker 
five hours. When done cool under a weight. Slice 
when cold. Garnish with parsley and radishes. 
Save the stock for a soup. 



Cftott* &edpeg 



Ctjotcr 



"I've nothing to say agin' her piety, my dear; but I know 
very well I shouldn't like her to cook my victual. When a 
man comes in hungry and tired, piety won't feed him, I 
reckon. Hard carrots 'ull lie heavy on his stomach, piety or 
no piety. ' ' GEORGE ELIOT. 

Cream Sauce. 

Cream together two level tablespoons each of 
butter and flour. Place over the fire in a small 
saucepan. Stir until melted, but do not brown> 
and add one large cup of hot milk. Stir and cook 
until smooth. Season with one-half teaspoon of 
salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper. 

Asparagus. 

Remove the toughest portion at the base of each 
stalk. Place in a wire basket and immerse in 
salted boiling water. Boil five minutes on the 
stove and half an hour in a cooker. Lift out the 
basket and carefully place the stalks on a dish. 
Cover with a white cream sauce. 

Green Beans. 

String and cut a quart of fresh green beans. 
Cover them with boiling water and boil five min- 
utes over the stove and set them in a cooker an 
hour and a half. If they are old and tough they 
will need a longer time in the cooker and perhaps 
fifteen minutes on the stove at first. When ready 
to serve season with melted butter, salt, and 
pepper. 

Green Shelled Beans. 

Shell and wash young green beans. Put them 
over the fire in a generous quantity of boiling 



Jf irelestf Coofeer 94 

water, salted. Boil five minutes over the fire 
and in the cooker two hours. Then drain off the 
water and add to them rich milk or cream. Sea- 
son with butter and salt to taste. 

Fresh Lima Beans. 

For one cup of beans take one quart of water. 
Boil fifteen minutes and set in cooker all night. 
Drain and save the surplus water for soup. Sea- 
son with butter, salt, and a teaspoon of curry 
moistened with lemon juice. 

Fresh Beets. 

Beets should never be cut before cooking if you 
wish to retain their bright color. They may, how- 
ever, be thoroughly cleaned with a vegetable 
brush. Cover with boiling water and let boil ten 
minutes on the stove or longer if they are large, 
and three hours in the cooker. Slip off the skins. 
Slice and season to taste. 

Beets With Dressing. 

Wash thoroughly two large bunches of beets. 
Pour enough boiling water over them to cover 
well, and boil rapidly for ten minutes ; then place 
in the cooker for two or three hours, according 
to the condition of the beets. When done plunge 
them into cold water, when the skins may be 
easily removed. Cut them into thin slices or with 
a vegetable cutter into any shape you choose. 

Dressing. 

Take three-fourths of a cup each of vinegar 
and water, one-third of a cup of sugar, one large 
tablespoon of butter, one teaspoonful of salt, one- 
fourth of pepper, and one and one-half tablespoon- 



95 ZESatjat to Cook 



fuls of flour. Boil the vinegar, water, and sugar 
together. Cream the butter and flour and add to 
the other ingredients when boiling. Season with 
the salt and pepper and when it thickens, put in 
the sliced beets. Let boil up a little and serve. If 
the beets are old, they will require more time 
and may be prepared the night before and re- 
heated in the morning if necessary. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Cut the cabbage into quarters and soak for half 
an hour in cold water, adding a tablespoonful of 
salt. Drain from the water and cut into slices. 
Put it into the cooker kettle nearly filled with 
boiling water, adding a tablespoonful of salt. 
Bring to a boil and place in the cooker for one or 
two hours according to the age of the cabbage. 
Pour into a colander and drain well. Season with 
butter and pepper and if needed a little more salt. 

Creamed Cabbage. 

Creamed cabbage is delicious. Cook according 
to the above recipe, then chop and pour over it 
hot a well seasoned cream sauce. 

Creamed Carrots. 

Only young carrots are good for this dish. Take 
the required quantity, wash and scrape them 
lightly, cut them into halves lengthwise, then into 
quarters, and then into inch pieces. Pour over 
them boiling, salted water, enough to cover them 
generously, and when boiling place them in the 
cooker for one hour or more if needed. When 
ready to serve, drain, put them into a vegetable 
dish, and pour over them a cream sauce. 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 96 

Cauliflower. 

This is a delicious vegetable if properly cooked. 
Remove all the green leaves and place the head in 
a pan of cold salted water. Let it soak an hour, 
then place it in the cooker kettle and boil five 
minutes and put into the cooker for an hour and 
a half. If the head of cauliflower is large, more 
time should be allowed. Dress with a white sauce 
made by taking one pint of milk, put into a double 
boiler, one teaspoon of salt, and one tablespoon of 
butter. Rub one tablespoon of flour smooth with 
a little water and add to the boiling milk. Lift 
the head of cauliflower into a vegetable dish and 
pour over it the white sauce. Send to the table 
hot. 

Boiled Sweet Corn on the Cob. 

Prepare the corn by immersing the husked ears 
in cold water, rubbing off all the silk and cutting 
away any imperfections there may be. Have 
ready in the large cooker kettle enough boiling, 
salted water to cover the corn. Put it into the 
kettle and when boiling hard place in the cooker 
for one hour. 

Sweet Corn Cut From the Cob. 

Prepare the corn as for the above recipe, then 
with a sharp knife cut the corn from the cob tak- 
ing care not to cut too deep. Scrape the remainder 
of the corn from the cob. Place in a small cooker 
kettle and add just enough milk to cover it. Bring 
it carefully to the boiling point and put into the 
cooker for forty-five minutes. Then season with 
butter and salt and it is ready for the table. 



97 OTljat to Cook 

Roast Corn. 

Green corn a little too old to be boiled. Leave 
the inner husk on the ear and place in a hot oven 
half an hour. 

Baked Hominy. 

Soak one pint of hominy samp all night; one 
pound of meat, of any kind you prefer, cut into 
small pieces; one small onion. Season to taste. 
Add one pint of water. Place in an insulated 
oven to remain five hours. 

Boiled Hominy. 

Two cups hominy samp. Four cups water. Heat 
to boiling and set in cooker six hours. Serve with 
salt, pepper, and butter or with cream sauce. 

Hominy Fried. 

Run a pint of cooked hominy samp through a 
fine meat grinder. Stir in a beaten egg and a 
tablespoon of butter blended with a tablespoon of 
flour, a bit of onion, salt, and pepper. Shape and 
roll in cracker crumbs and egg and then in corn 
meal. Fry between hot stones in a dry cooker 
kettle. Garnish with parsley. 

Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. 

Break into small pieces enough macaroni to 
make one pint. Throw it into about two quarts 
of boiling water well salted. Boil rapidly for five 
minutes, stirring and separating with a fork ; then 
remove to the cooker for one and one-half hours. 

When ready to serve drain well, place in serv- 
ing dish, and pour over it the following sauce. 



$ trelestf Coofeer 98 

Tomato Sauce. 

One and one-half pints of canned or six fresh 
tomatoes, one small onion sliced, five cloves. 
Bring to the boiling point, place in cooker one 
hour or more, then rub through a strainer fine 
enough to retain the seeds. Place over the fire. 
Add one rounded tablespoonful of butter and a 
thickening made of one large spoonful of flour 
wet up with cold water. Season highly with pep- 
per and salt, boil a few minutes, then pour over 
the macaroni. 

Boiled Onions. 

Prepare the onions by taking off the outer skins. 
Place in cooker kettle with hot salted water, boil 
ten minutes, and place in the cooker for one hour 
and a half. Just before serving drain off the 
water and add cream, butter, and salt. Let boil 
up and serve hot. 

Boiled Onions with Tomato Sauce. 

Prepare onions as for ordinary cooking. Boil 
fifteen minutes in plenty of water; give from one 
to two hours in box, depending upon size of 
onions ; strain a cup and a half of tomato, rubbing 
the pulp through; have this heated and seasoned 
ready to pour over onions when they are taken 
from the box and drained. 

Parsnip Fritters. 

Cook parsnips in boiled salted water in a cooker 
three hours. Drain and plunge into cold water, 
when the skins will slip off easily. Mash, put in 
one egg, season with butter, salt, and pepper. 
Shape in small circular flat cakes. Roll in flour 



99 sgafjat to Cook 



and saute in butter. Plain boiled parsnips may 
be served with a cream sauce. 

Fried Parsnips. 

Slice cold, boiled parsnips. Sprinkle with salt, 
dredge with flour, and saute in butter until brown. 

Green Peas. 

Throw freshly shelled peas into boiling salted 
water for three minutes to preserve the color. 
Boil them five minutes and set them in the cooker 
for two to four hours. Season them with salt and 
butter. 

Green Peas in Milk. 

Sprinkle salt on freshly shelled green peas. 
Pour on boiling water, cover, and let stand while 
you heat some milk. When the milk boils drain 
the water from the peas and pour the hot milk on 
them. Salt them again. Cook them double boiler 
style. They may safely remain in the cooker sev- 
eral hours. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Pare potatoes of uniform size. Let them stand 
awhile in cold water. Put them into a wire basket 
and plunge them into boiling salted soft water in 
a cooker kettle. When the water boils again, let 
it continue five minutes. Put the covered kettle 
into the cooker. Time of cooking depends on size 
of potatoes, fifty or sixty minutes. Lift out the 
basket and let the potatoes dry. Serve with 
cream sauce. 

Steamed Potatoes. 

Slice three or four medium sized potatoes. Sea- 
son with salt, pepper, and butter. 




jf treles* Coofeer 100 

affin paper. Enclose the lid of a cooker kettle in 
a cheesecloth bag. Suspend the paraffin package 
in the bag below the lid. Put the lid on a kettle 
above boiling food. Boil ten minutes over a flame 
and two hours in a cooker. These are very de- 
licious. 

Warmed-over Potatoes. 

Cut cold, boiled potatoes into thin slices; salt 
and pepper to taste. Thicken milk with butter 
and flour well blended and pour over the top. 
Heat over steam or between stone radiators in 
the oven. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Pare or scrape the sweet potatoes. Put into 
the cooker kettle with a tablespoonful of salt. 
Pour over them sufficient boiling water to cover 
them. Boil five minutes and then remove to the 
cooker for one hour. Take from the box and 
shake well over the fire. They may then be 
mashed, browned in the oven with plenty of but- 
ter and sugar over them, or prepared for the 
table in any way you choose. 

Sweet Potato Croquettes. 

Two cups of mashed potato prepared in the 
cooker. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-eighth teaspoon- 
ful of pepper, one teaspoonful of sugar, and one 
beaten egg. Shape and roll in egg and cracker 
crumbs and fry a delicate brown in deep fat. As 
some potatoes are more moist than others, it may 
be necessary to vary the preparation. If they are 
too dry, add a little milk, or if too moist to shape 



101 Wfat to Cook 

well, a few cracker crumbs will be a desirable 
addition. 

Boiled Rice. 

Wash one-half cup of rice, throw it slowly into 
a quart and a half of boiling salted water, keeping 
water boiling continuously; let it continue to boil 
ten minutes ; place in cooker-box two hours. 

Some rice will cook in less time. And, again, 
some rice will require less water. It is well to 
buy it in goodly quantity, and test each purchase 
for your rule. 

Radishes. 

Pare and slice fifteen or twenty large white 
radishes. Cover with water and boil three min- 
utes. Set in the cooker one hour. Take out and 
drain. Season with salt, two tablespoons of 
melted butter, and as much chopped parsley. 

Spinach. 

Rinse and trim well. If at all wilted revive in 
cold water. For half a peck of spinach use three 
quarts of boiling water and a tablespoon of salt. 
Heat until it is all wilted, then drain. Put it in 
a steamer above water and reheat. Set in a cook- 
er, where it may safely remain according to your 
convenience. Serve with salt, pepper, and melted 
butter poured over it. It may be garnished with 
hard boiled eggs. 

Summer Squash. 

Take young and tender squashes. Wash and 
cut into small pieces; do not remove the skin or 
seeds. Put them into boiling salted water. Boil 
over the fire five minutes and in the cooker one 
hour. 



:f treiestf Coofeer 102 

Place the squash in a strainer cloth, and mash 
and squeeze out all the water possible. Return to 
the kettle and stir over the fire until dry. Season 
with salt, pepper, and a generous amount of but- 
ter, and add a little cream. 

Winter Squash. 

Cut in two inch squares. Remove a teaspoon- 
ful of the pulp from the center of each piece, fill 
with half a teaspoonful of molasses and cover 
with melted butter. Salt and pepper. Arrange in 
a pan. Cover. Place above the boiling water. 
Boil five or ten minutes and place in the cooker 
three hours. Serve in the shell. 

Succotash. 

Take tender green beans ; there should be about 
one pint after they are shelled. Place them over 
the fire in a generous quantity of boiling water, 
salted. When they are boiling rapidly, remove 
them to the cooker for two hours. Have ready 
eight ears of green sweet corn, and with a sharp 
knife cut the corn from the cobs. Avoid cutting 
deep enough to include any portion of the hulls. 
Then with back of the knife scrape the cob thor- 
oughly to remove the sweet juice, and add to the 
corn. When the beans are done, drain off the 
water. Add to them the corn and enough rich 
milk to just cover. Bring to the boiling point. 
Season with butter and salt to taste and remove 
to the cooker for thirty minutes or until ready to 
serve. 



103 



Creamed Turnips. 

Cut turnips into half inch cubes. Steam in the 
cooker two hours. Drain well and cover with a 
cream sauce. 

Turnips With Sauce. 

Pare turnips. Cover with boiling water and 
boil ten minutes. Place in cooker two hours, or 
half an hour longer if they are large. Take out, 
drain. Scoop out center from each turnip and 
fill with the following sauce: Blend one table- 
spoon of butter and one of flour, add one-half cup 
weak vinegar. Boil together and stir. Take it 
off the stove and stir in one beaten egg. Salt and 
pepper. 

Boiled Turnips Mashed. 

Pare and cut into slices six or eight medium 
sized turnips. If the turnips are old, let them lie 
in cold water an hour before boiling. Then pour 
over them enough boiling water to cover them, 
adding a tablespoonful of salt. Boil five minutes 
and place in the cooking-box for one and one-half 
hours. When done drain them well, mash and 
season with salt, pepper, and a generous table- 
spoonful of butter. Stir them over the fire, al- 
lowing them to dry out as much as possible. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Scald and peel eight tomatoes. Slice them and 
put into a small cooker kettle or pan, with table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful each of salt and 
sugar, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Heat to 
boiling and place in the cooker from one to two 
hours. When ready to serve, pour it into a veg- 



Jf irelestf Cooker 



104 



etable dish and place around it small triangles of 
buttered toast. 

Turkish Pilaff e. 

Put into a skillet one tablespoonful of butter 
with salt and pepper to taste. When the butter is 
melted, add one cup of uncooked rice which has 
been thoroughly washed and drained and a me- 
dium sized onion cut into thin slices. Stir the 
rice constantly until it is well browned, then add 
one quart of stewed ripe tomatoes. When the 
tomato juice has been partly absorbed, add one 
cup of any kind of cold meat, chopped fine, and 
one and three-fourths cups of hot water. Stir 
well, pour into baking dish over kettle of hot 
water, put on cover, and bring to boiling point; 
then remove to the cooker for two or three hours. 





f 
o. 




Ctjoite 



Cfjotce &ectpe$ 



JSrteb 

"For a good dinner and a gentle wife, you can afford 
to wait." DANISH. 

Boston Baked Beans. 

Wash and cover with cold water, one pint of 
navy beans, adding one-half teaspoon of soda. If 
the beans are to be used for Saturday night sup- 
per, put them into cold water Friday morning. 
At night drain and replace with fresh water. 
Heat and boil fifteen minutes, then place in the 
cooker for the night. Saturday morning scald 
about two ounces of sweet salt pork. Cut into 
slices. Drain the beans through a colander, and 
put them into a two quart jar or can. Add two 
tablespoons of molasses, two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
and the sliced pork, alternating with the beans. 
Pour over them enough of the water in which 
they were cooked to come just to the top of the 
beans. Cover jar closely and place on the rack 
in the large kettle. Fill with boiling water and 
put on kettle lid. Boil about thirty-five minutes 
or long enough for the beans to become thor- 
oughly heated. Remove to the cooker to remain 
until required for the table. Or put the jar of 
beans into the cooker oven about noon to remain 
until time to serve, adding more water if neces- 
sary. Serve with tomato catsup. 

Bean Croquettes. 

Soak one pint of navy beans for several hours 
in an abundance of cold water, adding a small 
teaspoonful of soda. Then drain and cover with 



Jflfje Jfirelestf Cooker 108 

fresh cold water. Heat, boil rapidly for ten min- 
utes, and leave in the cooker over night. In the 
morning drain and cool. 

Press through a wire sieve enough beans to 
make two cups of pulp. Add one beaten egg, one- 
half cup of cracker crumbs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of pepper. Mix the ingredients, and 
if not sufficiently moist, add a little milk. If too 
soft to shape well, add a few cracker crumbs. 
Shape and roll in sifted crumbs, then in beaten 
egg, then in the crumbs again. Make them quite 
smooth. Fry in deep fat until a golden brown. 
Drain them and serve plain or with tomato sauce. 

Dried Lima Beans. 

Soak the beans over night and in the morning 
drain off the water. Add hot water and salt to the 
beans and set the kettle over the flame for fifteen 
minutes, then put in cooker for three or four 
hours, according to the quality of the beans. Some 
require longer cooking than others. Draw off 
the water and dress with cream and a small 
amount of butter. Add more salt if necessary. 
Be sure to place the kettle on an asbestos pad, or 
your cream may be scorched. If cooking a large 
amount, it is better to heat the cream in a double 
boiler before adding to the beans. Let boil up 
and serve, or you can dress them an hour or two 
before the meal and place again in the cooker, 
where they will be kept hot to serve. 

Beans in Soup Stock. 

Soak navy or lima beans several hours or all 
night. Drain and cover with hot soup stock. 



109 SKBfmt to Cook 

Season with salt and pepper. Cover and heat 
over a flame and set in an insulated oven for five 
hours or all day. 

Bean Mound. 

Cook either navy or lima beans in salted water 
all night. Mash through a colander, removing the 
outer skin. Add half a cup of powdered crack- 
ers to each cup of beans. Moisten with one beat- 
en egg and form into a cone shaped mound. Brush 
a portion of egg all over the cone. Brown. Serve 
with a tomato sauce. 

Lentils. 

Soak over night in plenty of fresh water. Cook 
in the same water. Heat on the stove and set in 
the cooker five hours. Drain and cover with a 
cream sauce plentifully seasoned. 

Dried Peas. 

Soak one pint of whole dried peas in cold water 
all night; the next morning boil ten minutes in 
the same water. Drain. Put into a dish with 
a good cover. Salt, pepper, and place a piece of 
fat salt pork two inches square in the middle. 
Pour in hot water until you can see it. Put the 
pan above boiling water. Boil hard fifteen min- 
utes and set all in the cooker five or six hours. 

Split Peas. 

Soak one-half pint of split peas all night. Drain 
and put them in an earthen jar. Cover with 
boiling water. Add one teaspoonful of butter 
and one-half teaspoonful of salt. Cover and boil 
five minutes and put in an insulated oven five 
hours or all day. 



Jf ireless Cooker no 

Winter Succotash. 

Soak one pint of lima beans over night. In the 
morning drain, add hot water to the beans, and 
cook over the fire fifteen minutes. Then put into 
the cooker for four hours. An hour before din- 
ner drain the beans and add to them one can of 
corn, one and one-half teaspoons of salt, one 
rounded tablespoonful of butter, and a cupful of 
cream or rich milk. Heat carefully and set into 
the cooker until time to serve. 



(fcstallopeb 

"The true essentials of a feast are fun and feed." 
O. W. HOLMES. 

Heat all escalloped dishes over a fire to the 
boiling point. Complete the cooking in double 
boiler fashion in the cooker. Take out, set on a 
table, invert a wire basket over it, and set a heat- 
ed soapstone griddle over the basket to brown 
the top of the food. This method of cooking 
escalloped food is a great improvement over the 
old method. 
Escalloped Cabbage. 

Wash a head of cabbage and chop fine. Place 
in boiling water with a little salt and boil twenty 
minutes. Drain in colander, placing in a large 
baking dish and pour over it the following sauce : 
Melt four tablespoons of butter, stirring in three 
tablespoons of flour until blended. Then add one 
quart of milk and stir until it boils. Add six hard 
boiled eggs which have been chopped fine, two 
teaspoons of salt, and a dash of red pepper. Pour 
over cabbage and sprinkle on some bread crumbs 
moistened with melted butter. Bake in the cooker 
oven twenty minutes, or steam one hour and 
brown afterward. 

Escalloped Cheese. 

Three well beaten eggs to one quart of sweet 
milk. Season with salt and red pepper. Take a 
pudding dish and put thin layers of bread and 
butter in the bottom; then spread over this thin 
slices of cheese. Fill the dish, having the cheese 
on top. Pour over milk and eggs, and put in 



113 aaaijat to coot 



cooker kettle over hot water and boil for ten 
minutes, then place in the cooker for three hours. 
Brown the top just before serving. 

Chicken Scallop. 

One cup of cooked string beans, half a cup of 
diced celery, a small onion cut in slices, and half 
a minced carrot. Add one and one-half cups of 
cooked chicken and a teaspoon of salt. Pour over 
all a cup of chicken broth and three tablespoons 
of thick cream. Cook ten minutes and place in a 
cooker two hours. Brown. 

Chicken and Rice. 

One chicken weighing five pounds, one and a 
half cups rice, one-half cup butter, two eggs, one- 
half pint milk, one sliced onion, two cloves, and 
salt and pepper to taste. 

Cut the chicken into joints. Put it into a 
cooker kettle with three pints of water, the onion, 
and cloves. Boil five minutes and set in the 
cooker two or three hours. Cook the rice in the 
cooker in three quarts of water. Salt and pepper 
the chicken. Add the butter, eggs, and milk to 
the cooked rice with the water drained off and 
some salt added. Place alternate layers of chicken 
and rice in a deep dish with rice on top. Pour 
over a pint of the chicken broth. Heat over a 
flame and before serving brown the top with a hot 
soapstone griddle. 

Escalloped Green Corn. 

Eight ears of corn, one pint of sweet milk, four 
eggs, pepper, and salt. Grate the corn and mix 
with milk. Beat the eggs separately. Place in 
dish, cover, and put into cooker vessel in hot 



Jf irelestf Cooker 114 

water. Boil hard ten minutes and put into cooker 
for one hour. 

Ham Scallop. 

One large cup of ham which has been boiled in 
the cooker, one-half cup of bread crumbs, three 
hard boiled eggs, and a cup of cream sauce. Chop 
the ham, season with salt and pepper, a pinch of 
red pepper, and one-fourth teaspoonful of mus- 
tard. Put into a baking dish alternate layers of 
ham, crumbs, chopped eggs, and cream sauce. 
Cover with the crumbs, dot with bits of butter, 
and put into the cooker oven for one-half hour, or 
set in a steamer cooker one hour and brown after- 
ward. 
Hominy and Cheese. 

One pint of hominy samp, scalded and soaked 
in water all night, one pound of chopped veal, 
half a can of tomatoes, half a cup of grated 
cheese, pepper, and salt. Boil ten minutes over 
the fire. Place in cooker five hours. 

Macaroni and Cheese. 

Break and boil macaroni in an abundance of 
water in the cooker. Half an hour will cook it. 
Take out and drain. Blanch with cold water and 
drain. In a baking dish place alternate layers of 
macaroni and cheese and bread crumbs, mixed. 
Salt and pepper as you proceed. On the top make 
a nice layer of crumbs with bits of butter. Heat 
over the fire and cook, double boiler way, in the 
cooker an hour or two. Brown before serving. 

Escalloped Onions. 

Peel large onions and boil ten minutes. Ar- 
range in a dish, dusting with salt and red pepper 



115 OTftat to Cook 

and dotting with bits of butter. Make a cream 
sauce to cover. Dust with cracker crumbs. Heat 
ten minutes and set in cooker two hours. Before 
serving, brown under a hot griddle. 

Escalloped Oysters. 

Alternate layers of bread crumbs and oysters, 
seasoning with salt, pepper, and butter. Pour in 
milk until it shows above the top layer, which 
should consist of buttered crumbs. Heat over a 
kettle of hot water, the pan of oysters forming a 
cover for the kettle. Cover the oysters. Let the 
water boil a moment. Set in the cooker an hour. 
Brown the top before serving. 

Escalloped Potatoes. 

Pare and slice. Place in a pan, seasoning with 
salt, pepper, and bits of butter. Cover with milk 
or cream. Heat through over fire. Set over a 
kettle of boiling water double boiler fashion. Boil 
a minute or two and place in a cooker three hours. 
Brown over the top just before serving. 



Escalloped Sweet Potatoes. 

Pare sweet potatoes cut lengthwise, boil five 
minutes, and put into cooker for two hours. Place 
in a serving dish, season with sugar, butter, and 
nutmeg. Add a cup of milk. Heat over a fire. 
Place in cooker an hour. Brown under a hot 
griddle just before serving. After the seasoning 
is added, this may be baked in an insulated oven 
one-half hour. 

Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Pare and slice tomatoes. Place in a granite 
pan, with butter, salt, pepper, and bread or 



Jf trelestf Cooker lie 

cracker crumbs, alternating the crumbs and to- 
matoes. Heat over the fire ten minutes and place 
over water in a cooker from one to two hours, 
according to the quantity. 

Tomatoes Fried. 

Select large firm tomatoes. Pare and slice 
them. Fry each piece in fresh meat drippings 
mixed with butter and seasoned with salt and 
pepper. Lift each piece when simply browned 
into a stew-pan. When all are browned, stir a 
tablespoon of flour in the fat and a cupful of to- 
mato juice with a tablespoon of vinegar. Boil two 
minutes. Pour over the tomatoes in the stew-pan. 
Place in a cooker an hour. Remaining longer 
will not injure them. 

Cheese Souffle. 

Make a white sauce of two tablespoons of but- 
ter, one of flour, half a teaspoon of salt, a shake 
of pepper, a speck of soda, and half a cup of hot 
milk. Cook two minutes. Add a cup of grated 
cheese and the beaten yolks of three eggs, and 
stir until it is all smooth. Remove from the fire 
and cool. Cut in the whites, whipped stiff and 
dry. Bake in a well-buttered serving dish twenty 
or twenty-five minutes. Rush to the table. 

Tomato Souffle. 

Two tablespoons of butter, one heaping table- 
spoon of flour, one-half a cup of tomato juice, 
three eggs, one-half teaspoon of salt, and a dash 
of red pepper. Melt the butter and while hot add 
the flour and stir smooth, then add tomato juice 
and seasoning. Cook two minutes, then add yolks 
of eggs well beaten and let this cool. Beat the 



117 



to Cook 



whites of eggs and add them. Butter a pudding 
dish and turn all into it. Put into cooker kettle 
over hot water, let it get hot or just boil, and 
place in cooker for one hour and a half. Serve 
hot. This may be baked if more convenient. 




Choice Recipes 



"There is a best way of doing everything, even to 
poaching an egg." EMEESON. 

Baked Eggs. 

Slightly warm a shallow dish, butter gener- 
ously, and then break the number of eggs de- 
sired. Season with salt and red pepper and add 
a little rich cream, about three or four table- 
spoonfuls to five or six eggs. Bake in cooker oven 
one-half hour. 

Perfection Omelet. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of six 
eggs; mix six teaspoonfuls of corn starch and 
one tablespoon of baking powder. To a half 
pint of milk add the yolks of eggs and corn starch 
with a little salt. Lastly add the whites of eggs 
beaten stiff. Cook in a little butter in a baking 
dish one-half hour. 

Steamed Eggs. 

Break fresh eggs into individual dishes which 
have been well buttered. To each egg add a 
tablespoon of cream, salt, and a dash of pepper. 
Set in a pan of hot water. Cover. Place in 
cooker twenty minutes. They will be tender and 
delicate, and will cook for breakfast while the 
oatmeal or fruit is being eaten. 
Swiss Eggs. 

Use a porcelain lined dish, at the bottom of 
which put one-fourth of a pound of finely sliced 
cheese. Then mix together one tablespoon of 
flour and one tablespoon of butter; thin it with 



Jf trelestf Cooker 120 

one-half cup of cream. Add pepper and salt to 
taste, and a little mustard. 

Pour half the quantity over the cheese, then 
break six eggs into the dish and pour over them 
the remainder of the mixture and bake in the 
oven half an hour. Serve hot. 

Eggs for Tea. 

Take a deep circular platter. Cover its surface 
with cold cooked and seasoned rice. Make hol- 
lows in this rice with the bowl of a spoon, and 
break one egg into each hollow. Season with salt, 
white pepper, and a teaspoon of thick cream on 
each egg. Fit the platter over a pan of boiling 
water. Cover. Set it in the cooker half an hour 
or until the rice is heated through and the eggs 
cooked to your liking. Garnish with parsley. 
Hash may be substituted for the rice. 



Choice enpes 






"I warrant there's vinegar and pepper in't." SHAKES- 
PEARE. 

Bean and Pea Salad. 

One cup each of cold cooked peas and beans, 
one cold diced potato, and three or four chopped 
radishes. Toss about in a salad dressing. Serve 
on lettuce leaves with diced radish as a garnish. 

Beet Salad. 

Boil in cooker and peel about five medium sized 
beets. Dice or chopp. Cut up a medium sized 
bunch of celery. About three apples and English 
walnuts to taste. Just a suspicion of onion, say 
a teaspoonful, salt, and pepper. Cover with boiled 
mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves. 

Chicken Salad. 

Cook the chicken in the cooker the day before 
required for the salad. Take equal parts of 
chicken and celery. Cut them into very small pieces 
and keep in ice box until an hour before time 
to serve. Then mingle with a portion of the dress- 
ing, which should be cold, and return to the box 
until time to serve. Arrange the salad on crisp 
lettuce leaves and pour over it the remainder of 
the dressing. Blanched almonds cut into small 
pieces make a desirable addition. 

Dressing. 

Into a double boiler put two cups of sweet 
cream and when hot stir in four eggs well beaten 
with one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful 
of mustard, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, one-fourth 



123 ataUfcat to Cook 



saltspoonful of red pepper, and one teaspoonful 
of flour. When cold, beat in three-fourths cup of 
vinegar. If the vinegar is strong, reduce as much 
as seems necessary. 

Cold Slaw. 

Slice cabbage fine and put into a dish. To one 
small dishful, allow onehalf teacup of hot vin- 
egar; add mustard, pepper and salt. Beat one 
egg and pour the boiling vinegar over it. Add 
half a cup of thick cream and pour all over the 
cabbage. 

Thomazine's Cheese Balls. 

One and one-half cups grated cheese, two level 
spoons of flour, a pinch of cayenne pepper, one- 
fourth teaspoon of salt, and whites of three eggs, 
well beaten. Stir all ingredients together, shape 
into balls the size of a walnut ; then roll in beaten 
yolks of eggs and in cracker crumbs. Fry in 
hot lard. This makes twenty-four balls. Use 
with various salads. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Set a crock of sour milk into a kettle of steam- 
ing water, being careful that the water is not so 
hot as to cook the milk unduly. Set all into the 
cooker five hours. It will be beautifully curled, 
Strain through cheese cloth. Season with salt, 
curry powder, and sage, and add cream. Use with 
salads. This is fine spread on bread for sand- 
wiches. 

Salad Dressing. 

Four eggs, three-fourths cup each of strong 
vinegar and water, one-fourth cup of sugar, one 



Jf irelestf Cooker 124 

small teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful 
salt, one-fourth of white pepper, and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Beat the ingredients thor- 
oughly together and when hot stir in three 
teaspoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water. 
Cook until thick, beat, and place in small jars to 
cool. When ready to use thin with whipped 
cream. 

This will keep several days and may be used 
with many salads. For a fruit salad add a large 
portion of the whipped cream and, if liked, a 
little more sugar. For cabbage add sour cream 
or whipped sweet cream, and celery or celery 
seed. For a potato salad add a few drops of 
onion juice with the cream and garnish with hard 
boiled eggs. 

Ruth's Salad Dressing. 

Three large tablespoons butter. Put in a pan 
and melt. Add enough flour to take up all the 
butter and put over fire. Add hot water, a little 
at a time until of proper consistency. Take from 
fire and while still hot add yolks of four eggs. 
Then add salt, sugar, mustard (very little), and 
vinegar to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs well 
and add last, whipping them in. 

Ham Salad. 

To one teacup of cottage cheese add salt, pepper, 
and half a teacup of sweet cream. Stir with it 
one teacup of finely chopped cold boiled ham from 
which all the fat has been removed. Serve on 
lettuce. 



125 ltyat to Cook 



Hominy Salad. 

One cup thoroughly cooked hominy. Stir in 
salad dressing until every corn is covered. Place 
on lettuce leaves with cubes from four oranges 
and a cup of sliced dates. On top put a few spoon- 
fuls of foamy dressing. 

Mock Whipped Cream. 

One grated sour apple, juice of one lemon, one 
even cupful of sugar, white of one egg to be added 
last. Beat a long time with an egg beater, and 
it will produce beautiful whipped cream. 

Nautilus Salad. 

Two bunches of celery, four or five large apples, 
one large can of shredded pineapple, one pound of 
white malaga grapes, one dozen bananas, one 
large cup of white sugar, a little salt, one pint of 
nut meats, and one quart of heavy cream. Cut 
grapes in half and take out seeds. Cut the fruit 
and celery in small thin pieces. Use English wal- 
nuts, almonds, and hickory nuts, ground in nut 
mill or chopped fine. Whip the cream and if it 
does not whip readily, add the white of an egg. 
Serve on lettuce leaf. This will serve thirty people, 

Potato Salad. 

Six good sized Irish potatoes, four hard boiled 
eggs, two small onions, and a bunch of celery or 
some celery seed. Boil potatoes in cooker two 
hours, remove skins, and cut into cubes. Cut cel- 
ery fine, also onions. Slice eggs and place in lay- 
ers in dish. Add dressing cold. 

Dressing: Lump of butter size of an egg, two 
tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon of flour, tea- 
spoon of salt, pinch of red pepper, teaspoon of 



Coofeer 126 

mustard, one-half cup of vinegar, one-half cup of 
water, and three eggs, beaten. Put butter, sugar, 
vinegar and water in double boiler; add other in- 
gredients, beating until smooth, and stir into vin- 
egar, stirring until cooked smooth. When cold 
add to the salad. 

Winter Salad. 

Slice six dozen cucumbers and sprinkle salt over 
them, and let stand three hours. Then slice thin 
one quart of onions. Mix onions and cucumbers 
and pour over them one cup of olive oil, one cup 
of white mustard seed, two tablespoons of celery 
seed, and two quarts of vinegar. All ingredients 
should be cold. Put in cans and seal. In the 
winter serve on lettuce leaves. 

Winnebago Salad. 

Boil eight medium sized potatoes in their jack- 
ets in the cooker two hours. Peel and cut into 
. one-fourth inch cubes. Add two cups of cucum- 
ber cut into one-fourth inch cubes, one cup shred- 
ded almonds, two tablespoons red and green 
peppers, chopped fine, one small chopped onion, 
and one cup of dried tomatoes. Use Ruth's salad 
dressing. 

Tomato Salad. 

Select tomatoes of even size, remove the skins 
in boiling water. Cut off the stem end and scoop 
out the soft pulp. Sprinkle them inside with salt. 
Invert them on a plate to drain one hour in the 
refrigerator. To one cup of cold cooked chicken 
or veal add one-half cup of shaved celery, one 
spoon of minced parsley, and moisten with salad 



127 mfat to Cook 



dressing. Fill the tomato shells and chill on ice. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. 

The following recipes are taken from a book 
entitled "Uncooked Foods," with the consent of 
the author, Eugene Christian, a food expert of 
No. 7 East 41st St., New York, N. Y. 

Hygeia Salad Dressing. 

Two eggs, one-half lemon, two tablespoonfuls 
olive oil, one cup whipped cream, sugar and salt. 
To the yolks of the eggs, beaten very stiff, add 
the oil and juice of the lemon very slowly, beating 
hard all the while, until it has all been added and 
is quite thick. Then add the beaten whites of 
eggs, salt and sugar to taste, and last, one cup of 
whipped cream. Whip all together until very stiff 
and set on ice until ready to serve. 

Grape Fruit Salad. 

Lettuce, salad dressing, and grape fruit. Re- 
move the seeds or center of grape fruit with a 
sharp knife. Cut the edible portion into small 
bits and serve on lettuce leaf with salad dressing. 
This makes a very dainty salad. 

Vv hipped Cream for Salad Dressing. 

Place in a soup bowl one cup of very thick 
cream. Whip with Dover egg beater until very 
stiff. Add to this two teaspoonfuls of powdered 
sugar. Beat thoroughly again. This makes a 
very delicious dressing for all sweet fruit salads. 
If very heavy cream cannot be procured, add to 
it the stiffly beaten white of an egg. 

Banana Salad. 

Oranges, white grapes, pecans, bananas. Pre- 
pare a mixture of thinly sliced bananas, shredded 



Jf irele** Cooker 128 

orange or grape fruit, seeded white grapes, and a 
few pecan meats in small pieces. In their season 
cherries may be added. Mix in a salad bowl with 
whipped cream. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

Tomato and Cucumber Salad. 

Tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, dressing. Slice 
tomatoes, cucumbers, and onions. Serve on let- 
tuce leaf with dressing. 

Strawberries and Whipped Cream. 

Select nice, ripe, sweet berries; wash thor- 
oughly, then cap and put first a layer of berries, 
then powdered sugar, until the dish is filled. Cover 
with whipped cream beaten together with the 
whites of two eggs and a spoonful of powdered 
sugar. 

A Simple Dessert. 

Eggs, sugar, cream, peaches, dates. Beat the 
whites of six eggs into a very stiff froth, then add 
gradually six tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
beating at least fifteen minutes. Then beat in one 
heaping tablespoonful of fresh peaches (mashed) 
and as many seedless raisins or dates cut fine. 
Serve with thick cream. 

Currants. 

Select large bunches of ripe currants, dip in 
frothed white of egg. Roll in powdered sugar and 
serve on the stem. This makes a beautiful table 
decoration. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Tomatoes, parsley, onions, cucumbers, green 
peppers, lettuce, cabbage, flaked wheat. Remove 
the center from tomatoes, chop fine with a few 



129 ataa&at to cook 

sprigs of parsley, one small onion, one cucumber, 
a little green pepper, cabbage or celery, and add 
enough flaked wheat to thicken or make stiff, and 
stuff the tomato shells. Serve on a lettuce leaf 
with salad dressing. 

Orange and Apple Salad. 

One apple, lettuce, salad dressing, two oranges, 
ground nuts. Cut in small pieces the orange and 
apple. Serve on a lettuce leaf with a dash of 
ground nuts and oil or salad dressing. 

Pineapple Salad. 

Pineapple, lettuce, strawberries. Cut pineapple 
in small pieces. Wash tender leaves of lettuce and 
spread pineapple on them, with very ripe straw- 
berries over the pineapple. Serve with salad 
dressing. 

Cheese Eggs. 

Cream cheese, milk or cream, blanched almonds, 
lettuce, olives, radishes. Moisten slightly cream 
cheese with milk or cream. Mould cheese around 
blanched almond the size of a robin's egg. Ar- 
range in nest of lettuce leaves and garnish with 
ripe olives and tuliped radishes. 

Cress and Cabbage Salad. 

Cabbage, water cress, radishes, Hygeia dress- 
ing. Line salad bowl with finely sliced cabbage. 
Cover this with water cress, and so on, until bowl 
is filled. Decorate with tuliped radishes, and 
cover with dressing. 

Nasturtium Salad. 

Shred a head of lettuce, mingle with it a quan- 
tity of nasturtium leaves. Wash both thoroughly, 



Jf treles& Cooker 



130 



place in a salad bowl and dot with nasturtium 
flowers. Serve with dressing. 

Vegetable Salad. 

One small carrot, a small piece of green pepper, 
one white turnip, a little celery, a little cabbage, 
a few radishes, one small onion, lettuce, salad 
dressing. Grind or chop fine all vegetables. Serve 
on lettuce leaf with salad dressing. 




Cfjotce 



Cijottt &ecipe 



Cereals. 

"I sing the sweets I know, the charms I feel, 
My morning incense and my evening meal. 
The sweets of Hasty Pudding." 

BABLOW. 
Breakfast Hominy. 

One cupful of flaked breakfast hominy and one 
quart of boiling water. Salt to taste. Boil five 
minutes and place in the cooker three hours, or all 
night if it is wanted for breakfast, or all the aft- 
ernoon if used for supper. It is delicious with 
cream or maple syrup. 

Commeal Mush. 

Into five cups of boiling salted water stir slowly 
about one and one-half cups of cornmeal. Cook 
five minutes over a fire and place in a fireless 
cooker over night or all the afternoon. 

Cream of Wheat. 

Take two and one-fourth cups of boiling water 
and one-half teaspoon of salt to one-half cup of 
cream of wheat. Cook the same as oatmeal. 

Fried Cornmeal Mush. 

Stir one pint of milk into one pint of cornmeal 
and a scant teaspoon of salt. Put one quart of 
hot water into a granite saucepan and place over 
a good fire. When it boils, stir in milk and corn- 
meal mixture, stirring all the time until the corn 
is scalded, so it will not settle to the bottom. Set 
in a cooker an hour or longer. When done turn 
into baking powder cans which have been wet 
with cold water. Cool, cut in slices a quarter of 



Jftrele^ Coofeer 134 

an inch thick, roll in cornmeal, and fry in a hot 
spider in mixed fats. 

Graham Mush. 

Into a small kettle put four cups of boiling water 
and one teaspoon of salt. Sprinkle into it slowly 
one cup of graham flour, stirring constantly. 
When it has thickened, cover closely and place in 
a kettle of boiling water. Cook five minutes over 
the fire and six hours or over night in the cooker. 
The mush is excellent if poured into a mold while 
hot. When cold turn out and serve with cream 
and sugar or with fruit. 

Indian Meal Gruel. 

One quart of boiling water thickened by three 
tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, one teaspoon of 
salt, one tablespoon of sugar, and two grates of 
nutmeg. Boil three minutes and skim it. When 
boiling again set it in a cooker two hours. 

Oatmeal Custard. 

One pint of milk, one-half cup of brown sugar, 
butter the size of a walnut, and one egg beaten 
together and salted. One cup of uncooked oat- 
meal with half a grated nutmeg beaten into the 
other ingredients. Pour into a covered pudding 
mold. Steam over the fire ten minutes and two 
hours in the cooker. 

Oatmeal Gruel. 

To one-half cup of oatmeal add four cups of 
boiling water and one-half teaspoon of salt. Boil 
five minutes. Then place in the cooker for six 
hours or over night. Strain and serve with milk 
or cream. 



135 



Whole Grain Oatmeal. 

One cup of oatmeal, two and one-half pints of 
cold water, one teaspoonful salt. Heat and en- 
close it in an outer vessel of boiling water. Boil 
it ten minutes. Set it in the cooker four or five 
hours or over night. 

Quaker Oats. 

Take two and one-half cups of boiling water 
and one teaspoon of salt. Stir into this one large 
cup of Quaker Oats. Cook in the same manner as 
oatmeal. 

Pettijohn's Breakfast Food. 

One cup of Petti John to two scant cups of boil- 
ing water or milk. Cook in a small kettle or jar 
placed in a larger kettle of boiling water. Stir 
just enough to keep the grains apart. Remove to 
the cooker after boiling five minutes. Leave in 
the cooker six hours or over night. 



"And I will fetch a morsel of bread and comfort ye 
your hearts." Genesis xxviii, 5. 

Alice's Brown Bread. 

Two cups of sweet milk, two-thirds of a cup of 
New Orleans molasses, one-half cup each of white 
flour and corn meal, two cups of graham flour, 
and one teaspoonful each of salt, soda, and bak- 
ing powder. 

Beat the soda and salt into the milk and mo- 
lasses, mingle the baking powder with the flour 
and stir with the corn meal and graham into the 
milk. Mix well together, place in three baking 
powder cans. Steam the bread half an hour on 
the stove and in the cooker six hours. 

Best Boston Brown Bread. 

One cup each of molasses, sour milk, sweet milk, 
corn meal, and raisins; about three cups of gra- 
ham flour, one level teaspoonful of soda, one-half 
teaspoonful salt, and one rounded teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Beat together the molasses, sour 
milk, and soda; then add the sweet milk, corn 
meal, salt, and graham flour, in which should be 
mingled the baking powder. Mix the ingredients 
thoroughly, and lastly add the raisins dredged 
with flour. 

Put the mixture into four well greased baking 
powder cans with good tops. Place on the rack of 
the large cooker kettle. Boil thirty minutes over 
the fire and place in the cooker for six hours or 
more. 



Jf trele** Coofeer 138 

Boston brown bread, plum puddings, and other 
dishes that are raised with baking powder or soda 
should be cooked over the fire about thirty min- 
utes to insure their lightness. Then carefully re- 
move to the cooker, to remain the length of time 
given. 

Put the covered cans containing the bread or 
other foods on the rack in the large kettle. If they 
do not fit closely into the kettle, place some other 
article with them to brace and keep them in place. 

Mrs. B.'s Brown Bread. 

One pint of corn meal, one pint of flour, one 
pint of sour milk, one-half cup of New Orleans 
molasses, one egg, one and one-half level tea- 
spoonfuls of soda and one teaspoonful each of salt 
and baking powder. Beat together the molasses, 
sour milk, soda, and salt, add the egg well beaten, 
the corn meal, and the flour with the baking pow- 
der sifted into it. Mix thoroughly and put into 
baking powder cans, filling them two-thirds full. 
Boil on the stove thirty minutes and in the cooker 
six hours. 

Custard Corn Bread. 

One cup flour and one cup white corn meal, one 
tablespoon sugar and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Mix well. Separate five eggs and beat 
the yolks until light and then add them to two 
cups of milk. Stir this into the dry ingredients 
and beat hard. Then add two tablespoonfuls of 
butter that is softened, but not melted. Mix and 
then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, 
folding them in lightly but thoroughly. Pour into 
a mold or into several small molds. Steam over a 



139 OTtfmt to Cook 



fire fifteen minutes and place in a cooker two 
hours. Serve hot. 

Corn Bread. 

Two cups of corn meal, two cups of white flour, 
one cup of graham flour, one-half cup of mo- 
lasses, one-half cup of raisins and one level tea- 
spoon of soda. One tablespoon of shortening 
melted, one tablespoon of sugar and a pinch of 
salt. Two cups of cold water. 

Grease baking powder cans and fill half full 
and place in cooker kettle, filling in hot water 
more than half way to top of cans. Boil thirty- 
five minutes and place in cooker for five or six 
hours. 

Dutch Oven Bread. 

Two quarts of Indian rneal scalded by placing 
in a pan and pouring over it just enough boiling 
water to merely wet it, 
but not enough to make 
it into a batter, stirring 
constantly with a spoon. 
One quart of graham 
flour, one-half cup of mo- 
lasses, two teaspoons of 
salt, one of soda, one tea- 
cup of yeast. Make it as 
stiff as can be stirred 
with a spoon, mixing 

with warm water, and let rise all night or all of 
one day. Then put it into a large saucepan, smooth 
the top with the hand dipped in cold water. Let 
it stand a short time, and bake in an insulated 
oven. If put in the oven late in the day, let it 




Jf treieste Cooker 140 

remain all night. In our great-grandmother's 
days, this was placed in a kettle, allowed to rise, 
then placed in a covered iron pan upon the hearth 
before the fire, with coals heaped upon the lid to 
bake all night. 

Graham Nut Bread. 

Two cups of graham flour, one cup of chopped 
English walnuts, one-half a cup of New Orleans 
molasses, one cup of sour milk, one-half a cup of 
raisins, scant teaspoon of soda and a small tea- 
spoon of salt. Steam thirty-five minutes in 
greased baking powder cans and put in cooker 
five or six hours. 

Miriam's Bread. 

Scald one pint of milk, and take one rounded 
tablespoon of sugar and the same of salt, also one 
rounded tablespoon of lard and one of butter. Put 
these ingredients into a pan and pour the scalded 
milk over them. Add one pint of cold water. 
Take one cake of compressed yeast and dissolve 
it in one-half cup of lukewarm water. Let first 
mixture cool until it is lukewarm, then add the 
yeast; add flour, making a batter, and beat until 
perfectly smooth. Add more flour until it can be 
handled. Turn out on board and knead until 
smooth. 

Let rise until double its size, make out into 
loaves, and when light, place in a hot oven for 
about five minutes and bake slowly for one hour. 

Peanut Bread. 

Take three pints of white flour, two teaspoons 
of salt and compressed yeast cake dissolved in a 
little luke warm water, one cup of peanut meats, 



141 SHiijat to Cook 

Stir with spoon to a soft dough, with a cup of 
warm milk. Set in cooker to rise and when very 
light mold in the peanuts, which should be ground. 
Let rise again and place in pans. Let stand a few 
moments and bake in a moderate oven. No sugar 
or shortening should go into this bread. 

Whole WJieat Bread. 

Two cups of sweet milk, one cup of boiling 
water, four tablespoons of sugar, two teaspoons 
of salt. Add whole wheat flour enough to make 
a soft sponge at night, adding one cake of yeast 
foam. In the morning add more flour and make 
as stiff as you can stir with a spoon. Pour into 
two greased bread pans, let rise to top of pan. 
Bake two hours in cooker oven. 

Baking Powder Biscuit. 

To one quart of flour take one teaspoon of 
salt, one tablespoon of butter and one of lard. 
Add to the flour five teaspoons of baking powder. 
Mix all together and mix with three-quarters of 
a pint of sweet milk. Roll out and cut with small 
round cutter. This will make twenty-four bis- 
cuits. 

Corn Cakes. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, 
two cups of flour, two cups of corn meal, three 
eggs, two teaspoons of baking powder and one- 
half pint of milk. Mix and bake like cake. 

Corn Muffins. 

One large cup of corn meal, one large cup of 
flour, one-half cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
one tablespoon of butter, two teaspoons of baking 
powder and two eggs. Beat whites and yolks 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 142 

* 

separately. Mix as cake and bake in muffin pans 
between hot slabs. 

Graham Muffins. 

One cup of graham flour, one cup of white flour, 
one-fourth cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
one tablespoon of melted butter and two and one- 
half teaspoons of baking powder. Mix and sift 
dry ingredients, add the milk gradually, then the 
egg well beaten and the melted butter. Bake in 
hot oven in greased gem pans twenty-five minutes. 

Muffins. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, 
two eggs, two cups of flour, one cup of milk, two 
teaspoons of baking powder and a pinch of salt. 
Cream butter and sugar very light, add yolks of 
eggs unbeaten, stir well, then add milk and flour 
alternately, first having sifted the baking powder 
into the flour. Beat whites of eggs lightly and 
add last thing. Bake ten or fifteen minutes. 

Potato Rolls. 

One cup of mashed potatoes, three-quarters of a 
cup of granulated sugar, one-half cup of luke 
warm water, one-half a nutmeg and one cake of 
compressed yeast. Take enough of flour to make 
a thin batter. Set at nine o'clock in the morning 
in the cooker and at twelve o'clock beat into it two 
eggs, one cup of melted butter and flour enough 
to make a soft dough, about as thick as biscuit 
dough. Set in cooker. At three o'clock p. M. 
make out into rolls and when light bake in a 
moderate oven, twenty-five minutes. 

Pocket-Book Corn Rolls. 

One and one-fourth cups of flour, three-quar- 
ters of a cup of yellow corn meal, four teaspoons 



143 ^fcat to Cook 



of baking powder, one-half teaspoon of salt, one 
tablespoon of sugar, two tablespoons of butter, 
one egg and three-fourths of a cup of milk. All 
measurements are to be level. Mix and sift dry 
ingredients in a bowl. Chop butter in with knife. 
Beat egg, and mix in, then add one-half the milk 
and all the dry ingredients to make a soft dough 
that can be handled. Add more milk if necessary, 
turn on a floured board, roll out one-half inch 
thick. Cut with round cutter, put butter size of 
pea in each round, fold in center. Rub top with 
milk and bake in hot oven twelve or fifteen min- 
utes. 

Parker House Rolls. 

One quart skimmed milk, one egg, butter the 
size of an egg, one-half cake of yeast, flour suffi- 
cient to make a smooth dough. Raise five hours. 
Mold and let rise. Slightly heat the pan of rolls, 
while the asbestos slabs are over the fire. Make 
the slabs very hot. Place them above and below 
the rolls, with a wire toasting frame between the 
bake pan and the hot stone. Above, rest a toast- 
ing frame on the bake pan and put the hot stone 
on that. 

Tea Biscuit. 

One-half scant cup of butter, two eggs, one-half 
cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder sifted in two and one- 
half cups of flour. Separate the eggs, beat yolks 
and sugar together, add milk and flour alternately, 
a pinch of salt and lastly the beaten whites of 
eggs. Bake in gem pans. 



Choice 






"Thy life be as sweet as its last sunset sky 
Golden-tinted and fair as thine own Pumpkin pie!" 

-WHITTIER. 

Pie Crust. 

One scant cup of flour, one-fourth teaspoon of 
salt, two level tablespoons each of cold butter and 
lard. Cut butter and lard into the flour with a 
silver knife until the size of a pea or bean. Then 
wet half the mixture with ice water. Turn on 
board. Take a knife and fold the wet and dry in- 
gredients together. Fold, divide into two parts, 
and roll out three times. Do not touch with the 
hands. Have everything ice cold. This makes 
one pie. 

Apple Meringue Pie. 

Stew in a small quantity of water enough ap- 
ples to make two large cupfuls when cooked. It 
should be quite thick when done. Rub through a 
strainer. Beat the yolks of two eggs until light 
and add them to the cooked apple with one cup of 
sugar and a small teaspoonful of cinnamon. Beat 
thoroughly. Line a pie pan with a good crust, 
pour in the mixture, and bake in the cooker oven 
until the crust is nicely browned. 

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and spread over the 
pie when baked. Return to the oven to brown 
lightly, or brown with a hot soap stone. 

Chocolate Pie. 

One pint of milk, add cocoa to taste, making it 
strong. Two eggs, one tablespoon of flour, one- 



Jf trelestf Cooker 146 

half cup of sugar, and teaspoon of vanilla. Boil 
milk and cocoa together, beat yolks of eggs, sugar 
and flour, and add to boiling cocoa. Stir until 
thick. Make a crust and bake, and pour the above 
custard into it when cold. Add a meringue of the 
whites of eggs. Brown. 

Cottage Cheese Pie. 

Use two cups of cottage cheese, one cup of 
sweet cream, five tablespoons of sugar, and five 
eggs. Beat the cream into the cheese, beat the 
sugar and yolks of eggs together, and add to the 
cheese and cream. Last of all add the whites of 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Line two pie plates 
with thin pastry. Pour the ingredients in and 
bake in a moderate oven for one-half hour. 

Cream Pie. 

One cup of sour cream, one-half cup of seeded 
raisins chopped fine, one cup of sugar, the yolks 
of three eggs, and one white of egg. One-half tea- 
spoon of cinnamon, one-fourth teaspoon of cloves. 
Bake with one crust. Use the remaining whites 
of eggs for a meringue, adding two tablespoons 
of sugar. Brown. Sweet cream can be used if 
desired. 

Custard Pie. 

Three eggs, one pint of milk, one-half cup of 
sugar, one teaspoon of corn starch, butter size of 
hickory nut, and pinch of salt. Flavor with nut- 
meg. Beat yolks of eggs with sugar, mix all to- 
gether, and bake with one crust. Beat the whites 
and add a little sugar, spread over pie, and brown. 



147 Wfat to Cook 

Dutch Apple Pie. 

One pint flour, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one teaspoon salt, two tablespoons sugar, one- 
fourth cup butter, one scant cup milk, two eggs, 
four tart apples. Mix dry ingredients together. 
Rub in the butter. Beat eggs light and add them 
to milk. Stir eggs and milk into the dry ingredi- 
ents. Spread the dough about one-half inch thick 
in a flat pan. Core, pare, and cut the apples into 
eighths. Lay them on top of the batter thin edge 
down. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Bake 
about thirty minutes. Serve with cream. Good 
hot or cold. 

Lemon Pie. 

One large lemon, one cup of sugar, two eggs, 
one tablespoon of corn starch. Grate the yellow 
rind from the lemon and squeeze all the juice out. 
Mix the corn starch with a little cold water and 
pour half a pint of boiling water over it. Mix 
well and bake with one crust. Use the whites of 
the two eggs for the meringue. 

Mince Meat. 

One and one-half pounds of lean beef, weighed 
after cooking, six pounds of apples, pared and 
cored, one pound of suet, three pounds of raisins, 
two of currants, and one of citron. One and one- 
half tablespoonfuls each of cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice, and grated nutmeg, three quarts of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of salt, and one-eighth teaspoon- 
ful of pepper. Put the meat, apples, and suet 
through the meat chopper and with the other in- 
gredients place in a large jar; mix them 
thoroughly. For moisture add one pint of vinegar 



$ irele&s Coofeer 148 

and as much sweet cider or water as will make 
of the right consistency, or you may use part 
boiled cider or any rich fruit juices you may have. 
If there is too much of the mixture for a large 
cooker kettle, put it into two kettles or reserve a 
portion to be cooked the next day. Heat slowly 
and stir frequently until it boils. When it is boil- 
ing hot all through, remove to the cooking box for 
twelve hours. Then pour into jars and cover 
closely. When ready to use heat the required 
quantity and add more moisture if necessary. 
This will keep good for many weeks. 

Two Pineapple Pies. 

Bake two under crusts. One large can of grated 
pineapple. Place in a double boiler with one-half 
cup of water. One cup of w r hite sugar and two 
tablespoons of flour mixed. Add this to the pine- 
apple and cook until thickened. Spread this filling 
over the crusts. Cover with a meringue made 
with the beaten whites of four eggs and half a cup 
of sugar. Brown. F. E. W. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Pumpkin for pies should be coooked with as 
little water as possible so that all the sweetness 
and flavor may be retained. To do this pare and 
cut the pumpkin into small pieces and remove the 
seeds and coarse pulp. Put it without water into 
an inner vessel and immerse in the large kettle of 
boiling water. When the pumpkin is thoroughly 
heated, consign it to the cooker for four hours or 
more. Then mash the pumpkin and place the 
kettle containing it over the fire and boil until 
quite dry, stirring it frequently. When sufficiently 



149 gjfjat to Coofe 

cooked, strain. To two cups of pumpkin add four 
cups of milk, three eggs, one and one-fourth cups 
of sugar, one rounded teaspoon each of cinnamon 
and ginger, and a pinch of salt. Add the sugar 
and spices to the pumpkin, then the milk and eggs 
well beaten, and mix thoroughly. Line two pie 
pans with a good crust, wet the edges, and place 
around them a strip of the crust, making a deep 
shape. Pour in the mixture and bake until the 
crust and the top of the pies are well browned. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Take two scant cups of flour, two heaping table- 
spoons of baking powder, pinch of salt, and one 
tablespoon of sugar. Rub in three rounding table- 
spoons of butter. Beat up one egg in a cup and 
add enough milk to make a thick batter. Stir all 
together and bake in a well buttered pan, drop- 
ping it in the pan with the spoon. When baked, 
split and butter and put strawberries between and 
on top, having first picked and sugared the ber- 
ries. This makes a good pudding by stirring in 
berries. Eat with cream. F. E. W. 



Cfjottt 



"We'll crown the plum pudding with bunches of bay, 
And roast all the chestnuts that come in our way." 

Apple Pudding. 

Separate and beat two salted eggs. Add two 
large tablespoons of sugar to the yolks, and mix 
with one-half pint of milk and one teaspoon of 
melted butter. Sift in one cup of flour and one 
heaping teaspoon of baking powder. Add the 
beaten whites and a small spoon of cinnamon. Add 
more flour, if necessary, to make a smooth batter. 
Pour in one pint of chopped apples, mix, and turn 
into a buttered mold. Cover. Place in hot water 
in a cooker kettle. Boil thirty minutes and place 
in the cooker two hours. Serve hot with cream. 

Apple and Brown Bread Pudding. 

Two cups of chopped apple and two cups of 
brown bread crumbs, either Boston brown bread 
or graham. Mix with the crumbs one-half cup 
of finely chopped suet. Add the apples, one-half 
a cup of sugar, and one-half cup of flour in which 
are mingled one cup of prepared raisins. Beat 
two eggs light and add a cup of milk and one- 
third teaspoonful of salt. Stir this into the other 
ingredients. Pour into a covered pudding dish. 
Place in the large cooker kettle on a steamer rack 
and pour boiling water into the kettle until it 
reaches within two inches of the top of the dish. 
Steam over the fire thirty minutes and in the 
cooker four hours. Serve with hard sauce. 



Jf treles* Cooker 152 

Cold Apple Pudding. 

One cup of hominy soaked all night. Use cold 
water to keep the kernels separate. In the morn- 
ing heat, adding sugar to taste. Place in cooker 
three hours. Take out of cooker. Add three ap- 
ples, pared and quartered, and sugar as desired. 
Reheat and boil three minutes. Place in the 
cooker two hours. To be eaten cold. 

Jellied Apple Tapioca. 

One cup of tapioca soaked over night in six cups 
of water. Next morning add about six tart ap- 
ples, or more if the apples are small, chopped fine. 
Add one and one-half cups of sugar. Bake slowly 
in insulated oven four hours or more. To be 
eaten either warm or cold with cream. 

Bread Pudding. 

Four tablespoons of grated bread crumbs, 
soaked in part of one pint of milk thirty minutes. 
Into this put the yolks of two eggs, beaten light, 
into which has been mixed two heaping table- 
spoons of sugar. Stir the rest of the milk into 
this and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
and part of the grated rind of a lemon. Mix and 
turn into a buttered pudding dish. Place in cooker 
kettle over hot water and cook ten minutes, then 
place in cooker for three hours. When about time 
to serve beat the whites of eggs and some sugar 
for a meringue and brown, using lemon juice to 
flavor it. 

"Brown Betty" 

One cup and a half of fine bread crumbs; two 
cups of tart apples, peeled, cored, and minced; 



153 ^fjat to Cook 



half teaspoonful each of cinnamon and mace; 
three eggs salted and well beaten. Beat all to- 
gether. Turn into a buttered mold. Steam over 
the fire ten minutes and in a cooker three hours, 
Serve with liquid sauce or whipped cream. 

Cake Pudding. 

Crumble enough stale white cake to make two 
generous cupfuls. Add this to two cupfuls of 
milk, one-half a cupful of sugar, a pinch of salt, 
and two eggs well beaten. Season with grated 
nutmeg. Put the mixture into a small jar or can 
and place on a rack in cooking kettle and surround 
with boiling water. Boil it a few minutes and 
then remove to the cooking box for two hours. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Cream two tablespoons of butter with one-half 
cup of sugar, add one beaten egg, one-half cup of 
milk, one cup of flour sifted with one teaspoon of 
baking powder, and a pinch of salt. Add one 
tablespoon of cocoa and one square of melted choc- 
olate. Steam over a fire twenty minutes, and in 
a cooker two hours. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One cup bread crumbs, one cup sugar, one pint 
of milk, yolks of two eggs, one-half cup of grated 
chocolate, butter the size of a walnut, and one tea- 
spoon vanilla. Bake half an hour. Beat the 
whites of two eggs with one-quarter cup of sugar. 
Place over the top of the pudding and brown. 

Soft Pudding Sauce. 

Boil together a cupful of water and a cupful 
and a quarter of granulated sugar for five min- 



Jf irele** Cooker 154 

utes. Then pour in a fine stream over the white 
of an egg which has been whipped foamy but not 
dry. Set the dish in cold water and beat the 
sauce briskly until cold, then fold in a cupful of 
thoroughly whipped cream. 

Corn Meal Pudding. 

Beat three eggs, add two tablespoons brown 
sugar and one-half cup thick cream. Sift together 
one cup yellow corn meal, one large tablespoon 
of baking powder, and a bit of salt. Add these 
to the moist ingredients. Beat in half a cup of 
chopped citron. Steam fifteen minutes over a fire 
and three hours in the cooker. Sauce : One-third 
cup butter, two-thirds cup sugar, creamed to- 
gether. Grate the rind of one lemon. Moisten a 
teaspoon of cornstarch with the juice of the lemon. 
Mix and add one cup of boiling water. Boil and 
stir two or three minutes. 

Cinnamon Pudding. 

One-third cup butter, one-half cup brown sugar, 
creamed. Add one-half cup molasses and a beaten 
egg; one teaspoon soda in a half a cup of warm 
water ; one tablespoon level full of cinnamon sifted 
into two cups of flour. Beat hard and pour into 
a mold. Steam fifteen minutes over a fire and set 
in a cooker three hours. 

Sour Sauce. 

One tablespoon butter, three of sugar, two of 
flour, and a half teaspoon of cinnamon. Mix well 
and moisten with two tablespoons of vinegar. 
Heat and while stirring add one cupful of boiling 
water. 



155 Wfat to Cook 

Cocoanut Sunshine. 

Two tablespoons of sugar creamed with two 
tablespoons of butter, two tablespoons of bread 
crumbs, half cup of milk, two tablespoons of flour 
with salt and one-half teaspoon of baking powder 
in it, half a cup of grated cocoanut, and the well 
beaten yolks of three eggs. Steam on the stove 
fifteen minutes and set in the cooker one hour. 
Serve with the following sauce : Heat one cup of 
milk sweetened with two tablespoons of sugar. 
When ready to boil, pour it over the beaten whites 
of three eggs. Cook five minutes. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Two tablespoons of butter, one-half cup of 
sugar, two eggs, one cup of milk, and two tea- 
spoons baking powder sifted in two and one-half 
cups of flour. Mix butter and sugar, add eggs, 
then milk and flour. Bake in cooker oven. Sauce : 
Butter size of an egg, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, yolk of one egg, then add one cup of boiling 
water. Beat the white of an egg and stir in while 
hot. Flavor by grating the rind and taking the 
juice of one lemon. 

Currant Cups. 

A scant half cup of butter creamed with two 
tablespoons of sugar, one cup fine bread crumbs, 
one tablespoon of flour stirred into one-half cup 
of currants, a little grated lemon and nutmeg. Add 
three eggs salted and well beaten. Steam in indi- 
vidual cups buttered and floured. Ffteen minutes 
on the stove and half an hour in the cooker. 
Sauce: For a sauce make balls of one-third cup 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 156 

of butter and one cup of pulverized sugar, fla- 
vored with vanilla and lemon extract. Coat the 
balls with desiccated cocoanut. 

Date Pudding. 

One cup dates cut into small pieces, one cup 
finely crumbed Johnny-cake, two tablespoons 
melted butter, two eggs, one cup milk, half cup 
sugar, salt, and vanilla. Soak the crumbs in the 
milk ten minutes and add the salt, sugar, and 
seasoning, lastly the eggs beaten hard. Dredge 
the dates in a heaping tablespoon of flour and 
stir them in. Turn into a well-greased mold. 
Steam on the stove ten minutes and in a cooker 
two hours. 

Western Date Pudding. 

One pound of dates cut fine, one cup of English 
walnut meats chopped fine, two eggs, two table- 
spoons of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder 
and one-half cup of sugar. Beat the eggs separ- 
ately and add the whites last. Stir all ingredients 
together and place in a mold on the wire rack in 
the cooker kettle. Let the boiling water come to 
the top of the wire rack. Boil ten minutes and 
place in cooker for one hour. Slice when cold and 
serve with whipped cream. 

Estelle Pudding. 

Cream together one tablespoonful of butter and 
two of sugar. Add two well beaten eggs, one-half 
cup of milk, and a pinch of salt. Sift into this 
two cups of flour, scant measure, with one round- 
ed teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat thorough- 
ly and stir in one-half cup of chopped raisins. 



157 2Hf)at to Cook 

Pour the mixture into an uncovered pudding dish. 
Place the dish in the steamer rack in the boiler 
and cover the boiler closely. Steam over the fire 
twenty minutes and in the cooker one hour and a 
qaurter. Care should be taken to move the boiler 
from the stove to the cooker very gently. 
Sauce. 

One-third cup of butter and three-fourths cup 
of sugar creamed together. Add one egg well 
beaten. Beat all together until creamy. Just be- 
fore sending to the table add one large cup of 
boiling water thickened with one teaspoonful of 
cornstarch. The water should be fully boiling and 
added gradually, beating until foamy. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

Fig Pudding. 

One pint of bread crumbs soaked in one pint of 
cold milk, one-half cup of suet, and a pinch of 
soda, three eggs, eight small figs chopped fine and 
dried in a warm place. Pour into a mold and set 
above boiling water. Boil ten minutes and place 
in a cooker three hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

Gingerbread Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one 
cup of molasses, one cup of butter, and four and 
one-half cups of flour. Spices, ginger, cloves, cin- 
namon to taste. Sift in the flour with three tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Steam five hours in 
the cooker. Serve hot with foamy sauce. 

Hot Foamy Sauce. 

One-fourth cup of butter, one cup of powdered 
sugar, one gill of boiling v/ater, one teaspoon of 



jf trelestf Cooker 158 

vanilla, and whites of two eggs. Cream the but- 
ter and add the sugar gradually, beating until 
white. Add the white of one egg unbeaten. Beat 
again. Then add the remaining white of egg 
and beat until very light and white. Add the 
water and boil over the fire until mixed. Flavor 
with vanilla and use quickly. 

Georgie's Ginger Pudding. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter with one-half 
cup of sugar; whisk in one egg well beaten. Add 
two and one-fourth cups of sifted flour, two tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one cup of milk, pinch 
of salt, and one cup of preserved ginger well 
drained and chopped. Put in mold and place in 
cooker kettle in hot water and boil for thirty min- 
utes; then place in cooker for three hours. 
Sauce : Whip one-fourth cup of butter to a cream. 
Add two cups of pulverized sugar and one-half 
cup of cream, a litttle of each alternately. Beat 
until light. Flavor with essence of ginger or choc- 
olate. 

Graham Pudding. 

One and one-half cups graham flour, scant one- 
half cup of molasses, one-fourth cup of butter, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, one egg, an even tea- 
spoon of soda, one cup of seedless raisins, one- 
half cup of currants, pinch of salt and spice if 
desired. Put in baking powder cans, place in 
hot water in cooker vessel and boil one-half hour. 
Place in cooker for five hours. Serve hot with 
sauce. Sauce: One cup brown sugar, one table- 
spoon of flour, and butter size of an egg. Rub but- 
ter and flour together, add sugar and pour on boil- 



159 TOfjat to Cook 



ing water enough to make one pint of sauce, 
stirring until it becomes clear. Flavor and serve 
with pudding. 

Indian Pudding. 

One pint milk, two eggs, one and a half cups 
of Indian meal, two small tablespoons butter or 
other clear fat, two tablespoons molasses, half tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon and ground ginger, salt, 
and a pinch of soda. Heat the milk boiling hot, 
add the soda, and pour upon the meal. Stir well 
and add the butter and the salt. Let this cool. 
When cold add the eggs well beaten, the molasses, 
and the spices, and beat all hard. Turn into a 
well greased mold and steam over the fire fifteen 
minutes and in a cooker four hours. Eat with 
whipped cream or a sour sauce. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Into one pint of boiling milk stir two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of corn meal and one of flour wet 
with cold milk. Cook until it thickens, then re- 
move from the fire. When cold add one egg well 
beaten, one-half cup of sugar, one large table- 
spoonful of molasses, one teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon, a small piece of butter, one-half cup of 
raisins, and a little salt. Mix and put into a bak- 
ing dish. Bake in oven until thoroughly heated, 
then stir well and add two-thirds of a cup of cold 
milk. When hot stir again and leave in oven long 
enough to brown well on top. Put on cover and 
when that is hot, remove to the steamer cooker 
for three hours or more. To be served with 
whipped cream. 

This is a favorite New England pudding and re- 



Jf ireles& Cooker 160 

quires from two to three hours baking. It can 
be well prepared in the oven in from twenty to 
thirty minutes and then removed to the steamer 
for about three hours, thus avoiding a sticky dish, 
the danger of burning, and the consequent waste. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 

Put four cups of milk over a fire. While it is 
heating mix three tablespoons of molasses with 
one teacupful of corn meal. Rub together until 
perfectly blended, and scald with the heated milk. 
Add one cup of cream. Bake four or five hours in 
an insulated oven. Eat with cream. 

Peach Pudding. 

Soak one cup of dry bread crumbs in one pint 
of boiling milk. One tablespoon of melted butter. 
One-half cup of sugar. Five eggs well beaten, or 
three will do. One cup of canned peaches pressed 
to a pulp. Steam ten minutes over a fire and two 
hours in a coooker. Make a sauce of the peach 
juice. 

Penrith Pudding. 

Take a pudding dish and put in a layer of thin 
buttered bread, add a thick layer of sliced apples, 
some sugar, and nutmeg. Also add a layer 
of moistened raisins, currants, and citron. Re- 
peat until dish is full, having buttered bread on 
top. Place pudding dish on a wire rack over hot 
water in cooker kettle, boil for fifteen minutes, 
then place in cooker for three hours. Serve with 
cream or lemon sauce. 

Pineapple Tapioca Pudding. 

One cup of tapioca, three cups of cold water. 
Soak several hours. Cook until clear, and then 



161 l^ftat to Cook 

one hour in cooker. Add a large can of grated 
pineapple, reserving one cup. After heating 
thoroughly turn into a greased ring pudding mold. 
Bake slowly for a half hour in cooker oven. Let 
cool and turn on to a plate. Fill the cavity with 
reserved cup of pine apple. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Mix together one and one-half cups of dry bread 
crumbs, one-half cup of brown sugar, one-half cup 
of suet chopped fine and rubbed with flour, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful each 
of nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves and allspice. Into 
one-fourth cup of molasses, beat one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda. Add one and one-half cups of 
sweet milk and three well beaten eggs. Pour over 
the dry ingredients and mix thoroughly together ; 
then add two and one-half cups of flour in which 
a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder has been 
sifted. Beat, and lastly, add one and one-half 
cups of raisins and one cup of well washed and 
dried currants. 

Put the pudding into a small jar or bucket, 
cover closely, and place it on the rack in the large 
cooker kettle If the jar or bucket is not deep 
enough to come nearly to the top of the kettle, 
put under it some article that will raise it to that 
height. Have the kettle filled with boiling water 
to within two inches of the top of the jar. Boil 
over the fire thirty minutes and in the cooker 
twelve ho'urs. During that time it may be re- 
heated and placed again in the cooker. 

Puddings of this kind may be cooked in four or 
five hours, but are greatly improved in flavor and 



Coofeer 162 

texture by spending a long time in the cooker, re- 
heated as seems necessary. 

Plum Pudding Sauce. 

Cream together one cup of sugar and one-half 
a cup of butter. Add one well beaten egg and 
two tablespoonfuls of hot water. Beat thoroughly. 
Put it into an earthen bowl and set it over the tea- 
kettle. Beat occasionally while it is heating. The 
sauce may become very hot but should not boil as 
that would cook the egg and destroy the creamy 
consistency of the sauce. 

A Suggestion for Serving a Christmas Plum 
Pudding. 

One cup dark brown sugar, one of white sugar, 
mixed ; cover with water and boil until it hardens 
when trying it in cold water. Then add two 
tablespoons of sweet cream and one heaping tea- 
spoonful of butter. Beat thoroughly until it is 
cold enough to spread. Flavor with vanilla. 
Brush over the pudding until it is thickly coated 
and smooth in appearance. Place on a silver plat- 
ter with its wreath of holly and mistletoe. Sur- 
round the wreath with little glass dishes on which 
are snowballs made of vanilla ice cream, one for 
each guest. Roll the balls in desiccated cocoanut 
and then sprinkle with ground rock-candy. This 
gives a glittering effect as of sparkling snow. 

Steamed Blue Plum Pudding. 

Drain part of a can of home prepared blue 
plums, cut them into halves, and remove the 
stones. There should be about twelve. Make a 
batter of two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 



163 Mfjat to Cook 



baking powder, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, one 
egg, and three-fourths of a cup of sweet milk. 
Sift the baking powder, flour, and salt together; 
add the milk and the egg well beaten. Beat the 
batter thoroughly. 

Put the batter and the halved plums in alter- 
nate layers into a deep pudding dish, that will hold 
about three pints, the batter on top. Steam twenty 
minutes in cooker steamer on the stove. Then 
remove very carefully to the cooking box for one 
and one-half hours. Serve with the following 
sauce. 

Sauce. 

Cream together one cup of sugar, one-third of 
a cup of butter, and two teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch. Take one cup of plum juice and one cup 
of hot water. Boil in this the plum pits, then 
strain boiling hot over the butter and sugar. 
Beat well and place over the fire for a little while, 
until it boils clear. 

Prune Pudding. 

Take one pound of prunes, cook until soft, then 
press through a colander. Beat in one cup of 
sugar and beat the whites of three eggs stiff and 
gently stir them in. Butter a mold and turn the 
pudding in gently, allowing room for it to rise. 
Place the mold in a cooker kettle with boiling 
water around it and boil for five minutes. Then 
place in cooker for two hours. Take out and cool 
and serve with cream. 

Prunes With Hominy. 

Soak one cup of hominy over night, also eight 
or ten prunes. Remove the stones from the 



Coofeer 164 

prunes, crack them, and blanch the kernels and 
chop them. Put the prunes and kernels in water. 
Put the hominy in another can, covering it with 
water. Stand both cans well covered in a kettle 
of water. Boil all two minutes. Place in the 
cooker six hours. Take out. Cool. Pour off all 
juice. Put a toasted marshmallow in each prune 
and heap them in the center of a dessert dish. 
Encircle them with the corn garnished with the 
prune kernels. Eat with whipped cream and 
sponge cake. 

Rice Pudding. 

Three cups of cooked rice, one and one-half cups 
of milk, one-half cup of raisins, three-fourths cup 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, and two 
eggs, reserving one white for the sauce. Season 
with nutmeg. Place in a pudding dish. Heat to 
boiling over a fire and put into the cooker over a 
kettle of boiling water to remain two hours or 
more. Brown before serving. 

Sauce. 

Cream one cup of pulverized sugar with one- 
third cup of butter. Whip the white of egg light, 
and beat all together until creamy. Put it into 
a small dish for serving and leave it in the cold 
box until required for the table. 

Topeka Rice Pudding. 

One quart of milk, three small tablespoonfuls 
of rice, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one cup of 
raisins, and a little nutmeg. Cook on top of stove, 
putting pudding dish on an asbestos pad to keep 
the milk from scorching and stirring frequently 



165 TOfmt to Cook 



for ten minutes. Then place over hot water in the 
cooker kettle and boil hard for five minutes. Place 
in cooker for three hours. 

Suet Pudding. 

One cup each of molasses, sweet milk, and rais- 
ins. Three-fourths of a cup of suet chopped fine, 
one egg, three and one-half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful each of cinnamon and cloves, and one- 
half teaspoonful of salt. To the molasses add the 
soda, spices, and salt, and beat. Then add the 
suet rubbed with flour, the egg well beaten, and 
the milk. Beat in the flour in which one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder should be sifted, and lastly, 
the raisins dredged with flour. Place in a jar 
or can and steam according to directions given for 
English plum pudding. Serve with plum pudding 
sauce. 

Mrs. Moulton's Steamed Pudding. 

One-half cup each of butter, sugar and sweet 
milk, one cup of molasses, one large cup of seeded 
raisins, one rounded teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful each of cinnamon, cloves and allspice, and 
about four cups of flour, or enough to make 
a stiff batter. Beat the butter and sugar together, 
add the molasses and milk, in which dissolve the 
soda, then the egg well beaten, and the spices and 
salt. Reserve a portion of the flour with which 
to dredge the raisins. Sift the baking powder 
with the remainder of the flour and add to the 
other ingredients. Beat thoroughly and stir in the 
raisins. 

Put the mixture into baking powder cans, fill- 



Jf trelestf Cooker 166 

ing them about two-thirds full. Place the cans 
on a rack in the cooker kettle or boiler. Boil on 
the stove thirty minutes ( and remove to the 
cooker for five or six hours. 

Portia's Pudding Sauce. 

Boil together a cupful of water and a cupful and 
a quarter of granulated sugar for five minutes, 
then pour in a fine stream over the white of an 
egg which has been whipped foamy but not dry. 
Set the dish in cold water and beat the sauce 
briskly until cold. Then fold in a cupful of thor- 
oughly whipped cream. Season to taste. 

W. K. Pudding. 

Two level tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half cup 
each of molasses and sweet milk, one cup of rais- 
ins and currants mixed, one-half teaspoonful each 
of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and soda, two cups 
of flour or enough to make a very stiff batter, and 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Beat the soda 
into the molasses and add butter, milk, salt, and 
spices. Sift the flour with one teaspoonful of 
baking powder and add it to the other ingredients. 
Beat thoroughly; then stir in the raisins dredged 
with flour. Cook in baking powder cans placed in 
kettle of hot water thirty minutes over the fire 
and eight hours or more in the cooker. Serve with 
whipped cream or with a sauce if preferred. 

This is good used as a cake if sliced when cold 
and each slice spread lightly with white icing. 



Cfjotce Recipes 



Cfjotce &ectpe$ 



Colb Besserts. 

"I always thought cold victual nice; 
My choice would be vanilla ice." 

HOLMES. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Take one pint of cream, four tablespoons of 
white sugar and two teaspoons of vanilla. Set on 
ice until cold, then take one-half ounce of gelatine, 
cover it with water, and let it come to a boil. Whip 
the cream well and add the gelatine slowly. Pour 
in molds lined with sponge cake. Serve cold. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream. 

One pint of milk, one-half box of gelatine, two 
ounces of chocolate, one pint of cream, one-half 
cup of sugar, one teaspoon of vanilla and one-half 
cup of water. Cover the gelatine with hot water 
and let soak one-half hour. Whip the cream, grate 
the chocolate, boil the milk. Add the chocolate 
and gelatine and stir until dissolved. Take from 
the fire, add sugar and vanilla, then turn into a 
dish to cool. Stir continually until it begins to 
thicken, then add the whipped cream. Stir care- 
fully until thoroughly mixed, then turn into a 
mold to harden. Serve with whipped cream 
around the base. 

East Indian Ginger Cream. 

Mince three ounces of preserved ginger very 
fine and add three tablespoons of the syrup. Add 
a pint of cream and the well beaten yolks of four 
eggs. Cook slowly in a double boiler, stirring 
until it thickens. Take from the fire and whip 
with a wire egg beater until nearly cold. Add 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 170 

two tablespoons of pulverized sugar and a half 
ounce of gelatine that has been soaked in cold 
water to cover and then thoroughly dissolved in 
as little hot water as will melt it. Strain this as 
added. Beat well and chill. Place in a cold box. 

Fairy Cream. 

One quart of whipped cream, three teaspoons of 
sugar, one-half pound of blanched almonds 
chopped fine. One-half pound of candied cherries, 
one-half pound marshmallows, and one-half tea- 
spoon of extract of bitter almond. Whip the 
cream solid; add the sugar, flavoring, almonds, 
and half the cherries. This may be prepared sev- 
eral hours before using if desired and fifteen 
minutes before serving add the marshmallows cut 
in halves. Mix all together. Serve in sherbet 
cups, decorating with remaining cherries. 

Queen Mab's Cream. 

One-half box of gelatine, one pint of cream, 
one pint of milk, four eggs, two-thirds cup of 
sugar and one teaspoon of vanilla. Melt the gela- 
tine by adding a little hot water; heat the milk, 
beat yolks of eggs and sugar together, and pour 
the hot milk over them. Add the gelatine to this. 
When cooled a little add the beaten whites of eggs 
and cream. Pour all into a mold and chill. Stand 
in a cold box until needed. 

Russian Cream. 

Dissolve one-half box of gelatine for fifteen 
minutes in one cup of cold water to cover it 
Take one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, and two 
eggs. Beat sugar and yolks of eggs together and 



171 What to Cook 



have milk scalding and pour over them. Add gela- 
tine while warm. Flavor with orange. Beat 
whites of eggs and when mixture is cold, stir them 
in. Serve cold. 

Fruit Frappe. 

One pint of crushed fruit, one pint of sugar, 
three eggs. Put sugar on to boil, adding a little 
water to moisten it. Pour this syrup on the 
yolks of eggs, beating all the while. Add this to 
the pint of fruit. After this is cool, add the well 
beaten whites of eggs. Chill on ice for cold box. 

Biscuit Glace. 

One and one-half cups of cream, four ounces 
of macaroons, six ounces of white sugar, the yel- 
low rind of one orange and the juice of two. Whip 
the cream a little, then add the sugar, orange and 
macaroons. Grate the macaroons, which must be 
stale or you can do nothing with them. Put all 
through a sieve and chill. Let stand on ice in 
cold box. 

Marsh Mallow. 

Dissolve one-half box of Knox's gelatine in a 
scant pint of warm water. Let stand until cool. 
Beat the whites of three eggs very light ; add one 
cup of granulated sugar and one teaspoon of 
vanilla ; beat light, then add the cold gelatine and 
beat twenty minutes or until quite stiff. Put one- 
half of this in a square pan, add to the other 
half a pink coloring tablet dissolved in water. 
Spread over first half chopped nut meats then 
place on this the pink layer. Chill. Let stand 
over night in a cold box. 



jf treiestf Cooker 172 

Chocolate Mousse. 

Whip one quart of cream and drain it through 
a sieve. Whip all that drains through. Melt one 
ounce of chocolate with three tablespoons of sugar 
and one of boiling water and stir until it is 
smooth. Add three tablespoons of cream. Sprin- 
kle a cupful of powdered sugar over the whipped 
cream and stir gently until well mixed. Turn 
into a cold covered mold. Pack the mold in 
chopped ice. Set it all in your cold box for sev- 
eral hours. 

Fruit Mousse. 

One cup rich fruit juice and one-half cup sugar. 
Boil to a syrup. Cool. Beat the whites of two 
eggs and add one cupful of the whip of cream. 
Beat all together. Pour into a mold, cover, and 
set on cracked ice in a cold packed box. 

White Mousse. 

Take one cup of sugar and one-third cup of 
boiling water. Cook as for making icing, until it 
threads. Pour this on the beaten whites of two 
eggs. Let cool and pour into it one pint of heavy 
cream whipped, also add a tablespoon of vanilla. 
Put in a mold and pack as for ice cream in salt 
and ice and let stand for four hours in a cold box. 

Surprise Peaches. 

Beat the whites of five eggs, add gradually one 
cup of sugar and follow with one quart of ripe 
peaches finely chopped. Beat until it is smooth. 
Chill and stand on ice in cold box. 

Prune Jelly. 

Take one-half box of Knox Acidulated Gelatine. 
Soak in one-half pint of cold water. To the juice 



173 SUBfjat to Cook 



remaining from prune whip add enough water 
to make one pint. Heat, and when it boils pour 
it over the gelatine. Stir until it is dissolved and 
add one and three-fourths of a cup of sugar. 
Strain through a fine cloth. 

Into a border mold pour enough of the jelly to 
make about an inch in thickness. When this is 
set, arrange on it blanched almonds and cooked 
prunes cut into symmetrical pieces. Then pour 
over the remainder of the jelly and when hardened 
turn it out and fill the center with whipped cream. 
Put the whipped cream also on the dish around 
the jelly and garnish with the prunes and almonds 
according to your taste. 

Prune Whip. 

Prepare the prunes in the cooker as given in 
the directions for "Prunes", leaving them long 
enough to become quite soft. Press enough of 
them through a sieve to make one cup of pulp. 
Beat the whites of four eggs to a dry froth and 
add to them the pulp a little at a time, beating well 
until all is used. Sweeten to taste. Heap lightly 
in a serving dish and surround it with halved 
prunes. To be served with rich cream. 

Cocoannt Sponge. 

Thicken a pint of milk with two heaping table- 
spoons of corn starch; add three tablespoons of 
sugar and a little salt. Cook ten minutes and 
when slightly cool beat in the stiffly beaten whites 
of three eggs and one cup of cocoanut and turn 
into a mold. Serve with a custard made with the 
yolks of the eggs, three tablespoons of sugar, and 
one pint of milk. Or serve with whipped cream, 



Jf treleste Coofeer 

Pineapple Sponge. 

Soak one-half package of gelatine in as little 
water as possible. After it is dissolved add to it 
a boiling syrup made by boiling one teacup of 
water into one teacup of sugar. Stir this well 
and add one can of shredded pine apple. Set 
away to cool. When it begins to harden, stir in 
a coffee cup of cream which has been well whip- 
ped. Pour in a mold. Chill and set in the ice 
box. 



Cfjotce Eecipes 



"Perhaps you like custards, or maybe a tart, 
To either you're welcome, with all my whole heart.'" 

Caramel Custard. 

One quart of fresh milk, six eggs, one cup of 
sugar. Take two large tablespoons of sugar and 
burn in a spider until the color of coffee. Put 
in the milk and when the sugar is dissolved, strain 
the milk through a sieve or cheesecloth. Beat 
the eggs and sugar together and add to the milk. 
Put in a baking dish, set in hot water in the 
cooker, and boil ten minutes hard; then set in 
cooker for two hours. This is very nice baked 
in small custard cups in a pan of hot water in the 
oven for half an hour. Eat cold. 

Chocolate Custard. 

Soak together one pint bread crumbs, one quart 
milk, a teaspoon of cinnamon, and two ounces of 
grated chocolate. Beat together two eggs, a pinch 
of salt, and two tablespoons of sugar. Mash the 
soaked materials and beat in the egg mixture. 
Bake in a cooker oven one hour. Serve with a 
vanilla sauce. 

Dainty Custard. 

One pint of sweet milk, three eggs, one ounce 
of gelatine, one-half pound of sugar, one quart of 
whipped cream, and one teaspoon of vanilla. Make 
a custard with the milk and beaten yolks of eggs. 
Dissolve the gelatine and add to it. Allow this 
to cool. Then add the whipped cream. Lastly 
add the whites of eggs beaten stiff and stir lightly 
all together, adding the flavoring. 



177 Hftat to Cook 

Lemon Sponge Custard. 

Mix two heaping tablespoonfuls of corn starch 
with a little cold water and pour over it one cup 
of boiling water, adding to it the juice of one 
lemon and one coffee cup of sugar. Place upon 
the stove and let boil until thoroughly cooked; 
then pour it over the beaten whites of four eggs. 
Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Macaroon Custard. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one cup of sugar, 
and one tablespoon of corn starch. Put the milk 
on to boil in double boiler, beat the yolks of eggs 
light, dissolve corn starch with a little milk. Add 
sugar and flavoring. Cook a few moments then 
place macaroons broken up finely in a dish and 
pour the custard over them. Serve cold. 

Tapioca Custard. 

Soak two tablespoonfuls of tapioca for two 
hours. Boil it in one quart of sweet milk for ten 
minutes, adding one-half cup white sugar, and 
put in cooker for two hours. Take from the 
cooker and pour over the yolks of three eggs 
beaten very light. Cook a few minutes. Allow it 
to cool ; beat the whites of the three eggs stiff and 
stir in. Set on ice in cold box. 

White Custard. 

One quart of milk and one cup of sugar. Flavor 
with vanilla. Heat in double boiler until very hot. 
Pour it over the beaten whites of six eggs. Beat 
well. Heat hot again and set in the cooker two 
hours. Cool and serve. 



Cfjoice 



Cafees. 

"Breathes there a man with soul so dead, 
Who loves not new-baked ginger bread? 
Who, slipping through the kitchen door, 
On baking day, sees goodly store 
Of fragrant, umber-shadowed cake, 
And half-unconscious, does not break - 
A ragged chunk!" 

Angel's Food Cake. 

Take the whites of ten eggs, a pinch of salt, 
one cup of flour, one cup of granulated sugar, and 
one teaspoon of almond flavoring. Sift the flour 
and sugar separately six times, then sift together. 
When the eggs are foaming, add one-half tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar. Fold in the flour and 
sugar. Do not break the air bubbles. Do not 
grease the pan. Put paper in the bottom and 
dredge with flour. Bake in moderate oven thirty 
or forty minutes. Turn pan upside down and put 
cups under the corners when taken from the oven. 

Caramel Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter (gen- 
erous measure) , one cup of sweet milk, three cups 
of flour and whites of four eggs. Sift three level 
teaspoons of baking powder into the flour. Cream 
butter and sugar, add the milk, then flour and 
baking powder. Beat thoroughly, then fold in 
lightly the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 
Bake in two sheets. 

Caramel: Put one cup of granulated sugar in 
a saucepan. When melted and browned, add one 
cup of hot water and keep over the fire until dis- 
solved, stirring as needed. 



$ trelestf Coofeer 180 

Caramel frosting for cake: Two cups white 
sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one level table- 
spoon of butter, and as much of the caramel as 
will make the desired color and flavor. It should 
not be too dark. Boil all together until it will 
drop thick from the spoon. Remove from the fire 
and beat until it is a thick creamy mass. If too 
thick to spread, add boiling water, a little at a 
time, until it will spread smoothly. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, whites of five eggs, one-half 
a cup of butter, one cup of milk, three cups of 
flour, and two teaspoons of baking powder sifted 
in. Five tablespoons of grated chocolate and one 
teaspoon of vanilla. Sift the flour four times be- 
fore measuring, then add the baking powder and 
sift again. Proceed to mix as other cakes and 
bake in two layers. 

Spanish Chocolate Cake. 

Part I: Yolks of four eggs, one-half cup of 
butter creamed. Then add one cup of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, two heaping 
cups of flour, and sift in one teaspoon of soda. 

Part II: One cup of brown sugar, one cup of 
grated chocolate, and one-half cup of sweet milk. 
Place over fire and melt but do not boil. When 
almost cold stir in part I. Add one-half teaspoon 
of baking powder. Bake. 

Filling: Two cups of brown sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, and one-half cup of sweet milk. 
Boil ten minutes, and then beat until cold. Flavor 
with vanilla and spread between layers of cake 
and use as icing. L. F. S. 



181 saifjat to Cock 



Chocolate Frosting. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, small 
piece of butter. Boil this twenty minutes.. Take 
from stove and beat until it begins to thicken; 
then cream and add one teaspoon of vanilla. 
Grate two squares of sweet chocolate, set where it 
will melt, and spread over the other. 

Emergency Cake. 

Break one or two eggs in a cup. Fill the cup 
with cream. Beat together with one cup of sugar 
and vanilla. Beat all hard. Add a scant cup and 
a half of flour and a teaspoon of baking powder. 
Bake in two layers. When hot from the oven, 
sprinkle with soft sugar and cocoa and lay to- 
gether. W. D. S. 

Home Fruit Cake. 

Three cups of flour sifted with three teaspoons 
of baking powder, one cup of brown sugar, one 
cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter. Three 
eggs, three tablespoons of milk or cream. One- 
half teaspoon each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon 
and nutmeg. One-half pound each of raisins, cur- 
rants, citron and figs, with one cup of nut meats, 
all cut fine or ground. Mix the fruit and spices 
together the day before making the cake. Grease 
baking powder cans, fill only half full, and steam 
thirty-five minutes. Then place in the cooker six 
hours. Remove the lids of the cans and dry off 
in a cool oven for one-half hour. 

Lemon Ginger Bread. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of lard and 
butter mixed, one cup of sour milk, four cups oi 
flour, one cup of molasses, and four eggs. One 



Jf trele** Coofeer 182 

lemon grated, one tablespoon of ginger, two level 
teaspoons of soda, and one teaspoon of cinnamon. 
Bake in one sheet or in muffin pans. 

Soft Ginger Bread. 

One cup of brown sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of molasses, four cups of flour, three eggs well 
beaten. One tablespoon of soda, one and a half 
tablespoons of ginger, one teaspoon of cinnamon 
and a pinch of cloves. Sift the soda into the flour, 
beat the eggs, separating whites and yolks, cream 
the butter and sugar, add the spices, next the mo- 
lasses, then the eggs, and the last thing add a cup 
of boiling water. Bake in sheets in a bread or 
dripping pan. Bake in a hot, not a quick oven for 
half an hour. 

Hurry Cake. 

One tablespoon of butter, one cup of sugar, one 
egg, one cup of flour, one teaspoon of baking 
powder, and a little salt. Stir up quickly. Bake 
in two pans. One can be used as a cottage pud- 
ding and may be eaten with sauce. 

Quick Lemon Jelly Cake. 

Cream one-fourth cup of butter and one cup of 
sugar. Add one well-beaten egg or the yolks of 
two, one-half cup of milk, and one and one-half 
cups of flour sifted with one rounded teaspoon of 
baking powder. Beat well and bake in a deep pie 
tin. When cooled a little, split and fill with the 
following jelly. Then sift over it pulverized 
sugar. 

Lemon Filling. 

One lemon, three-fourths cup of sugar, and one 
egg beaten light. Grate the rind and squeeze the 



183 Wfat to Coofe 

juice of the lemon. Mix with the other ingredi- 
ents and boil, stirring all the time until thick and 
smooth. This jelly is fine for table use and may 
be served like other fruit jellies. 

Marshmallow Cake. 

Make layers of white or gold sunshine or angel's 
cake. Put good fresh marshmallows on top of 
one layer about one-half inch apart each way ; lay 
on the other layer; cover with marshmallows to 
correspond with first filling. Put in slow oven 
and let soften enough to spread nearly together. 
To serve, cut in squares, leaving a marshmallow 
to each square. 

Mocha Tart. 

One cup of sugar beaten with the yolks of five 
eggs until light. One and a half tablespoonfuls 
of Mocha extract, one cup of well sifted flour, with 
one even teaspoon of baking powder. Sift the 
flour eight times, beat whites of eggs, then add to 
cake, stirring very little. Bake in two layers. 
Cold coffee may be used instead of the extract. 

Filling: One-half pint of whipped cream, one 
and one-half tablespoonfuls of Mocha Tart extract 
sweetened to taste. 

Icing: One scant cup of confectioner's sugar, 
one and one-half tablespoons of Mocha extract, 
enough water to spread well. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, three cups of flour with three tea- 
spoons of baking powder sifted into it. Yolks of 
two eggs and whites of five well beaten, grated 



Jf treie&s Cooker 184 

peel and juice of one orange. Add whites of eggs 
last. Bake in four layers and put together with 
icing. Add juice of one orange to the icing. 

Sour Cream Spice Cake. 

To one cup of sour cream add one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of soda, or just enough to sweeten the 
cream, two eggs beaten, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoon each of cloves and cinnamon, 
and one-half teaspoon of grated nutmeg. Mix and 
add two and a half cups of flour, and a little more 
if needed, in which has been sifted two level tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Beat thoroughly and 
stir in one cup of raisins dredged with flour. Bake 
in two sheets and cover with white icing. Cut 
into squares for serving. Bits of cream that come 
from the table often seem too small to be of use 
and are thrown out; but if carefully saved, they 
will reward for the trouble by furnishing a beau- 
tiful cup of sour cream that may be utilized in 
many ways. 

Sponge Cake. 

Take twelve eggs, one level pint of sifted flour, 
and one heaping pint of sugar. Separate the 
whites and yolks of the eggs, beat very light, then 
beat together, adding a pinch of salt. Slowly sift 
in the sugar and beat thoroughly. After measur- 
ing the flour add one teaspoon of baking powder 
and sift it several times. Add the flour to the 
eggs and sugar, folding it in gently. Do not beat 
the mixture. Add one teaspoon of flavoring and 
bake in square pans. If baked in a large loaf, 
bake one hour in a moderate oven. You can divide 
it into three smaller pans and it will take forty 
minutes to bake it in the cooker oven. 



185 TOifjat to Coofe 



Beulah's Sponge Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of water, two cups 
of flour, four eggs, and one teaspoon of baking 
powder. Separate the eggs, beating the whites 
dry, then adding the yolks, beating again. Add 
the sugar, then add the flour and last, the water. 
Add the baking powder to the flour, sifting the 
latter five times before measuring. Bake from 
thirty to forty minutes. This makes two layers. 
Put together with icing. 

White Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two 
and one-half cups of flour, one cup of cold water 
or sweet milk, and five eggs. Cream butter and 
sugar, add alternately milk and flour. Leave a 
little flour to sift in with three level teaspoons of 
baking powder just before adding the whites of 
eggs. Add the whites of five eggs beaten very 
dry, a pinch of salt added to the eggs. One tea- 
spoon of vanilla. Sift the flour before measuring. 
Fold the eggs into the batter lightly. Add baking 
powder the last thing and bake at once in two lay- 
ers. Sift the flour five times. Ice with chocolate 
icing. 
Chocolate Icing. 

One and a half cups granulated sugar, one-half 
cup boiling water, and the whites of two eggs. 
Boil the sugar and water together until it threads. 
Melt over hot water two squares of chocolate. 
Pour the melted sugar over the whites of eggs, 
first beating them dry. Then add the chocolate. 
Yelloiv Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, yolks of 
five eggs, one cup of milk, three and one-half cups 



Jf treless Coofeer 186 

of flour, and three teaspoons of baking powder. 
Cream butter, beat yolks of eggs, mix butter and 
sugar together, then eggs, milk and flour. Add 
one teaspoon of vanilla. Bake in one loaf and ice 
with "Sunshine" icing. 

Sunshine Icing. 

One-half a cup of milk, one cup of sugar, one 
tablespoon of butter, and one-fourth teaspoon of 
cream of tartar. Boil all ingredients together 
from three to five minutes, then set in pan of boil- 
ing water and beat for ten minutes. Spread on 
cake. 



Choice fctnpes 



Cookies. 

Buns. 

Two cups of flour, three quarters of a cup of 
butter, one cup of sugar, one and a half teaspoons 
of baking powder, one cup of sweet milk, and two 
eggs. Bake in muffin pans. M. B. 

Graham Cookies. 

One cup of sour cream, two eggs, two cups of 
brown sugar, one cup of black walnut meats. One 
and one-half cups of graham flour and one and 
one-half cups of white flour, one teaspoon of va- 
nilla, and one teaspoon of soda. Bake as drop 
cakes. M. A. S. 

Hermits. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of brown sugar, one 
cup of lard or butter, two cups of dry oatmeal, 
two eggs, one cup of raisins. One level teaspoon 
of soda, same of cinnamon, one cup of chopped 
nuts and five tablespoons of raisin water. 

Oatmeal Drop Cakes. 

One cup of sugar, one scant cup of butter and 
other fat mixed, two eggs, seven tablespoons of 
cold water, two cups of flour, two cups of oatmeal, 
one cup of raisins, one teaspoonful of cinnamon 
mixed with three-fourths of a teaspoonful of soda. 
Drop by spoonfuls in a greased dripping pan. 
They will keep a long while. 

Oatmeal Wafers. 

Three cups of oatmeal, two cups of brown 
sugar, three-fourths cup of lard and butter mixed, 



189 Wfat to Cook 

one-half cup of hot water, pinch of salt, and 
one teaspoon of soda. Roll out thin and cut in 
shapes. 

Peanut Cookies. 

One cup pastry flour, one teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Rub two tablespoons of butter to a cream, 
add one-half cup of granulated sugar and one 
egg. Beat thoroughly. Add two tablespoons of 
milk, then flour and one cup of chopped peanuts. 
Drop on greased tins and bake in a quick oven. 
The mixture needs to be rather thick. Drop by 
teaspoonfuls two inches apart. 

Plain Cookies. 

One cup of butter, four eggs, two cups of sugar, 
and one teaspoon of baking powder. Flour 
enough to roll out thin and bake. Sift sugar over 
before baking. Beat the butter light. Add sugar, 
then eggs, adding yolks first, not beating them. 
Beat whites light and add last. 

Ralston Cookies. 

One cup of sour cream, two eggs, two cups of 
sugar, five cups of flour, one teaspoon of soda, 
and one of vanilla. Use whole wheat flour. 



Choice &ecipes 



JfruttsL 

"Bring me berries or such cooling fruit as the kind, 
hospitable woods provide." COWPER. 

Any fresh fruit may be cooked in the fireless 
cooker. Boil it over the fire a few minutes and 
let stand in the cooker a number of hours, depend- 
ing upon the variety. Fruit will retain its orig- 
inal shape by this method. When carefully lifted 
into a dish or can it presents a most inviting ap- 
pearance. Use rather less water than when evap- 
oration occurs from boiling over the fire by the 
old way. 

After being washed, dried fruits should stand 
several hours in the water in which they are to 
be cooked before being put on the stove. Sugar 
may be put into the fruit while it is heating; and 
usually, the fruit may remain in the cooker over 
night. 

Fruits intended for preserves, jams, and mar- 
malades should be made as dry as possible. When 
the sugar is melted into them and the mixture 
is boiling, the long cooking may take place in 
the box. This saves the long, wearisome stirring 
over the fire, and insures perfect cooking, with 
no danger of burning. The full value of the fire- 
less cooker in cooking and canning fruits can be 
revealed to no one w r ho does not prove it to her- 
self by trial and experiment. 

Preserved Apples. 

Pare and cut into halves six large, smooth ap- 
ples and carefully take out the cores. Boil to- 
gether two cups of sugar and one cup of water. 



Jf trelestf Coofeer 192 

Skim the syrup and into it put the apples. Boil 
five minutes over the fire and remove to the 
cooker for three hours. Then slice into them one 
lemon, squeezing in the juice. If a stronger flavor 
of the lemon is desired, it may be sliced into the 
apple before it is cooked. 

The apples may be left a much longer time in 
the cooker and in that case they will become 
darker and of a richer flavor. 

Apple Relish. 

Quarter five apples, remove the core, and leave 
the skin on. Melt together one cup of sugar, two 
tablespoons of butter, and two tablespoons of 
water. Lay in the pieces of apple, peel side up. 
Cover, heat, and place in a cooker an hour 01 
longer. 

Apple Sauce. 

Pare and quarter eight good cooking apples. 
Add two cups of water and one of sugar. Boil 
five minutes and place in the cooker five hours. 

Apricots. 

Soak one pound of dried apricots for several 
hours in cold water. Remove all the skin that can 
be conveniently pulled off. Drain and add lemon 
and sugar to taste. Cover with water. Boil five 
minutes and consign to the cooker. Let remain 
an hour or longer. Dried peaches may be cooked 
in the same way. 

Orange Marmalade. 

One dozen oranges. Wash well with a vegetable 
brush and prick several times with a fork. Put 
into a kettle and cover with water. Place the 



193 agjfjat to Cook 



lid on the kettle and boil fifteen minutes and place 
in the cooker for all night. In the morning take 
the oranges from the water. Remove the seeds 
and the white pithy portions. Then cut in two, 
squeeze slightly and run through the meat grinder, 
saving all of the juice. To each cupful of pulp 
use one cup of granulated sugar. If a bitter taste 
is desired use the water in which the oranges were 
boiled, one-fourth of a cup to every cup of pulp. 
Cook over fire until reduced to the proper con- 
sistency. 

To Can Peaches. 

Pare the peaches and put in glass preserve jars. 
Use one tablespoonful of sugar to every two 
peaches. Pack the jars full. Blanch two peach 
kernels and place on top. Put on the covers, but 
do not screw down. Stand in a kettle of water 
on a wire tray. Bring to a boil and set in the 
cooker five hours. The fruit will settle in the jars, 
leaving room for about two more peaches and 
juice. Provide for this need by cooking some 
peaches with sugar in a pitcher at the same time. 
Fill the hot jars quickly from the pitcher. Re- 
heat on the stove. Screw covers on tight. Keep 
in a cool place. Any fruit can be canned in the 
same way. Add vinegar and a little muslin bag 
of spices to each jar to make a delicious sweet 
pickle. 

Canned Pears. 

Pare large yellow pears. Cut them into halves 
and scoop out the cores. Cover them with cold 
water while you make a light syrup in propor- 
tion of one pint of water to one cup of sugar. 



Jf trele** Cooker 194 

Prepare enough syrup to cover the quantity of 
pears you wish to cook. Boil and skim the syrup, 
drain the pears and put them into the boiling 
syrup. When boiling again place in the cooker 
for ten hours or over night. In the morning re- 
heat and can. For preserving the pears proceed 
in the same manner, making a richer syrup of 
three-fourths pound of sugar and one cup of water 
to one pound of fruit. After boiling and skim- 
ming add the pears. Boil fifteen minutes and con- 
sign to the box for twelve hours or over night. 
In the morning cook over the fire if necessary to 
thicken the syrup. 

Preserved Quinces. 

Pare, cut into quarters, and core the quinces 
and throw them into cold water as you pare them. 
Make a syrup of one pound of sugar and one cup 
of water to one pound of fruit. After boiling and 
skimming cook ten minutes and remove to the 
cooker for eight hours or more. Then cook slowly 
over the fire as seems necessary. 

The cooking box is especially desirable for cook- 
ing the hard pears and quinces that require so 
much time over the fire. 

Prunes. 

Three cups of dried prunes. Soak them in cold 
water about fifteen minutes that they may be more 
thoroughly cleansed. Place them in a cooker ket- 
tle with four cups of cold water and one and a 
half cups of sugar. Bring slowly to the boiling 
point. Boil ten minutes and put into the cooker 
for four or five hours. Cooked in this manner the 
full flavor of the juice and the fruit are retained. 



195 3BHf)at to Cook 

Some prunes will not cook in the time given. They 
may be re-heated and returned to the cooker, us- 
ing your judgment as to the time required to com- 
plete the cooking. 

Watermelon Preserves. 

Take thick, firm, watermelon rinds. Pare them, 
remove all the soft portion and cut into small 
cubes. Place them over the fire with enough 
water to cover, and to each quart of the melon 
add one-fourth teaspoonful powdered alum. Heat 
to boiling temperature and leave in the cooker 
ten hours or over night. Then drain through a 
colander and pour cold water over it and drain 
again thoroughly. To each pound of the rind, 
add one pound of sugar, a few pieces of ginger 
root, and one cup of water. Boil and skim the 
syrup and when clear add the melon. Cook to 
your taste and then can. A pleasing variety may 
be made by coloring a portion with some of the 
pink powder from a package of Knox's gelatine. 
Put into the boiling syrup as much of the powder 
as will make the desired shade. This will make 
a beautiful color and will add to the attractive- 
ness of the preserves. 



Cfjotce 



"People who love downy peaches are not apt to think of 
the stone, and sometimes jar their teeth terribly against it." 

Our Favorite Catsup. 

Peel and cut into small pieces twelve large ripe 
tomatoes. Chop fine four green peppers and two 
large onions. Put into a large cooker kettle with 
four cups of vinegar, one cup of brown sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls each of salt and ginger, one 
tablespoon each of cinnamon and mustard, one 
nutmeg grated. Mix thoroughly. Heat to boil- 
ing and consign to the cooking box for twelve 
hours or more. Then cook over the fire a short 
time if necessary, and seal in Mason cans. This 
is to be served with Boston baked beans. 

Ripe Cucumber Sweet Pickles. 

Pare large ripe cucumbers and cut them into 
quarters lengthwise, then once across, and scoop 
out the seeds and soft pulp with a spoon. Put 
them into a jar and sprinkle salt through them, 
about one-half cup to a gallon of cucumbers, and 
pour over them a little cold water. Let them 
stand twenty-four hours. Into a large kettle put 
vinegar and water in the proportion of one part 
vinegar to three of water, and to each quart add 
one-third teaspoonful of powdered alum. Bring 
to a boil, put in the drained cucumbers, and when 
just at the boiling point (do not boil), place in 
the box for one hour. Then drain and put into a 
stone jar. Prepare enough spiced vinegar to cover 
the cucumbers, using two cups of sugar and one 
tablespoon each of whole cloves and cinnamon to 



Jf ireleste Cooker 193 

each quart of vinegar. Tie the spices in cheese- 
cloth and throw them into the vinegar; boil and 
skim, and pour boiling hot water over the cucum- 
bers. Cover the jar closely and let stand a few 
days and they will be ready for use. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, two red peppers, two 
onions, one tablespoon of salt, six tablespoons of 
brown sugar, three teacups of vinegar, and cin- 
namon to taste. Peel the tomatoes and chop all 
together fine. Boil ten minutes and place in the 
cooker for two hours. 

Dill Pickles. 

One teaspoon of powdered alum, one cup of 
whole mixed spices, one cup of dill, and one-half 
bushel of large cucumbers. Put grape leaves in 
the bottom of a stone jar, then sprinkle a little 
dill, a little alum, a layer of whole cucumbers, 
and a little mixed spice. Alternate layers until 
jar is full, then cover with a brine made strong 
enough to float an egg. Dilute this using two- 
thirds brine and one-third water. Put in the jars 
and cover with a cloth and a plate turned over 
it. Once a week open up the jar and skim off 
as long as the pickles last. Dill is an herb to be 
found at drug stores. 

Ginger Pumpkin. 

Six pounds of pumpkin cut into small pieces and 
sliced thin, five pounds of granulated sugar, one- 
fourth pound of green ginger root, and the juice 
and grated rind of six lemons. Prepare and mix 
in the morning and let stand until night; then 



199 Wfat to Coofe 

put it into a small cooker kettle or jar, and in- 
close in the large kettle of boiling water. Leave 
it over the fire until it boils, and consign to the 
cooking box for the night. In the morning cook 
over the fire to reduce the syrup as much as you 
choose. Can. 

Grand Mother's Pickles. 

Four quarts of green tomatoes, one quart each 
of small onions, cabbage, cucumbers, cauliflower, 
corn, beans, and celery. Two green peppers and 
two red peppers. Heat to boiling. Set in the 
cooker eight hours. Reheat with the following 
dressing : 

Dressing. 

Two quarts of vinegar, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of flour, one tablespoon of turmeric, and one 
tablespoon of mustard. Boil all together and pour 
over mixture hot and seal up. 

Spiced Peaches. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pint of vinegar, 
one and one-half pounds of peaches, stick cinna- 
mon, and whole cloves. Put the cloves in a small 
cheesecloth bag, also the cinnamon. Boil the 
sugar, vinegar, and spices together, add peaches, 
boil two minutes, and set in the cooker one hour, 
then put in cans. 

Spiced Prunes. 

Soak prunes ten minutes, wash well, remove the 
seeds, crack them and chop the kernels. Make a 
spiced vinegar, tying the spices in a bag. Heat 
the vinegar and put in the prunes and kernels. 
Boil five minutes and place in the cooker over 
night. Delicious. 



Jf treleste Coofeet 200 

A variation is made by whipping with an egg 
beater after being taken from the cooker. This 
may then be stiffened with gelatine or cooked 
down to a jelly or marmalade. 

Watermelon Pickles. 

Fill your cooker kettle with watermelon rinds 
pared and cut in cubes. Salt them slightly and 
cover with water. Boil ten minutes and set in the 
cooker kettle over night. In the morning drain 
them through a colander. Prepare a syrup to 
your taste. Heat the watermelon cubes in the 
syrup and can immediately. 



Cfjotre 



Hot and Cold. 



. . 



Eat ye every one of his vine, and every one of his 
fig tree, and drink ye every one the waters of his own 
cistern. " ISAIAH, xxxvi: 16. 



Ambrosia. 

Put left over fruit juices, fruit sauces, and good 
portions of defective fruit in a sauce pan with 
sugar to sweeten. Stew while you add a squeeze 
of lemon or, in lieu of that, a spoonful of vinegar 
and a grate or two of nutmeg. Let cool and add 
water sufficient to serve in sherbet glasses or 
tumblers for your number. Chill and set in the 
cold box until needed. 

Chocolate. 

Grate two squares of unsweetened chocolate 
into one-half cup of cold water. Add two table- 
spoons of sugar, a pinch of salt and one-half level 
teaspoon of cornstarch. Stir over the fire until 
melted. Add a cup of boiling water and stir it 
into three cups of heating milk. When it is all 
scalding hot, set it into the cooker until needed. 

Breakfast Chocolate. 

Crush or melt two squares of chocolate, add 
three tablespoons of sugar and four or five cups 
of boiling water. Boil ten minutes and set in 
the cooker all night. Add cream according to 
your taste in the morning. 
Cocoa. 

Heat one quart of milk and add one scant half 
cup of sugar. Dissolve one and one-half table- 



203 OTifjat to Cook 



spoons of cocoa in half a cup of boiling water. 
Mix. Boil a few moments and set in a cooker 
until needed. 

Cracked Cocoa. 

One-third cup "Cocoa Nibs" and three cups 
cold water. Bring to a boil and set in a cooker 
three hours. Strain and add one cup of hot milk. 
Serve immediately. 

Grape Juice. 

Pick the grapes from the stem, first washing 
them. Put in kettle over fire adding a little water 
and boil five minutes. Set in cooker five or six 
hours. Strain as for jelly, then to every quart 
of juice add one cup of sugar. If grapes are very 
sour, add more sugar. Boil five minutes and bot- 
tle. The grapes should be very ripe. 

Bottled Grape Juice. 

Put ripe grapes into deep pitchers at night. 
Stand the pitchers in boiling water. Let them re- 
main over the fire until every grape is hot. Set 
in the cooker all night. In the morning pour the 
clear juice into pint bottles. Break but do not 
.press the grapes. Add sugar to taste to each bot- 
tle. Bring the bottled juices to a boil immersed 
in kettles of water. Cork. Cool. When nearly 
cold drive the corks well down. This makes a re- 
freshing and nourishing drink and other fruits 
also may be used in smiliar way. 

Nectar. 

Take the juice from three lemons. Add two 
cups of juice from any two kinds of fresh or 
stewed fruit. Boil one pint of sugar with one 



Jf trele** Cooker 204 

quart of water five minutes. Color with pink 
sugar or red fruit juice. Add the syrup to the 
fruit juices. Chill. Serve from a punch bowl 
with sponge cake. 

Fruit Punch, for Seventy-five Guests. 

Take one and one-half dozen oranges, the same 
number of lemons, one large can of shredded pine 
apple, and four pounds of granulated sugar. Make 
a syrup of the sugar. Boil the rinds of the 
oranges in enough water to cover them. Squeeze 
the juice from the oranges and lemons and add to 
the orange water, also the sugar syrup and pine 
apple. Then add one quart of water and strain. 
Add enough water to make three gallons. Lastly 
add one box of large strawberries after they are 
washed and picked over. Cherries or peaches, 
pared and halved, are good in their season instead 
of strawberries. This will serve seventy-five 
people. 

Raspberry Shrub. 

To each two quarts of raspebrries allow one 
pint of vinegar. Set them aside over night ; then 
mash and strain. To one pint of juice allow one 
pound of sugar. Boil and place in cooker and 
let it remain two hours. Bottle and keep as long 
as you can refrain from drinking it up. 

Coffee. 

One level tablespoonful of coffee for each cup 
required. Add half an egg and enough cold water 
to moisten. Mix. Pour over one cup of freshly 
boiled water to each spoonful of the coffee. 

When just at the boiling point, place quickly in 
the box and leave for an hour or more. Then 



205 Wfat to Cook 

strain, heat to boiling, if necessary, and send to 
the table in the usual manner. 

If a small quantiity is to be made, place the 
small vessel in a larger kettle of boiling water. 

Coffee for Fifty Guests. 

One pound of coffee, best Mocha and Java 
mixed. Into it break two eggs and add enough 
cold water to mingle the coffee and egg 
thoroughly. Put into cheese cloth sacks, (not too 
small). Pour over three gallons of freshly boiled 
water. Bring just to the boiling point and re- 
move at once to the cooker, to remain one hour 
or until time to serve it. 

If a cooker with a large boiler is not available, 
put the coffee into the smaller ones, allowing the 
correct proportions of coffee and hot water for 
the size of the kettles. The measuring may be 
done as you put the coffee into the sacks. 

Coffee made in the cooker does not require so 
much of the coffee grain, and the flavor is richer 
as all the aroma is retained. If the hour for serv- 
ing is delayed, it cannot lose in quality or grow 
cold. 

Postum Cereal. 

Less postum is required if made in the cooker 
than if boiled over the fire. Four level teaspoon- 
fuls is sufficient for one pint of water. Enclose 
in a cheesecloth sack and pour the boiling water 
over it. 

If a large amount is to be made, place directly 
in the cooker, but a small quantity should be in- 
closed in the larger kettle of boiling water. 



Snbex. 



BEVERAGES, 202-205 
Ambrosia, 202 
Chocolate, 202 
Chocolate, Breakfast, 202 
Cocoa, 202 
Cocoa, Cracked, 203 
Coffee, 204 

Coffee for Fifty Guests, 205 
Grape Juice, 203 
Grape Juice, Bottled, 203 
Nectar, 203 
Postum Cereal, 205 
Punch for Seventy-five 

Guests, 204 
Raspberry Shrub, 204 

BREAD, 137-143 

Biscuit, Baking Powder, 

141 

Biscuit, Tea, 143 
Bread, Dutch Oven, 139 
Bread, Graham Nut, 140 
Bread, Miriam's, 140 
Bread, Peanut, 140 
Bread, Whole Wheat, 141 
Brown Bread, Alice's, 137 
Brown Bread, Best Bos- 
ton, 137 
Brown Bread, Mrs. B's, 

138 

Corn Bread, 139 
Corn Bread, Custard, 138 
Corn Cakes, 141 
Muffins, 142 
Muffins, Corn, 141 
Muffins, Graham, 142 
Rolls, Parker House, 143 
Rolls, Pocket Book Corn, 

143 
Rolls, Potato, 142 

CAKE, 179-186 

Angel's Food, 179 
Caramel Cake, 179 
Chocolate Cake, 180 
Chocolate Cake, Spanish, 

180 
Emergency Cake, 181 



Filling, Lemon, 182 
Frosting, Chocolate, 181 
Fruit Cake, Home, 181 
Ginger Bread, Lemon, 181 
Ginger Bread, Soft, 182 
Hurry Cake, 182 
Icing, Chocolate, 185 
Icing, Sunshine, 186 
Jelly Cake, Quick Lemon, 

182 

Marshmallow Cake, 183 
Mocha Tart, 183 
Orange Cake, 183 
Spice Cake, Sour Cream, 

184 

Sponge Cake, 184 
Sponge Cake, Beulah's, 185 
White Cake, 185 
Yellow Cake, 185 

CEREALS, 133-135 

Breakfast Hominy, 133 
Cornmeal Mush, 133 
Cornmeal Mush, Fried, 133 
Cream of W T heat, 133 
Graham Mush, 134 
Indian Meal Gruel, 134 
Oatmeal Custard, 134 
Oatmeal Gruel, 134 
Pettijohn's Breakfast 

Food, 135 
Quaker Oats, 135 
Whole Grain Oatmeal, 135 

COOKIES, 188, 189 
Buns, 188 

Graham Cookies, 188 
Hermits, 188 

Oatmeal Drop Cakes, 188 
Oatmeal Wafers, 188 
Peanut Cookies, 189 
Plain Cookies, 189 
Ralston Cookies, 189 

CUSTARDS, 176, 177 

Caramel Custard, 176 
Chocolate Custard, 176 
Dainty Custard, 176 



Snbex 



208 



Lemon Sponge Custard, 

177 

Macaroon Custard, 177 
Tapioca Custard, 177 
White Custard, 177 

DESSERTS AND CUSTARDS, 

169-174 

Biscuit Glace, 171 
Charlotte Russe, 169 
Chocolate Bavarian 

Cream, 169 

Chocolate Mousse, 172 
Cocoanut Sponge, 173 
East Indian Ginger Cream. 

169 

Fairy Cream, 170 
Fruit Frappe, 171 
Fruit Mousse, 172 
Marsh Mallow, 171 
Marshmallow, 171 
Pineapple Sponge, 174 
Prune Jelly, 172 
Prune Whip, 173 
Queen Mab's Cream, 170 
Russian Cream, 170 
Surprise Peaches, 172 
White Mousse, 172 

EGGS, 119, 120 
Baked Eggs, 119 
Eggs for Tea, 120 
Perfection Omelet, 119 
Steamed Eggs, 119 
Swiss Eggs, 119 

ESCALLOPED FOODS, 112-117 
Cheese Souffle, 116 
Chicken and Rice, 113 
Chicken Scallop, 113 
Escalloped Cabbage, 112 
Escalloped Cheese, 112 
Escalloped Green Corn, 

113 

Escalloped Onions, 114 
Escalloped Oysters, 115 
Escalloped Potatoes, 115 
Escalloped Sweet Pota- 
toes, 115 

Escalloped Tomatoes, 115 
Ham Scallop, 114 
Hominy and Cheese, 114 
Macaroni and Cheese, 114 



Tomato Souffle, 116 
Tomatoes, Fried, 116 

FIRELESS COOKER, THE, 1 
How to Make It, 7-22 
How to Use It, 8-36 
What to Cook, 37-205 

FISH, 58-62 

Boiled Fish, 58 
Codfish a la mode, 58 
Creamed Oysters, 60 
Fish and Oysters, 59 
Fish Chowder, 58 
Hollandaise Sauce, 59- 
Italian Fish, 59 
Oyster Dumplings, 61 
Salmon in a mold, 61 
Salmon Loaf, 62 
Salmon Shells, 62 
Steamed Fish, 60 
Stuffed Fish, 60 

FRUITS, 191-195 
Apple Relish, 192 
Apple Sauce, 192 
Apples, Preserved, 191 
Apricots, 192 
Orange Marmalade, 192 
Peaches, To Can, 193 
Pears, Canned, 193 
Prunes, 194 

Quinces, Preserved, 194 
Watermelon Preserves, 
195 

GAME AND POULTRY, 65-70 
Chicken and Cracked Corn,, 

65 

Chicken, Creamed, 65 
Chicken Fricassee, 67 
Chicken, Fried, 66, 67 
Chicken Pie, 65 
Chicken Pot Pie, 68 
Duck, 68 

Fowl in a Casserole, 68 
How to Roast an Old Fowl, 

68 

Jugged Rabbit, the Eng- 
lish Way, 70 
Rabbit en Casserole, 69 
Turkey, 69 

How TO COOK IN A REFRIGER- 
ATOR, 29 



209 



Snbex 



INSULATED COLD Box, 34 
INSULATED OVEX, 31 
INSULATED PAIL, 35 
LEGUMES, 107-110 

Bean Croquettes, 107 

Bean Mound, 109 

Beans in Soup Stock, 108 

Boston Baked Beans, 107 

Lima Beans, 108 

Lentils, 109 

Peas, Dried, 109 

Split Peas, 109 

Succotash, Winter, 110 
MEATS, 73-90 

Beef, Baked, 73 

Beef, Braised, 73 

Beef, Boiled Flank, 77 

Beef, Brisket of, 74 

Beef, Cannelon of, 74 

Beef and Hominy, 77 

Beef and Oysters, 78 

Beef, Hamburg Steak, 77 

Beef Hash, 77 

Beef Loaf, 78 

Beef, Pocket Steak, 75 

Beef Relish, 79 

Beef, Roast, 79 

Beef Roll, 80 

Beef Steak, Rolled and 
Stuffed, 80 

Beef, Timbale of, 80 

Beef, Tyrone Loaf, 81 

Boiled Dinner with Mus- 
tard Sauce, 74, 75 

Boiling Meats, 73 

Brown Sauce, 74 

Calf's Liver, 87 

Egg Sauce, 88 

Ham, Boiled, 85 

Ham and Steak, Rolled, 86 

Ham a la Venison, 85 

Lamb with Celery, 82 

Lamb, Cold Leg of, 82 

Lamb with Tomatoes and 
Rice, 82 

Mutton Ball, 82 

Mutton Chop, 83 

Pasties, English, 76 

Pork Chops, 83 

Pork, Leg of, 83 

Potted Meat, 78 



Pot Roast, 79 
Sausage on Hominy, 83 
Scrapple, 85 

Tenderloins, Stuffed, 84 
Tongue, Boiled, 81 
Tongue, Boiled, Another 

Method, 81 
Veal, 87 
Veal, Baked, 87 
Veal Birds, 87 
Veal Dinner, 88 
Veal Loaf, 88 
Veal Mold, 89 
Veal Pot Pie, 89 
Veal and Tongue Roll, 90 
Veal with Rice, 90 

PICKLES, 197-200 
Catsup, Our Favorite, 197 
Chili Sauce, 198 
Cucumber Sweet Pickles, 

197 

Dill Pickles, 198 
Dressing, 199 
Ginger Pumpkin, 198 
Grandmother's Pickles, 199 
Spiced Peaches, 199 
Spiced Prunes, 199 
Watermelon Pickles, 200 

PIES, 145-149 

Apple Meringue Pie, 145 

Chocolate Pie, 145 

Cottage Cheese Pie, 146 

Cream Pie, 146 

Custard Pie, 146 

Dutch Apple Pie, 147 

Lemon Pie, 147 

Mince Meat, 147 

Pie Crust, 145 

Pineapple Pie, 148 

Pumpkin Pie, 148 

Strawberry Shortcake, 149 
PROMETHEAN COOKER, 7 
PUDDINGS, 151-166 

Apple Pudding, 151 

Apple Pudding, Cold, 152 

Apple and Brown Bread 
Pudding, 151 

Apple Tapioca, Jellied, 152 

Bread Pudding, 152 

Brown Betty, 152 



210 



. Cake Pudding, 153 
Chocolate Pudding, 153 
Christmas Plum Pudding, 

162 

Cinnamon Pudding, 154 
Cocoanut Sunshine, 155 
Corn Meal Pudding, 154 
Cottage Pudding, 155 
Currant Cups, 155 
Date Pudding, 156 
Date Pudding, Western, 

156 
English Plum Pudding, 

161 

Estelle Pudding, 156 
Fig Pudding, 157 
Georgie's Ginger Pudding, 

158 

Gingerbread Pudding, 157 
Graham Pudding, 158 
Indian Pudding, 159 
Indian Pudding, Baked, 

159, 160 

Peach Pudding, 160 
Penrith Pudding, 160 
Pineapple Tapioca Pud- 
ding, 160 

Prune Pudding, 163 
Prunes with Hominy, 163 
Rice Pudding, 164 
Steamed Blue Plum Pud- 
ding, 162 
Steamed Pudding, Mrs. 

Moulton's, 165 
Suet Pudding, 165 
Topeka Rice Pudding, 164 
W. K. Pudding, 166 

SAUCE, 157, 163, 164 

Sauce, Hot Foamy, 157 
Sauce, Plum Pudding, 162 
Sauce, Portia's Pudding, 

166 

Sauce, Soft Pudding, 153 
Sauce, Sour, 154 

SALADS, 122-130 
Banana Salad, 127 
Bean and Pea Salad, 122 
Beet Salad, 122 
Cheese Balls, 123 
Cheese Eggs, 129. 



Chicken Salad, 122. 

Cold Slaw, 123 

Cottage Cheese, 123 

Cress and Cabbage Salad, 
129 

Currants, 128 

Dessert, a Simple, 128 

Dressing, 122 

Grape Fruit Salad, 127 

Ham Salad, 124 

Hominy Salad, 125 

Mock Whipped Cream, 125 

Nasturtium Salad, 129 

Nautilus Salad, 125 

Orange and Apple Salad, 
129 

Pineapple Salad, 129 

Potato Salad, 125 

Salad Dressing, 123 

Salad Dressing, Hygeia, 
127 

Salad Dressing, Ruth's, 124 

Salad Dressing, Whipped 
Cream for, 127 

Strawberries and Whip- 
ped Cream, 128 

Tomato Salad, 126 

Tomato and Cucumber 
Salad, 128 

Tomatoes, Stuffed, 128 

Vegetable Salad, 130 

Winnebago Salad, 126 

Winter Salad, 126 

SOUPS, 37-55 

Bean Porridge, 40 
Bean Porridge. Another 

Way, 40 
Bean Puree, 53 
Bean Soup, 39 
Bean and Tomato Soup, 

41 

Beef Tea, 42 
Black Bean Soup, 41 
Brown Soup Stock, 37 
Chestnut Puree, 53 
Cinderella Soup, 42 
Cream of Asparagus Soup, 

50 
Cream of Chicken Soup, 

51 



211 



3nbex 



Cream of Corn Soup, 51 
Cream of Lima Bean 

Soup, 51 

Cream of Pea Soup, 52 
Cream of Spinach, 52 
Cream of Vegetable Soup, 

52 

Dried Pea Puree, 53 
Esau's Pottage, 42 
Fine Flavored Puree, 54 
Green Corn Soup, 42 
Hasty Soup, 43 
Italian Soup, 43 
Lentil Soup, 43 
Mock Oyster Soup, 43 
Potato Puree, 54 
Puree of Barley Corn, 53 
Rice and Potato Soup, 45 
Scotch Broth, 44 
Seasoned Soup Stock, 38 
Soup with Rice, 47 
Soup without Meat, 47 
Soup, To Clarify, 39 
Split Pea Soup, 44 
Swiss Potato Soup, 45 
Tomato Bouillon, 46 
Tomato Soup, 46 
Turkey Soup, 46 
Unseasoned Soup Stock, 

38 

Vegetable Soup, 48, 49 
Vegetable Soup, New Eng- 
land, 49 
White Soup Stock, 39 

SOUP ACCOMPANIMENTS, 54, 55 
Cheese Fingers, 54 
Croutons, 54 
Egg Balls for Soup, 55 
Garnish for Soups, 55 
Soup Sticks, 55 

STEAMER COOKER, 17 
SUGGESTION, A, 36 
UTENSILS, COOKING, 21 



VEGETABLES, 93-104 
Asparagus, 93 
Beans, Green, 93 
Beans, Green Shelled, 93 
Beans, Fresh Lima, 94 
Beets, Fresh, 94 
Beets with Dressing, 94 
Cabbage, Boiled, 95 
Cabbage, Creamed, 95 
Carrots, Creamed, 95 
Cauliflower, 96 
Corn, Roast, 97 
Corn, Boiled, 96 
Corn, Sweet, 96 
Cream Sauce, 93 
Dressing, 94 
Hominy, Baked, 97 
Hominy, Boiled, 97 
Hominy, Fried, 97 
Macaroni with Tomato 

Sauce, 97 

Onions, Boiled, 98 
Onions with Tomato 

Sauce, 98 

Parsnips, Fried, 99 
Parsnip Fritters, 98 
Peas, Green, 99 
Peas in Milk, 99 
Pilaffe, Turkish, 104 
Potatoes, Boiled, 99 
Potatoes, Steamed, 99 
Potatoes, Warmed Over, 

100 

Radishes, 101 
Rice, Boiled, 101 
Spinach, 101 
Squash, Summer, 101 
Squash, Winter, 102 
Succotash, 102 
Sweet Potatoes, Boiled, 100 
Sweet Potato Croquettes, 

100 

Tomato Sauce, 98 
Tomatoes, Stewed, 103 
Turnips, Boiled, 103 
Turnips, Creamed, 103 
Turnips with Sauce, 103 



GIFT OF 




AGRIC. 
WHRARY 



HIGH LIVING 

RECIPES FROM SOUTHERN CLIMES 
COMPILED BY L. L. McLAREN 

PREFACE BY EDWARD H. HAMILTON 
AND DECORATIONS BY W. S. WRIGHT 



PUBLISHED FOR 

THE BENEFIT OF THE TELEGRAPH HILL 
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION 



PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY 
PUBLISHERS, SAN FRANCISCO 




AGRIC. 




Copyright, 1904 

by L. L. MCLAREN 

San Francisco 



By EDWARD H. HAMILTON 




The dictum went out that the sheep were to be parted from the goats ; and the 
goats were sent to Telegraph Hill. There were many shepherds for the sheep. They 
were led into the green pastures beside the still waters. At night their folds were 
watched and tended. 

But the goats foraged for themselves. They roamed the rough places. They 
browsed upon the tin cans and detritus of life. There were none to stroke them or call 
them soft names. They made their bed upon the long, hard road. They lived a 
strained and rugged life. They made a comrade of Necessity rather than Ambition. 
But they lived. 

It was the kids that died. They were not fitted for the chill nights and the buffet- 
ings. If they grew, they were gnarled and twisted. They lay down in squalor, and 
they arose in misery. But the sheep were tended, and the world ran on. 

Then some young women took notice of this unconsidered hillside where the 
goats browsed gloomily, and where the kids were gaunt and strange. These were 
young women of the pleasant ways of life. They could have gone on in the flower- 
bordered paths, hearing the lark sing and stringing the daisy-chains. But they left the 
pleasaunces and went up into the hard places, where the rough goats were, and the 
strange, white kids. 

Out of their devotion was born the Telegraph Hill Neighborhood Association. 
They made a small beginning, but it was a good beginning. There were ten thousand 
discouragements. But those young women put down those discouragements with cour- 
age. They established their association and rooted it in the rocks of the Hill. 

Where there was sickness they sent a doctor and a nurse, a flower and a smile. 
Where there was discouragement and waywardness they extended a helping hand. 
Where there was death they sent consolation. They gave fresh air to children 
who failed and faded in close, untidy rooms. They set up Education, where 
Ignorance had ruled. 

In other words, they have their free dispensary, their doctors and 
their nurses; they have girls* clubs, where they teach sewing and 





264972 




housework, boys' clubs, where the boys are taught to carve wood and work in leather 
and interest themselves in wholesome things; they have mothers' clubs, where those 
who will can learn the rudiments of nursing ; they have a kitchen garden, and a hun- 
dred pleasant ways of doing good. 

They are non-sectarian. 

Now, these young women need money to carry on their work. One of their 
ways of raising this money is the sale of the book of recipes for which my stumbling 
words are to make a lame preface. Many of the recipes have been collected from 
among the peoples of far-flung lands who live upon the Hill. Necessity has taught them 
how to cook many things that would be the despair of your servant of the kitchen or 
your chef at the club. There is a tang of high living about these recipes of the liv- 
ing of peoples who dwell upon a hill. 

If you buy this book you will help the work of the Telegraph Hill Neighborhood 
Association. You will make the soft hand reach farther. You will send more nurses 
and doctors to the beds of pain. You will help Education and Hopefulness in the end- 
less struggle with Ignorance and Weakness. You will bring the browns and reds into 
cheeks now pale. You will let Happiness dance in eyes where Sorrow now sits and 
glooms. You will put one more flower on a dead child's grave. 

Don't you think it worth your while to buy the book ? 

It seems to me there is no nobler, no greater work than that which these young 
women and girls are doing and have done. When I think of it there comes to me out 
of the long ago a something learned beside a woman's knee the same sort of woman 
as the ones who now are deifying American womanhood on Telegraph Hill. As I recall 
that something now it was the story of a voice that said : 

" Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye 
have done it unto me." 





Classification 



Soups 
Shell Fish 

Fish 
Fish Sauces 




Entrees 
Chicken 

Macaroni, Rice, Etc, 
Vegetables 

Salads 
Desserts 
Candies 

Breads 

Cakes 
Punches 






BARCELONA OLLA Soak one cupful of Italian peas with one pound of cod- 
fish overnight in cold water. Take out the fish and squeeze the peas out of their skins. 
Boil two pounds of soup meat in four quarts of water, one onion and four cloves of gar- 
lic. Skin and add two and a half dozen of string beans, the peas, a piece of cabbage, 
one turnip, two carrots, one-quarter pound of ham, one-eighth pound salt pork, and boil 
slowly. When nearly done add some small peeled potatoes and one cheroza (canned 
sausage), and a roll of meat prepared as follows: Sprinkle one pound of chopped beef 
with one teaspoonful chopped parsley and one clove of chopped garlic, one teaspoonful 
flour and one egg. Mix well and form into a roll. Put carefully into the soup and 
boil slowly for one hour. Strain off the soup, thicken with macaroni. Place the meat 
roll in a platter, pile the vegetables neatly around it, and pour over the sauce. 

HINDUSTANI SOUP STOCK Into a saucepan put two to three pounds of 
knuckle of veal, or neck of mutton, six dozen small onions, quartered, one large bunch 
of celery, chopped, a ham bone or slice of ham, pepper and salt. Cover with two 
quarts of water and simmer until reduced to one and one-half quarts. Strain through 
piece of muslin and put in cool place. 

HINDUSTANI COCOANUT SOUP Grate the white meat of two cocoa- 
nuts, mix with one and one-half quarts of prepared stock, add two blades of mace, salt- 
spoonful of ground cinnamon, salt and pepper. Simmer about one-half hour. Strain 
carefully through muslin. Make a paste of the beaten yolks of two eggs, juice of one 
lemon. Add enough flour to make a thin batter. Add this gradually to soup, stirring 
constantly. Serve with a dish of boiled rice. 



BOUILLABAISSE Cut in pieces two and a half inches square one-half 
pound each of six different kinds of fish, such as sea-bass, halibut, rock-cod, sole, 
flounder, and add any shell fish in season. Chop one large onion and one 
clove of garlic, and fry in one cupful of Sierra Madre olive oil until trans- 
parent. Add three pounds of fish bones and trimmings or any cheap 
inferior fish, cover well with water and one cupful of white wine, two 





ay leaves, three cloves and whole peppers and two blades of mace, and simmer 
twenty -five minutes. Strain and squeeze through a cloth until every drop of the juice 
is extracted. To this broth add one cupful of white wine, one-half teaspoonful of kitchen 
bouquet, juice of a lemon and a pinch of Spanish saffron, and stew the fish in it until 
tender; then pour it into a tureen in which has been put several slices of toasted bread, 
and serve. 



CHESTNUT SOUP Boil one quart of large Italian chestnuts for twenty 
minutes. Take off the shells and thin brown skin. Put into a saucepan with enough 
boiling water to cover them. Add a teaspoonful of salt and a piece of lemon rind. 
When soft, rub through a sieve. Then pour over them, stirring all the time, two quarts 
of good veal or chicken broth, one wine glassful of cream and a tablespoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. Bring to. a boil. Serve very hot. This will be sufficient for eight 
persons. 

LOBSTER SOUP Pick the meat from a two-pound lobster, chop fine and 
pound in a mortar, adding from time to time a little milk or cream. When perfectly 
smooth, add salt and a little cayenne. Take out enough to make a dozen small balls, 
and bind with egg. Fry the balls in butter. Mix the rest of the lobster with two 
quarts of milk and rub through a sieve. Put in a saucepan and simmer for ten minutes. 
Add two ounces of fresh butter and stir until smooth. Place the balls in a tureen, 
pour over the soup, and serve. 




/ 

BISQUE D'ECREVISSES - Clean carefully twenty ecrevisses. Into a sauce- 
pan put one quart of water, a teaspoonful of salt, cayenne, a small onion, a carrot, a 
sprig of celery, all finely cut, and one-half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Then 
add the ecrevisses and boil for about five minutes. Take them out and remove 
the shells. These must be put through a meat-chopper and pounded in a 
mortar with a little butter. Put this paste into a saucepan with a cupful 
of the liquor in which the ecrevisses have boiled, one quart of bouillon 
or milk, one-half glassful of white wine, and one-half cupful of bread 





disks which have been toasted. Simmer together a half-hour and then pass through a 
sieve. Put back on the stove and stir with a wooden spoon until it comes to a boil. 
Add the ecrevisses and a small piece of butter and serve as soon as the butter has 
melted. When done it should be of the consistency of cream. 

CHICKEN SAMBA YON Have ready one quart of strong chicken broth 
from which the grease has been carefully removed. Beat well the yolks of eight eggs ; 
put in a double boiler with the broth and stir until the mixture thickens. Serve in 
bouillon cups with toasted crackers. 

PEANUT BISQUE Remove the brown skin from one pint of peanuts ; chop 
very fine, add one quart of veal or chicken stock and simmer until tender. Rub 
through a puree sieve, adding a little milk from time to time. Season with salt and 
pepper, and add enough beet juice or pink coloring paste to give a good tint. Serve 
with peanut crackers which have been toasted in the oven. 

HINDUSTANI CHICKEN BROTH (For Invalids) Cut up an old fowl 
and simmer gently with three pints of water, one sliced onion, bunch of parsley, two 
cloves, one pepper, until it falls to pieces. Strain, and when cold remove all the grease. 
Mix one tablespoonful of arrowroot to a paste with a little of the broth and pour over 
it slowly, stirring all the time, one pint of the hot chicken broth. Boil for a few minutes, 
and serve. 



CASUELA ( National Dish of Chile ) Cut up a young chicken, or one and a 
half pounds of lamb in two-inch pieces, and fry until a light brown in some lard in 
which a chopped onion has been fried. Add two peeled tomatoes and two 
chopped green peppers. Put all of this in a large saucepan and cover with 
three quarts of water and simmer for two hours. Then add one cupful of 
green peas, one-half cupful of string beans, one large green pepper cut in 
slices, with seeds removed, and two potatoes, cut in quarters, one table- 
spoonful of rice, and two ears of corn chopped in one-inch lengths, 







salt and pepper to taste. Boil until tender, and add four or five stalks of young mint. 
Into the broth stir the white of one egg and pour all into a tureen, in the bottom of 
which is the yolk of the egg mixed with a tablespoonful of vinegar. If the broth is too 
thick add a little boiling water. 

SPAGHETTI SOUP Boil two pounds of beef, cut as for beef tea, and a 
slice of ham, in two quarts of water. When it has cooked for two hours add one cup- 
ful of white beans, previously boiled, two sliced onions, four chopped Spanish red pep- 
pers, one-half lemon sliced. Simmer all together until everything is soft, then mash 
through a colander. Add salt and one-half pound of spaghetti, and thicken with one 
tablespoonful of butter well mixed with one-half tablespoonful of flour. Simmer until 
the spaghetti is tender, then serve. 

PIMIENTO BISQUE Boil six large sweet red peppers until tender. Remove 
skin and seeds and rub through a colander with a few spoonfuls of the water in which 
they were boiled. Boil one-half cupful of rice in three pints of white stock or milk in 
double boiler until perfectly soft, and then rub through a sieve. Add the pepper pulp, 
one teaspoonful of onion juice, one teaspoonful salt, and season highly with Tabasco 
sauce. Bring to a boil, remove from stove and stir in slowly one-half cupful of thick 
cream, mixed with the yolk of two eggs. Serve with croutons. If fresh peppers are 
out of season, Pimiento Morrones (canned peppers) can be used. 

GUMBO FILE Joint a fowl and cut into pieces an inch square ; cut in dice 

one-half pound of lean ham. Slice a large onion and two or three green peppers, and 

fry lightly in two tablespoonfuls of lard. Add the chicken and ham which have been 

dredged with flour, cover and stew for about five minutes ; when nicely browned 

add two and one-half quarts of boiling water and simmer till the meat is tender. 

Now add fifty oysters and their liquor, and one teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, 

salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a boil and stir in two tablespoonfuls of the 

file powder. It should be of a ropy consistency, and should not be allowed 

to stand. If it boils after the file has been added it will be ruined. 





COCIDO OR OLLA PODRIDA (Madrid) Put in a soup kettle one and 
one-half pounds each of mutton, veal, garbanzos (chick peas), one slice of thin, raw 
ham, pieces of any kind of game or poultry, raw or cooked, and one-half pound of 
pork. Cover with a gallon of water ; add four ounces of salt and three pepper pods, 
one clove of garlic, and bring to a boil. Skim and cook slowly until the meat is 
almost tender, then draw off enough of the broth for soup and one pint besides for the 
sauce. Have ready one-half cupful each of summer vegetables (excepting cabbage), 
peas, Lima beans, squash, onions, string beans, corn, etc., and drop them into the pot to 
boil for twenty-five minutes. Five minutes before serving add a piece of chorizo or 
black sausage. Place the meat neatly on a large platter and surround with the vege- 
tables and serve with the following sauce : 

Sauce Stew and strain three large tomatoes, add one cupful of broth, a few 
cumin seeds, salt, pepper, and two teaspoonfuls of vinegar. Bring to a boil, and serve. 



in 



ONION SOUP OF NORTHERN ITALY Cut {hree.of four large onions 
thin slices and fry until transparent, in one-half cupful of butter ; simmer gently for 
nearly an hour. Pour over a quart of rich, clear stock or milk, and bring to a boil. 
Have ready a hot tureen in which has been placed two or three slices of bread toasted 
a golden brown. On this pour the soup ; add half a cupful of grated Gruyere cheese, 
and serve. 








CANAPE LORENZO Chop a medium-sized shallot, fry without coloring in 
two ounces of butter; add one tablespoonful of flour, and in one minute one pint of 
cream. When hot add one pint of crab meat, salt and cayenne pepper to taste, and 
bring to a boil. Cut bread one-quarter of an inch thick into round pieces and toast on 
one side only. Cover the toasted side with the crab and spread with a thick layer of 
butter prepared as follows : Mix well together one -quarter pound butter and one-half 
pound of grated cheese, and powder with Paprika. Put your canapes on a buttered 
dish, and color in the oven. 

CRAB GUMBO Clean and pick the meat from two large California crabs, 
being careful not to have the pieces too small. This will be enough for eight persons. 
In using the Eastern crab, which is much smaller, four times as many will be required. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper and a dash of cayenne. Fry two good-sized onions in a 
large tablespoonful of lard, until transparent. Add four large tomatoes, skinned, and a 
sliced sweet green pepper from which the seeds have been taken, and a slice of ham 
cut in dice. Cover with three quarts of boiling water and simmer for one-half hour. 
Then add two pounds of young okra, from which the stems have been cut and sliced 
into inch lengths ; add the crab meat. Simmer until tender and gelatinous ; add a table- 
spoonful of butter, rolled in flour, and one-half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Bring 
to a boil and serve with rice. 



SOFT- SHELL CRABS A LA CREOLE Clean six soft -shell crabs and 
dredge well with flour ; drop them into a large pot containing one -half cupful of boiling 
lard, one clove of garlic, one large tomato cut up and one-half teaspoonful of kitchen 
bouquet. When the crabs have cooked for five minutes, add about one quart of 
boiling water ; let this stew for at least an hour. Now add one pound of picked 
shrimps, also well rolled in flour, and salt to taste. Cook this twenty minutes, 
then season with the following : One-half gill of olive oil, one sliced lemon, 
one teaspoonful of made mustard, one tablespoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, one teaspoonful of pepper sauce, a few mixed spices, and one- 
half pint of claret. Beat this all together and stir into the broth. 





Let this cook until the gravy is quite thick, one-half hour being usually enough. Last, 
drop in one dozen large oysters and cook for five minutes. Serve with toasted 
crackers. 

SHRIMP GUMBO Shrimp gumbo is made in the same way as the crab 
gumbo, except that you substitute one pound of picked shrimps for the crab, and use 
only two large tomatoes. 

CRAB JAMBALAYA Slice two onions and one clove of garlic very fine and 
fry until transparent in two tablespoonfuls of butter ; add one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour and cook for two minutes. Then add three large tomatoes, which have been 
skinned, and one chopped green pepper ; simmer for fifteen minutes. Add two quarts 
of stock and, when it has come to a boil, the meat of two large crabs (about one pint), 
and one cupful of well-washed rice. Boil for one-half hour longer, and serve hot. 

CRAB SOUFFLE Make pint of rich cream sauce, add the yolks of three 
eggs, and beat well, then a dash of cayenne and a cupful of grated New York cheese ; 
now add one pint of crab meat, finely picked ; then fold in the whites of the eggs, well 
beaten, pour into a baking-dish and bake in a quick oven. 

SOFT-SHELL CRAB AS PREPARED IN AN ITALIAN MONAS- 
TERY Wash carefully six live soft-shell crabs and throw them into a bowl containing 
one pint of milk and three beaten eggs. Let them stand until they have consumed the 
liquid, then roll in fine cracker crumbs and fry in boiling lard. When done, serve with 
bunches of fried parsley. 







PLANKED SMELTS Butter a hickory or oak fish plank quite generously; 
place the cleaned and seasoned smelts, upon which lemon juice has been squeezed, on 
the plank ; arrange the smelts in the form of a large fish, and put plenty of butter on 
them ; garnish with mashed potato roses (made with pastry bag and tube), sprinkled 
with bits of butter and finely chopped parsley ; put plank in oven and bake until pota- 
toes are browned slightly. Before bringing plank to the table, place sliced cucumbers 
and tomatoes, dressed with oil and vinegar, between the roses. 

ESCABECHE Parboil two pounds of any white, firm fish, cut in fillets ; place 
them in a salad bowl and pour over three tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, a little cayenne pepper, bits of orange peel cut thin, one teaspoonful 
onion juice, two bay leaves, one sliced green pepper, and a sprig of thyme ; mix all well 
and let stand several hours before serving. Garnish with sliced orange. 

FLOUNDERS A LA MAJOUEZ Place the fish in a baking-dish of fire- 
proof ware, with a large tumbler of white wine, two tablespoonfuls of butter and one 
teaspoonful of salt ; put in a hot oven and cook until done ; pour off the gravy and add 
the yolks of three eggs which have been beaten into a pint of cream. Add a dash 
of cayenne, simmer (not boil) for two minutes, pour over the fish, and serve. 

FISH COURT-BOUILLON Fry one large onion, thinly sliced, in a table- 
spoonful of lard. When transparent add one tablespoonful of flour and cook for two 
minutes ; then add one-half can of tomatoes (or four large, fresh ones), one large cupful 
of boiling water, the same of claret, one tablespoonful of butter, cayenne and salt to taste. 
Cut either striped bass, halibut or barracuda in pieces large enough for one portion 
and simmer in the court-bouillon until tender. Place the fish on pieces of dry toast 
and cover with the sauce. Garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve very hot. 



STEWED FISH Slice one large onion and cook without brown- 
ing in two or three tablespoonfuls of olive oil. When transparent, add 
two pounds of any kind of white fish, cut in pieces. Add salt and 





Jftsf) 




cayenne, and cover. Simmer from twenty to thirty minutes. Beat together the yolks 
of twelve eggs ; add the juice of two lemons and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Stir 
into this very slowly some of the hot fish broth and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Pour this over the fish and simmer until the sauce thickens. Be careful not to boil it, 
as the sauce would curdle. 

CLAMS AND RICE Chop fine one onion and a small piece of ham or 
pork, add a little Spanish saffron water, a bruised clove of garlic and one cupful of toma- 
toes ; stew all together for a few minutes, then add a pint of well -scrubbed small clams, 
still in the shell ; steam with the dish tightly covered for a half-hour, then add one cupful 
of well-washed rice and about one pint of water. Season with salt and cook until the 
rice is done. 

LOBSTER A LA CARDINAL Make a pint of cream sauce, using either 
white stock, fish stock or cream. To this add the yolks of two eggs, the juice of one 
lemon and a little carmine for coloring. Then add, little by little, one-fourth of a pound 
of butter. Cut the flesh of a two-pound lobster into cubes, and add it to the sauce. 
Have ready a buttered mold, line it with one inch of boiled rice, fill with the lobster, 
cover with rice, and steam for one-half hour. When done, garnish with broiled tomatoes, 
and serve. 

SHRIMP FRITTERS Make a batter of three well-beaten eggs, a pinch of 
salt, one-quarter cupful of milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter. Chop sligktly with 
a silver knife one-half pound of picked shrimps, and stir into the mixture, adding enough 
stale bread crumbs to make a stiff batter. Drop by the spoonful into boiling fat, and 
fry a light brown. Drain on paper and serve hot, with a rich cream sauce which 
has been colored with a little tomato or anchovy sauce. 



SAUCE FOR BARRACUDA Brown a chopped onion in one 
tablespoonful of butter, sprinkle in two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir and 
add one cupful of claret, one-half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet and 






a bunch of parsley, chopped fine. Simmer slowly one-half hour and then pass through 
a sieve into another saucepan ; add, little by little, one -half pound of butter and two 
chopped anchovies. When thoroughly hot, serve in a well-heated saucedish. Garnish 
the fish with slices of boiled beet and parsley. 

BAKED HALIBUT Put slices of halibut into a baking-dish; add a little 
white wine and water, small pieces of butter and salt and a very little cayenne. Place 
in the oven and bake in a fire-proof baking-dish. For the sauce, blanch some finely 
chopped young onions, put them in a saucepan with an equal amount of shrimps, add 
white wine, salt and cayenne, a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce and a lemon cut 
in thin slices. Cook gently for ten minutes, then add a tablespoonful of butter rolled in 
a little flour. Bring to a boil, remove from fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Pour 
the sauce over the fish, and serve. 

TURBAN OF FISH Take one pound of boiled striped bass or halibut and 
rub it through a colander ; add one cupful of bread crumbs which have been soaked in 
milk and drained as dry as possible, one -half cupful of thick cream, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, a 
pinch of mace and a dash of cayenne. Then fold in the beaten whites of four eggs, 
turn into a turban mold and steam for twenty minutes. Serve as hot as possible, and fill 
in the centre with green peas. Pour around the form a rich cream sauce, well flavored 
with anchovy sauce. 

SOLE NEAPOLITAN Clean a fine sole, season with salt and pepper, and 

place in a well-buttered, fire-proof platter, dark side down. Put into the dish one 

tablespoonful of butter, mixed with a teaspoonful of flour. Chop fine one white 

onion, one shallot, a little chives, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one 

tablespoonful of dried mushrooms, which have been soaked in one cupful of 

boiling water for one hour, and then chopped. Put into a saucepan one 

tablespoonful of butter. When melted, add the above seasonings and 

a few drops of kitchen bouquet. Cook for two or three minutes, then 






add one cupful of white wine and a few spoonfuls of the mushroom liquor, and boil 
ten minutes. Pour this over the fish, and bake about fifteen minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve in the same dish. 

MEXICAN COD Fry a clove of chopped garlic in three tablespoonfuls of 
Sierra Madre oil for a minute, then add one pound of potatoes which have been peeled 
and cut in small pieces, and fry brown. Then add one pound of picked codfish 
(which has been soaked in water overnight), one can of strained tomatoes, a little mar- 
joram, one cupful of vinegar, and the pulp of four large, sweet red peppers, which have 
been soaked and mashed through a colander. Cook slowly for two hours. 

FISH A LA GUAYMAS Cut any firm, white fish into slices three inches 
square ; marinate for two minutes in one tablespoonful of Sierra Madre olive oil, one- 
half tablespoonful of vinegar, a few drops of onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. 
Spread each slice with some of the pulp of red sweet peppers (boiled and rubbed 
through a colander), and a spoonful of grated cheese, mashed to a paste with the yolk 
of an egg. Roll and tie with a thread, dip into a batter, and fry in hot lard until brown. 
Serve with a Spanish sauce. 

POTOMAC HERRING Wash two salted Potomac herring well and soak 
overnight in two quarts of water. Dry carefully, roll in cornmeal, and fry a delicate 
brown. Serve with soft cornbread. 

OYSTER BUNDLES Cut nice, even slices of the breast of either boiled or 
roast turkey ; spread over each piece a thin slice of boneless bacon, and put on top 
of each piece of bacon a large oyster ; roll up each slice of turkey, with the bacon 
and oyster inside so as to form a little bundle, tie each of these securely, place 
a baking-pan and bake them long enough to cook the bacon, basting 



in 



frequently with a little melted butter, 
parsley. Rich, brown gravy should 



Serve in a dish garnished with 
be served with these bundles. 






fauces 




SPANISH SAUCE Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan, with two 
ounces of flour, and cook until brown. Stir in slowly one pint of bouillon, one and a 
half ounces of lean ham, one carrot, onion, stick of celery, cut up, two cloves and bay 
leaves, pinch of salt and cayenne, and stir until it begins to boil. Simmer gently for an 
hour, and strain. 

GARLIC SAUCE Grate a clove of garlic, and add the yolk of one egg ; rub 
smooth, and add one tablespoonful of bread crumbs which have been soaked in milk and 
squeezed dry, a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper. Stir in from seven to eight spoon- 
fuls of olive oil and the juice of one lemon. If it is too thick, add a little water. 

MAYONNAISE VERTE Take the yolks of two raw eggs, the yolk of one 
hard-boiled egg, three gherkins, two anchovies, large bunch of parsley chopped very 
fine, salt and cayenne to taste. Put all the ingredients (except the raw eggs) into a 
mortar and mash thoroughly; then pass through a sieve, add the eggs and a small 
quantity of mayonnaise, and a dash of tarragon vinegar. 

SALZA Take a cupful each of tomatoes, onions and green peppers (from 
which the seeds have been removed ) ; scald and skin the tomatoes, and skin the pep- 
pers by blistering on a hot stove. Chop all together, adding salt and enough olive oil 
to moisten. This can be eaten hot or cold on fish or cold meats. 

CHILE SAUCE FOR FISH Mash to a paste one clove of chopped garlic 
and two red peppers, softened in boiling water and rubbed through a sieve ; add a little 
of the water, salt, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Have heating in the frying- 
pan one cupful of olive oil, and add the pepper pulp. Cook any fish in this sauce. 



KAIHELO OR FISH SAUCE (Hawaiian) -Grate a cocoanut 
and place the meat in a sauceboat. Chop one pound of cooked shrimps, 
moisten with the cocoanut water, put in a cheese-cloth and squeeze 
every bit of the juice over the cocoanut, and serve. 




GENOESE FISH SAUCE Fry one tablespoonful of butter in one table- 
spoonful of flour until light brown ; add one cupful of water in which the fish has boiled 
and one cupful of claret. Reduce by boiling, and add one tablespoonful chopped pars- 
ley, half a canful of mushrooms, and one shallot, all chopped fine, and simmer a few 
moments. Then add, bit by bit, two tablespoonfuls of fresh butter, stirring all the time, 
and serve. 

SAUCE ITALIENNE Chop fine one tablespoonful of parsley, one shallot, 
half a canful of mushrooms, and, if liked, a little garlic. Put all in a saucepan with a glassful 
of white wine, and half a teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet. Reduce, and add salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste ; a tablespoonful of olive oil, and one cupful of bouillon. Simmer 
gently, and thicken with a tablespoonful of butter, rubbed in the same amount of flour. 











EGGS A LA BONNE CUISINE Cut four hard-boiled eggs in half, scoop 
out the yolks, and rub to a paste, with a tablespoonful of butter, and one teaspoonful of 
anchovy paste, one pinch of curry powder and one teaspoonful of chutney. Fill the 
whites of the eggs with this, fry some rounds of bread a golden brown, and when cold 
spread with the remainder of the paste. Place one-half an egg on each round, and, 
with a pastry tube, garnish with a little cooked spinach that has been rubbed through a 
sieve with a little butter. 

EGGS A L'ARDENAISE Beat to a stiff froth the whites of six eggs, 
seasoned with one-half teaspoonful each of onion juice and chopped chives, and one 
teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Butter a fire-proof dish 
and turn in the eggs, and pour on top very carefully four tablespoonfuls of thick cream. 
Place at equal distance the unbroken yolks, and bake quickly in the oven until the 
yolks are well set. Serve in the same dish. 

TOMATOES AND EGGS Cut three or four firm, round tomatoes in half, 
and place them in a fire-proof baking-dish, skin down. Add one tablespoonful of 
water and bake until tender. Remove from oven before they lose their shape and 
scoop out a good portion from each. Break two eggs into a saucepan, add a teaspoon- 
ful of butter, wineglassful of cream, little onion juice, one tablespoonful of grated Parme- 
san cheese, pinch of salt, pepper and sugar, and whisk all until thick and creamy. Fill 
tomato cups with custard, decorate with a sprig of parsley. Serve very hot on toast. 

EGGS A LA STORK Melt one large tablespoonful of butter in the blazer 
of the chafing-dish ; add one tablespoonful of flour, and cook for two minutes ; then stir 
in one pint of milk. Stir until it thickens and is perfectly smooth ; then add one tea- 
spoonful of salt, a dash of Paprika, one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and 
one cupful of grated cheese ; stir until the cheese is melted, and then reduce 
the flame and break carefully on the sauce as many eggs as desired ; cook 
very slowly until the eggs are well set. Serve on pieces of toast, not too 
dry. With this drink the Schlitz which has made Milwaukee famous. 






FRICASSEED EGGS Boil six eggs for five minutes ; lay them in cold water 
and remove the shells carefully. Roll them in flour ; then in egg, to which has been 
added one-half teaspoonful of oil and same of vinegar, a few drops of onion juice and 
a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a grating of nutmeg, and salt. When quite covered, 
roll in vermicelli, broken to fine bits, and fry in deep lard. Serve with sauce made as 
follows : 

Italian Sauce Fry together one tablespoonful of butter and one of flour until 
brown ; add one-half cupful of white wine and a cupful of bouillon, season with salt 
and cayenne, and boil about fifteen minutes ; add one teaspoonful each of chopped 
chives and parsley, a few stoned olives and chopped mushrooms, bring to a boil again 
and pour over the eggs. 

EGG TIMBALES Allow one egg for each timbale. To four eggs, slightly 
beaten, add one-fourth cupful of cream, a few drops of onion juice, and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of salt and a dash of Paprika. Turn the mixture into small buttered molds ; 
set in a pan of hot water, and cook until firm. Turn from the mold, and serve with a 
mushroom or shrimp sauce. 

SPANISH ONION RAREBIT Boil two large onions until very soft, drain, 
chop, and return to the saucepan with a small piece of butter, milk, salt, pepper, dash of 
Tabasco sauce, one teaspoonful of made mustard, and one-half cupful of grated cheese. 
Stir until hot, and serve on toast. It should be the consistency of custard. Serve with 
Schlitz beer, after the manner of an ordinary Welch rarebit. 



EGGS A LA DURANGO Boil six dried Spanish peppers twenty minutes. 
Drain, remove the seeds, and skin and chop fine. Fry in a spoonful of lard with 
half a chopped onion, and one clove of garlic ( if liked ). Add one cupful of 
well- washed rice and cook until dry ; then cover with soup stock and cook 
until tender. Add a* lump of butter, and salt to taste, and break half a 
dozen eggs on top of rice, and scramble. Serve on a hot dish. Omit 
the eggs and use as a stuffing for chicken or duck. 





SCRAMBLED EGGS AND MUSHROOMS Clean and break into 
pieces half a pound of fresh mushrooms. Dredge with flour, sprinkle with salt and a 
little cayenne pepper; melt four tablespoonfuls of butter, add the mushrooms, cook two 
minutes; then add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and cook five minutes. Beat four 
eggs slightly, and pour over the mushrooms and cook until the eggs are of a creamy 
consistency, stirring constantly. Serve on toast. 








ALBONDIGAS Mix together two pounds of beef, veal or mutton, two mashed 
and skinned tomatoes, one-half an onion, chopped fine, one-half cupful of scalded corn- 
meal, pepper and salt to taste. Bind with one or two eggs and form into balls the size 
of a walnut. Roll these in flour and boil in a good beef broth, slightly thickened. From 
fifteen to twenty minutes will be required for cooking. 

DEVILED CHOPS Mix together well one tablespoonful of butter and one tea- 
spoonful each of made mustard, French mustard, hot chutney, grated horseradish ; add the 
juice of a lime, a little Chile vinegar, salt, Paprika and cayenne pepper, and a few drops 
of onion juice. Rub this well into thick English mutton chops, broil rare and put the rest 
of the sauce over them in a very hot dish. 

SPANISH TONGUE Boil a fresh tongue and when cold cut in thin slices. 
Take one pound of sweet red peppers and boil with a pinch of salt. When tender 
drain, remove the skin and rub through a colander. Add some salt, one teaspoonful of 
onion juice, and fry in lard five minutes. When cold mix with two tablespoonfuls (or 
less) of vinegar and one pound of ripe olives, pour over the tongue, and serve. 

FRITURA MIXTA Take equal portions of breast of veal and chicken, 
calves' brains, kidneys and artichoke hearts. Mince very fine together, add one egg, sea- 
son with salt and pepper, and make into small cakes. Dip each into batter and fry in 
Sierra Madre olive oil. Serve on a bed of spaghetti, mixed with a good sauce. 



ANDALOUSIAN TRIPE Soak one pound of tripe for twenty minutes 

in salted water in which a lump of washing soda has been dissolved. Wash well 

and boil until tender in one quart of water, with one onion stuck with cloves, one 

clove of garlic, two bay leaves, two green peppers sliced. Strain and pass the 

tripe through a meat-chopper ; then rub to a paste with two tablespoonfuls of 

butter, one-half cupful of thick cream, salt and Mcllhenny's Tabasco sauce 

to taste, the pulp of six sweet red peppers ( parboiled and rubbed through 

a colander) and the pulp of three tomatoes. When well mixed add 






one teaspoonful of onion juice and three eggs, beaten separately. Pour into a buttered 
mold, cover, and boil in a saucepan three-quarters of an hour. Turn out on a platter, 
garnish with stuffed tomatoes or peppers and serve with Spanish sauce. 

VEAL CUTLETS A LA TOULOUSE Cut some pieces of veal and fry 
in a little butter until brown. Make a puree of one-half pound of Italian chestnuts, by 
parboiling, skinning, and boiling in a cup of milk until soft enough to rub through a sieve. 
Cook again with a little milk, one tablespoonful of butter and salt to taste, until it thickens. 
Cover the cutlet on each side with a spoonful of this puree and lay on ice to stiffen. 
When cold dip in fine crumbs, then in egg and more bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat. 
Serve with Bechamel or cream sauce. 

LOMO Cut two pounds of fresh pork loin into nice flat pieces large enough for a 
portion. Marinate for two hours in a tablespoonful of vinegar, a little chopped tarragon, 
a clove of chopped garlic, and a chopped pepper (seeds removed ), then broil and serve 
on a bed of mashed potatoes. 

BEEF A LA MILANAISE Have five pounds of the upper round of beef 
tied in a neat roll. With a carving steel pierce it through in eight or ten places, and 
insert sticks of macaroni and fat salt pork alternating in the holes. Sear it in hot lard all 
over, place in a deep casserole or saucepan, and cover with the following sauce : Soak 
two ounces of dried mushrooms in one pint of hot water for one hour, then drain care- 
fully and chop. Heat two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and fry in it one large chopped 
onion until yellow, then add two chopped tomatoes, the mushrooms, two sliced green 
peppers and the water in which the mushrooms have soaked, one teaspoonful of kitchen 
bouquet, one cupful of white wine, one cupful of ripe olives, salt and Mcllhenny's 
Tabasco sauce to taste. Simmer all together five minutes, then pour over the 
beef ; cover tightly and bake slowly in the oven, basting frequently. When 
tender place the beef on a platter and surround it with spaghetti which 
has been mixed with the sauce. If the sauce has been reduced too 
much, thin with soup stock. 






DEVILED MEAT Make a batter of two tablespoonfuls of dry mustard, three 
tablespoonfuls of flour, two eggs, salt and cayenne pepper, one teaspoonful of sweet oil 
and one of vinegar. Cut any kind of cold meat in slices and let soak in this batter, then 
fry light brown in lard. Pour the batter that is left into one cupful of hot soup stock or 
water ; add a small piece of butter and bring to a boil slowly. When it has thickened, 
pour over the meat, and serve. Cut gashes in cold turkey legs (the drumstick and second 
joint), rub this mixture well in, and broil for breakfast. 

CHANFAINA OF LIVER Boil in salted water for three minutes one pound 
of lamb's liver. Drain and cut in small cubes. Chop fine one onion, one tablespoonful 
of parsley, six sprigs of mint, add two cloves, a few cumin seeds, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, a pinch of Spanish saffron, a dash of Mcllhenny's Tabasco sauce, one 
tablespoonful of olive oil and one cupful of soup stock. Add one cupful of bread crumbs 
which have been soaked in hot water, drained and highly seasoned. Mix all with the 
liver and bring to a boil. Serve with Spanish rice. 

HACHIS A LA TOULOUSAINE (Italian Hash ) Chop one pint of cold 
roast beef with a calf's brain which has been parboiled. Add two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter and one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, the yolks of four eggs, salt, pep- 
per and spice to taste. Form into balls, roll in egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep 
lard. Serve with tomato sauce. 

OKRA GUMBO STEW Cut one and one-half pounds of lamb or veal into 

small pieces. Fry one sliced onion in two tablespoonfuls of lard a few minutes. Add 

the meat and brown slightly. Sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir well, 

cover with water and simmer until tender. When it has cooked an hour add three 

cut up tomatoes, one sliced green pepper (seeds removed), one -half teaspoonful 

kitchen bouquet, and one-half teaspoonful of salt. In another saucepan boil 

for one-half hour two pounds of young okra, from which the stems have 

been cut, one-half cupful of Lima beans and the corn cut from two cobs. 

Ten minutes before serving add the vegetables to the stew, thicken if 

19 





CntrYes 



necessary, and add one-half teaspoonful of sugar. Fill a buttered mold with well-cooked 
rice, bake in the oven for twenty minutes and turn out on a hot platter. Pour the 
gumbo around it, and serve. The Lima beans and corn are omitted in some parts of 
the South. 

KIDNEYS LOS ANGELES Slice two beef or three calf kidneys, after 
removing the hard centers. Fry four sliced onions in two tablespoonfuls of lard until 
brown, then add six large tomatoes cut up, six green peppers (seeds removed), chopped, 
and four slices of bacon. Cook five minutes and add four potatoes cut in thick slices, 
salt and Mcllhenny's Tabasco sauce to taste, the sliced kidneys and enough water to 
cover. Stew until the kidneys are tender, then thicken sauce with the yolks of six hard- 
boiled eggs rubbed to a paste with a glassful of sherry and one teaspoonful of Worces- 
tershire sauce. Add the whites of the eggs chopped, and serve with boiled rice. 

LIVER AND ANCHOVY Cut into round pieces and toast on one side as 
many slices of bread one-quarter of an inch thick as there are persons ; spread with 
butter and then thickly with anchovy paste. Have ready some calves' liver which has 
been boiled three or four minutes only, passed through a chopper and rubbed smooth. 
To this add a little thick cream, some onion juice, pepper, salt, mushroom catsup, Pap- 
rika and tomato sauce. Mix well, then pile in a pyramid on the toast, cover with may- 
onnaise or brown sauce, to which a little anchovy sauce has been added, heat through 
in the oven, and serve. 



X 




GRILLADES A LA CREOLE Cut a thick tenderloin steak into pieces 
about four inches square. Pour a little Sierra Madre oil over each and let stand a 
few minutes. Put them in a broiler and cook over the hot coals to sear the meat 
and keep in the juices; then place them in a baking-pan, sprinkle with one 
chopped onion, one green pepper sliced (seeds removed), one-half clove 
of garlic ( if liked ), one tablespoonful of tomato sauce, juice of one lemon 
and one-fourth cupful of oil. Cover closely, and when brown turn them. 
Add a little water to the gravy, boil up, and serve, -* 






SAUSAGE AND CABBAGE ( Milanaise ) Brown two tablespoonfuls of 
butter with two of flour in a saucepan, add one pint of boiling water, one teaspoonful 
of salt, cayenne pepper, a bouquet of herbs, one carrot cut in rounds, one teaspoonful of 
onion juice, and one-half a small cabbage cut in four pieces. Simmer until the cabbage 
is nearly tender and the sauce has been somewhat reduced. Fifteen minutes before 
serving add one-half a pound of sausages and cook until done. Place the cabbage on a 
platter with the sausages in a row on top and pour over it the sauce. Brussels sprouts 
can be used instead of cabbage, but must not be cooked so long. 

SPANISH FRICO Half boil enough potatoes to make when sliced one and 
one-half pints. Line the bottom of a mold with these, cover with minced onions, then 
with rolled cracker ; add small squares of lean beef one -half of an inch thick, cut from 
the round, and on each piece place a lump of butter, first seasoning the beef with salt 
and pepper. Repeat the layers until the potatoes and two pounds of steak have been used, 
finishing with the potatoes. Then add one pint of sweet cream, which should just come" 1 
to the top without covering the last layer. Put the lid on the mold and steam two and 
a half hours. 

ESTOFADO DE CORDERO Put six mutton chops in a large frying-pan 
with one tablespoonful of color ( or lard ), one tablespoonful of vinegar, salt, chopped 
parsley, thyme, cayenne pepper, four whole potatoes, six small onions and one-half pint 
of water. Cook over a slow fire about twenty minutes. Thicken with flour, and serve. 

OYSTERS AND POTATOES Beat lightly with a fork one pint of hot 
mashed potatoes. Blanch, chop fine and pound to a paste, with a little thick 
cream, eight ounces of almonds. Add these to the potatoes. Beat together until 
creamy, pile on a platter, and garnish with large fried oysters and slices of lemon. 

SOUTH PARK SWEETBREADS Parboil two fine calf 
sweetbreads and break into neat pieces. Rub to a paste the yolks of 
four hard-boiled eggs, one -third of a cupful of fresh butter, add one 

21 





CittrYes 




tablespoonful of brandy. Put in the blazer one tablespoonful each of flour and butter, 
cook one minute and add a cupful of cream, salt and pepper and nutmeg to taste. Stir 
till it thickens and then add one-half cupful of sherry and the paste, stirring all the time. 
When quite hot add the sweetbreads, the chopped whites of the eggs, and reduce the 
flame. Simmer for two minutes, and serve with hot biscuits or buttered toast. 

SWEETBREAD AND OYSTER PIE Blanch and parboil a pair of fine 
sweetbreads. Break in small pieces and place half in a pudding-dish, which has been 
lined with puff paste. Drain a pint of oysters and place a layer on the sweetbreads ; pour 
in a rich cream sauce, then add another layer of sweetbreads and oysters, cover with the 
sauce, and, lastly, add a top of puff paste. Bake in a quick oven. 

SWEETBREADS A LA BEARNAISE Blanch one pound of sweetbreads 
by soaking first in warm water and then in ice water for half an hour, cut in pieces and 
place in a saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper ; brown on both 
sides and simmer slowly until tender. In another saucepan boil one-fourth of a cupful 
of tarragon vinegar with one teaspoonful of hashed shallot, two bay leaves, one-half 
teaspoonful of onion juice, six whole peppers and a grating of nutmeg, and reduce one- 
half. Place the saucepan on the corner of the range and add while stirring a little but- 
ter and the yolks of three eggs. Put this in a double boiler and add little by little, 
always stirring, two tablespoonfuls of butter till the sauce is thick ; then put in the sweet- 
breads, and when hot serve on toast. 



TERRAPIN Select cow terrapin if possible. Plunge the terrapin in boiling 

water for five minutes, then take out and rub off the skin of the feet and throw back 

into fresh hot water. Boil until the shells show sign of cracking. Remove the under 

shell first, then cut off the head and claws, and remove the gall and sand-bags very 

carefully. Cut up the remainder in pieces, not too small, and the intestines quite 

fine, and be careful to preserve the juice and eggs. For each terrapin, allow 

the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, one-third of a pound of the very best 

butter, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, a wineglassful of sherry and a 





teaspoonful of brandy ; salt, cayenne pepper to taste, a grating of nutmeg, and one-half 
cupful of strong beef stock. Mash the yolks to a paste with one-half the butter ; put 
the other half in a saucepan and fry with the flour until a very dark brown, add the 
beef stock and bring to a boil ; then the wine, seasoning and terrapin. Simmer for a 
few minutes, and, last of all, add the egg paste and the terrapin eggs, and be careful not 
to boil again. When ready to serve heat in a double boiler, as boiling will ruin the 
sauce. Serve with big hominy. 

BIG HOMINY Soak two cupfuls of big hominy overnight. In the morning 
put in a porcelain-lined saucepan with two quarts of cold water, two tablespoonfuls of 
salt, and boil until tender ( three or four hours ), stirring occasionally with a wooden 
spoon. Add a large tablespoonful of good butter, and keep hot until ready to serve. 

VIRGINIA HAM Soak a Smithfield ham in a tub of tepid water, skin side 
up. In the morning, scrub it well with a brush and trim off any imperfect places, then 
sew tightly in a strong piece of muslin, and weigh. Allow twenty minutes' boiling to 
every pound. Place the ham in a large boiler and fill up with cold water, throw in some 
whole spices and two or three bay leaves. Put on the back of the stove and heat very 
slowly, occasionally skimming. Simmer gently until it is nearly tender, then remove from 
fire, and as soon as it is cool enough to handle take off the cloth and skin. Trim away 
the brown, unsightly underside and place in a dripping pan. Paint the top with cream 
and cover with powdered cracker crumbs mixed with a little brown sugar. Stick whole 
cloves in at regular intervals and brown in a quick oven. Serve the following day with 
a good salad. 





CHICKEN MILANAISE Prepare and truss a young chicken, as if for roast- 
ing. Put it in a casserole, and pour over it two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, a cupful of 
white wine, a cupful of bouillon, salt and cayenne to taste, one spoonful of dried 
mushrooms, soaked in one cupful of water and chopped fine, and one-half can of mush- 
rooms. Cover tightly and simmer in the oven for about an hour, turning the chicken 
occasionally ; add a dozen olives and a tablespoonful of butter, braided, with one table- 
spoonful of flour, and bring to a boil. Remove the chicken and add about a pint of 
boiled spaghetti or tagliarini to the sauce. Place the chicken on a platter, surround 
with the spaghetti, and serve with grated Parmesan cheese. 

TURKISH PILAU Boil a fowl in two quarts of water, to which has been 
added two onions, cut in quarters, three bay leaves, one tablespoonful of salt, a few 
whole peppers, three cloves and one stick of cinnamon. When beginning to be tender, 
remove the fowl and cut all the white meat off in neat pieces. Strain the broth into 
another saucepan and bring to a boil (there should not be more than a quart of it). 
Scatter slowly in one cupful of well-washed rice, and boil hard until it has swelled well ; 
then add a cupful of seeded raisins, the cut-up chicken, and a large lump of fresh butter, 
and simmer on the back of the stove until the rice is thoroughly done, stirring occasion- 
ally with a fork. 



CHICKEN CURRY (Hindustani) Slice one medium-sized onion, one clove 
of garlic, and a small piece of ginger -root, and fry until light brown in three tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil. Then add two tablespoonfuls of curry powder and one tablespoonful 
of flour, and cook for two minutes, stirring well ; then add three cupfuls of chicken 
broth, stirring continuously, and simmer for twenty minutes. Strain through a sieve; 
add salt and pepper to taste and the cream of a cocoanut. Last of all, add the 
chicken, cut in neat pieces, and pour all into a double boiler, to keep hot until 
served. Do not let the curry boil after the cocoanut cream has been added, 
as it may curdle. To prepare the cream, shave off the brown inner skin 
and grate the meat of a large cocoanut. Pour over it one cupful of milk, 
let it stand fifteen minutes, and scald. Drain the juice carefully into a 







anti <ame 



bowl ; put the meat in a bag and squeeze out all of the cream. The meat should be 
quite dry and like snow, and is piled in a dish on the rice-table. This curry sauce can 
be used with fish, crabs, shrimps, sweetbread, oysters, eggs and kidneys, etc. Milk or 
fish stock can be substituted for the chicken broth, if a maigre dish is required. Rice is 
always served with it, and the orthodox rice-table should be used. 



X 




CHAUD-FROID OF CHICKEN Boil two young chickens until tender ; let 
them get cold and carve into neat joints, removing the skin. Make a rich cream sauce 
of the chicken stock, season with kitchen bouquet and sherry ; let simmer gently for an 
hour, and strain. Dip each piece of chicken in the sauce till entirely covered, and place 
on ice till quite cold. Serve with lettuce and French dressing. 

CHICKEN PICANTE Cut up a chicken in small pieces. Cover with water, 
and stew until nearly tender ; then add four medium-sized potatoes, cut in halves, and 
boil slowly. Half an hour before serving fry two sliced onions brown in two table- 
spoonfuls of hot lard ; add the pulp of six large, sweet red peppers (soaked overnight 
and pressed through a colander) ; cook for two minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, and when very hot add one cupful of cheese, cut in small pieces. Stir until the 
cheese is melted, then pour over the chicken and potatoes and bring all to a boil, stirring 
to keep from burning. Serve very hot. 



CHICKEN DAUBE Stuff a young fowl with forcemeat, made of one pound 

of sausage-meat, one-half pound of cold, lean veal or tongue, cut in inch strips, and one 

pint of bread crumbs, soaked in milk, and then squeezed as dry as possible. Season 

with one teaspoonful of onion juice, one teaspoonful each of powdered sage, thyme, 

cloves and allspice, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Truss carefully, and brown 

the chicken in a tablespoonful of lard ; put it in a saucepan, cover well with water, 

add a bunch of soup vegetables, a calf 's foot and two bay leaves ; cover and 

simmer until the chicken is tender ; then remove from the pot and place in 

rather a small mold. Strain the broth and skim off the grease carefully. 

There should be at least one pint of liquid. To that add about one- 







anti Olaine 




half teaspoonful of kitchen bouquet, the juice of one lemon, one-half cupful of white wine, 
and one -half tablespoonful of gelatine, dissolved in a little warm water. Bring to a boil, 
strain through a cloth, pour around the chicken, and put on ice. Turn out on a platter, 
on a bed of lettuce leaves, and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN Split a young roasting chicken down the back 
and lay it, breast up, in a baking-pan or a casserole. Spread with a layer of butter, 
pepper and salt, and pour over it a cupful of boiling water. Cover closely, and cook in 
the oven about an hour. If nearly tender, pour over it one cupful of thick, hot cream, 
and two cupfuls of fresh mushrooms ; cover again, and cook from fifteen to twenty min- 
utes longer. Place the chicken on a hot platter, stir the gravy well, and, if necessary, 
thicken it with a little flour, pour over the chicken, and serve. Oysters can be substi- 
tuted for the mushrooms. Cook quail the same way. 

CREME DE VOLAILLE Pass the white meat of a fowl through a chop- 
per, then rub it through a sieve. Work into the pulp, one at a time, the yolks of three 
or four eggs and one gill of thick cream (or cream sauce). Season with white pepper, 
salt and grated nutmeg. When perfectly smooth, butter a mold and decorate bottom 
and sides with thin slices of truffles, then pour in the mixture, to which has been added 
the beaten whites of the eggs. It should only half fill the mold. Cover tightly and 
boil for one and one-half hours in a saucepan half filled with boiling water. Serve with 
a rich cream sauce, to which have been added thinly sliced truffles. 

BLANQUETTE OF TURKEY Heat one tablespoonful of best butter in the 
blazer of the chafing-dish ; stir in one dessert-spoonful of flour, and cook for two min- 
utes ; then add one-half cupful of highly seasoned white stock, one -half cupful of 
thick cream, a dash of lemon juice, salt, Paprika and grated nutmeg to taste, 
and a few drops of onion juice. Reduce the flame and simmer three 
minutes ; then add one pint of breast of cold turkey, cut in small pieces, 
and cook five minutes more. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, 
and serve at once. 








anti <ame 



MARYLAND CHICKEN Select young chickens, if possible; if not, par- 
boil older ones. Cut each chicken into six pieces ; dip each piece in milk, and then roll 
in flour. Fry some pieces of salt pork, and when the dripping is very hot put in the 
chicken. Cover and put on the back of the stove, where it will cook slowly. When 
brown on one side turn and brown the other. When the pieces are done remove them 
to a hot dish ; add to the dripping in the pan two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir until 
smooth ; then add one pint of rich milk or cream and stir until it thickens ; add a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley and pour over the chicken, and heat. Always serve 
with rice and, if possible, with corn fritters. 

CHICKEN A LA BORDEAUX Take young squab chickens, about the 
size of quail, and stuff with chopped celery, a small onion and seasoning. Bind the 
chicken with very thin slices of breakfast bacon and put in a pan ; add a cupful of hot 
water, a tablespoonful of butter for each chicken, a few small salad onions, a very little 
salt, pepper, and a few dried herbs. Cover tightly, place the pan where it is not too 
hot, and stew until tender. Usually it will take from three-quarters of an hour to an 
hour. When very tender, remove, take off the bacon jacket and put in a hot oven 
until browned, basting frequently with the gravy. If necessary, a little more water can 
be added before putting in oven. When done, pour the gravy over the chicken, and 
serve with a water -cress salad. 

FRITTER BATTER Pour one tablespoonful of oil in a cup and half fill 

it with warm water. Have one cupful of sifted flour in a bowl, and mix it slowly 

with the water until perfectly smooth. Make a soft batter, adding more water if 

necessary, then beat in very hard the yolks of two eggs, and, last, the whites beaten 

to a froth, and a pinch of salt. This batter can be used for any kind of fritters. 



HAWAIIAN CHICKEN Cut up a fat young fowl, as if for 
fricassee, put it in a saucepan and cover with water; simmer until tender. 
The Hawaiian recipe calls for a pint of cooked luau to be added to the 
chicken at this point, but spinach which has been boiled and drained 






is a palatable substitute. When the chicken and spinach have boiled five minutes, add 
the cream of one cocoanut. Just bring to a boil and remove from the fire ; add pepper 
and salt, the latter very carefully, to prevent curdling. The chicken must not boil hard 
after the cocoanut cream has been added. Serve with rice. Prepare the cocoanut 
cream as follows : Break a cocoanut into pieces, shave off the brown skin, and grate the 
meat. Put in a saucepan with one-half pint of milk, and heat slowly. When about to 
boil, drain off the cream and put the meat in a cheese-cloth bag, squeeze until the juice 
has been entirely extracted. The pulp is thrown away. This gives a delicious flavor 
to the chicken. 

CHICKEN A L'lTALIENNE Cut the remains of cold chicken (or turkey) 
into pieces about an inch long and marinate them in a bowl containing one tablespoonful 
of Sierra Madre oil, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon juice, a few drops of 
onion juice, salt and pepper. At the end of half an hour sprinkle with finely chopped 
parsley, dip them in fritter batter and fry in boiling lard. Drain on a brown paper, and 
serve with or without an Italian sauce. 

In some parts of Italy this dish is made of several kinds of cold meats, poultry, game, 
brains, etc. (the greater the variety the better), served on the same platter, and in Spain 
all kinds of cold vegetables are fried in batter and served together. 



PIGEON A LA CREOLE Clean and wipe dry three pigeons and cut each 
into four pieces. Marinate them in half a cupful of Sierra Madre olive oil for fifteen 
minutes. Drain off the oil into a frying-pan. Chop one onion, one clove of garlic (if 
liked), a green pepper ( seeds removed ) and a tablespoonful of parsley. Fry in the oil 
until transparent, and then add the pigeons and sear them all over. Put all of this in 
a casserole with a can of tomatoes, salt, Paprika and cayenne to taste, one table- 
spoonful of finely minced salt pork, half a cupful of sliced olives and a pint of good 
stock. Cover tightly and simmer in the oven an hour and a half. Five 
minutes before serving moisten a tablespoonful of browned flour with a little 
of the gravy, stir into the stew, and when it thickens sprinkle with Par- 
mesan cheese, garnish with croutons and serve in the same dishes. 






SALMI OF QUAIL Split two plump quail down the back. Heat two heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls of butter in the blazer of the chafing-dish, put in the birds and brown 
on one side, turn and brown on the other, then add one gill of highly seasoned broth, 
one gill of port or claret, one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, salt and pepper to 
taste, cover and simmer until tender. 

CHICKEN PORTUGUESE Into the bottom of a casserole put a piece of 
pork rind. On this stand a tender roasting chicken, trussed ; add four ounces of butter, 
salt, and cayenne to taste, and a few drops of kitchen bouquet. Then add the follow- 
ing vegetables, chopped fine : Two onions, two young carrots, one-half head of celery, 
two Chiles, two bell -peppers, seeds removed, and one cupful of soup stock. Cover the 
casserole, and cook quickly for forty minutes. From time to time baste the chicken with 
a spoonful of the gravy ; then add two tomatoes, skinned and sliced, and cook for thirty 
minutes more. Serve in the casserole. 

MOBILE BAY GUMBO Cut in pieces three fat young squirrels. Cover with 
a quart of water and add a slice of lean ham cut in dice, a carrot and onion sliced, 
pieces of celery, two sliced tomatoes, two cut up green peppers ( seeds removed ), a bay 
leaf and some sweet herbs. Simmer until tender and then add two pounds of nice 
okra, cut in half. Stew until tender. Thicken with a little butter and flour braided 
together. Then add one pint of oysters from which the liquor has been drained. Sim- 
mer for three minutes, and serve in a deep platter surrounded with rice. 



SALMI OF DUCK WITH OLIVES Roast for eight minutes two sprig-tail 

ducks. Cut off the breast, wings and legs, and put the carcasses into a saucepan with a 

dozen cloves, one onion and half a dozen stalks of celery. Cover with water and 

simmer to make a good gravy, then strain. Put in a saucepan the meat, two ounces 

of butter, the gravy, salt, pepper, cayenne, half a head of celery cut in small 

strips, one teaspoonful of currant jelly and one dozen stoned olives. Cook 

gently ten minutes, add a piece of butter rolled in browned flour, stir until 

smooth. Simmer five minutes, then serve with boiled or fried hominy. 





CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS Stuff a fat young chicken with oysters, add 
two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, and a little mace to taste. Truss carefully and place 
in a tin pail with a tight cover. Stand the pail in a bath of boiling water ; boil an hour 
or longer. When tender, lay the fowl on a dish and pour the gravy into a saucepan. 
To this add more oysters, two hard-boiled eggs, sliced, a grating of nutmeg, salt and 
pepper to taste, a cupful of cream and some thickening. Bring to a boil and pour over 
the chicken. 

SPANISH PIE Take one pint of cold chicken, duck, or any game. Cut it into 
flakes and place it in a pudding-dish which has been lined with a thin crust. On the 
layer of meat place a layer of sweet red peppers ( seeds removed ) cut in slices ; next, a 
layer of thinly sliced bologna sausage, and so on until the dish is full. Over this pour a 
glass of claret into which has been rubbed two tablespoonfuls of flour. Cover with a 
thin crust of pastry, and bake. ^ 







SPANISH RICE Chop one white onion fine, brown it in two tablespoonfuls 
of lard, then add one pepper chopped fine and a half pound of well-washed rice ; stir 
constantly until the rice is slightly brown, then add three cupfuls of bouillon, one heap- 
ing spoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne pepper and a pinch of Spanish saffron. Boil until 
the stock is quite absorbed by the rice, which should be rather dry. 

NEAPOLITAN RICE Boil a slice of bacon and a pinch of Spanish saffron 
in a quart of water for five minutes. Sprinkle in one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan 
cheese, and then one cupful of well-washed rice. Do not stir after the water has begun 
to boil, and when it is tender put it in a greased mold and dot a few pieces of butter 
over it. Place in the oven for a few minutes, turn out on a dish, and serve. 

CHILELY A LA ROSELEAF CLUB Grate or chop four ounces of New 
York dairy cheese ; rub to a paste with one-half ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of 
made mustard, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a dash of Mcllhenny's Tabasco sauce 
and a little cayenne pepper. Stir in a chafing-dish over hot water until nearly melted, 
and then stir in quickly the following sauce which has been made in another saucepan : 
Scald and skin three tomatoes, cut in small pieces, add one white onion and one bell 
pepper ( seeds removed ) chopped fine, and cook over a hot fire ten minutes. If there 
is much tomato juice, pour away some of it, as this must not be watery. After it has 
been added to the cheese stir until thoroughly mixed, and serve with Schlitz beer. 

FRIJOLES Wash well one pint of small red beans, cover with two quarts of 

cold water and bring to a boil slowly. Drain the beans and cover again with cold water, 

and boil, and then again. The third time, add only enough water to cover the beans 

about one inch. Add two large tablespoonfuls of lard or dripping, one pounded 

clove of garlic (if liked), one large Spanish onion sliced, two Chile peppers 

broken, with some of the seeds removed (unless it is desired to have the 

beans very hot ), and five slices of bacon. Simmer slowly on the back of 

the stove all day, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon to thicken 

the gravy. When done it should be of the consistency of mush, with 

31 







jttacaronu 




the beans partly broken. Half an hour before serving pour the desired quantity into a 
Mexican earthenware pot. Pour over it one teaspoonful of Sierra Madre olive oil and 
simmer until needed. If you cook the beans rather dry and let them get cold, you can 
cover spoonfuls with batter and fry in hot lard. 

ITALIAN MACARONI, SPAGHETTI, TAGLIAR1NI, ARIGATI, 

ETC. Have a large saucepan full of well-salted boiling water; add one-half pound 
of macaroni, spaghetti, tagliarini, lasagna, or any other paste, in unbroken lengths, and let 
it boil until tender. When it is cooked take it out and drain in a colander, then pour 
the mushroom sauce over it, heat with two ounces grated Parmesan cheese, and mix 
with two forks. 

POLENTA Melt a large spoonful of butter in one quart of boiling water. 
Wet one pint of cornmeal with a very little cold water, add one spoonful of salt, then 
stir in slowly the boiling water. Bring it to a boil stirring continuously until the meal is 
cooked and has lost its raw taste. It should be thick enough to make into a ball. 
Lay aside to cool ; when quite cold cut into thin slices and put a layer on the bottom of 
a pudding-dish, dot it with butter and thin slices of cheese, then more mush, cheese and 
butter until the dish is full ; have the last layer cheese, and bake in a quick oven from 
twenty to thirty minutes. 

COLOR Heat one pound of lard until it stops fizzing and then drop in three 
large dried red peppers, and cook till crisp. Take them out, crush well and add to three 
tomatoes which have been cooking in a little water. Stir this mixture into the lard and 
boil, then strain into a glass jar and cover tightly. Use a spoonful of the color to 
flavor and color stews, gravies, etc. 



RICE A LA MILANAISE Wash a half pound of rice thoroughly 
and boil until tender in a quart of boiling water salted. When it has 
swelled well pour off the water, and drain. Brown in one-fourth pound 
of butter, one chopped onion and add a little salt, cayenne pepper, the 







jftacaront, 




, Ctc. 




rice, and a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, mixing together with two forks. Pour 
in a buttered mold and bake in the oven for a quarter of an hour ; turn out on a platter 
and garnish with poached or fried eggs. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE Put one ounce of dried mushrooms to soak in a 
cupful of boiling water and let stand for an hour ; then take a frying-pan and place in it 
about two ounces of onion chopped up with a little parsley and fry in four tablespoon- 
fuls of olive oil for about two minutes. Having done this take the mushrooms and press 
the water out of them, chop them with a knife, add them to the onion and fry for another 
minute ; then add water in which the mushrooms were soaked, a little tomato sauce, 
salt, pepper and spices, and let the whole boil slowly for half an hour. 

RAVIOLI Make a paste of two cupfuls of flour, two eggs, one -half teaspoon- 
ful of salt, and water enough to make a stiff dough. Knead well and roll out into 
a sheet as thick as very thin cardboard. Cut it in half and proceed as follows : Place 
one teaspoonful of farce in regular rows on the paste two inches apart. Moisten the 
upper part of the paste and place carefully on top of the lower piece, pressing the two 
together with the fingers or with a ravioli rolling-pin, forming small cushions between. 
Cut through the rows down and across with a pastry knife in such a way as to leave 
pieces about two inches square. Place the ravioli on a board covered with a clean piece 
of muslin, near the stove, and dry thoroughly. When needed poach them, a few at a 
time, in clear bouillon for ten minutes. When all are done place in a tureen and pour the 
soup over the ravioli ; add a few spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and serve. 



FARCE FOR RAVIOLI Take one cupful of cold chicken, veal or fish, chop 
very fine and rub to a paste, with one calf or two sheep brains, parboiled ; add one 
cupful of bread crumbs which have been soaked in milk and then squeezed dry, 
one teaspoonful of onion juice, one -half teaspoonful of salt, a grating of nutmeg, 
dash of cayenne and thyme, and rub well together. Have ready one cup- 
ful of spinach which has been boiled, drained and chopped; stir the 
spinach into the paste, add the yolks of two eggs, beat for two minutes. 





ASPARAGUS A LA MILANAISE Cut the tops of medium-sized aspara- 
gus into two and a half inch lengths. Tie them in bundles and cook in salted water for 
ten minutes. Drain and arrange on a fire -proof platter neatly, and cover with a rich 
cream sauce. Sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese thickly over the top and brown in a 
quick oven. 

TIMBALE OF SPINACH AND GREEN PEAS Cook separately one- 
half pound each of spinach and green peas. After draining very thoroughly, mash the 
vegetables through a fine sieve, also three slices of white bread, previously soaked in 
soup stock and squeezed dry ; add salt, pepper and Paprika to taste, one-half cupful of 
cream, yolks of three eggs, and, lastly, the whites of three eggs beaten stiff and folded 
in lightly. Butter the bottom and sides of small timbale molds and dust with cracker 
crumbs. Fill two-thirds full with the above mixture and bake for twenty minutes in a 
pan set in warm water. 

ARTICHOKES GENOESE Trim four good-sized artichokes ; remove some 
of the tough outer leaves and cut off half the tops. Boil in soup stock until tender ; 
then drain, cut in quarters, and serve with the following sauce : Put in a saucepan one 
tablespoonful of butter and one of flour ; cook for two minutes, and then add pepper 
and salt, one cupful of bouillon, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and simmer a few 
minutes, and just before serving stir in the yolks of two eggs. 

FRIED ARTICHOKES (Italian) Wash well four tender young artichokes, 
cut off the stems and all the tough, outside leaves and thorny points ; then cut in quar- 
ters, or, if large, in eighths, and marinate in French dressing, dip in batter, and fry in boil- 
ing oil until brown. Summer squash and cauliflower are treated in the same manner. 



ZUCCHETTI (Italian Squash) Parboil six of the long Italian squash, 
cut in two lengthwise, and scoop out part of the interior. Beat eight eggs 
together, and add one cupful of grated Parmesan cheese, one cupful or 
more of stale bread crumbs (soaked in milk and drained dry), and two 





Vegetables 





sprigs of thyme, chopped very fine. Stir all well together and add a little salt and one 
teaspoonful of olive oil. This mixture should be as thick as breakfast mush. Into each 
piece of squash pour one tablespoonful of olive oil, and fill with the mixture, and bake 
until brown. 

ARTICHOKE FRICASSEE Clean young artichokes, cutting off the stalks, 
all the outer leaves and thorny ends ; then cut in thin slices, throw them into fresh water, 
drain, and place in a saucepan with butter, parsley, a little minced garlic, and salt to 
taste. Cook slowly until tender ; before drawing from the fire add the yolks of two or 
more eggs, that you have first beaten together, with a little water, some lemon juice and 
grated Parmesan cheese. Be careful to stir constantly and not allow the egg to burn. 
Serve when it is of a creamy consistency. 

ARTICHOKES A L' INFERNO Clean and rinse your artichokes, cutting 
off stalks, thorny points and tough outside leaves. Open out the artichoke by pressing on 
the leaves, wash in fresh water, and drain. Place them, standing, in an earthen stewpan, 
pour over oil, pepper and salt, so that this seasoning penetrates all the leaves and spreads 
over the entire bottom of the pan. Bake in oven until tender. 

PIMIENTO TIMBALES Boil six large, sweet red peppers until tender (if 
out of season, the canned Pimiento Morrones can be substituted). Remove skin and 
seeds and rub to a pulp. Grate six ears of corn ; add this to the pepper pulp, also two 
tablespoonfuls of thick cream (or cream sauce), half a tablespoonful tomato sauce, salt 
and cayenne pepper to taste, and the yolks of three eggs. Mix thoroughly, fold in the 
beaten whites of the eggs, and pour into buttered timbale cups, stand in a baking-pan, 
half filled with hot water, and bake for twenty minutes. Serve with cream sauce. 



BAKED TOMATOES Fill a quart pudding-dish with large, ripe 
tomatoes, which have been scalded and peeled, and from the stem end of 
which a teaspoonful of the pulp has been removed. Chop together one 
medium-sized onion, one bell pepper, seeds removed, and one -half 






Vegetables 





cupful of stale bread crumbs ; add one tablespoonful or more of brown sugar and some 
salt. Put a teaspoonful of this mixture into each tomato, and moisten with a teaspoonful 
of olive oil. Pour a little oil over all, and bake in a moderate oven for at least an hour. 

AJIACO ( Peruvian Peppers ) Take eight sweet red peppers, split them, re- 
move the seeds, and soak overnight in a pint of water. The next morning rub the 
peppers through a sieve, softening the pulp with a cupful of the water in which they 
have soaked. Boil four good-sized potatoes in their skins, and peel them. Chop half 
of a white Spanish onion, and fry until transparent ; add the strained peppers and the 
potatoes, which have been cut in quarters, and salt. Have ready two slices of stale 
bread, which have been soaked in water and squeezed dry ; add this to the mixture, 
together with one tablespoonful of olive oil, some slices of New York cheese, cut small, 
and six hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters. Bring all to a boil, and serve. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH CORN Parboil either the red or green bell 
peppers. Leave the stems on but cut a small slice from one side of each pepper. Re- 
move the seeds and fill with the following mixture : Grate a dozen ears of corn, add a 
tablespoonful of butter, a tablespoonful of thick cream, two eggs well beaten, and salt 
to taste, and fill each pepper. Replace the slice previously cut out, and bake in a quick 
oven. Summer squash cooked in the same way are delicious. 

COLACHE Chop together one small onion, one green pepper (seeds removed), 
three skinned tomatoes ; add one dozen small squash, cut in pieces, the corn cut from 
two ears, and one-half pound of string beans, cut into small pieces. To this add four 
tablespoonfuls of California olive oil, and cook slowly until the vegetables are tender. 



STUFFED SQUASH Select six summer squash of the same size. Cut 
off the hard stems and parboil. Cut out a round disk from the stem and scoop 
out some of the contents. Make a rich cream sauce, add a little Worcester- 
shire sauce and a cupful of New York Dairy cheese ; cut in dice and 
add two ounces of cracker crumbs and one egg. Stir all together 






Vegetables 





over the fire until quite melted. Into each squash put a tablespoonful of this paste, and 
bake brown in a quick oven. To the remainder of the sauce add a little thick cream, 
and heat ; pour this over the squash, and serve. Spanish onions can be cooked in the 
same way. 

POTATOES A LA CANNES Wash six medium-sized potatoes, and peel. 
Cut them endwise in slices one-fourth of an inch thick and stand in salted ice water fif- 
teen minutes. Dry them, and simmer until tender in warm fat (not boiling hot) about 
ten minutes. Take them from the fat and drain. Make the fat boiling hot, put a few 
pieces at a time in a frying-basket and plunge into the fat. They should puff out to 
about twice their original size. 

TOMATOES A LA PERUGIA Select three medium-sized firm tomatoes, 
scald and skin ; scoop out most of the contents and fill with half a pound of well-spiced 
sausage meat, to which has been added two thick slices of bread soaked in half a cup- 
ful of boiling water, and then squeezed. Place the stuffed tomatoes in a fire-proof bak- 
ing-dish and sprinkle over them some fine crumbs, add the following sauce, and bake in 
a moderate oven about forty minutes, and serve in the same dish. 

Sauce Soak one ounce of dried mushrooms in one cupful of boiling water 
about an hour. Drain carefully and chop fine. Heat two tablespoonfuls of Sierra 
Madre oil in a frying-pan, add one large onion sliced thin and a bit of garlic (if liked) 
and simmer till tender ; then add the chopped mushrooms, two tomatoes, one chopped 
green pepper (seeds removed), one teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and the mush- 
room water, salt to taste, and simmer one -half hour. Pour this sauce over the tomatoes. 



POTATOES A LA BATANGOS Boil enough potatoes to make a 

pint. Wash well, and beat in with a fork two ounces of good butter, salt to taste, 

and the cream of a medium-sized cocoanut. (Shave off the inner brown skin, 

and grate, cover it with one gill of fresh milk and let it stand fifteen minutes, 

and then scald, drain carefully and squeeze the cocoanut through a 

cheese-cloth until every bit of cream has been expressed, and the 

37 





Vegetables 




meat is dry and powdery.) Add the cream to the potatoes, make very hot and beat 
lightly with a fork. Pile on a hot platter and sprinkle with the cocoanut, and garnish 
with Paprika, chopped parsley, or both, alternating, and eggs poached in sweet oil. 

BAKED BANANAS ( As prepared in their native lands ) Place bananas in a 
baking-dish and bake till the skins burst. 

CORN FRITTERS Grate eight or ten ears of corn, and for every cupful 
add two beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of thick cream and one-half tablespoonful of 
melted butter. Thicken with enough flour to make a batter and fry either on a griddle 
or drop into deep boiling lard by the spoonful. Serve with Maryland chicken. 

KOELE PALAU ( Hawaiian) Mash well half a dozen medium-sized boiled 
or baked sweet potatoes. Heat thoroughly and stir in the cream of a grated cocoanut. 

WEST INDIA OKRA Remove the stems from two pounds of young tender 
okra, cover with salted water and boil until thick like mucilage, then add one heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, a dash of cayenne, salt to taste, one teaspoonful of vinegar and 
some small slices of broiled ham. Stir until quite hot, and serve. 







MOUSSE DE JAMBON Put through a meat-chopper one pound of well- 
cooked lean ham ; put in a mortar and pound very fine ; pass through a wire sieve and 
season with a pinch of cayenne. Add one glassful of dry champagne, one glassful of thick 
cream and one glassful of stiff chicken jelly and mix well together. Line a mold with 
a coating of good aspic, then set on ice, pour in the mixture and let it stand till firmly 
set. Remove from mold a few minutes before serving and pass with it lettuce mixed 
with French dressing. Tongue can be substituted for the ham. 

PIMIENTO MORRONES SALAD (Spanish Peppers) Drain the contents 
of a small can of Pimiento Morrones. Dry on a cloth and slice in rings, cut up an 
equal amount of celery fine and mix with the peppers ; add one cupful of small balls 
made of MacLaren's Imperial cheese rolled in fine cracker crumbs. Rub the yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste with the oil drained from the peppers and, if 
liked, a small bit of garlic. Pour over it, stirring all the time, a good French dressing ; 
when well mixed add it to the salad, which place in a bed of lettuce leaves and toss 
until thoroughly mixed. 

VENETIAN SALAD DRESSING Rub an anchovy quite smooth with a 
tablespoonful of olive oil and a teaspoonful of French mustard ; add three or more 
tablespoonfuls of oil, one of garlic vinegar and one of plain vinegar. Stir until creamy 
and serve in a sauceboat. 

CHEESE BALLS Mix together one cupful of grated cheese, one-half cupful 
of fine bread crumbs, five drops of Worcestershire sauce, pinch of salt, dash of cay- 
enne, and one-half teaspoonful of made mustard, and, last of all, a well-beaten egg. 
Roll into small balls, place in a wire fry ing- basket, and just before they are to be 
served, plunge into boiling fat. Cook a light brown, and serve on a folded napkin. 



ALGERIAN HORS-D'CEUVRE Select four fine lemons, wipe 
carefully, cut in halves, and scoop out the pulp. Remove the tough 
inner skin and seeds, and to the rest add one box of boneless sardines 






chopped fine, a spoonful of French mustard, two hard-boiled eggs chopped, a dash of 
Mcllhenny's Tabasco sauce and a little thick mayonnaise. Cut a slice from the bottom 
of the lemon cup in order that it may stand firmly on a round lettuce leaf ; fill each cup 
with the mixture. Garnish with chopped egg and two pieces of the rind cut like straws 
crossed on the top. 

SALPICON (Chilena) Cut in slices one pint of cold veal, lamb or poultry, 
add two hard-boiled eggs, sliced, the leaves from four sprigs of young mint, one table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of onion juice, and the hearts of 
two heads of lettuce. Pour over all one -half cupful of French dressing, toss until thor- 
oughly mixed, and serve. 

RIPE OLIVE SALAD Prepare for this salad by putting some dice of stale 
bread in a jar with some bits of dried red peppers, several days before. Take two 
cupfuls of these crumbs, two cupfuls of ripe olives, and one -half cupful of young onions 
sliced thin. Pour over all a cupful of mayonnaise, and serve on a bed of lettuce. If 
onions are disliked chopped cucumber pickle can be substituted. 

PATE DE FOIE-GRAS MOUSSE Take the contents of a large-sized 
can of pate and rub to a smooth paste. Have dissolved one tablespoonful of gelatine in 
a little hot water. Cool, and add to it one cupful of thick cream, and whip to a froth. 
Fold it carefully into the pate, season with salt and cayenne to taste, and pour into indi- 
vidual molds, which cover carefully and pack in ice and salt for an hour. Serve on 
leaves of lettuce which have been dipped in French dressing. 



CUCUMBER JELLY Peel and cut off the ends of four large cucumbers, 

cut into slices, and stew in a quart of water, a small slice of onion, a dash of 

cayenne, and a small teaspoonful of salt. When the cucumbers are soft, stir 

in a half box of gelatine that has been soaked in a cupful of water ; stir until 

the gelatine is dissolved, then strain through a fine sieve ; pour into a 

fish-mold, and put on ice to harden ; have ready a salmon-trout or 






rock-fish which has been boiled whole and allowed to cool. Place the fish carefully 
in the mold and pour the remainder of the jelly around it and put on ice. Garnish 
with sliced lemon, and place on a bed of lettuce with a green mayonnaise around it. 

RINCONITA SALAD Boil separately until tender one cupful each of string 
beans, green peas, asparagus tips, and four artichokes ; mix and place on ice. When 
thoroughly chilled, add a rich mayonnaise, place on a bed of lettuce leaves, and garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs and olives. 

GASPACHO OR ANDALUSIAN SALAD Put a layer of stale bread, 
cut into small slices, into the bottom of a bowl, sprinkle plentifully with oil and a little 
vinegar ; add slices of Spanish onion, tomatoes and green cucumbers, sprinkle with salt 
and chopped red sweet peppers, without the seeds ; add another layer of bread, then 
another of the vegetables. Let it stand for an hour in a cool place, then scatter a hand- 
ful of bread crumbs on top, and moisten well with oil and vinegar. 

CHEESE CANAPES Cut bread into slices one-fourth of an inch thick ; cut 
into shapes with a pastry cutter, and fry to a very delicate brown in smoking-hot fat ; 
make a paste of the . yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of thick cream, and thicken it with 
grated Parmesan cheese ; spread on the toast, and sprinkle with Paprika. Put in a hot 

oven for twenty minutes and serve at once. 

i 

OYSTER SALAD Choose fine, ripe tomatoes, skin and take out centers. ' 
Fill with a dozen California or Blue Point oysters, some finely chopped celery, a dash 
of Mcllhenny's Tabasco sauce, a little lemon juice, and a pinch of salt. Place each 
tomato on a bed of lettuce leaves, and cover with mayonnaise. Serve with Schlitz. 



HUNTER'S SALAD Cut cold wild ducks into thin slices and 
marinate in French dressing for several hours in a cold place. Shred a 
large head of celery into long strips, place in a salad-bowl and pile the 
meat in the center. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. 





n 



PINEAPPLE SALAD (Honolulu) Pare and pull into pieces a fresh pine- 
apple, add one-fourth as much finely cut celery, dress with mayonnaise, and serve on 
lettuce leaves, 

CARDINAL SALAD Slice cold-boiled potatoes into a bowl ; add one-fourth 
as many cold-boiled beets, cut into slices or cubes ; grate part of an onion over it, and 
mix well with mayonnaise. In making potato salad, always use the German potatoes. 

BOHEMIAN CHEESE PASTE Take equal parts of sweet butter and 
MacLaren's Roquefort cheese, and melt in the hot- water pan of a chafing-dish, using a 
very low flame. When of the consistency of thick cream, add cayenne and Worces- 
tershire sauce to taste. Stir until foamy, spread on crisp crackers, and serve with Schlitz. 








ALMOND PUDDING Take one pound of sweet almonds and four ounces 
of bitter almonds. Grate and mix with one pound of powdered sugar (or you can use 
the prepared almond paste). Stir three-fourths of a pound of sweet butter to a cream, 
beat in four whole eggs and the yolks of two more. Add three tablespoonfuls of flour, 
then the almond paste. When well mixed cover the sides and bottom of a well-but- 
tered pudding-dish, keeping some of the mixture for the top ; fill with apples which 
have been peeled, quartered, and boiled in white wine and sugar until tender, and 
then allowed to cool. Cover with the paste and cook in a medium oven for three-quar- 
ters of an hour. 

Vanilla. Sauce Boil one cupful of cream with one tablespoonful of sugar and 
one teaspoonful of vanilla, and while hot stir in the yolks of three eggs. 

SAN JOSE PRUNE PUDDING Scald one dozen California prunes, pour 
off the water, stone, and cut into small pieces. Stir the chopped prunes into two cup- 
fuls of B. B. B. flour ; add one-half cupful of New Orleans molasses, a cupful of sweet 
milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of powdered cloves, and one-half of a grated nutmeg. 
Steam three hours, and serve with cream sauce. 

CHARTREUSE OF STAWBERRIES Make one quart of jelly flavored 
with lemon peel alone. Before it hardens take two plain molds, one an inch larger than 
the other. Pour a little jelly in the large one and place on it a layer of berries cut 
in halves. Add enough jelly to make a smooth surface and set on ice. When firm, 
place smaller mold carefully in the middle, and outside of it disperse berries cut 
as above, filling up space with jelly. Place on ice. Whip one pint of cream, add a 
cupful or more of berry juice mixed with gelatine dissolved with water. When jelly is 
hard slip out the inner mold by pouring a little warm water in, and fill the space with 
the cream. Set on ice for an hour, and serve. Use apricots in the same manner. 



APRICOT BISQUE Butter a pudding-dish and dust with cake 
crumbs. Place a row of halved apricots on the bottom. Take yolks 
and the whites of four eggs beaten together, one cupful of powdered 





sugar, juice of one lemon, a teaspoonful of vanilla, a bit of salt, and a cupful of warmed 
flour, for the bisque mixture. The water beneath the double boiler must be warm, but 
not too hot. Put the ingredients in the upper part in the following order : First the 
sugar, then beat in each egg five minutes separately, then add the rest in the order 
named. Pour the bisque mixture over the fruit and bake in a moderate oven for about 
three-quarters of an hour. 

PEACH PUDDING Butter a pudding-dish and cover the bottom with neat 
slices of stale bread, from which the crusts have been removed. On each piece place 
one -half a ripe, firm peach, skin down ; fill each with a teaspoonful of fine sugar and 
a small piece of butter, occasionally adding more sugar. Just before they are quite 
cooked add a teaspoonful of any kind of jam. Serve in the same dish, either hot or 
cold, with cream. 

PINEAPPLE COMPOTE Pare a pineapple, and with a fork pull the fruit 
away from the core in small pieces. Sprinkle plentifully with sugar and pour over it 
one-half cupful of maraschino. Whip a cupful of thick cream and pile on the fruit just 
before serving. 




SPANISH HEDGEHOG Thoroughly saturate a round sponge cake with 
sweet Spanish wine. Stick all over the surface blanched almonds cut in strips. Just 
before serving pour around it a cold, rich Spanish cream which is made of six eggs, one 
pint of milk, one teacupful of sugar, and one stick of cinnamon, boiled until thick. 



CREME SAMBA YON Separate the whites from the yolks of six fresh eggs. 
Put the yolks in a saucepan with half a cupful of powdered sugar and one cupful 
of rum. Beat well together, put on a quick fire, and stir rapidly one way with a 
wooden spoon until it begins to thicken. Then remove at once, or it will 
curdle. Fold in the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, pour into glasses 
and serve hot. A pint of champagne or sherry can be substituted for 
the rum, and the cream partly frozen before served. 






esserts 



PIEPIELE (Hawaiian) Peel and grate four large, raw, sweet potatoes and 
add the cream of a cocoanut, one tablespoonful of sugar, with a little of the grated 
cocoanut from which the cream has been squeezed, sprinkled on top. Bake in a pudding- 
dish in a slow oven. 

HAUPI A ( Hawaiian ) Mix some pia or arrowroot with the cream squeezed 
from a grated cocoanut. Put in saucepan with a little sugar and stir until cooked. 

KULOLO ( Hawaiian ) Mix with three cupfuls of Taroena ( prepared taro 
flower ), two cupfuls of cocoanut cream, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the grated 
meat of one cocoanut which has not been squeezed. When well mixed pour into a 
well-buttered pudding-dish and bake nearly an hour in a moderate oven. Serve either 
hot or cold. 



BANANA PUDDING ( Hawaiian ) Grate a cocoanut and pour over it one 
cupful of sweet milk and bring to a boil very slowly. Drain carefully and squeeze the 
meat in a piece of cheese-cloth until every bit of the cream has been expressed and the 
meat is dry. Mix with the cream a little pia or arrowroot, and pour it over half a 
dozen chopped bananas. Bake in a pudding-dish for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

BANANA COMPOTE Remove the skins from eight bananas and stew 
gently in a glass of melted currant jelly for twenty minutes. Take out the bananas, cut 
lengthwise, and lay them in a glass dish. Pour the syrup over them and serve cold. 
A variation of this dish is to make the syrup of claret or port and sugar. 



SOUTH CAROLINA CURDS Heat one quart of rich milk until hike- 
warm ; stir into it one large spoonful of liquid rennet, and let it set. Drain off the 
whey and pour the curds into a perforated milk-pan or a clean basket to drip for 
twenty-four hours. Turn out on a platter and serve with powdered sugar, cin- 
namon, and very thick cream. Strawberry jam may be used instead of the 
cinnamon. If too dry, a little of the cream may be beaten into the curds. 






CREME DE RIZ A LA MONTPELLIER (Rice Cream) Put one 
cupful of rice, thoroughly washed, in a double boiler, with one-third water and two- 
thirds milk, slightly sweetened, and heated to boiling point. Flavor with vanilla, using 
a piece of the bean, and allowing it to cook for ten minutes in the milk. When the 
rice is well done and quite dry, arrange it while hot, as lightly as possible, in a round or 
oval ring on a large flat dish, and put in the refrigerator. Whip and sweeten a pint and 
a half of thick cream, and put on ice also. When it is to be served, heap the cream 
in the center, and sprinkle the rice plentifully with small candied fruits, bits of different- 
colored jellies, or small preserved fruits from which the syrup has been thoroughly 
drained. The pudding must be served very cold. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING Mash two cupfuls of cold sweet potatoes 
through a sieve ; rub one-half pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, and the yolks 
of six eggs to a cream, and add two tablespoonfuls of brandy, two of sherry, the juice 
and rind of an orange or lemon, and one -half teaspoonful each of cinnamon, allspice 
and ginger, and a grating of nutmeg. Stir into the potato pulp, and fold in the whites 
of the eggs, beaten to a froth. Pour into a buttered pudding -dish, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven about three-quarters of an hour. 

MONKEY PUDDING Cut the crusts from slices of stale bread and butter 
thickly. Place them in a pudding-dish and cover well with New Orleans molasses and 
bake in a slow oven. 

CHILDREN'S PUDDING Into two cupfuls of B. B. B. flour stir one cupfi-1 
of seeded raisins, one-half cupful of suet, chopped fine, and one teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon, Baker's chocolate, and ginger ; add one egg, one cupful of boiling molasses, 
and one cupful of milk. Steam three hours, and serve with caramel sauce. 



SPANISH CHOCOLATE CREAM Beat the yolks of six 
eggs, put them in a bowl with three ounces of Baker's grated chocolate, 
one -quarter of a pound of sugar, and one pint of cream. Stir these 

46 






ingredients well and pour into a double boiler. Stir one way until it thickens, but do 
not let it boil or it will curdle. Strain into a bowl, beat one-half pint of cream till thick, 
and stir in one and one-half ounces of dissolved gelatine. Mix this with the chocolate 
cream very lightly, and pour into a mold which has been oiled with olive oil, and put on 
ice to harden. 

MARRONS A LA ROMA Boil one pound of Italian chestnuts fifteen min- 
utes, then remove shells and skins, and put back on the stove to boil with one cupful of 
milk, until tender enough to rub through a colander. Butter a mold well, and line 
thickly with the pulp, then add a layer of good, thick apple sauce, colored a delicate 
pink with currant jelly ; then another layer of chestnuts, and again the apple. Squeeze 
some lemon juice over all and bake in a moderate oven. Turn out on a platter and 
surround with whipped cream, colored with a little of the melted currant jelly. 

FRANGIPANE Beat four eggs together slightly and mix well with four table- 
spoonfuls of flour ; thin with one quart of fresh milk, well sweetened ; add one-half a 
cupful of orange-flower water and six finely powdered macaroons. Pour this mixture 
into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until it thickens, then pour it over any kind of 
preserved fruit, and bake in a slow oven one-half hour. Serve cold. 

JESSIN A SULTANA Sift one-half pound of flour in a bowl. Into the center 
of this put six ounces of butter and the yolks of two eggs, grated peel of one-half a 
lemon and two tablespoonfuls of water. Mix to a firm paste. Blend four ounces of 
almond paste with the whites of two eggs, mix the two pastes together on a floured 
board and work until perfectly smooth, then place on ice for an hour. Fill the shells 
of two meringues with pink whipped cream. Roll out the paste one-half an inch 
thick, cut into a round piece, lay on buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven. 
When cold, put one quart of fine strawberries in the center and cover with 
thick cream. Make a border of the meringue kisses with large strawberries 
between. 






MANDARIN SHERBET Grate the rind of one dozen Mandarin oranges, 
remove the peel, and squeeze ; add the juice of two dozen more and the juice of two 
lemons, and enough water to make one quart of liquid. Sweeten well and partly 
freeze, then open the freezer and stir in the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth ; 
close the freezer, pack with ice and salt, and let stand for an hour. 

LALLA ROOKH Whip the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, also one pint 
of thick cream ; beat the yolks of the eggs very light, and stir in one cupful of fine 
sugar, the juice of two lemons, and one cupful of orange juice. When very light and 
frothy, fold in the cream and then the beaten whites of the eggs ; pour into a mold, 
cover tightly, pack in a bucket, with ice and salt, four hours before serving. The juice 
of any berry or fruit may be substituted for the orange. 

TURKISH SHERBET Boil two cupfuls of granulated sugar with three- 
fourths of a pint of water to a clear syrup ; skim carefully, and when cold stir into it 
three-fourths of a pint of lemon juice and one cupful of clear white stock, and freeze. 

FIG ICE-CREAM Peel the stems and skins from two pounds of ripe figs; 
mash through a colander, with nearly a pint of milk ; add the juice of one -half a lemon, 
and sweeten well ; fold in one pint of thick cream, beaten stiff ; pour into a mold, cover 
tightly, binding a piece of buttered muslin around the opening to keep the salt out, pack 
in ice and salt in a pail, and let stand for three or four hours. 

ITALIAN SHERBET Make a syrup of one pound of sugar and one cupful of 
water. When cool, add one-half cupful of lemon juice, one cupful of orange juice, and 
one quart of peach pulp (or any other fruit will do ) ; mix and rub through a sieve. 
Pour in a tin, and pack in ice and salt until frozen from two to three hours. 



RICE ICE - CREAM Boil two tablespoonfuls of rice in one quart 
of milk, with four tablespoonfuls of sugar and a small bit of vanilla bean, 
or stick cinnamon, for two hours. When cold, stir in two ounces of 





blanched and chopped almonds; add one and one -half pints of whipped cream, the 
well-beaten whites of two eggs, and more sugar, if necessary. Partly freeze, and serve 
in punch-glasses, with a tablespoonful of Kremette poured over it. 

GRAPE MOUSSE Stir one cupful of grape juice (use dark grapes) into a 
pint of thick cream ; add one tablespoonful of lemon juice, and sugar enough to 
sweeten ; whip until thick, and pour into a mold ; pack in ice and salt, and freeze three 
hours. Garnish with a fine sprinkling of pistachio nuts. 








Canines 





CREOLE PRALINES Put two cupfuls of granulated sugar into a porcelain 
kettle and add enough water to dissolve it (only a few spoonfuls). Let it boil until it 
forms a syrup and then add the grated meat of one small cocoanut. Stir until it begins 
to boil or until it forms a thread when dropped from the spoon. Then beat it until it 
thickens and shape it into round flat cakes, about two inches across, on paramne paper. 
Reserve a small coffee-cupful of the mixture which color pink, and drop a small button 
of it in the middle of each praline. 

SANTA BARBARA PANOCHA Boil two pounds of brown sugar with a 
cupful of cream until it forms a thread between the fingers. Remove from the fire and 
add one pound of shelled English walnuts or pecans slightly chopped. Beat hard until 
it begins to thicken, then pour on buttered paper in round cakes. 

PEANUT BRITTLE Chop fine one cupful of peanuts, from which the skins 
have been removed, and stand on the back of the stove to heat. Heat a frying-pan 
very hot and put in it one pound of fine sugar, stirring constantly until it is dissolved, 
then move pan to the back of the stove quickly, stir in hot peanuts, and pour into hot, 
greased pans, spreading very thin. The secret is not to allow the sugar to come to a 
boil, but only to melt before adding the nuts. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE WITH FRUIT Mix together two cupfuls of sugar, 
one-half cupful of milk, one-half cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of butter, and boil 
seven minutes. Add one -half cupful of Baker's chocolate, and boil seven minutes more. 
Add two tablespoonfuls of chopped figs, two of chopped raisins, two of candied 
cherries quartered, one-half cupful of English walnuts chopped, one-half cupful of 
blanched and chopped almonds, and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir constantly 
until it begins to boil, then cook slowly eight or ten minutes or until it makes 
a ball when dropped in water. Beat very hard and pour into buttered pans. 






RICE MUFFINS Mash two cupfuls of boiled rice through a sieve. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs very light, and add ; then three cupfuls of milk and one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, then sift in one cupful of flour to which one -half a teaspoonful of Royal 
baking powder and one teaspoonful of salt have been added. Last of all, fold in the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and bake in muffin rings or gem pans, in a 
quick oven for about fifteen minutes. By cooking this batter in well-greased waffle-irons 
you have rice waffles. 

SALLY LUNN Scald one pint of milk and melt in it three tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of sugar. Pour it slowly into three 
cupfuls of sifted flour and beat hard until smooth and light, from seven to ten minutes. 
Then stir in one-half cake of yeast dissolved in a little warm water ; cover the bowl and 
set in a warm place for the batter to rise. The next morning add three eggs well 
beaten, and pour the batter into a buttered tin to rise for twenty minutes. Then bake in 
a quick oven and serve very hot. 

SWEET POTATO WAFFLES Mash two cupfuls of boiled sweet potatoes 
through a sieve, and add two well-beaten eggs, first the yolks and then the whites ; add 
half a cupful of sugar and beat again, one cupful of melted butter and then one pint of 
milk. Now add about four tablespoonfuls of flour, enough to make a thin batter. Pour 
into greased waffle-irons and cook over a quick fire. 

HOMINY BREAD Boil until soft one pint of fine hominy. When cool add 
one tablespoonful of butter, three tablespoonfuls of corn meal (scalded), three eggs well 
beaten, a teaspoonful of salt and one pint of milk. Melt a teaspoonful of butter in 
a baking-pan, pour in the batter and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. 



SOFT CORN BREAD Have one cupful of boiling water in which 
one teaspoonful of salt has been melted, in a saucepan, and sprinkle slowly 
into it, stirring all the time, one-half cupful of white cornmeal. Stir until 
it is a thick mush and simmer for twenty minutes, then add one pint of 





Breafcs 




hot milk, or enough to make a thin batter, and stir until smooth, then cool. Have two 
eggs well beaten, stir them carefully into the batter and pour all into a heated pudding - 
dish in which a tablespoonful of butter has been melted. Give a last stir, and bake 
until brown. 

AUNT SALLY'S HOECAKE Scald one pint of white cornmeal with enough 
boiling water to make a stiff dough. Have the water salted and one tablespoonful of 
lard melted in it. Knead the dough a little and form it into flat cakes about a quarter of 
an inch thick and six inches across. Cook these cakes on a griddle or in an iron frying- 
pan without any grease, turning frequently, to prevent burning. In the South they are 
cooked in the hot ashes in the open fire-place hence the name. 

BROWN BREAD Mix thoroughly together two cupfuls of B. B. B. meal, 
one-half cupful of New Orleans molasses, and one cupful of cold water. Put this 
quantity into two one-pound Royal baking powder cans that have been well greased, 
cover tightly ; put in a saucepan of boiling water and steam for two hours. When cold 
cut in very thin slices and spread with a paste made of one tablespoonful of Mac Lar en's 
Imperial cheese, one tablespoonful of fresh butter, and a little Paprika. Make into sand- 
wiches. Spread also with anchovy butter, or with thin slices of cucumber dipped in 
French dressing. 

CRISSINI OR BREAD STICKS Cut a small portion from risen bread dough 
that is ready to be made into loaves. Roll into pieces about the length and thickness of 
macaroni. Place in rolls in a greased baking-tin one inch apart, and set to rise again. 
When double in size, bake in a quick oven. They will then be tender like rolls. When 
cold bake in a slow oven until quite dry and crisp. Serve hot or cold. 





Cakes 




CONFEDERATE DAUGHTERS CAKE Cream one-half cupful of sweet 
butter with one and one-half cupfuls of sugar until very light ; add one -half teaspoonful 
of almond flavoring and one cupful of milk, and mix carefully. Have ready, sifted 
together, three cupfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of Royal baking powder, and 
add. Last of all, fold in the whites of six eggs, beaten stiff. Bake in a moderate oven 
three-quarters of an hour. When if is cold take a strong linen thread and divide it into 
three layers, between which put the following mixture : Blanch five ounces of almonds ; 
pound them in a mortar to a fine paste ; add carefully to one pint of thick cream, 
sweeten, and beat until stiff, when it is ready for use. Decorate the top with the cream 
and halves of the almonds made to represent the petals of a flower, with one-half a 
candied cherry in the center of each. 

MOCHA CAKE Beat three eggs well, whites and yolks separately ; cream 
one cupful of granulated sugar with the yolks, one teaspoonful of vanilla extract, one 
tablespoonful of milk, and then one cupful of sifted flour, to which one teaspoonful of 
Royal baking powder has been added. When these have been well mixed, fold in 
the well-beaten whites of three eggs. Bake in a buttered tin in a moderate oven, and 
when cold divide into four layers with a strong linen thread. Brush each layer with 
some strong, black coffee, then fill with the following mixture : 

Filling Cream one-half pound of unsalted butter with one-quarter pound of 
sugar, stirring till smooth. Beat in, one by one, the yolks of three eggs, and then 
strong black coffee to taste. Spread between layers and on the top of the cake. 

JAPANESE TEA WAFERS Break the white of one egg in a bowl; add 
one tablespoonful of sugar, stir a moment, and then add one tablespoonful of flour 
and one-half teaspoonful of softened butter ; beat until well mixed ( it should be 
about as thick as cream ). Pour a teaspoonful of this batter on the reverse side 
of a large baking-pan, slightly greased, and with the back of the spoon spread 
it until about four inches in diameter and almost as thin as tissue paper. 
Bake in a moderate oven till brown, and while still warm roll around 
a curling-stick. Keep in a covered tin. 

53 





Cakes 




WALNUT WAFERS Mix one-half cupful of brown sugar with one-half 
cupful of white, and cream with one-half cupful of butter. When smooth, add the 
beaten yolks of three eggs and beat hard ; then one-half cupful of New Orleans mo- 
lasses, and, last of all, one-half cupful of sifted flour. Drop teaspoonfuls of the batter 
on a greased baking-tin, about two inches apart ; place one-fourth of a walnut on each, 
and bake in a very slow oven until brown, about ten minutes. Keep in a covered tin. 

GENOESE PASTRY Warm half a cupful of butter until a little soft and beat 
to a cream, with half a cupful of sugar. Break in an egg and beat until quite smooth ; 
then add, one by one, three more eggs, beating hard, and then half a cupful of flour ; 
pour it, half an inch thick, on a buttered tin and bake till done about ten or fifteen 
minutes. Turn it upside down on a sieve to cool, and when cold, spread thickly with 
apricot jam, and then with chocolate icing. Put it in the oven a moment, then cool and 
cut into nice shapes. 








THE GERALDINE CUP 

The claret cup jug should be glass of pure crystal, 

Nothing meaner should hold this rare whet for the whistle 

It ought to be generous, portly, and clear, 

And this is the way that you fill it, my dear : 

Two ponies, or less, of fine Cognac you use, 

Ditto Benedictine or Yellow Chartreuse ; 

The juice of two lemons is next to go in 

With a curl of the peel and some slices cut thin ; 

Then if in your garden no borage you find, 

You've only to plump in some cucumber rind ; 

Of sugar the quantum's a matter of guess 

For the belles, say two spoonfuls, for men, rather less. 

The foundation, of course, is a quart of Bordeaux, 

The best is not wasted, the meanest won't go. 

" He that hath shall have more," not of thanks, though, I 

Who for claret gives logwood ; brandy, benzine. 

Now as brick is to lime and lime is to mortar 

You need must " fizz " in a good Soda water ; 

Add a syphon of this, and this point please master 

You're safe only with Club, or with water from Shasta. 

Then the garnishing comes, that deft finishing touch 

Which completes the good work and of little makes much, 

A handful of berries adorns just the place, 

And a bouquet of mint is the last crowning grace. 

TEA PUNCH (twelve glasses) Squeeze one-half a dozen lemons 
and grate the rind of three. Add three quarts of water and sugar enough 
to make palatable lemonade, and boil. When boiling pour it over twelve 
teaspoonfuls of tea. Let this steep for five minutes, strain, cool and pour 
it into glasses filled with cracked ice. 





CAROLINA PINEAPPLE PUNCH Pull to pieces with a fork one pine- 
apple and soak in one quart of French brandy for twenty -four hours in a covered bowl, 
then strain. Make a rich syrup of one pound of sugar and one cupful of water. Mix 
with the brandy and dilute it with one quart of freshly drawn cold tea. When ready 
to serve add one syphon of Shasta water, a few cubes of pineapple, and a block of ice. 
Sprinkle a large handful of wild rose leaves on top. This can be bottled, and if corked 
tightly will keep indefinitely. 

RIESLING CUP (San Rafael) Pour twelve bottles of Riesling into a large 
punch-bowl. Add from a half to a whole bottle of rum, the juice of one-half dozen 
large lemons and some of the rind cut thin, one pineapple pulled in pieces, and sugar to 
taste. Serve with a block of ice. Claret can be used instead of Riesling. 

EGG-NOG Separate twelve eggs and beat the yolks fifteen minutes, then 
add twelve scant tablespoonfuls of very fine sugar, and beat until the grains are quite 
dissolved (from fifteen to twenty minutes). Beat in twelve tablespoonfuls of fine French 
brandy and twelve of fine old rum. Grate half a nutmeg in six cupfuls of milk, and 
add very slowly to the mixture ; then add twelve tablespoonfuls of thick cream whipped 
stiff. Last of all, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth and give a last hard 
beating. The art of making good egg-nog lies entirely in the beating. If it is made 
in any quantity the labor should be divided between two or more. 

PUNCH Boil for ten minutes the peel of three lemons, one handful of allspice 
and one of cloves, in one and one-half pints of water. Strain into a large bowl and add 
one pint of strong black tea, two bottles of whiskey, two bottles of brandy, and sugar 
to taste. When ready to use add one bottle of champagne, maraschino and ice. 






Ingredients are called for in many of these recipes which it would seem impossible 
to procure, but Messrs. Goldberg, Bowen & Co., realizing the cosmopolitan character of 
San Francisco, have imported every variety of food materials and any ingredient required. 
The most attractive feature of a real East Indian Curry is the "rice table" which 
always accompanies it. This is usually a lacquer or china tray on which is fitted a num- 
ber of small dishes, each containing a different sauce, relish or chutney, and the good 
housekeeper prides herself on the variety and piquancy of these. The most common 
ones are Major Gray's Chutney, Mango Chutney, Soy, grated cocoanut, Bombay duck 
(which comes in tins and must be toasted in the oven before serving), sliced lemons, 
button onions, anchovies, sweet pickles, sardelleu, crisp bacon, and thin slices of broiled 
ham, etc. 

The genuine rice tables are seldom seen here, but it is well to know that an excel- 
lent substitute can be found at Nathan-Dohrmann's. 

What will prove a boon to those interested in the chafing-dish cookery is the 
electric chafing-dish, kept also by the Nathan -Dohrmann Co. This chafing-dish may 
be connected with any ordinary electric light, obviating the necessity of keeping a sup- 
ply of alcohol, the difficulty of regulating the filling of the burner and all the other 
inconveniences of the ordinary chafing-dish, which are so apt to result in burnt fingers, if 
nothing more. 

Macaroni is the generic term for the various pastes which are specifically known as 
spaghetti, vermicelli, tagliarini, lazagnettes, tagliatelli and several other Italian names, the 
best of which have always been imported. Marvelli's macaroni, however, is an Ameri- 
can paste which is made of the hardest wheat, and is fully equal to the foreign. The 
objection to that made in this country, heretofore, has been that it did not contain enough 
gluten and was so soft that it did not retain its shape when cooked. Marvelli's hard 
wheat macaroni has shown that this difficulty can be overcome. 





Cable of 
anti JHeasures 



Four teaspoonfuls of liquid equal to one tablespoonful 

Four tablespoonfuls of liquid equal to ....... one-half gill, one-quarter cupful 

One tablespoonful of liquid equal to one wineglassful 

One tablespoonful of liquid equal to .................. one-half ounce 

One pint of liquid equal to one pound 

Two gills of liquid equal to one-half pint, one cupful 

One kitchen cupful of liquid equal to ........................... one-half pint 

One heaping quart of sifted flour equal to ...... ..... one pound 

Four cupfuls of flour equal to one quart or one pound 

One rounded tablespoonful of flour equal to ................... one-half ounce 

Three cupfuls of cornmeal equal to ............................. one pound 

One cupful of butter equal to one -half pound 

One pint of butter equal to ....... one pound 

One tablespoonful of butter equal to ..... ........ one ounce 

Butter the size of an egg equal to ..... ................... two ounces 

Butter the size of a walnut equal to ............................... one ounce 

One solid pint of chopped meat equal to ............... ....... one pound 

Ten eggs equal to .......... .................... one pound 

A dash of pepper equal to ..... ..... one-eighth teaspoonful or three shakes 

Two cupfuls of granulated sugar equal to ........................... one pound 

One pint of granulated sugar equal to .............................. one pound 

Two and a half cupfuls of powdered sugar equal to .................... one pound 






Soups 

Barcelona Olla , 

Bisque d'Ecrevisses 

Bouillabaisse 

Casuela 

Chestnut 

Chicken Sambayon 

Cocido or Olla Podrida (Madrid) . . . 

Gumbo File 

Hindustani Chicken Broth for Invalids 

Hindustani Cocoanut Soup 

Hindustani Soup Stock 

Lobster 

Onion Soup of Northern Italy 

Peanut Bisque 

Pimiento Bisque 

Spaghetti Soup 




Shell Fish 

Canape Lorenzo 

Clams and Rice ( Mexican ) 

Crab Gumbo 

Crab Jambalaya 

Crab Souffle 

Creole Soft-Shell Crabs 

Lobster a la Cardinal 

Shrimp Fritters 

Shrimp Gumbo 

Soft-Shell Crabs (Italian Monastery) . 

Fish 

Baked Halibut 10 

Escabeche 8 

Fish Court-bouillon (Creole) 8 

Fish a la Guaymas 11 

Flounders a la Majouez 8 

Mexican Cod 11 

Oyster Bundles 11 

Planked Smelt 8 

Potomac Herring 11 

Sole Neapolitan 10 

Stewed Fish 8 

Turban of Fish . . . 10 



Fish Sauces 

Barracuda Sauce 9 

Chile Sauce 12 

Garlic Sauce 12 

Genoese Sauce 13 

Kaihelo or Fish Sauce ( Hawaiian ) 12 

Mayonnaise Verte 12 

Salza 12 

Sauce Italienne . 13 

Spanish Sauce 12 



Eggs 

Eggs a 1'Ardenaise 14 

Eggs a la Bonne Cuisine 14 

Eggs a la Durango 15 

Eggs Fricasseed with Italian Sauce. ..... 15 

Eggs Scrambled with Mushrooms 16 

Eggs a la Stork 14 

Eggs with Tomatoes 14 

Egg Timbales 15 



Entrees 

Albondigas 17 

Andalusian Tripe 17 

Beef a la Milanaise 18 

Big Hominy 23 

Chanf aina of Liver 19 

Deviled Chops 17 

Deviled Meat 19 

Estofado de Cordero . . . 21 

Fritura Mixta 17 

Grillades a la Creole 20 

Hachis a la Toulousaine 19 

Kidneys Los Angeles 20 

Liver and Anchovy 20 

Lomo 18 

Okra Gumbo Stew 19 

Oysters and Potatoes 21 

Sausage and Cabbage a la Milanaise .21 

South Park Sweetbreads 21 

Spanish Frico 21 

Spanish Tongue 17 






Entrees Continued 

Sweetbreads a la Bearnaise 22 

Sweetbreads and Oyster Pie 23 

Terrapin 22 

Veal Cutlets a la Toulouse 18 

Virginia Ham 23 

Poultry and Game 

Blanquette of Turkey 26 

Creme de Volaille 26 

Chicken a la Bordeaux 27 

Chaud-froid of Chicken 25 

Chicken Curry ( Hindustani ) .' . 24 

Chicken Daube (Creole) 25 

Chicken a 1'Italienne 28 

(Fritter Batter) 27 

Hawaiian Chicken 27 

Maryland Chicken 27 

Chicken a la Milanaise 24 

Chicken with Oysters 30 

Chicken Picante 25 

Portuguese Chicken 29 

Mobile Bay Gumbo 29 

Pigeon a la Creole 28 

Salmi of Duck with Olives 29 

Salmi of Quail 29 

Smothered Chicken 26 

Spanish Pie 30 

Turkish Pilau.. ..24 

Macaroni, Rice, Etc. 

Chilely a la Roseleaf Club 31 

Color 32 

Frijoles .......31 

Italian Macaroni, Spaghetti, Tagliarini, Ari- 

gati, Etc 32 

( Mushroom Sauce ) 33 

Neapolitan Rice 31 

Polenta 32 

Ravioli 33 

(Farce for Ravioli) 33 

Rice a la Milanaise 32 

Spanish Rice 31 



Vegetables 

Ajiaco ( Peruvian Peppers ) 36 

Artichoke Fricassee 35 

Artichokes a I'lnferno 35 

Artichokes Genoese 34 

Asparagus a la Milanaise 34 

Baked Bananas 38 

Baked Tomatoes 35 

Fried Artichokes (Italian ) 34 

Corn Fritters 38 

Colache 36 

Koele Palau ( Hawaiian ) 38 

Peppers Stuffed with Corn 36 

Pimiento Timbales 35 

Potatoes a la Batangos 37 

Potatoes a la Cannes 37 

Spanish Onion Rarebit 15 

Stuffed Squash ...36 

Timbales of Spinach and Green Peas 34 

Tomatoes a la Perugia 37 

West India Okra 38 

Zucchetti ( Italian Squash ) 34 



Salads 

Algerian Hors-d'CEuvre 39 

Bohemian Cheese Paste 42 

Cardinal 42 

Cucumber Jelly 40 

Gaspacho (Andalusian) 41 

Hunter's Salad 41 

Mousse de Jambon 39 

Oyster 41 

Pate de Foie-Gras Mousse 40 

Pineapple Salad ( Honolulu) 42 

Pimiento Morrones ( Spanish Peppers ) . . 39 

Ripe Olive 40 

Rinconita 41 

Salpicon(Chilena).. 40 

Venetian Salad Dressing 39 

Cheese Balls 39 

Cheese Canapes 41 






intiej: 



Desserts 

Almond Pudding 43 

Apricot Bisque 43 

Banana Compote 45 

Banana Pudding ( Hawaiian ) 45 

Chartreuse of Strawberries 43 

Children's Pudding 46 

Creme de Riz a la Montpellier (Rice Cream) 46 

Creme Sambayon . 44 

Frangipane 47 

Haupia (Hawaiian ) 45 

Jessina Sultana 47 

Kulolo (Hawaiian) 45 

Marrons a la Roma 47 

Monkey Pudding 46 

Peach Pudding 44 

Piepiele ( Hawaiian) 45 

Pineapple Compote 44 

San Jose Prune Pudding , 43 

Spanish Chocolate Cream 46 

Spanish Hedgehog 44 

Sweet Potato Pudding 46 

South Carolina Curds 45 

Ices 

Fig Ice-Cream 48 

Grape Mousse 49 

Italian Sherbet 48 

LallaRookh 48 

Mandarin Sherbet 48 

Rice Ice-Cream 48 

Turkish Sherbet.. ..48 



Candies 

Chocolate Fudge with Fruit 50 

Creole Pralines 50 

Peanut Brittle 50 

Santa Barbara Panocha 50 

Breads 

Aunt Sally's Hoecake 52 

Brown Bread 52 

Crissini or Bread Sticks 52 

Hominy Bread 51 

Rice Muffins 51 

Sally Lunn 51 

Soft Corn Bread 51 

Sweet Potato Waffles 51 

Cakes 

Confederate Daughters Cake 53 

Genoese Pastry 54 

apanese Tea Wafers 53 

ochaCake 53 

Walnut Wafers .. ..54 



J M' 



Punches, Etc. 

Carolina Pineapple Punch 56 

Egg-Nog 56 

Geraldine Cup 55 

Punch 56 

Riesling Cup (San Rafael) 56 

Tea Punch 55 

Table of Weights and Measures 58 






DONE INTO A BOOK FOR THE BENEFIT OF 
THE TELEGRAPH HILL NEIGHBORHOOD AS- 
SOCIATION BY PAUL ELDER AND COMPANY 
AT THE TOMOYE PRESS, SAN FRANCISCO. 



RETURN MARIAN KOSHLAND BIOSCIENCE AND 
TO -+ NATURAL RESOURCE LIBRARY 

2101 Valley Life Sciences Bldg. 642-2531 

LOAN PERIOD 

7 DAYS 

ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS. 
DUE AS STAMPED BELOW. 



DUE 


. 






JAN 8 7007 






SU3JECTTOREC/ 


1L 




















































FORM NO. DD 8 UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
24M 4-00 Berkeley, California 94720-6500 



