


HumanicuHure 



ERRATUM 

On titlepage, before Demonstrator add late. 
The Author's address is Via Staurenghi 3, Varese (Como), 
Italy. 



HUMANICULTURE 






HUMANICULTURE 

BY 

HUBERT HIGGINS 



M.A., Cantab, M. R. C. S., England, L. R. C. P., London, 

Demonstrator of Anatomy at the University of 

Cambridge, England, and Assistant 

Surgeon to A ddenbrooke Hospital^ 

Cambridge, England 




NEW YORK 

FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY 
PUBLISHERS 



Copyright, 1906, 
BY FRIDIRICK A. STOKES COMPANY 

Entered at Stationers' Hall 



THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, U.S.A. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER PAGB 

I. INTRODUCTORY i 

PART ONE 

II. INTRODUCTION AND HISTORY OF FLETCHER- 
ISM 25 

III. MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION ... 51 

IV. TASTE AND APPETITE 69 

V. CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY . 84 

VI. DIRECTIONS FOR THE PRACTICE OF POLTO- 
PHAGY 98 

VII. THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM . . no 

PART TWO 
VIII. A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE ORIGIN OF 

MEDICAL DOCTRINES 126 

IX. THE APPARATUS OFTHE MEDICAL SCIENCES 147 

X. MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES . . . 168 

PART THREE 

XI. PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 199 

XII. HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE . . 214 

XIII. CONCLUSION 236 

INDEX 249 



HUMANICULTURE 



CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTORY 

THERE are few civilised communities that 
are not seriously and earnestly concern- 
ing themselves with the causes of the 
terrible phenomena of degeneration that 
are so prominent a feature of modern 
city populations. In an undefined and 
vague way the old illogical reasonings no 
longer suffice to quiet our consciences ; 
less superficial causes and more effective 
remedies are being eagerly sought for, not 
only by philanthropists, but by politicians 
and administrators. 

The explanations of such phenomena 
can be said to divide themselves into two 
opposite points of view : the superstitious, 
metaphysical, pseudo-scientific, passive, or 
pessimistic school ; and the active, pro- 
gressive, scientific, or optimistic school. 



2 HUMANICULTURE 

The pessimistic point of view is as 
old as the history of the world. It has 
a significant expression in the words at- 
tributed to Buddha : " From the soles 
of the feet to the head, he saw that the 
body was born in impurity, proceeded 
from impurity, and was always turning 
to impurity. Who is the wise man who 
having understood this does not look on 
his body as an enemy?" This uncom- 
promising and awful conception of human 
nature, born of the despair of Oriental 
passivity and despotism, has had in its 
varied expressions only too real an influ- 
ence, not only on thought, but on action 
and the general conditions of life. Lecky, 
in his " History of European Morals," gives 
a striking picture of its influence : " The 
conviction that human nature was essen- 
tially corrupt led to a struggle against it ; 
all pleasures were forbidden ; even the 
most innocent were looked on as vicious. 
What a complete contrast to the calm and 
joyous conception that characterised Greek 
philosophy, in which there was no idea of 



INTRODUCTORY 3 

a struggle with the supposed corruption 
and imperfection of man. This dual 
theory of man's nature became so extreme 
that its proselytes, so concerned for the 
salvation of their souls, descended, from 
the physical point of view, to the level of 
savage beasts. Hermits lived in animals' 
caverns. They gave up clothes and wan- 
dered about naked, covered with long un- 
kempt hair. In Mesopotamia and in a 
part of Syria, a sect was formed ; they had 
no houses, and ate neither bread nor vege- 
tables, but wandered in the mountains and 
nourished themselves on herbs. Cleanli- 
ness was looked on as a sign of corruption 
of the soul ; among the most esteemed 
saints were those who gave no care to 
their bodies." These views have had 
many new dresses. Their latest scientific 
expression may be said to be found in 
Professor MetchnikofFs book " Human 
Nature," in many kindred writings, and 
in the influence they exert on modern 
thought and action, especially on questions 
of crime, degeneration, and pauperism. 



4 HUMANICULTURE 

The actions of the pessimistic school of 
thought can be said to be guided more by 
speculation than by induction or measure- 
ment. The horrors practised under the 
lex taliontSy parental, theocratic, and po- 
litical autocracy and tyranny, the repres- 
sive and cramping educational systems of 
Europe, all derive their philosophical sup- 
port from some variant or other of the 
dual theory of man's nature ; in other 
words, of its essential evil. 

The opposing school of thought is 
concerned with research and experiment, 
under widely different auspices, which, at 
any rate, have the common characteristic 
of cc doing things," rather than merely 
"thinking things." The late Dr. Bar- 
nardo of London has gone far to disprove 
the inevitableness of the transmission of 
criminal and thriftless characteristics from 
parents to offspring, and also Dr. Kellogg 
of Battle Creek, Michigan, has been suc- 
cessful in this work. Mr. Z. R. Brock- 
way of Elmira, New York, showed that 
no less than ninety per cent of the crimi- 



INTRODUCTORY 5 

nals treated by his regenerative methods 
could be restored to society as useful citi- 
zens. The Elmira demonstration was be- 
gun, curiously enough, in 1876, in the 
same year that Professor Lombroso wrote 
" L' Uomo Delinquente," and startled the 
world with his theories of hereditary crime 
and atavism. The work done in America 
has gone far to disprove the current the- 
ories of heredity. Professor Lombroso 
created the science of criminology; Mr. 
Brockway, its therapeutics. Thus both 
have rendered inestimable service to hu- 
manity. General Booth has regenerated 
many paupers and criminals in three con- 
tinents by Salvation Army methods, and 
has shown the way for governments to fol- 
low in his footsteps. The Church Army 
of Great Britain has also done good re- 
generation work. These models are being 
studied by governmental boards with the 
idea of reforming degenerates on practical 
scientific lines. 

The ideals that directed the noble ac- 
complishment of Greek civilisation showed 



6 HUMANICULTURE 

triumphantly a glorious example of na- 
tional humaniculture, which has only to be 
imitated and excelled by the aid of the 
greater resources of modern civilisation 
and science. These examples, together 
with the private specialised experiments 
of Messrs. Patterson, Kellogg, Cadbury, 
Lever, Heinze, Nelson, Van Marken, 
and many others, illustrate the successful 
achievement which has always rewarded 
efforts that aimed at the amelioration or 
the prevention of human disorganisation. 

This book is written with the object of 
showing that there are good grounds for the 
belief that a more thorough understand- 
ing and a more complete use of the human 
aptitudes provide the essential foundation 
for scientific humaniculture. To illustrate 
a point of view from which human nature 
may be profitably considered, let us take 
the case of a new-born child. An infant 
is born with three sets of qualities : 

(i) Those physical and mental attri- 
butes that are common to all human 
beings. The excellence of such a child 



INTRODUCTORY 7 

will depend on whether it possesses these 
essential common attributes in the fullest 
possible degree. 

(2) Characteristics that it possesses in 
common with certain groups of people, 
such as races and families. 

(3) Qualities that distinguish the indi- 
vidual. 

The child is exposed throughout life 
to two sets of conditions : 

(1) Adverse conditions, that contribute 
in a greater or less degree to deterioration 
and degeneration. Certain of these condi- 
tions are inevitable, as in the case of 
climate; the vast majority, however, are 
evitable. 

(2) Progressive conditions, that con- 
tribute to the most perfect development 
of the child. 

It will be obvious that the more favour- 
able and the fewer adverse conditions there 
are to which the child is exposed, the higher 
will be the degree of its development to- 
wards becoming a perfect human being. 

It is only too clear that not only have 



8 HUMANICULTURE 

we not yet thoroughly realised and studied 
the fundamental aptitudes and characteris- 
tics of human beings, but we have, in the 
confusion of evidence, contracted curiously 
diverse and even opposite opinions of the 
nature and value of the conditions to 
which children and adolescents are acci- 
dentally or deliberately exposed. It will 
be shown, inter alia, in the following chap- 
ters that Mr. Horace Fletcher's discovery 
of the text-book error relative to the op- 
timum nitrogen supply for active, healthy 
manhood, and its confirmation by Pro- 
fessor Chittenden, 1 have proved our former 
views on such subjects to be incomplete, 
unsound, and unscientific. Further re- 
search should bring out yet more facts 
which will enable the sane influence of 
positive science to replace the present hap- 
hazard and ineffective points of view, which 
are so largely responsible for the deplor- 
able degenerated products of civilisation. 

1 Physiological Economy in Nutrition. Russell H. 
Chittenden. The Frederick A. Stokes Co., New Yorkj 
William Heinemann, London. 



INTRODUCTORY 9 

In order to illustrate the nature of the 
deficiencies of human equipment in some 
respects, it is profitable to compare the 
condition of the young of certain of the 
wild animals with those of civilised human 
beings. In those admirable books, "Wild 
Animals I have Known," and "The Lives 
of the Hunted," Thompson-Seton has 
given a remarkable account of some of 
the conditions under which young animals 
in the wild or native state are reared. 
They receive from their parents the most 
careful instruction by precept and example 
in (i) the food they should eat, and how 
to obtain it ; (2) methods that enable them 
to escape from their enemies. The im- 
portance of this instruction is such that if 
they fail to carry it out thoroughly they 
die, either from want of food or from 
inability to escape their enemies. In the 
case of the young of human beings, the 
penalties of exposure to avoidable adverse 
conditions is by no means certain death, 
as in the case of the wild animals, but 
frequently degeneration and inefficiency. 



IO HUMANICULTURE 

Few people will be found to deny that, 
provided a child started fair, and was in- 
structed as carefully and as thoroughly 
as the young of some of the wild animals 
are known to be, it would tend to develop 
into a more perfect adult than is now the 
average result. 

It has been necessary to do something 
towards giving an answer to that very 
difficult and important question, What is 
health ? For convenience of description 
the term " optimum health " has been used 
in a somewhat arbitrary sense to express 
the highest possible degree of physical 
efficiency that an individual can attain. 
It will be obvious that when there are 
hereditary deficiencies or injuries from 
accident or disease, there will be a lower 
degree of optimum health than in the 
case of more fortunate individuals. In 
defining health, to say that it is a perfect 
performance of all the functions of all the 
organs, is only to ask the same question 
in another way, as we do not know all the 
functions of all the organs. If one says 



INTRODUCTORY 1 1 

again that health is attained and main- 
tained by obeying the laws of nature, it 
is merely putting another unsolved ques- 
tion : What are the laws of nature ? In 
the course of wide reading the best descrip- 
tion of optimum health was found in one 
of the sacred writings of the East, in the 
1 3th verse of the second Adhyaya : " The 
first results of Yoga they call lightness, 
healthiness, peace, a good complexion, 
beauty and grace, profuse fragrance, a 
melodious voice, and light excretions." 

One of the essentials of humaniculture 
is to attain and maintain optimum health ; 
when deviations occur, they can be dealt 
with by two methods, which can be ex- 
pressed diagrammatically. 




A. Line of the optimum health. I, i, i, Illnesses (acute deviations 

B. Line of actual, average health and alleviations). 

(chronic deviation). 2. Measurement of the deviation 

C. Line of death. from the optimum. 

3. Line of regeneration. 



12 HUMANICULTURE 

The distance at any time between the 
line of average life B and that of optimum 
health A can be called Deviation from the 
Optimum. There is on the " B " line the 
continual and progressive decline, assisted 
by the acute deviations caused by illnesses. 

When the aim is merely to restore the 
individual to the level of chronic decline 
from the depth of an acute deviation due 
to illness, the process is called Allevi- 
ation ; when it is attempted to reach and 
maintain optimum health, the process is 
called Regeneration. 

( i ) Scientific Humaniculture. This plan 
should have its basis in the positive 
knowledge of human qualities and apti- 
tudes. It should then concern itself with 
the nature and effects of the adverse 
conditions to life, and their avoidance. 
Finally, it should aim to discover and 
make the fullest possible use of the most 
favourable means of a progressive and 
harmonious development. This science 
should begin its operations even before 
birth, and it should cease only at death. 



INTRODUCTORY 13 

Its aim would be to cultivate life not 
merely for the sake of living, but for the 
most efficient exercise and the highest de- 
velopment of all the human attributes. It 
is as boundless as the perfectibility of the 
human race. By pursuit of such methods 
as these the Greeks produced more great 
and learned men, more nearly-perfect hu- 
man beings, than any other race has ever 
done, and this in spite of not possessing 
many of the advantages of modern civ- 
ilisation, such as the present powerful and 
speedy means of locomotion, the almost 
instantaneous transmission of ideas, and 
the consequent extended opportunities of 
co-operative social progress. In these 
days of improved facilities, if concerted 
and co-operative humaniculture as prac- 
tised by the ancient Greeks were tried, it 
would proceed at lightning speed com- 
pared with what was accomplished even 
in the Golden Period of Greece. We 
have more knowledge, more trained ob- 
servers, and far greater opportunities ; yet 
at the present day it is easy to show that 



14 HUMANICULTURE 

there is little or no attempt to organise 
humaniculture on a scientific basis. 

(2) Regeneration. This process consists 
in the methods of restoring and maintain- 
ing optimum health. It is obvious that 
complete regeneration cannot be carried 
out till we not only understand man's apti- 
tudes, but have experience in their use and 
development. Since there is neither scien- 
tific cognisance nor accurate measurement 
of health, regeneration under present con- 
ditions is most difficult of realisation. 

(3) Alleviation. The medical sciences 
owe their development mainly to the 
necessity for the alleviation of disease. 
The constant chronic deviation from op- 
timum health, and the acute and more 
temporary deviations due to illnesses, re- 
sult from the concurrence of factors that 
are never repeated in two individuals, or 
in the same individual at different times. 
This is because the chronic deviation is 
the result of environments that are con- 
tinually changing, and hence must differ 
in each case. Consequently the resulting 



INTRODUCTORY 15 

reactions or pathological changes must 
always differ in character or in degree. 
In the case of individuals who have not 
subjected themselves to the more similar 
conditions of a scientific adaptation to the 
common environment, there is necessarily 
an almost infinite possibility of variation. 
This view would account for the great 
variations, not only in the number of dis- 
eases, but in the differences found in cases 
with similar diseases ; it may be said that 
no one case resembles another. It would 
not be difficult to show that if sufficiently 
similar individuals were exposed to the 
same unfavourable factors, the same illness 
would invariably be produced. The way 
in which the medical profession has suc- 
cessfully dealt with the infinitely variable 
pathological conditions which constantly- 
changing environment has produced is one 
of the greatest triumphs of the human 
intellect. 

Not so long ago disease was a myste- 
rious, vague something-or-other. It was 
considered to be either a punishment for 



1 6 HUMANICULTURE 

sin, or entirely the result of heredity. 
At any rate, its origin and progress were 
thought to be inevitable. Gradually, as 
the principles of causation have become 
defined, it is seen that disease is a definite, 
positive result of the aggregation of certain 
evitable causes. The whole of modern 
effort is now definitely directed to the in- 
vestigation of these formerly-mysterious 
causes. Bacteriology has accounted for a 
number of the most dangerous and sud- 
den human inflictions. At present there 
seem to be indications that the root-evil, 
or, more accurately, that the growth of 
the trunk of the tree of diseases, is due to 
the unscientific adaptation of man to his 
environment, probably during the whole 
of his life. It is demonstrated that the 
poisonous products of the growth of 
micro-organisms, in their reactions on the 
tissues, cause diseases varying in intensity 
with the physical condition, or the power 
of the defensive apparatus of the body. 
This power of resistance depends on the 
degree of the deviation from the opti- 



INTRODUCTORY I/ 

mum of health found in the individual. 
Disease can be said to owe its symptoms 
to the resultant of the best the body can 
do to prevent death, or, in other words, to 
diminish the effects of harmful environ- 
ment. 1 During these conditions of devia- 

1 " The prevailing idea of disease is of a something 
that is woful and malignant, evil in origin, evil in intent, 
evil in effect. The method of its entering into the lives 
of men would seem to belong to the time 

* Of man's first disobedience and the fruit 
Of that forbidden tree, whose mortal taste 
Brought death into the world, and all our woe.' 

" The popular view claims that disease is a calamity, 
that its end is destruction, and that it is purposeless except 
in the direction of doing harm. Popular terms bear testi- 
mony to the prevailing of this belief. Man is said to be 
struck down by disease as by an avenging angel, it seizes 
upon him as does a roaring lion, it consumes him as does 
a fire. The attitude of the medical man towards disease 
is that of an opponent to deadly influences. He has to 
combat an enemy to mankind whose every movement is 
dark and malicious. There is no symptom of disease 
that is not believed to be noxious, and as such must be 
stamped out with relentless determination. If the patient 
be sick, the sickness must be stayed; if he cough, the 
cough must cease ; if he fail to take food, he must be 
made to eat. And why ? Because these are manifesta- 
tions of disease, and are therefore of ill intent and need 
to be banished. 

" I shall hope to show so far, at least, as the examples 



1 8 HUMANICULTURE 

tion from the optimum, life is inefficient 
in varying degrees, and performance is 
not equal to intentions. The ruling 
power, the brain, is undermined, and it 
then interferes with the healthy adapta- 
tions of the body, hurrying it down the 
road to ultimate ruin by means of neu- 
rasthenia, hysteria, etc. 

The ideas here set forth had their origin 
in a study by the author of the practical at- 
tempts of Mr. Horace Fletcher to restore 
his impaired health and declining efficiency, 
and they have developed in the personal 
experience which has continued since the 

I shall select are concerned that there is nothing pre- 
ternatural in disease, that its phenomena or symptoms are 
marked by a purpose, and that that purpose is beneficent. 
I shall hope in these examples to demonstrate that the 
processes of disease are aimed not at the destruction of 
life, but at the saving of it, and that its manifestations 
are the outcome of a natural effort towards cure. 

"Disease, as popularly realised, is not one of the ills 
that flesh is heir to, but one of the good gifts, for its 
motive is benevolent and protective.'* From an address 
on " A Conception of Disease," by Sir Frederick Treves, 
G. C. V. O. C. B., LL. D., Sergeant Surgeon to his 
Majesty the King. Delivered to the Philosophical In- 
stitution of Edinburgh in November, 1905. 



INTRODUCTORY 19 

year 1901. Mr. Fletcher had had an 
American training of quite a varied na- 
ture, including marine, country, and city 
experiences, which had been tested all over 
the world, and which ensured his having, 
at the outset of his inquiry into the root- 
causes of his disabilities, a thorough con- 
ception of the practical philosophy of the 
man of action. He tried, and succeeded. 
The amount of faith and indomitable per- 
severance summed up in these few words 
will never be known even by his friends. 
Such things are done and forgotten in the 
joys of success and in the satisfaction 
created by the hard work for general 
human interests such as he has subse- 
quently undertaken. 

The story of the gradual growth and 
definition of the ideas that have become 
so closely associated with his name are 
best given by Mr. Fletcher himself. I 
have heard him sum up his conclusions 
as to foods and feeding by saying : " If 
you eat only when you have an earned 
appetite, masticate your food thoroughly, 



20 HUMANICULTURE 

and take great care to eat only what ap- 
petite approves, the rest will take care 
of itself." This language is simple and 
direct ; and, like many a great truth, it is 
easily stated, but cannot be adequately 
understood except through personal ex- 
perience of the multiple benefits growing 
out of its acceptance and adoption. It 
involves a vast amount of understanding 
through demonstration, and elucidation 
through actual trial, in a world where 
unscientific adaptation has made human- 
ity the prey of thousands of suggestions 
and opinions that are inseparable from 
incomplete knowledge and incomplete 
performance, and which result in pro- 
found inefficiency. 

The question, then, that must be asked 
at the outset of such an inquiry as this is, 
" What are the aptitudes and capabili- 
ties possessed by human beings ? " The 
mere asking of the question is a long 
step in advance. 

This is the first stage of humaniculture ; 
which, it will be shown later on, is not yet 



INTRODUCTORY 21 

attained nor even intelligently aimed at 
by organised science. It would not be 
of much use now to go beyond the facts 
that are agreed upon by science at pres- 
ent, and discuss a future development of 
humaniculture with its dazzling hopes 
and possibilities. Let us, by means of 
careful research and observation, ascer- 
tain the fundamental basic factors neces- 
sary to a logically complete structure. 

Spencer and other philosophers realised 
that the goal of man was the harmonious 
development of all his qualities and apti- 
tudes. Our development at present is not 
harmonious: it is fundamentally deficient, 
more or less blundering and aimless. It 
is so because, simply and solely be- 
cause, as Comte pointed out in the case 
of the world in general, there is insuffi- 
cient positive knowledge of basic qualities 
and aptitudes. Far more is thought of 
the shadow, the superficial and unim- 
portant differences between people, 
than is thought of the substance, the 
points of human resemblances. We con- 



22 HUMANICULTURE 

tent ourselves with well-thumbed and even 
disproved and worn-out formulas, in an- 
cient or modern forms, and alike with 
scientific and unscientific methods and 
material. Spencer dreamt, in the cramped 
life of his boarding-house environment, 
amidst the troubles of his healthless life, 
"of the harmonious development of all 
men's organs in all their functions." New- 
ton, too, thought that the philosophy of 
nature, developed by the experimental 
method, ought to contribute to extend 
and improve moral philosophy, in giving 
man clearer ideas of his rights and duties. 
These are the days in which the old 
dreams of the progress of humanity are 
being realised and materialised. Is it, 
then, so impossible to materialise the 
ideal of positive and progressive humani- 
culture ? 

The following pages are devoted to a 
suggestion of means for bringing about 
a realisation of this ideal of humanicul- 
ture. The discussion is divided into 
three parts : 



INTRODUCTORY 23 

Part I., Chapters i to 7. This part 
deals with a description of certain devel- 
opments that have originated from the 
work of Mr. Horace Fletcher on mas- 
tication, taste, and appetite. It will, it is 
hoped, be admitted that the facts sub- 
mitted by an American business man to 
the organisations of the medical sciences 
demand the most careful consideration 
and thorough investigation at their hands. 
These contentions are practically to "be 
summed up under the general indictment 
of an absence of orientation towards 
humaniculture. The consequences of 
this faulty orientation and organisation 
are of a far-reaching and unsuspected 
importance, inasmuch as the essential 
duty of science to provide knowledge 
to enable the population to adapt itself 
to the rapidly changing conditions of the 
past fifty years has been neglected. 

Part II., Chapters 8 to 10. In order 
to substantiate such views as those ad- 
vanced in Part I. it is obvious that 
it is necessary to give some general 



24 HUMANICULTURE 

considerations of the history of medical 
doctrines. In Chapter 9 is an account 
of the activities and output of the hospi- 
tals and laboratories, with points dealing 
with their effects on modern ideals of 
humaniculture. Chapter 10 is a brief 
exposition of the most recent medical 
doctrines that it is claimed show a ten- 
dency to support the opinions advanced 
in Part I. 

Part III., Chapters n to 13. They 
comprise suggestions for the develop- 
ment of an apparatus for the acquisition 
and distribution of the knowledge that 
will enable everybody to conduct his life 
to the best advantage. 



CHAPTER II 

INTRODUCTION AND HISTORY OF 
FLETCHERISM 

BIOT said, " Nothing is clearer than what 
was discovered yesterday, and nothing 
more difficult to see than that which 
one will find to-morrow." So it has 
been with the remarkable story of a 
great physiological discovery, made by 
one who was not in the physiological 
sense of the word an expert, but whose 
passport to the attention of the organisa- 
tions of science has been solely that of 
success. The main element of the suc- 
cess of Mr. Horace Fletcher's propa- 
ganda has been that he was able to realise 
a difficult principle. In these days of 
individualism there is too great a ten- 
dency to exaggerate the superficial and 
insignificant differences between people, 



26 HUMANICULTURE 

and to neglect the fundamentally impor- 
tant common qualities, those essentially- 
human aptitudes that we all possess. 
Now, Mr. Fletcher has had the distinction 
of making a discovery in aptitudes that 
are not only human, but actually run 
through the animal kingdom. The pos- 
session of certain nerves, glands, and 
muscles in the mouth corresponds to a 
set of physical, chemical, and anatomical 
distinctive characteristics. It will be the 
task of science to ascertain as soon as 
possible how far human beings approxi- 
mate to what Gegenbaur has called the 
poltophagic division of the animal king- 
dom, and how much to the psomophagic 
or non-masticating division. 

Mr. Fletcher realises thoroughly that, as 
Cicero said, nothing is discovered and per- 
fected at the same time ; so he is devoting 
his efforts to securing the fullest investi- 
gation of the claims he has made for the 
practice of his method. He feels that 
the real motive power in all such matters 
is, finally, public opinion, and he has lost 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 2/ 

no opportunity of making the essential 
features of his ideas as public as possible. 
His story is interesting and inspiring. 
Some years ago he found himself at that 
stage of life where, after hard work in all 
quarters of the globe, he was in a position 
to retire from active business and devote 
himself to enjoyment. He had occasion 
to make an application for life insurance 
and was refused. This was not encourag- 
ing or agreeable at this stage of his life. 
His symptoms were obesity, shortness of 
breath, dyspepsia, loss of elasticity and 
keenness ; in short, all those troubles 
that we are accustomed to associate with 
the failing health of so-called " advancing 
age," but which would be more rightly 
named " advancing death." He con- 
sulted medical men in both America and 
Europe, and had the usual consolations 
that are administered under such circum- 
stances, with, it is to be feared, the not 
uncommon result of leaving things much 
as they were. He then decided in a 
practical business way to undertake his 



28 HUMANICULTURE 

own regeneration. He happened at this 
time to be occupied with some business 
which necessitated a good deal of tedious 
waiting at Chicago in midsummer when 
most of his acquaintances were absent 
from the city, and to help to spin out 
the day he used to get through his meals 
as slowly and deliberately as he could. 
He noticed a very curious effect from 
this: hunger was less frequent, he ate 
less, his weight decreased, and his health 
became decidedly improved. He then 
and there made up his mind to experi- 
ment in this direction, with the result that 
in course of time he entirely recovered 
his health. He then tried to get an ex- 
planation from experts, but found none. 
It is well worth while to reflect what this 
persistence, that is so easily written about, 
really entailed. There was literally no 
one to help him. His friends well, 
most of us know how useful friends have 
always been under such circumstances. 
One of them begins with a well-meaning 
attack of chaff, " so as to laugh him out 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 29 

of his fad," and then when he sees he 
has failed to do this the anxious friend 
goes round in the community, shakes 
his head, and pronounces poor old So- 
and-So's case to be hopeless, often add- 
ing, " Such a good chap, too, it is rough 
luck on him." All sorts of explanations 
are made to account for him. Members 
of his family and old friends recall his 
youthful escapades, and remember that 
there is something about him that re- 
sembles the eccentricities of a remote 
ancestor, which explains things to their 
satisfaction. In short, such an uncom- 
fortable atmosphere is created that it 
makes a wise man pack up and travel, if 
he is free to do so. Mr. Fletcher went 
through all this sort of thing, at the 
same time acquiring a unique experience 
in trying to make people understand 
what he had found out. 

After his recovery he tried the insurance 
companies again, and, although he had to 
contend against the previous unfavourable 
verdict, they said that they would gladly 



30 HUMANICULTURE 

take him at ordinary rates. This is very 
good evidence of recovery ; life insurance 
experts know their business well and rarely 
change their verdict about a life-risk. 

In the attempts that Mr. Fletcher made 
to obtain a hearing for his discovery, he 
found his greatest difficulty with the scep- 
ticism of the medical profession. His 
first convert was Dr. Van Someren of 
Venice, who not only listened to what he 
had to say, but has continued to give his 
time and energies to studying and spread- 
ing the new ideals. Dr. Van Someren 
read a paper at the meeting of the British 
Medical Association in 1901. Here he 
attracted the attention of Professor Sir 
Michael Foster. The matter was brought 
forward again at the International Con- 
gress at Turin in the same year. Sir 
Michael Foster then showed his interest 
by inviting Mr. Fletcher and Dr. Van 
Someren to Cambridge, so that their 
claims should receive scientific investiga- 
tion. This was destined to be the start 
of a new era in the work of exhaus- 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 31 

tive study of human subjects and of 
propagandism. Mr. Fletcher found that 
Physiology had a considerable bogy to 
confront him with, called the Voit standard 
of nitrogen nutrition. He was told that 
in order to obtain acceptance of his ideas 
it was first of all necessary to prove that 
his own new standard of economy was 
more nearly the optimum and that the 
famous Voit standard was wrong. It 
was obviously true that he and his col- 
league presented curious and unusual phe- 
nomena in the small amount they ate. 
It was suggested that, perhaps if they 
went on long enough, there might be one 
of those lingering but inevitable calls to 
the beyond in store for them. How 
many would have persevered in the face 
of such adverse warnings as these, with 
every authority against them? And those 
who warned them most earnestly were 
some of the highest in the world. There 
is something about an American when 
he is face to face with a fact which he 
wishes to harmonise with other facts, or 



32 HUMANICULTURE 

to make their inharmonious elements 
work together for success, that makes 
him fight until there is no more resist- 
ance. Well, Mr. Fletcher believed in 
the value of his claim, appreciated the 
importance of the Court of Physiological 
Authority to which he was appealing for 
recognition of his claim to a new dis- 
covery and had perhaps heard of the 
success of the importunate widow, so he 
imitated those well-known tactics and 
stayed in Cambridge till they got quite 
used to him, and began to take him more 
seriously. After six months' waiting they 
may have thought that he was going 
to live there, but it looked less and less as 
if he would die on their hands. Finally, 
Sir Michael, who had been the original 
means of the invitation to Cambridge, 
and who had instituted the investigation 
under the care of Dr. Hopkins, showed 
those judicial qualities that distinguish 
him by drawing up a report of the 
Cambridge observations. As he is the 
permanent president of the International 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 33 

Congress of Physiology, he used this 
position to induce the most important pro- 
fessors of physiology in the world to sign 
a document which declared that Mr. 
Fletcher's work had practically raised the 
whole question of human nutrition, and 
that it was advisable that an interna- 
tional laboratory should be founded and 
an international inquiry inaugurated to 
carry out investigations on the subject. 
All these eminent men agreed to act in 
the capacity of directors of the proposed 
institute. Here follows Sir Michael Fos- 
ter's report : 

Experiments upon Human Nutrition 

" In 1901 Dr. Ernest Van Someren sub- 
mitted to the British Medical Associa- 
tion, and afterwards to the Congress of 
Physiologists at Turin, an account of 
some experiments initiated by Mr. Hor- 
ace Fletcher. ; These experiments went 
to show that the processes of bodily 
nutrition are very profoundly affected by 
3 



34 HUMANICULTURE 

the preliminary treatment of the food- 
stuffs in the mouth, and indicated that 
great advantages follow from the adop- 
tion of certain methods in eating. The 
essentials of these special methods, stated 
briefly and without regard to certain 
important theoretical considerations dis- 
cussed by Dr. Van Someren, consist of a 
specially prolonged mastication which is 
necessarily associated with an insalivation 
of the foodstuffs much more thorough 
than is obtained with ordinary habits. 

"The results brought to light by the 
preliminary experimental trials went to 
show that such treatment of the food has 
a most important effect upon the economy 
of the body, involving, in the first place, 
a very notable reduction in the amount of 
food and especially of proteid food 
necessary to maintain complete efficiency. 

"In the second place this treatment pro- 
duced, in the experience of its originators, 
an increase in the subjective and objective 
well-being of those who practise it, and, 
as they believe, in their power of resist- 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 35 

ance to the inroads of disease. These 
secondary effects may indeed be almost 
assumed as a corollary of the first men- 
tioned ; because there can be little doubt 
that the ingestion of food and per- 
haps especially of proteid food in ex- 
cess of what is, under the best conditions, 
sufficient for maintenance and activity, can 
only be deleterious to the organism, clog- 
ging it with waste products which may at 
times be of a directly toxic nature. 

"In the autumn of 1901 Mr. Fletcher 
and Dr. Van Someren came to Cambridge 
with the intention of having the matter 
more closely inquired into, with the as- 
sistance of physiological experts. The 
matter evoked considerable interest in 
Cambridge, and observations were made 
not only upon those more immediately 
interested, but upon other individuals, 
some of whom were themselves medical 
men and trained observers. 

" Certain facts were established by these 
observations, which, however, are to be 
looked upon as still of a preliminary 



36 HUMANICULTURE 

nature. The adoption of the habit of 
thorough insalivation of the food was 
found in a consensus of opinion to have 
an immediate and very striking effect 
upon appetite, making this more discrim- 
inating, and leading to the choice of a 
simple dietary, and in particular reducing 
the craving for flesh food. The appetite, 
too, is beyond all question fully satisfied 
with a dietary considerably less in amount 
than with ordinary habits is demanded. 

" Numerical data were obtained in sev- 
eral cases, but it is not proposed to deal 
with these in detail here, as they need the 
supplementary study which will be shortly 
referred to. 

"In two individuals who pushed the 
method to its limits it was found that 
complete bodily efficiency was maintained 
for some weeks upon a dietary which had 
a total energy value of less than one-half 
of that usually taken, and comprised little 
more than one-third of the proteid con- 
sumed by the average man. 

" It may be doubted if continued effi- 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 37 

ciency could be maintained with such low 
values as these, and very prolonged ob- 
servations would be necessary to estab- 
lish the facts. But all subjects of the 
experiments who applied the principles 
intelligently agreed in rinding a very 
marked reduction in their needs, and ex- 
perienced an increase in their sense of 
well-being and an increase in their work- 
ing powers. 

" One fact, fully confirmed by the Cam- 
bridge observations, consists in the effect 
of the special habits described upon the 
waste products of the bowel. These are 
greatly reduced in amount, as might be 
expected ; but they are also markedly 
changed in character, becoming odourless 
and inoffensive, and assuming a condition 
which suggests that the intestine is in a 
healthier and more aseptic condition than 
is the case under ordinary circumstances. 

" Although the experiments hitherto 
made are, as already stated, only pre- 
liminary in nature and limited in scope, 
they establish beyond all question that a 



38 HUMANICULTURE 

full and careful study of the matter is 
urgently called for. 

" For this fuller study the Cambridge 
laboratories do not possess at present either 
the necessary equipment or the funds to 
provide it. For the detailed study of the 
physical efficiency of a man under varying 
conditions, elaborate and expensive ap- 
paratus is required ; and the advantages 
claimed for the special treatment of the 
food just discussed can only be fully tested 
by prolonged and laborious experiments 
calling for a considerable staff of workers. 

"It is of great importance that the mind 
of the lay public should be disabused of 
the idea that medical science is possessed 
of final information concerning questions 
of nutrition. This is very far indeed 
from being the case. Human nutrition 
involves highly complex factors, and the 
scientific basis for our knowledge of the 
subject is but small ; where questions of 
diet are concerned, medical teaching, no 
less than popular practice, is to a great 
extent based upon empiricism. 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 39 

" But the scientific and social importance 
of the question is clearly immense, and it 
is greatly to be desired that its study 
should be encouraged." 

This was indeed a triumph for Mr. 
Fletcher's patient and persistent labours. 
He had secured the support of the great- 
est authorities in the world to obtain a 
respectful hearing. He was now a man 
with an important problem, which, sooner 
or later, some one or other would have 
to solve. He had the good fortune to 
find another practical sympathiser in Pro- 
fessor Bowditch, of the Harvard Uni- 
versity Medical School, who introduced 
him to Professor Chittenden at Yale, 
who was not only the Director of the 
Sheffield Scientific School and President 
of the American Physiological Society, 
but is one of the most eminent of phys- 
iological chemists. Here he was also 
especially fortunate, because, for the first 
time in his search, he found in Dr. 
William G. Anderson, Director of the 
Yale University Gymnasium, a man who 



40 HUMANICULTURE 

was a human physiologist more than in 
name. Dr. Anderson not only studied 
undergraduates, but was able to make 
experiments with them, as he was their 
trainer in athletic exercises. Dr. Ander- 
son was able to render Mr. Fletcher a sig- 
nal service by setting down in black and 
white measurements which showed that his 
claims to the possession of exceptional fit- 
ness were actually and measurably true. 1 

1 Dr. Anderson's report is embodied in Professor 
Chittenden's account of Mr. Fletcher's examination as 
printed in the "Popular Science Monthly," as follows : 

"The writer has had in his laboratory for several 
months past a gentleman (H. F. ) who has for some five 
years, in pursuit of a study of the subject of human nu- 
trition, practised a certain degree of abstinence in the 
taking of food and attained important economy with, as 
he believes, great gain in bodily and mental vigour, and 
with marked improvement in his general health. Under 
his new method of living he finds himself possessed of a 
peculiar fitness for work of all kinds, and with freedom 
from the ordinary fatigue incidental to extra physical ex- 
ertion. In using the word 'abstinence,' possibly a wrong 
impression is given, for the habits of life now followed 
have resulted in the disappearance of the ordinary craving 
for food. In other words, the gentleman in question 
fully satisfies his appetite, but no longer desires the 
amount of food consumed by most individuals. 

" For a period of thirteen days, in January, he was 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 41 

There is one thing that a scientific man 
has clearly fixed in his head, and that is 

under observation in the writer's laboratory, his excre- 
tions being analysed daily with a view to ascertaining the 
exact amount of proteid consumed. The results showed 
that the average daily amount of proteid metabolised was 
41.25 grams, the body-weight (165 pounds) remaining 
practically constant. Especially noteworthy, also, was 
the very complete utilisation of the proteid food during 
this period of observation. It will be observed here that 
the daily amount of proteid food taken was less than one- 
half that of the minimum Voit standard, and it should 
also be mentioned that this apparent deficiency in proteid. 
food was not made good by any large consumption of 
fats or carbohydrates. Further, there was no restriction 
in diet. On the contrary, there was perfect freedom of 
choice, and the instructions given were to follow his 
usual dietetic habits. Analysis of the excretions showed 
an output of nitrogen equal to the breaking down of 
41.25 grams of proteid per day as an average, the ex- 
tremes being 33.06 grams and 47.03 grams of proteid. 

" In February a more thorough series of observations 
was made, involving a careful analysis of the daily diet, 
together with analysis of the excreta, so that not alone 
the proteid consumption might be ascertained, but like- 
wise the total intake of fats and carbohydrates. The 
diet consumed was quite simple, and consisted merely of 
a prepared cereal food, milk, and maple sugar. This 
diet was taken twice a day for seven days, and was 
selected by the subject as giving sufficient variety for his 
needs and quite in accord with his taste. No attempt 
was made to conform to any given standard of quantity, 
but the subject took each day such amounts of the above 



HUMANICULTURE 



measurement, for science is measurement. 
Take away the balance from the chemist and 

foods as his appetite craved. Each portion taken, how- 
ever, was carefully weighed in the laboratory, the chemi- 
cal composition of the food determined, and the fuel 
value calculated by the usual methods. 

"The following table gives the daily intake of pro- 
teids, fats, and carbohydrates for six days, together with 
the calculated fuel value, and also the nitrogen intake, 
together with the nitrogen output through the excreta. 
Many other data were obtained showing diminished ex- 
cretion of uric acid, ethereal sulphates, phosphoric acid, 
etc., but they need not be discussed here. 





Intake 


Output of Nitrogen 


Proteids 


Pats 


Carbohy 


Calories 


Nitro. 


Urine 


Fasces 


Total 




Grams 


Grams 


Grams 




Grams 


Grams 


Grams 


G tarns 


Feb. 2 
3 


J'.J 

46.8 


25. 3 
40.4 


3M 


900 
1690 


5.02 

7-50 


5.27 
6.24 


0.18 
0.81* 


545 

7.05 


4 


48.0 


38.1 


2.83.0 


1747 


7.70 


5-53 


0.81* 


6.34 


5 


50.0 


40.6 


269.0 


1711 


8.00 


6.44 


0.81* 


7.2$ 


6 


47.0 


41.5 


267.0 


1737 


7-49 


6.83 


0.81* 


7.64 


7 


46.5 


39-8 


307.? 


lSj2 


7-44 


7-50 


0.17 


7.67 


Daily Av. 


44-9 


38.0 


253-o 


l6o6 


7.19 


6.30 


0.60 


6.90 



* Average of the four days. 

" The main things to be noted in these results are, first, 
that the total daily consumption of proteid amounted on 
an average to only 45 grams, and that the fat and carbo- 
hydrate were taken in quantities only sufficient to bring 
the total fuel value of the daily food up to a little more 
than i, 600 large calories. If, however, we eliminate 
the first day, when for some reason the subject took an 
unusually small amount of food, these figures are in- 
creased somewhat, but they are ridiculously low com- 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 43 

you take from him more than his eyes, 
you rob him of his science. Yet personal 

pared with the ordinarily accepted dietary standards. 
When we recall that the Voit standard demands at least 
118 grams of proteid and a total fuel value of 3,000 
large calories daily, we appreciate at once the full signifi- 
cance of the above figures. But it may be asked, was 
this diet at all adequate for the needs of the body 
sufficient for a man weighing 165 pounds? In reply, it 
may be said that the appetite was satisfied, and that the 
subject had full freedom to take more food if he so 
desired. To give a physiological answer, it may be 
said that the body-weight remained practically constant 
throughout the seven days' period, and further, it will 
be observed by comparing the figures of the table that 
the nitrogen of the intake and the total nitrogen of the 
output were not far apart. In other words, there was 
a close approach to what the physiologist calls nitrogen- 
ous equilibrium. In fact, it will be noted that on several 
days the nitrogen output was slightly less than the nitro- 
gen taken in. We are, therefore, apparently justified in 
saying that the above diet, simple though it was in va- 
riety, and in quantity far below the usually accepted 
requirement, was quite adequate for the needs of the 
body. In this connection it may be asked, what were 
the needs of the body during this seven days' period ? 
This is obviously a very important point. Can a man 
on such a diet, even though it suffices to keep up body- 
weight and apparently also physiological equilibrium, do 
work to any extent ? Will there be under such condi- 
tion a proper degree of fitness for physical work of any 
kind ? In order to ascertain this point, the subject was 
invited to do physical work at the Yale University Gym- 



44 HUMANICULTURE 

observation has shown that quite recently, 
in at least two of the largest physiological 

nasium, and placed under the guidance of the director 
of the gymnasium, Dr. William G. Anderson. The 
results of the observations there made are here given, 
taken verbatim from Dr. Anderson's report to the 
writer. 

" <On the 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th of February, 1903, 
I gave to Mr. Horace Fletcher the same kind of exer- 
cises we give to the Varsity Crew. They are drastic 
and fatiguing and cannot be done by beginners without 
soreness and pain resulting. The exercises he was asked 
to take were of a character to tax the heart and lungs, as 
well as to try the muscles of the limbs and trunk. I 
should not give these exercises to Freshmen on account 
of their severity. 

" < Mr. Fletcher has taken these movements with an 
ease that is unlocked for. He gives evidence of no sore- 
ness or lameness, and the large groups of muscles re- 
spond the second day without evidence of being poisoned 
by Carbon dioxide. There is no evidence of distress 
after or during the endurance test, *. e. , the long run. 
The heart is fast but regular. It comes back to its 
normal beat quicker than does the heart of other men of 
his weight and age. 

" * The case is unusual, and I am surprised that Mr. 
Fletcher can do the work of trained athletes and not give 
marked evidences of over-exertion. As I am in almost 
constant training I have gone over the same exercises, and 
in about the same way, and have given the results for a 
standard of comparison. [The figures are not given 
here.] 

" < My conclusion, given in condensed form, is this : 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 45 

laboratories in Europe, there were no scales 
that would weigh anything larger than a 

Mr. Fletcher performs this work with greater ease and 
with fewer noticeable bad results than any man of his 
age and condition I have ever worked with.* 

" To appreciate the full significance of this report, it 
must be remembered that Mr. Fletcher had for several 
months past taken practically no exercise other than that 
involved in daily walks about town. 

"In view of the strenuous work imposed during the 
above four days, it is quite evident that the body had 
need of a certain amount of nutritive material. Yet the 
work was done without apparently drawing upon any 
reserve the body may have possessed. The diet, small 
though it was, and with only half the accepted require- 
ment in fuel value, still sufficed to furnish the requisite 
energy. The work was accomplished with perfect ease, 
without strain, without the usual resultant lameness, 
without taxing the heart or lungs, and without loss of 
body-weight. In other words, in Mr. Fletcher's case at 
least, the body machinery was kept in perfect fitness 
without the consumption of any such quantities of fuel 
as has generally been considered necessary. 

"Just here it may be instructive to observe that the 
food consumed by Mr. Fletcher during this seven days* 
period and which has been shown to be entirely ade- 
quate for his bodily needs during strenuous activity 
cost eleven cents daily, thus making the total cost for 
the seven days seventy-seven cents! If we contrast 
this figure with the amounts generally paid for average 
nourishment for a like period of time, there is certainly 
food for serious thought. Mr. Fletcher avers that he 
has followed his present plan of living for nearly five 



46 HUMANICULTURE 

dog, but in these laboratories numbers of 
medical students receive their training in 

years ; he usually takes two meals a day ; has been led 
to a strong liking for sugar and carbohydrates in general 
and away from a meat dietj is always in perfect health, 
and is constantly in a condition of fitness for work. He 
practises thorough mastication, with more complete in- 
salivation of the food (liquid as well as solid) than is 
usual, thereby insuring more complete and ready diges- 
tion and a more thorough utilisation of the nutritive 
portions of the food. 

" In view of these results, are we not justified in ask- 
ing ourselves whether we have yet attained a clear com- 
prehension of the real requirements of the body in the 
matter of daily nutriment? Whether we fully compre- 
hend the best and most economical method of maintain- 
ing the body in a state of physiological fitness? The 
case of Mr. Fletcher, just described; the results noted 
in connection with certain Asiatic peoples j the fruit- 
arians and /arians in our own country recently studied 
by Professor Jaffa, of the University of California, all 
suggest the possibility of much greater physiological 
economy than we as a race are wont to practise. If 
these are merely exceptional cases, we need to know it ; 
but if, on the other hand, it is possible for mankind in 
general to maintain proper nutritive conditions on dietary 
standards far below those now accepted as necessary, it 
is time for us to ascertain that fact. For, if our stand- 
ards are now unnecessarily high, then surely we are not 
only practising an uneconomical method of sustaining 
life, but we are subjecting ourselves to conditions the 
reverse of physiological, and which must of necessity 
be inimical to our well-being. The possibility of more 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 47 

human physiology. It was largely due to 
this examination of Mr. Fletcher, as to 
his measurable strength and endurance, 
by Dr. Anderson that determined Pro- 
fessor Chittenden to undertake the famous 
inquiry that resulted in his report which 
showed men to be able to work better, 

scientific knowledge of the natural requirements of a 
healthy nutrition is made brighter by the fact that the 
economic results noted in connection with our metabo- 
lism examination of Mr. Fletcher is confirmatory of 
similar results obtained under the direction and scrutiny 
of Sir Michael Foster at the University of Cambridge, 
England, during the autumn and winter of last year ; 
and by Dr. Ernest Van Someren, Mr. Fletcher's collabo- 
rateur, in Venice, on subjects of various ages and of both 
sexes, some account of which has already been presented 
to the British Medical Association and to the Interna- 
tional Congress of Physiologists at its last meeting at 
Turin, Italy. At the same time emphasis must be laid 
upon the fact that no definite and positive conclusions 
can be arrived at, except as the result of careful experi- 
ments and observations on many individuals covering 
long periods of time. This, however, the writer hopes 
to do in the very near future, with the cooperation of a 
corps of interested observers. The problem is far- 
reaching. It involves not alone the individual, but 
society as a whole, for beyond the individual lies the 
broader field of the community, and what proves helpful 
for the one will eventually react for the betterment of so- 
ciety, and for the improvement of mankind in general." 



48 HUMANICULTURE 

play better, and have better health, not on 
the Voit standard, but on half or one- 
third of the amount of nitrogen the text- 
books prescribed as essential. 

So, then, the task that the physiologists 
had set Mr. Fletcher at Cambridge Uni- 
versity in England, to discredit the Voit 
standard, was settled for him in America. 
This was followed by another scientific in- 
vestigation of nearly equal importance, 
undertaken by Dr. Folin, the chemical- 
physiologist on the staff of the Massa- 
chusetts General Hospital, in charge of the 
laboratory of the McLean Hospital for 
the Insane at Waverley, Massachusetts. 
Dr. Folin successfully explained how it 
was that Dr. Van Someren was enabled to 
maintain his health with so small an allow- 
ance of nitrogenous food. By means of 
an exhaustive system of chemical analysis 
he was able to demonstrate that not only 
Dr. Van Someren, but other people who 
were accustomed to the habit of the Voit 
standard of nitrogenous equilibrium, could 
in a short space of time acquire what 



HISTORY OF FLETCHERISM 49 

may now be called the Fletcher standard. 
The extensive and laborious researches of 
both Professor Chittenden and Dr. Folin, 
looked at from the point of view alone of 
scientific performances, were of the first 
rank. Professor Chittenden had the help 
of Surgeon-General O'Reilly, of the United 
States army, who secured for him the co- 
operation of a number of soldiers who 
volunteered to serve as subjects. Besides 
these, he had some athletes and some col- 
leagues for the experiments. It is most 
important to remember, in connection with 
the contentions of this book, that these 
conclusive, confirmatory scientific experi- 
ments were undertaken in consequence of 
Mr. Fletcher's successful attempt to re- 
store his own health, showing clearly that 
there is another and sometimes more 
direct way of attaining desirable results 
than that of finding out how first, that 
of doing first, and finding out how after- 
wards. At any rate, it is far easier, now 
that his success has been explained, for 
those who wish to follow Mr. Fletcher's 
4 



50 HUMANICULTURE 

lead than it was before. The length of 
time necessary for obtaining the authorita- 
tive recognition of Mr. Fletcher's dis- 
covery surely shows that the methods of 
science require fundamental modification 
when they deal with matters of such 
broad human interest. 



CHAPTER III 

MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 

AT first sight it may be thought that 
there is little opportunity for novel views 
in the knowledge of the process of masti- 
cation. It is profitable to recollect, how- 
ever, as Mr. Fletcher first pointed out, 
that the three inches of the alimentary 
region, from the lips to the soft palate, is 
the only part of the thirty feet of the 
intestinal canal where there are discrimi- 
nating apparatus and functions that are in 
any way under the control of the will. 

Pavlov has recently shown us that 
there are a number of nervous impulses 
that originate in the mouth, when the 
masticating and insalivating processes are 
properly carried out, that control the sub- 
sequent digestive processes. So that not 
only the quality, but the quantity, as well 
as the physical condition, of the ingested 



52 HUMANICULTURE 

food depend on the occurrences in the 
mouth. From these short statements it 
will be seen that it is the business of 
every one to understand the phenomena 
presented by the mouth as thoroughly as 
possible. 

In the writings of a famous German an- 
atomist a statement was made that passed 
unnoticed by both anatomists and physi- 
ologists till Mr. Fletcher stirred up our 
interest in the subject. In Gegenbaur's 
" Anatomic der Wirbelthiere," p. 90 ( Ver- 
gleichender), is found the following : " The 
bifurcation of the alimentary canal below 
the soft palate does not depend only on its 
relation with the epiglottis, but also on the 
condition of the food. The exclusive use 
of this means of swallowing is only pos- 
sible with finely divided food. ... I have 
called this way of taking food Poltophagy 
(poltos = masticated, finely divided), and 
the other, Psomophagy (psomos = biting, 
tearing)/' This most important observa- 
tion was one that Gegenbaur recommende4 
should be most carefully investigated. 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 53 

To appreciate thoroughly what follows, 
it is necessary to realise the law of atrophy 
and hypertrophy. Atrophy of muscle 
means that, from want of use, the substance 
wastes and the muscle ultimately becomes 
useless. This phenomenon is well illus- 
trated in the case of those Indian fakirs 
who hold their arms above their heads till 
the joints are fixed and the muscles are 
permanently wasted. Hypertrophy means 
unusual development from unusual work ; 
as, for instance, in the case of blacksmiths, 
with their well-developed arms, shoulders, 
and chests. In anatomy it is found to be 
a law that one can look on muscles as a 
crystallisation of function ; that is to say, 
that their presence alone implies that they 
are used, and as they are used they are 
wanted by the animal. Another thing that 
anatomy teaches is that there is nothing 
superfluous in the body, and so conse- 
quently the structures that are functioned 
in so vitally important a region as the 
mouth, it is needless to say, merit our 
most respectful consideration. 



54 HUMANICULTURE 

If one examines the soft palate of a 
dog, it is seen to be thin, even translu- 
cent; in its centre are found merely three 
or four muscular fibres instead of a muscle. 
These fibres are too scanty and scattered 
to aid, to any but an insignificant extent, 
the elevation of the soft palate. The 
epiglottis is a cartilaginous body found over 
the larynx and attached to the base of the 
tongue. In the dog the epiglottis is very 
small and applied closely to the tongue. 
The food is swallowed over the top of the 
epiglottis instead of by its sides. The 
translucent soft palate and the small and 
insignificant epiglottis are evidence that 
neither of them serves any very important 
purpose to the dog. 

When, on the other hand, a horse is 
examined, one finds an entirely different 
state of affairs. There is a long, muscular 
soft palate as long as the hard bony 
palate. The epiglottis, which is, relatively 
speaking, enormous, stands up so as to 
divide the opening into the oesophagus 
into two. Each of these openings in the 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 55 

relatively-large horse is no larger than 
the single opening in a small dog. In 
the case of the horse, then, one finds that 
the masticated and insalivated food is di- 
vided into two currents passing down 
either side of the epiglottis. The open- 
ings are so small and valve-like that a 
horse is actually unable to breathe through 
its mouth. 

The differences between the horse and 
dog in this respect then are, that the horse 
is obliged to masticate, and is therefore 
poltophagic ; and the dog swallows his 
food in large pieces, and is therefore 
psomophagic ; in other words, he has not 
efficient machinery for mastication, but 
he has good apparatus for tearing. 

When the principles of atrophy and 
hypertrophy are borne in mind in these 
instances, it becomes of great interest to 
observe the state of affairs in man. It is 
of the utmost importance to recollect that 
these differences between the horse and 
dog are by no means merely anatomical. 
There is, as well, an absolutely different 



$6 HUMANICULTURE 

digestive apparatus from both a chemical 
and physical point of view. Just what 
these differences in metabolism are, is not 
yet thoroughly known. That is to say, 
the differences have not been so clearly de- 
fined as to vitiate those conclusions drawn 
from physiological experiments on animals 
being applied to the physiological phe- 
nomena in man. So that when one is 
able to show that in the case of man there 
is a full development of the muscles of 
the soft palate, it acquires a more im- 
portant significance than appears at first 
sight. Enough has been said to show 
that it is of the highest importance for 
each of us to have the clearest information 
of the aptitudes and attributes of the soft 
palate in man. The following experi- 
ments demonstrate certain phenomena 
that can be observed with the mouth. 

The apparatus is very simple, consisting 
of a U-tube of a sufficiently large size, 
and a physiological instrument known as 
a Marey's ambour, which consists of a 
drum provided with an india-rubber mem- 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 57 

brane. To this membrane is attached 
a lever which records its movements. 




FIGURE I. 

The cavity of the drum communicates by 
means of an india-rubber tube with the 



58 HUMANICULTURE 

cavity in which the variations of pressure 
are recorded. Accordingly, if the india- 
rubber tube is connected with one nostril 
while the other is closed, it will be found 
in this experiment to record the variations 
of pressure due to respiration. The 
U-tube is filled with coloured water, and 
one of its limbs is provided with a 
mouthpiece. 

If one causes a positive (or blowing) 
pressure in the mouth the water ascends 
in the remote limb. If a negative (or 
suction) pressure is created the water rises 
in the proximal limb. Both negative and 
positive pressures can be attained and 
maintained, as well as rapidly alternating 
negative and positive pressures. From 
40 to 50 c.cms. of the liquid can be sucked 
up into the mouth. Only 15 to 20 c.cms. 
can be sucked up when the tongue is pro- 
truded. Now any of these movements 
can be carried out during (i) Slow in- 
spiration, (2) slow expiration, (3) absence 
of respiration, (4) hurried respiration, (5) 
when the tongue is protruded. These 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 59 

coincident and respiratory movements 
are shown by the lever of the Marey's 
tambour. The possible agencies in the 
production of such movements are : the 
respiratory muscles, the tongue muscles, 
and the muscles of the cheeks and soft 




FIGURE 2. 

palate. If, then, the respiratory move- 
ments are eliminated, the tongue elimi- 
nated through its protrusion, and the 
cheeks seen and felt not to be concerned 
with the recorded movements, there is 
clear evidence that the movements are 
produced by the muscles of the soft 
palate. 



60 HUMANICULTURE 

When, however, it is wished to ascer- 
tain the character of the movements of 
the soft palate during mastication, it is 
necessary to record the movements from 
its hinder surface. The following ex- 
periments are obviously not of so clear 
a character as the former, because one 
has to make use of the narrow passage in 
the nostril. An instrument the size and 
shape of an Eustachian catheter is used ; 
it is jointed at a, the movable portion 
b being attached to a thread c, which 
passes through a jointed handle d. This 
instrument can be passed through the 
nostril so that its movable limb b can 
rest on the hinder surface of the soft 
palate. The thread that passes through 
the hollow handle d can be attached to 
the tambour shown in the diagram, so as 
to record the movements graphically on a 
revolving drum covered with smoked 
paper. 

In Figure 3 is shown one of these 
graphic registers : A shows the record of 
a positive or blowing pressure, produced 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 6 1 

by, and coincident with, a forward move- 
ment of the soft palate ; B shows a nega- 
tive or suction pressure, produced by a 
backward movement of the soft palate; 
C shows rapidly alternating positive and 
negative pressures. 

It is clear, then, that if the soft palate 
moves forward during the production of 



FIGURE 3 . 

positive pressures and backward in nega- 
tive pressures, it is an active agent in their 
production. 

The former experiments also show that 
the soft palate makes the cavity of the 
mouth air-tight. 

In Figure 4, graphic records of move- 
ments of deglutition are shown. 

B shows a tracing that follows the 
partial protrusion of the tongue. Warm 
water is poured into the space between 
the soft palate and the tongue. When iq 



62 



HUMANICULTURE 



to 15 c.cms. have been introduced, a deg- 
lutition takes place. This comprises a 
forward movement of the soft palate. In 
tracing y/, on the contrary, there is an 
effort of deglutition where a mouthful is 
swallowed in a gulp. In this case, instead 
of an active pushing movement as in B, 
there is a sustained backward movement, 




FIGURE 4. 

showing that the soft palate is raised. B 
is an instance of poltophagic and A of 
psomophagic swallowing. 

It must be remembered that the ex- 
cursions of the movable limb of the instru- 
ment are necessarily very limited, and that 
there would not be a distinction between 
a lifting movement (as in psomophagic 
deglutition) and an increased concavity 
during the time that the lower border 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 63 

is applied to the tongue, as it is pre- 
sumed to occur during the production of 
a negative pressure in the closed mouth. 

Poltofhagic Mastication and Deglutition. 

I will describe the ingestion of a piece of 
currant cake, as it best illustrates the phe- 
nomena of thorough mastication. During 
mastication there is a complex series of 
co-ordinated, unconscious, and automatic 
contractions of the muscles of the cheeks, 
the lips, the jaws, the tongue, and the soft 
palate, excited by afferent and efferent im- 
pulses. As the starch is transformed into 
dextrose it is dissolved by the saliva. If 
it was allowed to remain in the anterior 
buccal cavity it would inhibit the further 
action of the ptyalin. This is prevented 
by the action of the tongue and soft pal- 
ate, alternately producing positive and 
negative pressures in the closed mouth. 
From time to time samples of the fluid 
contents of the anterior buccal cavity are 
withdrawn into the buccal passage (its 
further progress may possibly be arrested 



64 HUMANICULTURE 

by the pressure of the tongue against 
the hard palate if it is not acceptable to the 
end organs in the neighbourhoods of the 
cir cum vail ate papillae), where it passes on 
to the posterior buccal cavity. 1 When 
sufficient has collected, a swallowing im- 
pulse is excited. It is presumed that the 
tongue is pressed upwards against the 
hard palate so as to form a point cTappui 
for the contraction of the soft palate, to 
close the posterior buccal cavity, and to 
help in the expulsion of its contents. 
The mylohyoid in contracting makes the 
laryngeal furrows more vertical. The 
fluid contents are then forced out into the 
pharynx, the buccal cavity is reclosed, and 
the material is collected for the next polto- 
phagic deglutition. 2 When the process of 

1 I have frequently remarked during the last two years, 
while there is a diminution of the contents of the mouth 
during mastication, that fluid can be regurgitated from 
the posterior buccal cavity (while it is filling) on to the 
dorsum of the tongue, and that it is rapidly sucked back 
again. I have been able to repeat this experiment several 
times in succession. 

2 This part of the description is provisional only, and 
depends on whether the nature of the soft palate as shown 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 65 

mastication and deglutition is completed, 
there is nothing left but some almost dry 
currant skins and stones ; even these may 
possibly be disposed of if the teeth are 
good enough to divide them finely. 

It is necessary to understand clearly 
what is meant by the phrase, "a com- 
plex series of co-ordinated, unconscious, 
and automatic movements of the muscles 
due to reflex actions." 

When a pianist reads music, an impulse 
passes, by means of the action of rays of 
light stimulating the nerves of sight, to 
the brain, where it is interpreted. Then 
a series of changes takes place in the brain 
cells that convey other impulses to the 
nerves which control the muscles of the 
forearms, so that the correct note should 
be struck. This long series of compli- 
cated movements is conducted with such 
rapidity by practised players that it actu- 
ally interferes with and practically arrests 
the movements if the attention of the will 

by the tracing is confirmed by actual observation of a case 
in which the maxilla has been removed. 

5 



66 HUMANICULTURE 

is used to direct them. In the practised 
player, the incidence of the ray of light 
on the brain is apparently coincident with 
the striking of the note, so rapid is it. 
This, then, is an example of co-ordinated, 
automatic, and unconscious acts produced 
by education. 

The movements of mastication and deg- 
lutition are so complicated that the series 
of events has to be as natural as breathing. 
To give as clear an idea as possible of the 
actual complexity of the processes, it will 
be necessary to go through the most 
prominent movements and reflex acts. 
When food is taken into the mouth a 
flow of saliva results. This dissolves the 
soluble parts and enables the material to 
give more accurate information of its char- 
acter to the special nerves. The special 
sense nerves then convey impulses that 
affect the roots of the nerves to the brain, 
which control six large glands as well as a 
number of smaller ones. These impulses 
arrange that the right mixture of saliva be 
poured into the mouth. At the same 



MASTICATION AND INSALIVATION 6/ 

time the teeth, tongue, and cheeks are 
engaged by means of another series of 
impulses in dividing the food as finely as 
possible. The tongue has another func- 
tion, in that it not only aids mastication, 
but it secures the passage of prepared food 
into the pharynx. It is capable, by means 
of its interlacing fibres, of assuming an 
amazing number of different shapes. 

To enable one to understand its action, 
a good plan is to look on the tongue and 
soft palate as two lock-gates interposed in 
the stream of the food passing from the 
mouth to the pharynx. The tongue 
forms the first gate, allowing the passage 
of food into the lock (the space between 
the soft palate and the tongue) till it is 
full, then the tongue closes down and 
shuts off the cavity of the mouth ; this is 
followed by the opening of the soft palate, 
which is the lock-gate separating the lock 
from the opening into the oesophagus. 

It is clear, then, that man differs from 
the horse, in that he can swallow food 
psomophagically and the horse cannot. 



68 HUMANICULTURE 

He differs from the dog, in that dogs are 
unable to swallow food poltophagically. 
That is to say, that man has at the same 
time a poltophagic and a psomophagic 
faculty. In the case of the anthropoid 
apes and man there has been a shortening 
of the upper jaw from before backwards, 
on account of the assumption of the erect 
posture which has resulted in the soft 
palate becoming more vertical, and thus 
enabling psomophagic deglutition to be 
practised. The important matter to de- 
cide is, whether man approximates to the 
metabolic characteristics of the polto- 
phagic or to those of the psomophagic 
animals. To recapitulate, Mr. Fletcher 
has drawn attention to a human faculty 
that was not recognised ; this faculty is 
constantly made use of, in that the neces- 
sary apparatus in the shape of nerves and 
muscles are present. If the process is 
used to its full extent, a certain series of 
phenomena result, which will bq recorded 
in the next chapter. 



CHAPTER IV 

TASTE AND APPETITE 

MR. FLETCHER not only described what 
he so aptly called a food-filter, but he 
also claimed to be able to demonstrate 
that the body is capable of deciding by 
taste and appetite the character and 
amount of food that should be eaten. 
More than three years' personal experience 
has convinced me of the substantial truth 
of this statement. 

In the last chapter, the scientific support 
that has resulted from the study of the 
apparatus of mastication suggested by 
Mr. Fletcher was described. It is now 
necessary to examine the factors that are 
concerned with appetite and taste. 

Appetite had been somewhat neglected 
by physiologists on account of some ob- 
servations that had been made in the 
famous case of Alexis St. Martin, a Cana- 



70 HUMANICULTURE 

dian, who had an aperture made in his 
stomach as the result of a gunshot wound. 
These observations were thought to show 
that the stimulus for the secretion of the 
gastric juice was mere contact of the food 
with the walls of the stomach. This idea, 
since then, has dominated the attitude of 
the medical profession towards feeding in 
health and disease. It has resulted in 
patients being fed whether they had an 
appetite or not. Speaking generally, there 
are many cases where it is now thought to 
be better to give only small quantities of 
food when the appetite is bad, and in cer- 
tain cases an indication is seen of omitting 
food altogether; for instance, Professor 
Hericourt of Paris recommends that in 
bad cases of dyspepsia it is advisable to 
put the patient to bed for a week or ten 
days without food. 

The idea of the contact stimulus for 
the flow of gastric juice has received its 
death-blow from the recent researches of 
Professor Pavlov, who showed very clearly 
that by far the most important stimulus 



TASTE AND APPETITE 7 1 

was in all cases appetite, or taste. It is 
not unworthy of reflection that an emi- 
nent professor should be awarded the 
Nobel Prize for demonstrating, at so late 
a period of the history of Physiology, 
such an important fact in the phenomena 
of digestion. The world did not suffer 
so much for the tardiness of physiological 
researchers in emphasising this important 
factor as it might have done, because it 
was fortunately one of those facts that 
are called, somewhat too contemptuously, 
mere popular or instinctive knowledge. 
When Mr. Fletcher was so emphatic in his 
claims of the value of appetite and taste in 
feeding, no notice was taken. But so soon 
as a number of experiments which proved 
his claims, made in a laboratory on dogs, 
were reported, many medical men were 
astonished that so plain and obvious a 
matter should not have been known be- 
fore. Can we not fairly say from this 
failure to notice one of the most impor- 
tant indications in human nutrition, that 
in at least some questions that apper- 



?2 HUMANICULTURE 

tain to humaniculture the ways of science 
cannot be described as business-like and 
methodical ? It is useful to recall the 
words in which Professor Pavlov summed 
up his conclusions : 

" It is only by the establishment of this 
passionate desire for eating that unerring 
and untiring nature has linked the seeking 
and finding of food with the commence- 
ment of the work of digestion. That 
this factor, which we have now so care- 
fully analysed, stands in closest relation 
with a phenomenon of daily life 
namely, appetite may easily be pre- 
dicted. That agency which is so impor- 
tant to life and so full of mystery to science 
becomes at length incorporated into flesh 
and blood, transformed from a subjective 
sensation into a concrete factor of the 
physiological laboratory. We are justi- 
fied in saying that appetite is the first and 
mightiest exciter of the secretory nerves 
of the stomach." 

1 It is to the credit of Pavlov that he refers to Blondlot, 
a French physiologist of fifty years before, as having as- 



TASTE AND APPETITE 73 

As to the real physical factor that deter- 
mines the phenomenon of appetite, beyond 
the general conception that it is an indica- 
tion of the want of food, we have no clew. 
To give some idea of the appetite phenom- 
ena that have been observed in the prac- 
tice and study of poltophagy, it will be 
necessary to deal briefly with the points 
of interest under the following headings : 

(i) Variations in Appetite. Appetite 
varies from a well-defined and decided 
appetite for certain articles of food, such 
as rice, meat, bread, or butter, to what is 
sometimes called a " finnicking " appetite. 
There may be an ill-defined general appe- 
tite, the state in which one says, " Any- 
thing will do, I really don't know what I 
want." Speaking generally, an individual 
is usually at his best with a definite ap- 
petite for one or more ingredients of 
the food groups detailed in the following 
pages. 

serted in his time what he (Pavlov) has proved to be true 
as above, but his work had not been properly appreciated 
by physiologists since his time. 



74 HUMANICULTURE 

(2) Cessation of Appetite. There is 
an invariable and striking phenomenon 
observed in the practice of poltophagy, 
which is the manner in which one knows 
that no more food is required. Some- 
times, almost without warning, appetite 
ceases, and if eating is persisted in, even 
the next mouthful is distasteful. This 
phenomenon is usually noticed the first 
time that the process is practised after at- 
tention has been directed to it, which may 
show that, in these cases at any rate, it is 
due to tiredness of the muscles of masti- 
cation ; another suggestion is that the 
sudden cessation of appetite is due to the 
failure of the secretion of saliva. At any 
rate, this well-marked end-point to appe- 
tite affords a most valuable natural pro- 
tection to the needs of the body, which it 
is obvious must vary from day to day. 
When this faculty has been allowed to be 
blunted by disuse, there is nothing but a 
sense of repletion to guide one when to 
cease eating, though of course there are 
many who are abstemious by habit. It 



TASTE AND APPETITE 75 

is more than probable that the group of 
diseases alluded to earlier as those that 
Bouchard looks on as being associated 
with " slow nutrition " are the result of 
psomophagic habits. 

(3) The Frequency of Appetite. Ac- 
cording to a valuable suggestion of Mr. 
Fletcher, no food should be taken with- 
out appetite. In the case of a beginner, 
in the practice of careful poltophagy ap- 
petite may come at irregular times, vary- 
ing naturally with the way in which the 
day has been spent. In those cases where 
there is a sedentary occupation without 
any great amount of physical exertion 
there is commonly a call for only one 
meal in the day, somewhere about mid- 
day. A second appetite may develop 
between five and six. There should be 
no attempt to make any alterations in 
the ordinary meal-times without strong 
counter indications. One of the most 
prominent changes is the absence of ap- 
petite for breakfast, which enables a good 
day's work to be done before the midday 



76 HUMANICULTURE 

meal. This may not occur for more than 
two years after beginning the practice, 
so that it is by no means advisable to 
force matters, but to be guided by the 
appetite. 

(4) 'The Absence of Appetite. When 
there is no appetite whatever, it is far 
better to refrain from taking food, even 
for so long an interval as two or three 
days, provided always that there is no un- 
easiness or fear of the consequences. It 
is usually advisable under such circum- 
stances to go to bed, especially if there is 
much acidity. 

(5) Hunger. There is a great differ- 
ence between hunger and appetite. It 
may be said that in connection with the 
practice of poltophagy there is practically 
none of that uncomfortable faint hunger 
so often present with psomophagic habits. 
When for any reason it is necessary to 
omit the usual meal, there is little dis- 
comfort, and the appetite seems to be 
conveniently postponed ; this is especially 
true when one is much occupied. 



TASTE AND APPETITE 77 

Food and Taste 

An attractive feature of Mr. Fletcher's 
claims is that the body can be trusted to 
choose the food it requires by taste. In 
other words, that the food that gives the 
greatest pleasure is the best that can be 
taken. With certain limitations which 
can be readily understood, this is true. A 
good example is afforded by the follow- 
ing case. There was not unfrequently 
an inordinate appetite for fruit-juice, as 
much as the juice of from twenty to thirty 
oranges or two or three pounds of grapes 
being relished. The valuable constituent 
of the juice was its vegetable salts; it 
was therefore assumed that the body 
needed them. They were administered 
in another form; a solution (or soup) 
was prepared by boiling a quantity of 
finely divided vegetables in milk or water 
for over two hours. The usual method 
of boiling vegetables in water and throw- 
ing it away, leaves mainly the indigestible 
cellulose residue which is responsible for 



?8 HUMANICULTURE 

the indigestion of some vegetarians. At 
any rate, in this case as well as in others, 
the craving for this solution of salts con- 
tinued for long periods that accompanied 
some interesting symptoms incident to the 
disappearance of chronic gout. 

Foods for which appetite has a distinct 
craving at varying intervals can be con- 
veniently grouped under the following 
heads : 

(i) StarcheSy Dextrine s> Sugars. It is 
noticed that in some cases there is a de- 
cided absence of appetite for starch, and, 
if it is taken in spite of the disinclination 
of appetite, it is apt to be followed by 
acidity and indigestion. In such cases it 
will be found that dextrinised starch is 
readily tolerated and called for regularly 
by the appetite. Starch is easily dextrin- 
ised by thoroughly baking the bread a 
second time with considerable heat, by 
toasting, or by frying starchy foods in oil 
or butter. This fact probably accounts 
for the popularity of that large class of 
patent cereal foods that have the common 



TASTE AND APPETITE 79 

characteristic of being prepared by super- 
cooking. Starch itself is usually called 
for in the form of potatoes, rice, and 
bread. It has been noticed in a number 
of cases that a craving for pastry and 
candies sometimes occurs after the midday 
meal in the late afternoon. This appetite 
has been found to be absent when suffi- 
cient dextrine has been partaken of earlier 
in the day. 

(2) Fats. Practically, without excep- 
tion, all early cases crave an unusual 
quantity of fat, either as butter or cream ; 
as much as from 100 to 150 grms. a day 
being habitually taken. In one case of 
obesity this amount was taken as well 
as one or two pints of milk ; during this 
time there was a loss in weight of about 
two kilograms a week. When this appe- 
tite is prominent, it is necessary to pro- 
vide the purest possible cream and butter. 
Early cases seem to be peculiarly liable to 
disturbances in consequence of any defect 
in the quality or freshness of food. 

(3) Proteids. The appetite for this 



80 HUMANICULTURE 

form of food tends to be the least decided. 
When for any reason there has been 
a deficiency of proteid in the diet, it is 
commonly recognised by faintness, ner- 
vousness, or irritability, rather than a de- 
fined appetite. This is by no means 
always the case, especially when one form 
of proteid is invariably taken. Perhaps 
this occurs because proteid is the tasteless 
ingredient of so many foods. In the case 
of meat, a fierce and unmistakable crav- 
ing is occasionally met with, following on 
physical strain and worry, especially when 
there is want of condition. A plausible 
explanation of this condition is afforded 
by the research of Dr. Sloss of Brussels, 
who demonstrated that muscle gives off 
NH 3 instead of CO 2 when there is tetanus. 
This may show that in cases where there 
is habitual strain, and possibly in cases of 
" nutrition retardante," the muscle tissues 
tend to consume proteid. In other words, 
this form of proteid hunger (it is usually 
more than appetite) perhaps shows that it 
is easier for the muscle to obtain its mate- 



TASTE AND APPETITE 8 1 

rial for energy from proteid than from fat 
or starch. 

It is interesting to note that healthy 
starch feeders have apparently far more 
staying power, and, speaking generally, 
they show the least evidence of wear and 
tear of the body. This fact is well illus- 
trated in the case of the Tyrolese peasants, 
where a man over fifty can carry two hun- 
dred and twenty pounds up a mountain of 
three thousand feet. It is said that the 
British navvy (day laborer), who eats on an 
average some two to three pounds of meat 
a day, is of little use after forty. Is it not 
possible that as starch burns up com- 
pletely when oxidised into H 2 O and CO 2 , 
it is less expensive to the organism than 
either fat or proteid ? It is interesting to 
note that in the author's case there is a 
decided tendency to take starch in increas- 
ing quantities with much less fat than in 
the earlier stages of poltophagy. 

(4) Vegetable Salts. Most fruit and 
vegetables are probably mainly useful for 
their salts. That such salts are an im- 
6 



82 HUMANICULTURE 

portant ingredient in diets is well known. 
For instance, scurvy and other troubles 
occur when they are omitted. It is well 
to take care how they are cooked, and to 
remember that boiling them in water boils 
out their soluble salts. There is no in- 
tention, it need hardly be said, to discour- 
age fruit if the appetite calls for it. These 
remarks are only to be taken as hints and 
suggestions that experience has shown to 
be useful. 

(5) Fluids. Water. Speaking gen- 
erally, it will be found that the practice of 
poltophagy considerably lessens the daily 
intake of water. Economy is shown in 
this as well as in the case of the other 
foods. In the early stage, however, es- 
pecially in cases of obesity, it is commonly 
found that there are a number of sudden 
variations in weight, as much as over four 
pounds daily of either loss or gain. In 
such cases the body generally retains or 
throws off an amount of water correspond- 
ing to the body weight lost or gained ; 
weight thus gained may be retained for 



TASTE AND APPETITE 83 

some days. Alcohol. Cravings for alcohol 
show a decided tendency to disappear. 
There is in some cases an increased power 
of appreciation for small quantities of fine 
wines. In early cases there is a distinct 
appetite occasionally for a restricted amount 
of alcohol, especially when there is severe 
exertion or excessive cold, but the desire 
is quickly satisfied. 



CHAPTER V 

CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 

LESS food is taken, the appetite is more dis- 
criminating, much more pleasure is taken 
in food, and meals are usually reduced in 
number to one or two a day. As regards 
constitutional changes produced by pol- 
tophagy, there is marked improvement in 
general health, one is capable of more 
exertion and mental work ; there is more 
happiness and less tendency to worry. 
These changes may be rapid or slow, vary- 
ing with different people. They depend 
naturally on the state of health and the age. 
The changes are sometimes conspicuously 
slow and progressive, recalling the growth 
of trees, which is only noticeable after 
long periods, and not from day to day. 

Changes in the Waste (F^ces) 

The most striking change is found 
in the solid waste, a marked decrease in 



CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 85 

the quantity and weight being noted. 
There is no longer the unpleasant odour 
that has been thought to be characteristic 
of it. This change is not only cleanly, 
as it seems to eliminate as well the dis- 
agreeable odour sometimes noticed in the 
perspiration, but, in all probability, it has 
far-reaching results on the wear and tear 
of the body. Thus Professor Metchnikoff 
finds that the greatest disharmony from 
which the body suffers is a result of the 
putrescence that occurs in the large in- 
testine, and in consequence there is a 
continual stream of poisonous products 
of decay passing into the body from the 
alimentary canal. As we have seen, there 
are grounds for the belief that it is these 
products which are responsible for so many 
diseases. But instead of removing the 
large intestine, as Professor Metchnikoff 
suggests, Mr. Fletcher would advise the 
practice of poltophagy, which obviates so 
dubious a leap into scientific " harmony." 
To understand the terms that are used in 
the classification of the different forms the 



86 HUMANICULTURE 

waste assumes, it is necessary to note that 
the large intestine is divided into a series 
of sacculi. These sacculi are due to the 
presence of transverse bands of muscular 
fibres disposed at regular intervals. The 
character of the waste that is usually 
observed can be classified as follows : 

(a) Mouldings of the sacculi of the large 
intestine, which are of about the size of a 
hazel nut, smooth, and occasionally faceted. 
Their colour is occasionally dark green, 
more frequently dark brown, less fre- 
quently a lighter brown, but this may be 
partly dependent upon the sort of food 
taken. There is a clean fracture between 
the mouldings showing a marked dryness. 
They are usually covered with a thin 
coating of mucus. 

(b) Adherent forms of (a). The ad- 
herent masses are obviously formed by 
the adhesions of the sacculated mouldings ; 
they are usually mixed with the isolated 
form of moulding described above. Their 
colour is generally lighter than (a), and 
they are usually a little less hard. 



CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 8/ 

(c) Rectal mouldings with indications 
of the sacculi mouldings. This form va- 
ries from that of an ordinary rectal mould- 
ing marked with wavy lines, to distinct 
and unmistakable prominences showing the 
mouldings of the sacculi of the large in- 
testine. The colour has a tendency to be 
lighter and the material to be of a softer 
consistency. 

(d) An ordinary unmarked rectal mould- 
ing which has a tendency to be of a lighter 
colour and less firm in consistency. 

(e) An unformed soft motion. The 
most common form is that of the isolated 
mouldings of the sacculi, the other forms 
being exceptional in connection with the 
practice of careful poltophagy. 

A very interesting variety of waste is 
found when there is intestinal irritation 
from any cause, when there is occasionally 
seen a series, as it were, of the forms de- 
scribed above, commencing with the iso- 
lated mouldings of the sacculi and ending 
with the soft unformed material. This 
might be thought to indicate that the dif- 



88 HUMANICULTURE 

ference in form merely shows the length 
of stay in the intestinal canal. In several 
cases the habitual length of time between 
ingestion and egestion (shown by taking 
charcoal) has been found to be from three 
to five days, probably showing that the 
material does not cause irritation to the 
intestinal canal. There is usually not a 
daily evacuation in the early stages of 
poltophagy ; there may be intervals of 
from two, to as many as three or four 
days. 

Changes in the Large Intestine 

All those who have had experience in the 
observation of subjects in the dissecting- 
room, etc., cannot fail to have noticed 
the large size of the sigmoid flexure com- 
monly found ; sometimes it is enormous. 
In one case in which the bowel had been 
large it is now very much smaller and 
muscular (more distinctly felt) ; the mould- 
ings described above can be felt in situ. 
In this case there had been a period of 
trouble that was due to the accumulation 



CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 89 

of faeces in the neighbourhood of the 
caecum. The question naturally occurs 
to one that in the event of a person having 
a large sigmoid flexure there might be 
some difficulty from atony, the bowel fail- 
ing to deal with the diminished quantity 
of faeces. This may also explain the long 
intervals of time between the evacuations, 
as noted above. The habitual state of 
the faeces can, T think, be an indication of 
the condition of the bowel, if not an indi- 
cation of the state of the muscular coats ; 
at any rate, of the size of its lumen. 

Before proceeding to the actual direc- 
tions for the practice of poltophagy, it is 
necessary to carefully consider the follow- 
ing points on the nature of what is called 
body-habit and the influence of suggestion. 

Considerations involving Body-habit 

A faculty possessed by all living organ- 
isms and by man to a high degree is 
the power of adaptation to surroundings. 
This faculty holds out brilliant hopes for 
the future, its chief use at present being 



QO HUMANICULTURE 

to defer death while the body is exposed 
to conditions that cause degeneration ; in 
the future it will be the aptitude or quality 
of variation that can be better used to im- 
prove the human faculties and aptitudes. 
Those cases, for instance, that suffer from 
chronic gout, rheumatism, or any of those 
formidable complaints grouped under the 
term of "slow or retarded nutrition" (see 
Chapter 10), must not be looked on as 
either foolish, rash, or under some pecu- 
liarly sad dispensation, being victims of 
circumstances that they cannot control. 
It is becoming more and more clear that 
these conditions are the direct conse- 
quences of the ignorance of the science 
of adaptation to surroundings. The ex- 
tensive physical changes that take place 
both externally and internally in un- 
scientific adaptation are those that have 
been so carefully described and classified 
by pathologists. They vary from those 
leading to more or less imminent death, 
to those that, though alarming, are perma- 
nently remediable in a short space of time. 



CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 91 

At any rate, the permanent changes are in 
the character of scars, as indelible, but it 
is to be hoped in many cases as harmless, 
as those on the surface of the skin. Not 
only are these scars present, but the pro- 
tective apparatus of the body has evolved 
certain habits of a metabolic character from 
the changes induced by its reaction to the 
bad environment. 

There is nothing more thoroughly 
understood by the members of the med- 
ical profession than the danger of inter- 
fering too rashly with the habits of a 
lifetime. It is sometimes safer to remove 
a limb than to interfere with them. It is 
well known that in cases of alcoholism, 
morphinism, etc., though it is clear that 
the poison is slowly causing death, a too 
sudden cessation may sometimes actually 
cause death. Every one must recall in- 
stances of those unfortunate men who, 
having led a busy and active life, decide to 
retire and enjoy themselves. If they can 
substitute other activities for those that 
were plentifully provided by their busi- 



92 HUMANICULTURE 

ness, all well and good, the change will 
prove beneficial. But in the frequent 
cases where a life of lazy ease is led, with 
good feeding, carriage exercise, and a 
tendency to take more alcohol than usual, 
the prospects are different. The body is 
deprived of the powerful stimuli of work 
and activity, and, being too far gone to 
adapt itself to the new conditions, it does 
not take long to show what is the cost of 
the ignorance of adaptation. 

The reason for going into these details 
is to explain that sooner or later a body 
that has been obliged to adapt itself to 
daily errors in living contracts more or 
less permanent changes. After regenera- 
tion is effected, it is as if a fire were put 
out ; the seriousness of the condition de- 
pends on how long and where the fire 
has been burning. 

The point that it is desirable to empha- 
sise as earnestly as possible is, that if any 
contemplate the adoption of poltophagy, 
they should do so after consultation with 
their medical adviser, who will probably 



CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 93 

put the pros and cons before them. This 
is not said in any alarmist spirit ; it is only 
mentioned in order to point out that there 
are more people sitting on the edge of 
a precipice, as it were, than is usually 
thought to be the case. Such a danger- 
ous seat may be occupied for a long time, 
provided all goes on quietly without dis- 
turbance. Then, again, we know that 
persons who realise their peril clutch at 
anything which even remotely promises 
to afford them relief. Poltophagy is not 
to be looked upon as a certain panacea. 
It is, however, a fundamental aptitude 
that often accomplishes wonders of re- 
cuperation. 

Suggestion 

It is only when one has had atten- 
tion continuously directed to the study 
of phenomena, such as taste and appetite, 
that one begins to appreciate the extraor- 
dinary way in which suggestions almost 
as old as one's self continue to influence 
daily life. It will only be when science 



94 HUMANICULTURE 

has turned its attention to the importance 
of environment in the daily life of children 
especially that the world will be freed from 
the cloud of suggestions that tyrannise 
over it. Tyranny is the only word to 
express any other than a positive normal 
basis for daily life ; that is to say, when 
false suggestions are permitted to interfere 
with the full exercise of the body's organs. 
A person known to the author had a 
great difficulty with a suggestion of early 
childhood, inculcated by an old nurse, that 
nothing should ever be left on his plate. 
There are grounds for thinking that the 
habit thus acquired was as responsible as 
any other factor for gout and rheumatism, 
that started at twenty and went on for 
some twenty years. Any who will ask 
themselves for a week the following ques- 
tions, and record the answers, will be as- 
tonished how they leave questions dealing 
with the food they eat to chance. The 
first question to ask is why we eat each 
article of food, and why we crave it ; then 
to ascertain what precautions have been 



CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 95 

taken to obtain perfectly pure food of 
good quality ; then to ask ourselves whose 
hands it has been through in the processes 
of cooking. It will be recognised more 
and more in the immediate future that 
those who are responsible for the manu- 
facture and preparation of food should be 
highly skilled people with a sense of re- 
sponsibility ; it is a question of far-reaching 
importance. The people who cater are 
not so greatly responsible as those who 
buy ; if there were greater care and intel- 
ligence in the choice of foods, the pur- 
veyors would soon adapt themselves to 
the new needs. Nothing but the purest 
food will, however, pass without warning 
through the food-filter and the sentinels 
provided by the taste buds, if they are 
properly exercised. 

The following case illustrates the danger 
of the suggestion of enthusiastic faith in 
expecting too rapid improvement to follow 
the adoption of the habit of poltophagy. 
A scientific man who was already taxing 
his powers almost beyond endurance was 



96 HUMANICULTURE 

so much impressed with the phenomena 
he observed in those practising poltophagy 
that he himself started immediately. For 
three weeks everything went well. He 
spent his renewed energy in doing still 
more work ; he could not speak too en- 
thusiastically of the amazing change in his 
fitness and power of work. At the end 
of three weeks he began to lose weight, 
though he could ill afford to do so ; he 
lost his power of work, and did not re- 
cover for some eighteen months. This 
illustrates very well that when one throws 
the extra burden of regeneration on a body 
that is already geared up to its utmost 
degree of adaptation to excessive daily 
work, it is not at all unlikely to resent the 
change by stopping work with the most 
obvious hints. 

We ought not to have the ideas and 
opinions of half a dozen or more people 
intervening between us and the food our 
bodies require, and when we have lost the 
power of the unfailing guides of appetite 
and taste, there is little difficulty in imag- 



CHANGES PRODUCED BY POLTOPHAGY 97 

ining why it is that there are so many 
people with the incessant and ceaseless 
troubles of chronic disease. There should 
be no more excuse for slackness in such 
matters than there would be in carelessly 
running an engine. Every fact that con- 
cerns food and feeding should be ap- 
proached in a calm, scientific spirit, without 
prejudices. 



CHAPTER VI 

DIRECTIONS FOR THE PRACTICE OF 
POLTOPHAGY 

WHEN a start at the practice of pol- 
tophagy is contemplated, it is well to re- 
member how deliberately horses and many 
other animals habitually " chew " their 
food. Many men and women, to a vary- 
ing degree, are poltophagists without being 
aware of it; they may only notice that 
they are somewhat slower in eating than 
other people. The next thing to remem- 
ber is, that unless one had the necessary 
machinery for poltophagy, nerves, mus- 
cles, bones, and teeth, the process could 
not possibly be carried out. Not only is 
this apparatus present, but it has, in some 
degree, been in constant use an entirely 
psomophagic man has not yet been met 
with. It must be remembered that noth- 
ing can be added to nature; that is to 



THE PRACTICE OF POLTOPHAGY 99 

say, the numberless complicated events 
which go to make up the phenomena of 
mastication and deglutition have been ar- 
ranged in their order in the history of 
evolution. Such a process is only carried 
on to perfection when it is entirely natu- 
ral and is hence unconscious. If the 
machinery has not been thoroughly used 
for some time, it is exceedingly probable 
that certain parts of it are out of gear. 
It may be the salivary glands, the mus- 
cles, or the nerves ; whatever the fault in 
the apparatus is, it may be relied on to 
recover sooner or later with perseverance 
in using it as nature intends it to be used. 
Above all, the advice to go slow and not 
to hurry things cannot be repeated too 
often. 

It is well to realise that the precise cir- 
cumstances of any one day are never 
repeated even in the same individual ; so 
that it is well to be prepared for frequent 
changes in appetite and taste. The great 
difficulty is to know exactly what one 
wants, and to get the purest food cooked 



IOO HUMANICULTURE 

in the best way. If compromises have to 
be made, and they generally have to 
be, care must be taken not to give 
more than is absolutely needful. Change 
for the good, to be good, had better be 
almost as slow as the onset of the ineffi- 
ciency that is suffered from. It is well to 
remember, as Mr. Fletcher so wisely in- 
sists, that the events which occur in the 
mouth, the first three inches of the intes- 
tinal canal, are the only part of digestion 
over which we have any direct control ; 
if the mouth treatment is satisfactory, and 
favourable mental state is maintained, the 
rest takes care of itself. There are several 
plans which experience has shown are 
liable to be practised by persons who wish 
to reform their habits of eating, and these 
methods it is necessary to discuss. 

( i ) By counting the Number of Mastica- 
tions. A certain amount of interest has 
been taken in the number of mastications 
it takes in order to dispose of a mouthful 
of food. Mr. Fletcher has voluminous 
record of his observations in this regard. 



THE PRACTICE OF POLTOPHAGY IOI 

It shows remarkable variations even in 
the case of the same individual and de- 
pends on many causes. A kangaroo will 
give over eighty business-like mastications 
to a mouthful of bread. In the case of 
a patient who digested bread with diffi- 
culty over one hundred and fifty masti- 
cations were usually necessary. Mr. Glad- 
stone, it must be remembered, attributed 
his strength and endurance to masticating 
his food, it was said, thirty to thirty-five 
times ; as a matter of fact, when an inter- 
ested inquirer counted the number of the 
great statesman's jaw movements in con- 
nection with each mouthful, from the 
strangers' gallery at a public dinner at 
Cambridge, he found the number was 
usually as many as sixty or seventy. It 
would seem, therefore, that Mr. Glad- 
stone had only made a rough estimate, 
and showed his habitual wisdom by not 
counting his mastications. In the prac- 
tice of poltophagic eating, some foods are 
sucked up by the selective apparatus at 
the back of the mouth before half a 



102 HUMANICULTURE 

dozen jaw movements have taken place, 
whereas, sometimes, more than a hundred 
are necessary. Even in Mr. Gladstone's 
own case, often many more than his spe- 
cified number were required, so that the 
Gladstone dictum can only be set down 
as approximate. There are numbers of 
people who, if they count their mastica- 
tions, are so literal and conscientious in 
following directions that they make their 
lives a burden to themselves and their 
fellows. Others, on the contrary, may be 
helped by it. In nervous cases it is 
usually harmful to direct too much atten- 
tion to automatic acts. 

(l) By Hyper-mastication. That is to 
say, conscious retention of the food in the 
mouth for too long a time. This is 
effected by pressing the hinder part of the 
tongue against the hard palate. The ob- 
jections to this process are that it tends 
to interfere with the natural series of 
events, and may possibly cause a habit 
which will be difficult to eradicate. It 
must be remembered that one of those 



THE PRACTICE OF POLTOPHAGY 103 

admirable adaptations which poltophagy 
reveals is the fact that when it is attempted 
to digest starch artificially, it is found that 
the process is entirely interrupted as soon 
as sugar is manufactured by the ferment. 
This is called inhibition of the ferment 
action, and it is invariable in the case of 
the other ferments. Now the remarkable 
process disclosed in poltophagy provides 
to perfection that food-filter which Mr. 
Fletcher describes. It at once allows the 
soluble parts of the mixture which is 
being treated, and which has become suffi- 
ciently insalivated to be acceptable to the 
body, to pass out of the mouth through 
the lock-gates, so that all the starch should 
be subjected to the action of the saliva 
until the gates to the filter open of their 
own accord. 

A useful process for beginners is to 
take one or two teaspoonfuls of flaked 
wheat or other very dry food at the 
commencement of meals, until the ma- 
chinery gets into working order. The 
really important thing to remember is 



104 HUMANICULTURE 

that it is necessary to restrain the tongue 
from pushing the food backwards against 
the soft palate, or perhaps it would be 
more accurate to say, against the hinder 
part of the hard or bony palate. When 
this is prevented, the poltophagic appara- 
tus acts normally. There is one exception 
to this, and that is when the soft palate 
is used voluntarily to suck the food from 
the front of the mouth ; this is not so bad 
as bolting the food, for it does not draw 
in lumpy food, but is the next thing to 
it. As long, then, as the process is, as 
it were, left to itself, it will gradually de- 
velop the fully co-ordinated action of the 
muscles, nerves, glands, etc., which are con- 
cerned in the process ; although there are 
no complete data at present, there seem to 
be reasons why it should take a consider- 
able time in some cases. It is interesting 
to remember that poltophagic mastication 
cannot take place unless the mouth is 
closed. It is curious that the universally- 
condemned habit of eating with the mouth 
open should be evidence of psomophagy. 



THE PRACTICE OF POLTOPHAGY 105 

The Choice of Food by Appetite, etc. 

It will be obvious to those who have 
read the remarks on body-habits and 
suggestion, that the choice of the most 
suitable food is by no means so easy a 
proposition as it sounds. It will be con- 
venient if the ideal state, so far as present 
experience goes, is briefly noted. It must 
be remembered that in an early stage of 
such a revolution in ideas as this reform 
involves, with the necessarily short expe- 
rience in its practice, the hints that are 
advanced are rather in the nature of sug- 
gestions than descriptions of well-ascer- 
tained facts. To be absolutely thorough, 
it would be wiser to prepare one's own 
food, but to the many this is not easily 
possible. When it is proposed to adopt 
the habit of careful poltophagy in the case 
of chronic disease, it is essential that the 
individual should place himself under as 
advantageous conditions as possible re- 
specting climate, and above all as regards 
food. It would be of problematical value 



106 HUMANICULTURE 

to be in an excellent climate, where, for 
instance, there was bad butter. The 
most essential condition is the possibility 
of complete rest. Sun, fresh air, especially 
mountain air in the summer, exercise, free- 
dom from worry, amusement, music, etc., 
are all useful, some even necessary. 

The main thing is to take the regener- 
ative process as seriously as possible, and 
to compromise as little as one can help. 
There should be great patience ; the idea 
of immediate or miraculous " cure" should 
be replaced by a conception of the slow 
and certain healing power of nature when 
the environment is ideal. Nothing should 
be forced ; any proceedings designed to 
hasten matters are more often than not the 
cause of mere temporary stimulation, and, 
on the whole, the cause of actual delay. 
With regard to the question of rest, it is 
necessary to realise that the perfection of 
rest is an absence of any kind of impulse 
travelling to the brain. On the other 
hand, it is well known that absorbing 
pleasure is frequently the most perfect 



THE PRACTICE OF POLTOPHAGY 107 

rest, and that people's harmless pleasures 
differ as much as they do themselves. 
There has been an extraordinary series of 
cures of extreme neurasthenia by Professor 
Dejerine of Paris, who does nothing more 
with these hitherto incurable cases than 
keep them in bed without talking and as 
free from the reception of impulses as 
possible, and feed them with milk. 

It is well that any wish that patients 
should have for food should be gratified 
with as little disturbance as possible ; 
nothing should be forbidden, unless there 
are the most clear and decided reasons 
against it. When it is remembered that 
all foods can be referred with little diffi- 
culty (or, by means of their prominent 
ingredient if they are composed of more 
than one variety) into one of the four 
groups mentioned above, the best device 
is to use a strong preference for a certain 
food as an indicator that will enable a 
better choice to be made in the same 
group. For instance, sardines, pate-de- 
foie-gras, or cream-cheese may have sub- 



108 HUMANICULTURE 

stituted for them food fried in butter, 
good fresh butter, or cream in some ac- 
ceptable form. Fresh fruit juices, salads, or 
vegetables when strongly craved may pos- 
sibly have substituted for them a solution or 
soup of their salts. When starch is craved 
and causes acidity, dextrinised bread must 
be substituted for it. For cheese taken 
in the ordinary way it is better to have it 
finely grated and made into cheese sauce or 
straws, or else taken as Welsh rare-bit or 
toasted cheese ; this makes the food more 
digestible and renders it sterile as well. 
Such devices as these will gradually enable 
those who are careful to be able to satisfy 
and interpret their preferences with greater 
accuracy and satisfaction, and at the same 
time to have increased pleasure in eating. 

It is essential, while a patient is re- 
acquiring his power of healthy discrimina- 
tion in the choice of foods, that these 
should be as simple as possible, and that 
only one article of food should, as far as 
is practicable, be before him at a time. 
If there is a mixture of two or more 



THE PRACTICE OF POLTOFHAGY 1 09 

foods in one dish, it may be eaten in too 
large an amount, because of the strong 
and decided craving for one of the ingre- 
dients it contains. It is only natural 
that the neglect of such precautions tends 
to postpone the healthy state, when one 
knows definitely, and as decidedly as most 
poltophagic people do, what he prefers. 

There is one warning which must be 
borne carefully in mind, and that is, that 
this epicurean system does not in any 
sense of the word imply asceticism. It is 
founded on the same plan as that most 
successful and practical doctrine of Epi- 
curus, which was the scientific pursuit of 
healthy pleasure by the practice of as 
perfect an adaptation to our environment 
as our knowledge allows. So that in this 
interpretation there is no implication of 
seeking that so-called " enlightened pleas- 
ure of self-restraint/' but it aims at the 
scientific recovery of the fullest possible 
exercise of the natural aptitudes and 
functions. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 

IT is now essential to define what are the 
principles underlying what has been not 
inappropriately called Fletcherism. As 
previously intimated, it arose in the effort 
of a business man to apply business prin- 
ciples to the physiology of nutrition so as 
to correct his own malnutrition. In this 
he succeeded, and has preserved his life 
long after the insurance experts had re- 
fused to insure him. In the first place, 
one recognises a very decided difference 
between it and other " isms " on similar 
subjects. The difference is that it makes 
a claim which has never yet failed, it 
appeals first, last, and always to nature 
and the science of nature. There is a de- 
mand made for a hearing for natural scien- 
tific adaptation, and such a claim cannot 
fail to be substantiated in the long run. 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM III 

The business of science hitherto has been 
more to watch and understand nature than 
to direct it. 

Fletcherism, then, boldly states, on the 
evidence of ample experimentation, that, 
if natural aptitudes are trusted, and the 
incomplete instructions and false teachings 
of degenerate habits are forgotten, there is 
little difficulty in maintaining health. In 
other words, it is stated that the primary 
and essential condition for scientific adap- 
tation to environment is to secure natural 
environment including optimum nutrition. 

To prevent this from being mere theory, 
Mr. Fletcher has had the singular distinc- 
tion of bringing to light a fundamental 
human faculty to which he gave the busi- 
ness-like name of " Nature's Food Filter," 
and which had not been previously recog- 
nised by the organisations of medical 
science. The explanation of the fact that 
it should have been reserved for Mr. 
Fletcher to do this, and that it should 
not have been discovered by the research- 
ers in the medical sciences, is readily seen. 



112 HUMANICULTURE 

The medical sciences can be said to be 
the crystallisation of the necessities of the 
sick man. f he whole apparatus has been 
adapted to that end. It is in all prob- 
ability due to this reason that there has 
been a partial, and therefore an inaccurate, 
conception of the protective physiological 
attributes of man. The sick man has been 
obliged of necessity to put himself more 
or less without reserve into the hands of 
his medical attendant, who suggests or 
orders what he should take, etc. 

The professors of the medical sciences 
in all their manifold grades are little more 
than disease experts. The world has 
allocated the function of adjudicating and 
directing the conduct of health to the 
medical profession. This is natural, con- 
sidering the magnificent services it has 
rendered to mankind. Physiology was 
good enough for doctors, and they re- 
tailed it, as taught to them, to their 
patients. In the general scheme of medi- 
cine the imperfections of this important 
branch were not conspicuous, because of 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 113 

the lack of practice in humaniculture. It 
was then quite natural to think that the 
current Physiology was good enough for 
the world in general. So it has gone on 
in perfect good faith. Physiology has 
presented dogmatic decisions rather than 
a system of growing, active doctrine suit- 
able for human purposes, and has gone 
on serenely about its business, which is the 
discovery of the general laws of life. So 
much is this the case that physiologists 
honestly think themselves capable of ad- 
judicating on purely human questions, 
whereas in point of fact Mr. Fletcher 
has clearly and unmistakably shown that 
this World's Department for the Under- 
standing of Man is out of gear and de-^ 
fective. In the first place, Physiology 
adjudicates on purely human questions 
without having had adequate practical 
working experience with human phe- 
nomena. It has missed the whole point 
of the natural requirement in the inges- 
tion of food. Physiologists have only 
recently laid emphasis on the importance 



114 HUMANICULTURE 

of appetite ; they did not know, or did 
not take into account, until recently that 
the dog has a very different mastication 
and deglutition apparatus from man. 
Their passively accepted dogma, the Voit 
standard of minimal nitrogen require- 
ment for a healthy worker, has been 
proved to be grossly incorrect. 

These questions must not be looked at 
as being in any sense of the word merely 
academical ; far from it. A considerable 
part of the world has handed over the 
comprehension and direction of their natu- 
ral defensive aptitudes to such faulty 
doctrines as these. They order their own 
lives by them as well as those of the sol- 
diers, sailors, paupers, criminals, etc., not 
to speak of the instruction of the rising 
generation, that is given over to the direc- 
tion of mere scholastic vanities. It is 
scholasticism which has claimed a knowl- 
edge greater than the evidence of the 
perfect defensive apparatus that nature 
has provided for all living creatures. 

It will be seen, then, that Fletcherism 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 115 

deals with conceptions that involve prac- 
tical science, the working knowledge of 
every-day life for all human beings. This 
is in reality only a restricted view ; in the 
broad, philosophical point of view it enters 
into the business of humaniculture, which 
now has all the resources of science, its 
trained observers and its knowledge, to 
carry it to a practical and logical conclusion. 
It will be admitted by those who recog- 
nise that a case can be made out against 
the present methods and organisation of 
the medical sciences that it is of vital im- 
portance to throw light on the causes 
which underlie such a state of affairs. 
Physiologists have been engaged tirelessly 
and persistently, although by no means ex- 
clusively, in the investigation of the vital 
phenomena of those animals that can be 
most conveniently brought into a labora- 
tory. There is no difficulty in seeing the 
reason, the object in experimental work 
being to have the factors under the best 
observation and control. This is plainly 
impossible in the case of man, as the 



Il6 HUMANICULTURE 

phenomena that can be accurately meas- 
ured are few in number. Physiological 
chemistry, the means whereby the vital 
changes of metabolism are measured, is 
an almost new science; it is one of ex- 
ceeding difficulty, that necessitates so long 
and thorough a training that there are 
few who are competent to hold the far 
too few and badly paid posts that are at 
the disposal of the laboratories. Then, as 
it is so new a science, a vast amount of 
work has to be done in purely scientific 
research and the perfection of its methods 
of measurement. 

All the time, then, that science has 
been holding out dazzling hopes of the 
millennium, which seems to be as far 
off as ever, men and women are dying of 
evitable disease, millions are leading lives 
of inefficiency, and the apparent hope- 
lessness of things is appalling humanity. 
At the same time a medically untrained 
individual makes a considerable discovery, 
even from a scientific point of view. The 
Greeks had hardly a vestige of the science. 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 1 1/ 

of which we are so rightly proud. Yet 
Greece was able to cultivate men and 
women who have been models of intelli- 
gence and physical beauty for all the gen- 
erations since their time. 

There are always two ways of " doing 
things " : the first is to do what is desired 
first, and then to explain how it was done ; 
the other way is to find out how first 
and do it afterwards. It would be difficult 
to say which method has been most fertile 
in results ; it depends entirely on the sub- 
ject to which the method is applied; but 
in the case of humaniculture, surely there 
can be no doubt, as there are necessarily 
human beings always with us in all stages 
of their development, that rather than 
wait we ought " to do " first, and use all 
the magnificent resources of science to 
improve our practice. 

Hopes have been eagerly turned to the 
grand organisations of medicine for the 
wisdom that is to secure a more rapid 
progress of the world. Mr. Fletcher has 
demonstrated, it would appear, that in the 



Il8 HUMANICULTURE 

line of his special inquiry there is an 
evident reason for the want of output 
of the laboratories, a lack of connec- 
tion between detached details of knowl- 
edge. There is a vital necessity for a 
complete equipment in order to give man 
the knowledge needed to cope with his 
complex surroundings. Wild animals 
have this equipment assured them by 
hereditary aptitudes and training which 
enable them to avoid their enemies and 
obtain food. Without this knowledge of 
making the very best of things, or, in 
other words, of scientifically adapting 
themselves to their environment, the 
wild animals would certainly die. They 
must always be at " concert pitch," they 
must keep themselves in the " pink of 
condition," and must be ready at any 
moment to use all their resources and 
strength to escape from their enemies or 
to capture their prey. Therefore, other 
things being equal, the unfittest or weak- 
est among animals are those who are least 
instructed and consequently unable to per- 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 1 19 

fectly adapt themselves to their emergen- 
cies. Surely the lack of an equivalent 
instruction in the case of many unfortu- 
nate human beings is forgotten by those 
who say that "the unfit, the (so-called) 
have-to-be-bad, the criminal, the diseased, 
the mentally unsound, and the many other 
varieties of the degenerate, ought to be 
killed or allowed to die." It has actually 
been called the " foolish sentimentality 
of the age " that keeps them alive, to the 
world's detriment. Only a man as judi- 
cial and as experienced as Mr. Z. R. 
Brockway would be entitled to promul- 
gate such an opinion as this, and he 
stoutly protests against any such dis- 
crediting of nature. He is another of 
those who do first and explain after- 
wards, instead of formulating pessimistic 
theories in the seclusion of studies and 
laboratories. In the place of the bar- 
barous and uneconomical methods of 
punishment in common use he reformed 
criminals by using nature's method, both 
of growth and regeneration (/. e. growth 



120 HUMANICULTURE 

from degeneration), which is, to supply 
any needed instruction. 

In a similar manner Dr. Barnardo took 
the most unpromising material (from an 
hereditary point of view) that could be 
imagined, and by means of instruction 
has been able to send an army of more 
than twenty thousand new citizens to 
Canada. Of these, ninety-eight per cent 
have done well. This is a result that 
one can recommend to those who are 
concerning themselves with the new sci- 
ence Eugenics ; most universities would 
be proud of as much success. 

Dr. and Mrs. J. H. Kellogg, of Battle 
Creek, in treating some forty adopted 
children, taken from most unfortunate 
early environment, during about nineteen 
years, have had no failures. Their waifs 
have been taken into their family life 
under their own roof and no feeling of 
" adoption " has been allowed to prevail. 
This would show an advantage in favour 
of family care as opposed to institutional 
care. 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 121 

Another instance of " doing things " 
is afforded by Mr. Patterson, president 
of the National Cash Register Company 
of Dayton, Ohio, who, when he was in- 
vestigating the partly known factors of 
manufacturing organisations, turned his 
attention to the development of the minds 
and bodies of his employees, and thus, 
by making full use of " human-wealth/' 
made the remarkable success that is known 
all over the world. Many other in- 
stances could be quoted of the applica- 
tion of this principle of " doing things," 
but the preceding suffice for the purpose 
of illustration. 

What does this distinction between 
" doing things " (action) and " thinking 
things " without the reasonable prediction 
of successful action really amount to ? 
Practically these processes of induction, 
of deduction, and action are represented 
in the daily mental and physical activities 
of all human beings. The profession of 
thinking (philosophers), of thinking and 
measuring (men of science), and those 



122 HUMANICULTURE 

who " do things" (men of affairs or action) 
are part of the cosmic device for the divi- 
sion of labour. In point of fact these 
processes are inseparable from one an- 
other ; perfect action is the end or proof 
of perfect induction or deduction, and is 
incontestably the goal of science. 

The plan that is adopted by men of 
action, the plan that has been elaborated 
in the material progress of the United 
States, is known in Europe as the " Amer- 
ican method." This device merits the 
distinction of being added to the well- 
tried philosophical processes of " induc- 
tion " and " deduction," with the title of 
production. The first essential is to know 
clearly what is wanted, and then to keep 
it constantly in mind ; whether it be that 
of the American nation to dig the Panama 
Canal, that of Mr. Rockefeller to acquire 
and distribute oil, or to organise an ap- 
paratus for acquiring and distributing the 
science of humaniculture, it makes no 
difference to the method that should be 
employed. It is necessary that the object 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 123 

or end should possess the minds and 
govern the activities of the entire organi- 
sation to the exclusion of everything else, 
at any rate during business hours. This 
sounds an unnecessary thing to say, but 
in a practical business attempt at humani- 
culture there would not be either the time 
or the necessity to investigate the phe- 
nomena shown by the ganglia of the frog's 
heart, for instance, unless there was noth- 
ing more important on hand. The next 
step is to use that essential and important, 
device the Card-Index System, or, as it 
might be called, the system of the auto- 
matic philosophy of men of action. Those 
who are masters of the device have, by 
its means, presented to their minds in an 
accessible and intelligible form the scheme 
of work necessary for the accomplishment 
of their purpose. In other words, one is 
able to appreciate what are the "cold 
facts " of the proposition. The factors 
that are contributory to the result to be 
attained by production are then carefully 
enumerated, they are next investigated in 



124 HUMANICULTURE 

the degree and order of their importance, 
and the knowledge that has already been 
acquired about them is arranged and 
classified for convenient reference. This 
once accomplished, the obstacles reveal 
themselves and have to be overcome. It 
can then be seen what requires the most 
concentrated effort. The importance of 
and the order in which the experiments 
are undertaken are judged solely in the 
degree that they will influence the success 
of the result that is aimed at, and for no 
other reason whatever. The modern motor- 
car was made first in a very crude form 
and improved by practice, without aca- 
demic science helping any more than by 
the assurance that it " would not work." 
Edison " does things " first and explains 
them afterwards. In other words, his re- 
searches are not only for the purpose of 
measurement (induction) alone, but for 
production. Therefore, if anything is to 
be done in humaniculture, it must be done 
on Greek lines, or on "American business 
methods," which are classical in their prac- 



THE PRINCIPLES OF FLETCHERISM 125 

ticality. It is not so much a question for 
individuals, but for the heads of great 
organisations and for a nation. Civilisa- 
tion cannot be said to be run on the lines 
of practical humaniculture ; one has only 
to contemplate the sorry crop of degen- 
erates that form so prominent a feature 
of our large cities to realise its absence. 
There is no one person that is responsible 
for this lack of fundamental practicality 
more than another; we are all of us re- 
sponsible. It is every one's business to 
see to it that concerted and co-operative 
humaniculture is started without delay, 
and carried through, not only with the 
philosophical processes of induction and 
deduction, but as well with the assured 
success of the American method of 
production. 



5Cto0 



CHAPTER VIII 

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE ORIGIN OF 
MEDICAL DOCTRINES 

THE origin and progress of the medical 
sciences have been due to the action of 
many forces. Like all other human or- 
ganisations, these departments had their 
birth and growth in obedience to men's 
needs. The mother- force, it is clear, has 
been, and continues to be, the urgent 
need of the sick man to be cured of his 
disease. Patients have always been cred- 
ulous and subject to suggestion, so that 
faith-cures of the most imposing dimen- 
sions and variety have been continually 
provided for them. Fortunately, as people 
have shown a growing predilection for the 
services of the Medical Profession, means 
have been provided for the slow and 
laborious acquisition of positive knowl- 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES I2/ 

edge at centres of learning. It must be 
borne in mind that an art such as Medi- 
cine, whatever may have been the poverty 
of its knowledge at the time of the emer- 
gency, has always been obliged to act 
immediately, so that its prominent feature 
has been that of a craft founded on a 
growing accumulation of practical expe- 
rience in the treatment of disease. The 
sum of the practice agreed on by the 
majority has from time to time been organ- 
ised under the domination of certain doc- 
trines. These dominant ideals of prac- 
tice can be conveniently grouped under 
the following heads : 

(1) The Principles and Practice of Hu- 
maniculture. (Classical Greek.) 

(2) The Acquisition of Positive Knowl- 
edge. (Science.) 

(3) The Expectant or Natural Plan of 
Treatment. (Rational : Eclectic.) 

(4) Empiricism, or the " Cure " Idea. 
(Orthodox.) 

(5) Dogmatic and Scholastic Doctrines. 
(Schools.) 



128 HUMANICULTURE 

(6) The Ideals of Theocratic Medicine. 
(Faith Cures of many sorts.) 

( i ) The Principles and Practice of 
Humaniculture 

It is interesting to record that in one 
direction at least the ancients excelled in 
the successful application of knowledge. 
Humaniculture, or the science of man's 
adaptation to his surroundings, can be said 
to have begun and to have ended with 
Greek civilisation. The predominant ideal 
in this as in other great national move- 
ments was closely associated with religion. 
The gods and goddesses of the Greeks 
were nothing more than conceptions of 
magnificent men and women. Their calm 
and settled belief in the grandeur and 
perfectibility of human nature was inborn 
and fostered by religious observances. 
Their daily life, too, was necessarily subor- 
dinated to these enlightened ideals. Hu- 
maniculture was with them an applied 
science in the highest sense of the word, 
and one that was carried out with the 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 1 29 

active co-operation and close attention of 
the foremost citizens. The lives of the 
young were arranged so as to be an effec- 
tive training for the great religious festi- 
vals, such as the Olympian games. The 
successful competitors received distinctions 
and many privileges, one being to have 
their bodies sculptured so as to serve as 
permanent records of their feats and phys- 
ical beauty. The Greeks, too, were practi- 
cal psychologists. There were inspectors 
appointed for the object of censoring the 
tales that were told to the young, in order 
that no bad impressions should be im- 
parted to them. Mothers were so keenly 
alive to the danger of harmful sugges- 
tions in youth, that they forbade their chil- 
dren associating with slaves and servants. 
Choral dances, music, literature, philoso- 
phy, rhetoric, gymnastics, etc., were the 
subjects of both religious and secular 
education. The poor received suitable 
technical education, as it was recognised 
to be important to have an early initiation 
into the chosen life-work. None of their 
9 



I3O HUMANICULTURE 

philosophers were too great to occupy 
themselves with the vital questions of 
education. Thus Aristotle condemned 
the laws that were promulgated to restrain 
children from shouting and making those 
noises that children still enjoy. Aristotle 
is universally acknowledged to be the 
greatest intellectual giant in the history 
of the world, yet he did not think it 
derogatory to point out that such restraint 
was in the highest degree injurious; that 
the exercise to the lungs was peculiarly 
beneficial ; in short, that it was a kind of 
gymnastics, and by the last suggestion he 
touched the Greeks in their sensitive 
spot, gymnastics being looked on as relig- 
ious exercises. They were also most care- 
ful in all questions of diet. It would be 
easy to extend this subject much further, 
but enough has been said to draw atten- 
tion to the extraordinary success of their 
practice. 

It is, however, necessary to refer briefly 
to the doctrines of Epicurus, and to note 
the fact that the present revival of the 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 1$! 

interest in humaniculture under the name 
of Fletcherism is epicurean in tendency. 
Epicurus may be said to have been the 
first to formulate clearly the conceptions 
of the utmost simplicity in diet, a properly 
balanced nutrition, with mental calm and 
happiness. Above all, he realised and 
taught that health must be attained and 
maintained in order to secure the latter. 
Epicurus may be said to illustrate the 
peculiarly practical character of Greek 
philosophers ; they practised what they 
preached, all of them taking the greatest 
interest in what we now call the common- 
places of life. They used all the resources 
of their highly cultivated reasoning and 
learning in the improvement of their prac- 
tice. For instance, had the Greeks dis- 
covered the circulation of the blood, it 
is inconceivable that they would have 
been induced to make it the occasion of 
indiscriminate bleeding, as did a later civil- 
isation. They would have been saved by 
their empirical and successful practice in 
humaniculture. 



132 HUMANICULTURE 

The sayings of Epicurus which have 
come down to us from various sources 
are most interesting and instructive, and 
decidedly worthy of repetition. " Nature 
ought to be the sole judge of what is con- 
formable to nature." " Whenever nature 
acts without calculation and without rea- 
soning, it cannot make a mistake ; where 
there is no reasoning, there is no error; 
or, with all human beings the object that 
nature pursues is pleasure, there is here 
actually the natural object of life for all 
beings. It ought to be the highest aim 
of man ; the latter will do by reflection 
what the animals do by instinct, he will 
teach nature to lead his reason." "We 
ought," says Epicurus, " to be on our 
guard against any dishes which, though we 
may be eagerly desirous of them before- 
hand, yet leave no sense of gratitude behind 
them after we have enjoyed them." " Epi- 
curus the Gargettian," writes another au- 
thor, " cried aloud and said : ' To whom a 
little is not enough, nothing is enough. 
Give me a barley cake, and I am ready to 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 133 

vie with Zeus in happiness/ ' A great deal 
more might be written about Epicurus, 
who may be said to be, more than any 
other, the philosophical exponent of the 
ideals of the future; that future where 
the highest art and the most perfect science 
will be that of the development of man's 
faculties and aptitudes to a degree of 
which Greek civilisation will afford an in- 
dication instead of an unattainable ideal. 

(2) The Acquisition of Positive Knowledge 

The supreme value of positive knowl- 
edge is that it prevents the fruits of 
successful practice being lost. Humani- 
culture was born and grew under a heroic 
theocratic ideal into the fine flower of 
Greek civilisation, but in the dark days 
of the period before the Renaissance, the 
world sank to terrible depths under de- 
grading theocratic tyranny that still exerts 
its sinister influence on some of the con- 
ceptions of modern life. If there had 
been more positive knowledge, it is un- 
thinkable that all that was good in Greek 



134 HUMANICULTURE 

civilisation would have been lost during 
the Dark Ages. 

The fine product of Greek intellect 
served as sufficient intellectual food for 
the world till the sixteenth century. In 
1527 that erratic genius Paracelsus burnt 
before his astonished audience the almost 
sacred writings of Galen and Avicennus. 
Whatever may be said of his amazing 
character, he had the distinction of leading 
his contemporaries from the fogs of dog- 
matic authority to the daylight of obser- 
vation and experiment. It is difficult to 
realise the protean activity of folly, igno- 
rance, and authority in preventing the 
progress of the accumulation of positive 
knowledge. From Paracelsus onwards 
science grew by stages that were amazingly 
slow at first. For instance, the world 
paid for Harvey's great discovery by be- 
ing bled for three hundred years. The 
increase of knowledge might be almost 
said to be insignificant till the scientific 
period of the world's history that com- 
menced in the middle of the last century. 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 135 

(3) The Expectant or Natural Plan of 
treatment 

It is far easier to act when swayed by 
imaginary fears, or when under the influ- 
ence of systems or doctrines that suppress 
initiative and diminish responsibility, than 
to wait till careful and skilled observation 
shows that there is real need for action. 
The latter plan has at its foundation a 
trust in the innate tendency of the body 
to recover from the worst of its diseases 
when it has the necessary rest. Its basic 
idea has been to look on symptoms as the 
natural indications of the means that the 
body adopts in the course of recovery. 
These ideals have always numbered among 
their adherents the master minds of medi- 
cine. Hippocrates the father of medi- 
cine as he is called was the first hygienist. 
He wrote a treatise on the influence of en- 
vironment on health and disease, his many 
travels enabling him to make a number 
of acute and valuable observations. He it 
was who first pointed out that the body was 



136 HUMANICULTURE 

not a system of warring republics, but that 
it was an entity where action was con- 
current and co-operative, the affection of 
one part invariably communicating itself 
to others. 

Asclepiades, a physician fresh from the 
famous school of Alexandria, introduced 
the enlightened ideals of Epicurus into 
medical practice in Rome. He founded 
a school of medicine whose practitioners 
were known as methodists. The theo- 
retical foundation of their belief was that 
the body was composed of molecules in 
constant movement, illness resulting from 
a relaxation or retarding of this movement. 
Their practice, which, after all, is the im- 
portant thing, consisted in making use of 
all the resources of an enlightened hygiene. 
They used massage, hydrotherapy, gradu- 
ated exercises, and depended largely on a 
vegetable and fruit diet. They distrusted 
drugs because they involved the introduc- 
tion of noxious substances into the body, 
thereby weakening the stomach and inter- 
fering with digestion, thus depriving the 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 137 

body of its most potent means of recovery. 
Lucretius gave the help of his poetic genius 
to this school, which for generations af- 
forded the ideals governing medical prac- 
tice in Rome. 

The change for the worse in later days 
is strikingly illustrated by the differences 
in the treatment of Augustus Caesar and 
Louis XIV. After his expedition into 
Spain, Augustus Caesar had an obstinate 
attack of inflammation of the liver which 
was treated by hot baths and sweating 
without success. He recovered when this 
treatment was changed to cold baths and 
an exclusively vegetable diet, especially 
lettuce. The success of this treatment 
made the reputation, we are told, of a 
young physician of twenty-five. Louis 
XIV., however, lived in more strenuous 
times. We are informed in a remarkable 
document, " The Diary of the Health of 
Louis XIV.," that in the short space of 
one year he took two hundred and fifteen 
different medicines, two hundred and 
twelve enemata, and that he was bled no 



138 HUMANICULTURE 

less than forty-seven times. A kindly 
historian would surely take such adverse 
circumstances into consideration when he 
gave his judicial opinions on the acts of 
such unfortunate monarchs. 

The great name of Sydenham, one of the 
most prominent figures in the history of 
medicine, can be cited as another example 
of the reaction against ignorant interference 
and empiricism. Stahl too, the professor 
of medicine at Halle, wrote a book on 
"The Art of Healing by Expectation." 
The most picturesque of the opponents 
of interference was one Gedeon Harvey, 
the physician of Charles II. He waged 
an incessant warfare against his colleagues, 
even going so far as to classify them under 
the headings of their favourite remedies, 
" Iron," " Asses' Milk," " Quinine," " Min- 
eral Waters," " Purgatives," " Bleeding." 
He spared no one, even recommending the 
substitution of the cook for the apothecary 
in his famous treatise on " The Vanity of 
the Philosophy of Medicine." He wrote 
the first book of popular medicine because 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 139 

he thought that there was no reason that 
men should not prevent their diseases by 
domestic hygiene. 

(4) Empiricism, or the " Cure "Idea 

Empiricism can be defined as the use of 
the means of cure which have succeeded 
in similar or apparently similar cases. In 
its most favourable interpretation it can 
be looked on as the cradle of medicine, 
the accumulation of the experience of 
fellow-craftsmen. In ancient Egypt the 
ingenious physicians divided the body into 
a number of squares and regions, medical 
etiquette prescribing that none but the 
specialist practising in the particular square 
or region affected should be called in. 
The joy of these ancient practitioners in a 
case of acute rheumatism must have been 
subdued but acute. In old Rome it was 
customary to record any remarkable cure 
in the temples for future use. When a 
sufferer had survived a course of temple 
treatment, he was laid outside his door to 
solicit the advice of the passers-by. This 



140 HUMANICULTURE 

plan would be popular even now with the 
amateur physicians, who have substituted 
patent preparations for the temple pre- 
scriptions, and are always ready gratui- 
tously to advise their suffering friends. 

There are few things, from precious 
stones and metals to parts of animals, 
the more out of the way the better, that 
have not been laid under contribution for 
the attempted cure of disease. Polyphar- 
macy, or, as an American picturesquely 
called it, " shot-gun prescriptions," was 
only abandoned a comparatively short 
time ago. In these days the profane and 
unbelieving look askance at the never- 
ending series of new drugs with unpro- 
nounceable names that are poured out 
and ground out by Teutonic industry. 

Medicine has always provided an irre- 
sistible field for the activities of amateur 
physicians. One of the most interesting 
instances is the work written by Cato, the 
stern old Roman. He thought that cab- 
bages were digested more easily than any 
other vegetable. They made a valuable 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 141 

tonic in vinegar. If you want to eat or 
drink copiously when you are invited to 
dinner, Cato advises you to take some 
cabbage in vinegar beforehand. When 
you have finished your repast and you 
want to eat again, it is sufficient to take 
about five leaves to have the illusion that 
you have not eaten for twenty-four hours. 
Cabbage is just as good externally as in- 
ternally, being useful for trouble of the 
heart, liver, teeth, eyes, lungs, colic, cancer, 
abscess, and nasal polypi. After this, one 
is not astonished to know that it is neces- 
sary to have considerable skill to make 
and administer the preparations that he 
gives in his book. Above all, it was nec- 
essary to remember to refrain from giving 
cabbages to slaves, it made them eat too 
much. 

(5) Dogmatic and Scholastic Doctrines 

Doctrines in the medicinal sciences may 
be regarded as a kind of intellectual con- 
venience. With the science of the past 
as a foundation, medical practitioners con- 



142 HUMANICULTURE 

structed the edifice of the day which re- 
mained till it was too small to house the 
newest contributions to positive knowl- 
edge. There is little doubt that they 
afforded some sort of discipline for the 
unthinking mind of the average mediaeval 
physician, and might have rendered him a 
little less dangerous to the long-suffering 
patient. Doctrines have always started 
from a fixed point, an unquestioned and 
unquestionable idea. This fixed point 
was borrowed from tradition, revelation, 
conventional or arbitrary authority, or was 
based on some positive knowledge that 
often had nothing to do with the applica- 
tion that was made of it. The great dis- 
advantage of such cramping ideals was 
that it was looked on as positively im- 
pious to question them. Thus Galen was 
able to construct a system from the 
science, etc., of the past which enjoyed an 
unquestioned authority that lasted for no 
less than fourteen centuries. Till the end 
of the seventeenth century no one was 
allowed to see anything without referring 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 143 

to what Galen had seen, or to do any- 
thing without ascertaining whether Galen 
approved. The most wonderful example 
of the influence of suggestion on men's 
minds was the extraordinary effect of the 
discovery of the circulation of the blood 
by Harvey. This important and revolu- 
tionary discovery became the foundation 
of the really terrible doctrine of indis- 
criminate bleeding, under which, as before 
stated, mankind was treated for some three 
hundred years. In short, then, medical 
doctrines are an expression of that funda- 
mental tendency of the human mind to 
come to some sort of agreement on any 
bases whatever, no matter how imperfect, 
and violently to persecute those who dis- 
agree with the accepted ideals. 

(6) The Ideals of Theocratic Medicine 

The practice of medicine, it is well 
known, has always been closely associated 
with the priesthood. One has only to 
recall the Egyptian and Grecian priests, 



144 HUMANICULTURE 

or to remember the sanitary laws and 
regulations of Moses who was trained by 
the Egyptian priesthood. The gratitude 
of patients and their keenness to recover 
their health provided so profitable an 
asset that there were many bitter fights 
to retain medicine as a priestly craft. It 
was their most valuable monopoly, so it 
is not to be wondered at that Esculapius 
himself was put to death for resuscitating 
an individual that the priests had pro- 
nounced to be defunct. To Hippocrates 
they were only scandalous, accusing him 
of robbing the temples of their prescrip- 
tions and then destroying them. The 
fundamental theories of theocratic ideals 
are two : the first, that disease is a pun- 
ishment for disobedience to the gods, and 
the other more subtle and serious concep- 
tion, that the body is evil, or that it is the 
evil envelope of the soul. The former 
idea served the useful and innocent pur- 
pose of keeping the faithful regular with 
their subscriptions. The latter on the 
contrary has been and is one of the most 



ORIGIN OF MEDICAL DOCTRINES 145 

widely and deeply harmful ideas that has 
martyrised humanity. Nothing but the 
vivid impression produced by a visit to 
the examples of pre-Renaissance art in the 
European galleries, can enable one to 
form an idea of the dire effects of this 
doctrine. There one finds an endless 
procession of starved, deformed, and anae- 
mic figures showing more eloquently than 
words how far this pernicious notion had 
affected life and ideals. In this period 
our matter-of-fact ancestors showed how 
literal they were in the interpretation of 
the dominant doctrines. The patients 
were looked on as possessing wicked 
bodies that required punishment by way 
of treatment. They were starved, put into 
the dark, emptied of blood and filled 
with water : in short, they were treated 
with all the barbarities that perverted 
ingenuity could suggest. In the case 
of the Roman Catholic Church, dogma 
fought with every available weapon to 
impede the acquisition of positive knowl- 
edge. It assumed absolute authority over 



10 



146 HUMANICULTURE 



men's minds. In those unhappy Middle 
Ages no one could think for himself unless 
his head was covered with a mitre. The \/ 
Vaim of dogma was to dominate nature, /\ 
\ thought, and freedom. 



CHAPTER IX 

XHE APPARATUS OF THE MEDICAL 
SCIENCES 

HOSPITALS and laboratories can be looked 
on as the apparatus devised by the prac- 
titioners of the medical sciences to carry 
on their work with the conveniences of 
association. They are the theatres of 
active progress in the acquisition and ap- 
plication of the positive knowledge of 
disease. It is most essential to examine 
their aims and constitution so as to dis- 
cover which of the three branches of 
human biological research they are con- 
cerned with. At present the attention 
of the world is directed far too much 
towards hospitals that are clearly con- 
cerned with the third class of remedies, 
that of alleviation. Sanatoria are the 
commencements of the practical experi- 
ence in the second class, regeneration. 



148 HUMANICULTURE 

Laboratories are primarily concerned with 
the research side of the alleviation of 
disease, and secondarily with research in 
the general phenomena of life that apper- 
tain to all three classes. 

'The Hospitals. 

Hospitals are used primarily for the 
convenient treatment of the sick poor, and 
secondly to provide material for the edu- 
cation of medical students. They are also 
the theatre of the progress in the practical 
application of the medical sciences. There 
can be no doubt that they are the finest 
symbol of the enlightened and willing 
service of man that our civilisation affords. 
But the influence on thought of an habit- 
ual environment that is unhealthy, and 
an habitual intellectual exercise that is de- 
pressing, can be said to control almost 
completely the point of view from which 
general questions, such as regeneration 
and humaniculture, are approached. One 
must not forget in the contemplation of 
the dazzling progress of the medica.l sci*= 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 149 

ences that hospitals necessarily exert a 
strong pessimistic influence on the minds 
of medical officers who are the leaders 
of thought in the larger human ques- 
tions. What does a medical man see in 
a hospital, and what is the nature of his 
work ? The typical patient when admitted 
is washed, put into a clean nightshirt, and 
is seen in a bed that resembles other beds 
in everything else but its number. The 
patient really loses his individuality as a 
soldier does in the ranks. He is known 
while in the bed by his number, or he 
may be distinguished by his disease ; so 
much so that a patient is always very 
proud of being a rare case. The close and 
careful attention it brings him is a com- 
forting distinction in the ward. It is no 
more than a truism to say that medicine 
and surgery have been constructed from 
the phenomena presented by this patient 
in a bed. It may be said that the atten- 
tion of the progressive minds and activities 
in medicine has been practically entirely 
confined to the study of diseases which are 



1 50 HUMANICULTURE 

the termination of whole series of uncon- 
sidered and unrecognised events that go to 
make up the tragic life-history of so many 
of our fellow creatures. The insidious 
commencements of disease, from the na- 
ture of things, are not present among the 
phenomena which it is the duty of the 
medical officers to observe and treat. 
This is also shown by the branches into 
which the medical sciences have naturally 
divided themselves. There is clinical 
medicine and surgery, the study of the 
phenomena seen at the bedside ; surgery 
and therapeutics, all comprised under the 
term " treatment " ; and pathology, the 
study of the phenomena presented by 
the dead body. In all of these there 
has been magnificent performance. They 
have all reached a high state of excellence 
that compares most favourably with any 
other branch of human activity. 

But what is actually done for the study 
of the causation of disease? When the 
patient is admitted his evidence is taken 
as to his family history, his personal his- 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 151 

tory, and the history of his disease. The 
evidence is that of an unskilled observer 
who can rarely associate events that con- 
nect his disease with its onset. Very few 
patients, it is well known in practice, 
can be depended on to give accurate in- 
formation even about the beginnings of a 
tumour of the most evident dimensions. 
It is, however, this note-taking, inaccurate 
and unscientific as it must needs be, that 
is responsible for many of the preventive 
measures taken in the case of the more 
evident causes of disease that can be dealt 
with by legal means. The value of the 
statements of an unskilled observer who 
has, he knows not how, been defeated in 
the battle of life, cannot be of anything 
approaching the accuracy of the evidence 
that so important a subject requires. It 
may have been his work or his unhygi- 
enic home, or both, that are responsible. 
Whatever it is, it is naturally impossible 
for the physicians to have anything but 
the vaguest and most general ideas on the 
subject. Medical officers of hospitals, 



152 HUMANICULTURE 

then, cannot have experience and con- 
sequently the knowledge of either re- 
generation (the recovery of optimum 
health) or humaniculture (the science of 
the optimum adaptation to environment, 
which prevents disease). No one who is 
familiar with the hard work and unselfish 
lives led by the more active and influential 
members of the medical profession in 
hospitals will doubt that their exhausting 
and beneficent work absorbs their entire 
energies and leaves them little or no time 
for such questions. 

The history of the treatment of con- 
sumption illustrates very well the result 
of the limited field of observation im- 
posed by the necessary conditions of hos- 
pital practice. Patients were first of all 
treated in hospital wards ; miles of notes 
were written in the usual painstaking way, 
recording the history of the patient and of 
his disease, together with the result of his 
treatment. A vast number of observa- 
tions were made in the post-mortem room. 
We all know now that consumption ought 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 153 

not to be treated in a closed ward or 
room, and that country air, etc., are neces- 
sary. It may be asked, " What is the 
present value of the extensive literature on 
the cure of consumption, of the work of 
doctors and nurses, of the lives that were 
lost or shortened through malpractice ? 
Is it not more than possible that the same 
experience is being repeated with other 
diseases ? " 

The problem now has shifted its ground 
from how to cure a man in a bed in a hos- 
pital to the cure of a man in a bed in a 
sanatorium. The real problem still re- 
mains : how to prevent a man in a home 
from acquiring the disease ? The reason 
for the delay in the recognition of the best 
means for the treatment of consumption 
was due to the limited scope for experi- 
ment possessed by the medical officers of 
hospitals. The question naturally occurs 
to one : how did it occur that the real facts 
were not pointed out to the public ? This 
is due to the fact that the medical officers* 
views tend to be constricted by the nature 



154 HUMANICULTURE 

of their habitual occupation, which must 
be to devise the best means of treating 
patients in hospitals. Even if they had 
had more enlightened views there would 
not have been the evidence of successful 
practice to justify a sufficiently strong in- 
sistence on them. The revolution of 
thought that has resulted from the new 
ideas of consumption would certainly have 
occurred sooner if the activities of the 
medical officers had not been limited by 
the four walls of a hospital. 

The defects of hospitals are to be found 
in the insufficiency of their resources ; they 
are, in short, "the defects of the apparatus/' 
They are alleviative in their scope, and 
lack opportunities in the experience and 
observation in the commencements of dis- 
ease. Many important matters become 
administrative and subordinated to the 
necessities of wholesale treatment and 
popular prejudice. In the largest hospital 
in one of the capitals of Europe thirty or 
forty children between the ages of three 
and six were allowed beer only with their 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 155 

midday repast, yet it is certain that not 
one of the medical officers of the staff 
would have defended such a practice. 

Mr. Timothy Holmes, late Surgeon to 
St. George's Hospital in London, said 
truly that one of the most needful reforms 
in London was the necessity for the amal- 
gamation of the dispensaries, workhouses, 
public health hospitals, and the general 
hospitals, so that they should all be read- 
ily available for purposes of study and 
teaching. He suggested that the general 
hospitals could act as consultative bodies 
to the other institutions. A plan such as 
this would be the only means that could 
give the wide scope for observation that 
the study of the causes of disease re- 
quires. Most disease is evitable ; if there 
were wider scope for dealing with it at its 
roots and origins, the means for preven- 
tion would soon be devised. There are 
many patients admitted to hospitals at the 
present time as the result of a failure of 
the body to adapt itself to a faulty envi- 
ronment ; the patient is too probably only 



156 HUMANICULTURE 

just sufficiently " cured " to enable him to 
have another "round" with his environ- 
ment, to be defeated again and again, and 
to be patched up, till finally he dies and 
gives up a struggle, the end of which 
was assured from the start. There are 
many such cases as these under present 
circumstances which are nothing less than 
an avoidable charge on society, and on 
the work of the personnel of the hos- 
pitals. It is apt to become a sort of 
vicious circle that harms every one con- 
cerned. It is, however, inevitable so long 
as the problem is not dealt with as a 
whole. The question that will have to 
be decided sooner or later is whether dis- 
ease, its prevention and its treatment, is 
not the concern and responsibility of the 
entire community. It must be obvious 
that when citizens are either inefficient or 
disabled, they are directly or indirectly a 
burden on society. It is, then, if this is 
granted, the business of society to see to 
it that all disease should be alleviated or 
prevented in the best possible way. This 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 1 57 

cannot be attained unless the whole ad- 
ministration of health in its widest sense 
is the concern of the community and the 
medical officers are paid by the commu- 
nity. If poor-law, dispensary, workhouse, 
school, reformatory, prison, and asylum 
medical officers had better opportunities 
provided for research, and they were made 
the preliminary to higher appointments 
of eminence in the profession, progress 
in the science of the prevention of dis- 
ease would be very rapid. No one who 
has held office in hospitals, and who has 
formed a part of those efficient machines 
for the treatment of the poor, can fail to be 
deeply impressed with their activity and 
power of doing more or less lasting good. 
It is impossible to conceive that their work 
should be curtailed in any way till there is 
a concerted attempt to deal with the com- 
mencements of disease. 

The strained activities of hospitals have 
necessitated the allocation of research to 
specialists who have assumed the heavy 
responsibility of acquiring and testing the 



158 HUMANICULTURE 

utility and accuracy of facts acquired either 
by themselves or by their colleagues all 
over the world. The organisations have 
tended to become more and more inter- 
national, as they are doing the same work 
and therefore have the same interests. It 
is becoming necessary to have some sort 
of clearing-house to prevent the almost in- 
evitable overlapping and unnecessary repe- 
tition of experiment that occurs. At the 
present time this is secured by congresses 
and the publication of a large number of 
journals that are eagerly read by polyglot 
workers all over the world. In these days 
a new truth is passed through a crucible 
of criticism and check-experiment before it 
is passed on to the practising branches of 
the medical profession. The result of this 
has been that there are a number of prin- 
ciples of the first rank that have been 
almost insensibly absorbed into the body 
of accepted doctrine. In the absence of 
such organisations in the immediate past 
there would have been a history of bitter 
and strenuous fights which would have 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 159 

rent the profession to its foundations. 
The subjects in which research is mainly 
conducted are pathology, bacteriology, and 
physiology. 

'The Laboratories of Pathology 

This science concerns itself with the 
reactions of the body to the adverse influ- 
ences causing disease. These effects have 
been carefully studied microscopically and 
with the naked eye. Attempts are made 
to explain the symptoms which clinical 
or practising physicians have observed in 
their examination of patients. It may be 
safely said that it is by means of this 
science that the most valuable results in 
the progress of the medical sciences have 
been obtained. A comparatively new 
branch of pathology is that of pathological 
chemistry, which is of the utmost impor- 
tance, and promises to provide a rich har- 
vest in the future by the discovery of the 
phenomena accompanying those errors of 
metabolism dependent upon tissue change 
that seems to show an unsuspected com- 



I6O HUMANICULTURE 

munity in the origin of many of the 
common diseases. The difficulty of this 
department of pathology lies in the fact 
that few can attain to the thorough knowl- 
edge of chemistry that it necessitates, and 
that comparatively little work can be done 
by the competent few. 

The Laboratories of Bacteriology 

One of the glories of France is that her 
illustrious son Pasteur had the distinction 
of inaugurating a new epoch in the history 
of the medical sciences by the discovery of 
the influence of micro-organisms in the 
causation of disease. There has been no 
more triumphant demonstration of the 
vast and far-reaching influence of positive 
knowledge on ideas and practice. Before 
Pasteur and Lister, surgery was an art in 
its infancy, so that no one in his wildest 
dreams could have conceived the effects 
that have followed on the development 
of their research. It would be difficult 
even to guess at the number of valuable 
lives that have been saved from lingering 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES l6l 

diseases or immediate death by these 
discoveries. 

The researches into the causes of ma- 
laria that are so closely associated with the 
name of Major Ross have had a great 
and far-reaching effect. The heroic con- 
duct of the American soldiers in offering 
themselves as volunteers for research into 
the causes of yellow fever was unique 
in the annals of military history, and 
enabled valuable work to be completed. 
The modern treatment of diphtheria, too, 
has saved many lives. 

If there had been as fine a harvest of 
knowledge in the principles and practice 
of regeneration and humaniculture as 
there has been in bacteriology, knowledge 
of such value would have been acquired 
that the conditions of living would have 
been entirely changed. The origin of the 
zeal and effort that have been so freely 
and profitably expended in bacteriology 
has been primarily the desire to find cures 
for disease, but, as is frequently the case, 
it is an open question whether the con- 



ii 



1 62 HUMANICULTURE 

tributions to the positive knowledge of 
the phenomena of life will not prove to 
be of even greater importance. It has 
become almost popular knowledge to 
distinguish between the main factors in 
the action of microbes on the body, the 
character of the poison, and the prop- 
erties of the soil in which it has been 
sown. The defensive properties of the 
body have provided against the invasion 
of micro-organisms a set of faculties that 
were quite unsuspected both in their singu- 
lar efficacy and in their complexity. The 
researches that have been conducted in 
this fertile and remarkable field of knowl- 
edge will remain models of what research 
ought to be. It has brought a set of 
principles into the domain of positive 
science that cannot fail to have the great- 
est influence on the science of humani- 
culture when it takes its legitimate rank 
in the hierarchy of science. 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 163 



Laboratories of Physiology 

The only one of the medical sciences 
that deals with the phenomena of life 
apart from disease is Physiology. This 
science aims to teach and to search into 
the phenomena of life in general and of 
human life in particular. In point of fact, 
however, almost the only definite instances 
in which any text-book on physiology deals 
with purely human physiology is where 
it is absolutely obliged to, as in the case 
of the special senses. It may be said that 
physiology acquires and distributes the 
science of the phenomena of life with very 
insignificant and unpractical references to 
the phenomena of the adaptation of human 
beings to their environment. 

The science can be said to have origi- 
nated in its modern form in the labours 
of Claude Bernard. When he gave his 
inaugural lecture, he is reported to have 
said, with a rare audacity, that " the scien- 
tific medicine I have to teach you does 
not exist," inferring that it would be 



1 64 HUMANICULTURE 

necessary for him to create it. His sub- 
sequent work bore out his claim. Both 
he and his master Majendie, who pre- 
ceded him in his chair, conceived 
physiology as the pioneer and director of 
medicine. At the start of his work it 
was, above all, urgently necessary to clear 
away the wild dreams that were current 
among his contemporaries on the most 
elementary facts of physiology. This 
logically necessitated the herculean task 
to which he devoted his life. He always 
took the keenest interest in the history, 
philosophy, and progress of medicine. He 
held the highest and most lofty views of 
the destinies of the medical sciences, feeling 
clearly that the one great interest in life was 
human interest. The success of his work 
can be said to be startling. There was not 
a department in physiology that he did not 
illumine by his researches. His work was 
almost necessarily in laboratories. 

No one would venture to question that 
there has been a magnificent production 
in physiology and that its work has shown 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES 165 

itself to be of the highest value ; if, how- 
ever, the highest aim of science is to dis- 
cover the methods of the perfecting of man, 
it must be confessed that it has not adopted 
the most evident means to attain success. 
Physiology can be said to have had al- 
located to it for exploitation one of the 
most important gold fields of human 
knowledge, and that it has been so hyp- 
notised by the rich mine discovered by 
Claude Bernard that it has not moved 
from it. If there had been a systematic 
investigation of the whole field that is 
allotted to physiologists, it would be seen 
that there are more profitable outlets for 
energy than crushing the comparatively 
low-grade ore of mere laboratory investiga- 
tion. For such knowledge is practically no 
more than the science of the material that 
can be brought into a laboratory. The 
reason for bringing forward these consid- 
erations is that in those questions that in- 
volve practical humaniculture, it is useless 
to look on physiology as being in any sense 
of the word the court of appeal for complete 



1 66 HUMANICULTURE 

information or even competent judgment. 
It is obviously not the business of physi- 
ology, neither has it had the experience 
necessary to adjudicate on such matters. 

An interesting fact is that, so far as the 
author knows, there are only four physi- 
ologists concerned officially with physical 
development, Dr. Anderson of Yale 
University ; Dr. McCurdy of Springfield, 
Mass. ; Dr. Storey of Leland Stanford 
University, California ; and Dr. G. W. 
Fitz of Boston ; all of them being Amer- 
icans. 1 At Cambridge, England, there 
was formerly a blacksmith who enjoyed a 
considerable reputation as a trainer on the 
river; yet, though Cambridge University 
can be said to be the home of progressive 
physiology in England, no one evidently 
thought it worth while to make or re- 
cord observations on such a subject. In 
the humaniculture days of Greece this was 

1 Mention should also be made of the following Amer- 
ican medical men prominent in directing physical develop- 
ment: Drs. Sargent of Harvard, Meylan of Columbia, 
Reycroft of Chicago, McKenzie of Pennsylvania, Bab- 
bitt of Haverford, Hough of Simmons, Ward Crampton, 
and Bowen. 



APPARATUS OF MEDICAL SCIENCES l6/ 

a duty that was thought to be a distinction 
by the greatest and ablest citizens. 

No one would wish to see physiological 
research in any direction discontinued or 
the work of physiological laboratories 
curtailed in any way. On the contrary, 
unlimited support should be available 
for this neglected branch of science, for 
it deals with the motive power of man- 
kind. If its services to humanity had 
only been to give scientific training to 
medical men the science would have amply 
justified its existence. It must be clearly 
borne in mind that work on the pres- 
ent lines is the only possible way where 
that control of circumstances can be ob- 
tained which, it is needless to point out, 
has proved itself essential for effective 
scientific experiment. Physiology must 
continue to be the trusted adviser of 
medicine, and ultimately provide the work- 
ers for certain branches of research as well 
as the scientific foundation for the science 
and art of humaniculture. 



CHAPTER X 

MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 

THERE is something grand and imposing 
in the history of the medical sciences. No 
other subject can give so many warnings 
of the faulty applications of knowledge, 
can show more rash and ill-reasoned action 
on inadequate information and hasty gen- 
eralisations. On the other hand, no art 
has called out so many fine human quali- 
ties, such disinterested lives spent in the 
service of humanity, in the slow and 
painstaking work of the discovery of that 
positive knowledge which has had so ex- 
traordinary an influence on the progress 
of humanity. Numbers have sacrificed 
their lives willingly, not only in the direct 
service of the sick, where active sympa- 
thies are enlisted, but in the quiet and 
emotionless fields of scientific research. 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 169 

Superstition and reason, quackery and 
orthodoxy, metaphysics and theocratics, 
wisdom and folly, observation and experi- 
ment, have in turn served to construct the 
foundations of the magnificent edifices of 
research and practice of modern times. 
The modern dominant ideals of the medi- 
cal sciences are founded on the sure ground 
of clinical observation, pathology, and ex- 
perimental research. It must not be for- 
gotten that it is necessary to subject these 
ideals to the most jealous scrutiny and the 
closest criticism, for in matters that affect 
human betterment nothing but the best 
possible orientation of effort that can be 
conceived is satisfactory. 

It is not unprofitable to reflect what 
would have been the effect on the arts of 
medicine and humaniculture if patients 
had paid for the prevention and not for 
the cure of disease. It is true that the 
vast collection of clinical and pathological 
material accumulated by modern work is 
the capital on which future progress will 
draw cheques that will never be dishon- 



1 70 HUMANICULTURE 

cured ; and it is also necessary to recollect 
that notwithstanding the ills of plethoric 
luxury the amount of disease and suffer- 
ing has been lessened to an amazing 
extent. 

The main task of medicine in the future 
is to define and classify those states found 
on the frontiers of disease ; in short, to 
measure the deviations from optimum 
health. From this, the discovery of the 
principles and practice of regeneration will 
lead on to the millennium, when social 
progress will be founded on progressive 
and scientific humaniculture. It is pro- 
posed to set out as clearly and as briefly 
as possible the present state of the 
medical sciences, and the indications 
that present themselves of the develop- 
ment of the ideals of humaniculture and 
regeneration, 

As we have seen in the case of the 
doctrines dealing with human nature 
generally, they can be divided into the 
two classes, optimistic and pessimistic. 
The medical sciences, associated closely, 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES I /I 

as they have always been, with human 
thought and affairs, have not escaped the 
influence of metaphysical conceptions. 
The pessimistic doctrines still survive and 
draw their gloomy satisfaction or dissatis- 
faction from their inheritance of the meta- 
physical dual theory and the theocratic 
conceptions of the innate evil of the 
human body. These dangerous ideals 
have, as we have seen, been mainly re- 
sponsible for the martyrdom of man in the 
Middle Ages. They derived their philo- 
sophical support from the writings of 
Seneca, who, no doubt, was horrified by 
the consequences of Roman luxury. He 
initiated a revolt against the Hellenic 
ideals, which were in no way at fault, as 
they were never designed for the uses of 
the degenerate and self-indulgent. The 
soul, according to Seneca, was as much 
above the body as divinity is above mat- 
ter. The body was a negligible factor, the 
mere earthly tenement of the tormented 
soul, in which it was never at rest. In the 
domain of the medical sciences there has 



HUMANICULTURE 

naturally been a great deal of speculation, 
but very little scientific inquiry into the 
early causation of intemperance, errors in 
diet, gluttony, etc. What could be more 
easy and natural than to adopt some 
variant of the pessimistic doctrines as an 
explanation, such as the incurable stupidity 
of human nature, and the like. " Civilisa- 
tion," said Bichat, "is nothing more than 
the environment which tends to destroy 
human kind." 

These doctrines have recently appeared 
in a new dress ; scientifically speaking, 
the dual theory of human nature is out of 
date, and abandoned for a carping criticism 
of the human body and the common char- 
acteristics of the human mind. We have 
now a new type of philosopher, living and 
working in the seclusion of laboratories. 
It is a matter for congratulation that one 
of the most eminent of them, Professor 
MetchnikorT, has written a formidable 
book, with the comprehensive title " Hu- 
man Nature." In this book, that has been 
translated into all languages and which has 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 173 

gone out as the very latest and complete 
scientific conception of human nature, 
there is that misleading evidence of the 
most profound erudition applied to faulty 
doctrine. Gravely and reluctantly, with 
serious emphasis, we are bidden to review 
the most extensive researches into both 
literature and science to arraign poor 
human nature, and to find therein what 
the professor is pleased to call " dishar- 
monies." To be able to appreciate his 
views it is necessary to learn the use of 
the professor's instrument, the mental 
microscope, so very restricted is the 
field that he confines us to. That body 
which the Greeks cultivated, the intellect 
they developed with such great success, he 
takes to pieces and finds imperfect. Un- 
like most of the ancient pessimists, he is 
modern in that he has a remedy ; science 
that dwells in the haughty seclusion of 
its laboratories will help us. We are to 
be buoyed up with the hope that ulti- 
mately there will be a new scientific crea- 
tion, a human body relieved of yards of 



174 HUMANICULTURE 

discordant intestine by surgeons and for- 
tified by anti-toxins, living carefully, by 
the latest laws given out by the laborato- 
ries, on a diet of sour milk and curds, 
which curdled diet apparently pleases 
microbes as little as it does ordinary men 
and women. 

The book commences with the not 
unappropriate statement that science has 
destroyed the foundations of religion and 
that it has left nothing in its place. There 
is some degree of truth in this statement, 
however, as science has not yet devoted 
itself to the perfecting of man. After 
extensive researches in the highways and 
byways of literature and science, the most 
incongruous guests are bidden to a feast 
to celebrate the imperfections of the human 
body. With the exception that certain 
human disharmonies are not found to be 
derived from the innate viciousness of 
microbes, it can be safely said that no 
possible count of the indictment has been 
omitted. The foundation of the indict- 
ment the professor rightly lays in inhar- 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 1/5 

monic structure. The world has never 
been permanently the worse for pessimis- 
tic philosophers, but if any could show that 
there are structural deficiencies, there really 
would be something tangible and under- 
standable in his criticisms of the human 
body. It is well known that in the animal 
kingdom the structural changes that ac- 
company the development of new types 
are so gradual and slow as to be scarcely 
perceptible. In Anatomy it is found 
that there are a number of structures 
which are peculiarly subject to variations 
in different members of the same species. 
These structures are of two classes : the 
progressive variations characterising types, 
and the retrogressive comprising the or- 
gans that are tending to disappear, and 
that apparently serve no useful purpose, 
being merely inheritances from a previous 
type. Each of these retrogressive and 
progressive organs have the common qual- 
ity of variation ; they may be said to rep- 
resent the future and the past in the 
evolution of the body., and are character- 



1/6 HUMANICULTURE 

istic of all animals. Though these varia- 
tions can in no sense of the word be 
looked on as a peculiarly human charac- 
teristic, yet Professor Metchnikoff chooses 
to call them, in the case of the human 
body alone, disharmonies. The dishar- 
monies that are important and noticeable, 
with the exception of some rather far- 
fetched gibes at the skin and wisdom teeth, 
are to be found in the large intestine and 
vermiform appendix. Here we have a 
disharmony that is useless, because as one 
woman lived thirty-seven years without a 
large intestine, therefore all the rest of the 
world is better without it. What would 
Bacon have thought of such an argument ? 
The large intestine is bad, too, because 
ostriches and parrots are better without it ; 
so, then, here is an additional reason that 
human beings do not want it. The mam- 
mals possess it, so that they need not stop 
in their headlong flight away from an 
enemy or after their prey, as the case may 
be, to drop their waste, but can wait for 
some convenient opportunity. For this 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 

mammalian convenience and because of na- 
ture's defective ways, the whole of human 
nature is cursed with a considerable dis- 
harmony. It has been shown that the 
practice of poltophagy results in certain 
phenomena in the large intestines and 
in the characteristics of the waste which 
go far to attain the harmonies that Pro- 
fessor Metchnikoff requires. 

It is claimed that positive science, pro- 
ceeding from the simple to the complex, 
and from particular to general proposi- 
tions, is now making an attempt to remedy 
man's organic disharmonies. It is per- 
fectly true that medical science has gath- 
ered a wonderful harvest of the science of 
the effects of faulty adaptation ; but, on 
the other hand, since the days of Greece it 
has played such a purely passive part in 
humaniculture that it has not even at- 
tempted to understand it. We are told 
that only science is capable of dealing with 
" inharmonious " man, and that we ought 
to rely on it when it is ready to pronounce 
its utterances. Why must we wait for the 

12 



178 HUMANICULTURE 

medical sciences to proceed in their slow 
and laborious study of effects in hospitals 
and laboratories ? Why not cut the Gor- 
dian knot and induce scientists to turn to 
the more profitable paths of observation 
in the field of causation and experiment 
on real human beings in real surround- 
ings? Why take so much trouble with 
the study of pathological old age, when it 
is much more useful to produce physio- 
logical old age? Why not correct the 
so-called disharmonies by harmonious 
and scientific adaptation to surroundings ? 
To formulate clearly the conceptions of 
regeneration and humaniculture, doing the 
best with the whole body as it is, intact, 
and capable of perfection as well as of 
degeneration, is the service we desire of 
science. If less attention is directed to 
the effects of unnecessary reactions to ad- 
verse factors in an environment, and more 
to harmonious environment, there will 
be less and less need to disturb our- 
selves about the structures in which nature 
chooses to manifest its degenerative and 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 

retrogressive as well as its regenerative 
and progressive activities. It is difficult 
to conceive that the great discoverer of 
phagocytosis should not have been filled 
with respectful wonder at the new and 
marvellous power of defence and adapta- 
tion which he was the means of bringing 
to light, and that he should not have 
seen that he had the great distinction 
of adding yet another reason for holding 
anything but an attitude of carping criti- 
cism before nature's masterpiece. 

The discoveries of Pasteur inaugurated 
a new era in the general conceptions of 
the medical sciences. He gave a mighty 
impetus to the study of causation ; for the 
first time a number of the most terrible 
scourges of humanity were recognised to 
be due to the presence and activity of 
microbes. At first it was thought that 
the mere presence of the micro-organisms 
sufficed to produce the symptoms, but 
further research established a most impor- 
tant principle that has had a wide-spread 
influence in the comprehension of the 



1 80 HUMANICULTURE 

causation of other diseases. The actual 
physical effects causing the symptoms 
were clearly and unmistakably shown to 
be due to poisoning, or toxaemia, and 
that the poison was the consequence of 
the growth of the micro-organisms by 
the consumption of the contents and 
constituent elements of the body, which 
they convert by the chemical processes 
of their nutrition into fatal or danger- 
ous poisons. It was then shown that 
there were entirely different effects pro- 
duced in different individuals by the same 
dose of toxin or poison, or of micro- 
organisms. This led to the discovery of 
certain vital defensive apparatus that the 
body possessed against both the microbes 
and their poisons. The chemical reaction 
produced certain antidotes that were called 
anti-toxins ; these substances were shown 
to be definite chemical bodies which could 
be isolated and kept so as to be used by 
other individuals attacked by similar poi- 
sons. This is the principle at the back 
of the anti-toxin treatment for diphtheria. 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES l8l 

Two main factors of the problem were 
made prominent, the nature of the seed 
sown and the character of the soil in 
which it was sown ; in other words, the 
virulence of the poison and the resistance 
that the body is able to offer. The re- 
sistance of the body, speaking generally, 
depends on the condition of health in 
which the individual is when the poison 
enters the body. It can be safely said that 
no subject has in so short a time rendered 
such wonderful service to humanity as 
bacteriology. 

One of the results of the impetus given 
to the progress of the medical sciences by 
Pasteur was that vitally important prin- 
ciple of the toxicity of disease, in other 
words, that disease is directly caused in 
most cases by toxins or poisons. These 
poisons, as we have seen in the case of 
microbic diseases, are derived from the 
organisms ; they are exo-toxic, that is to 
say, derived from poisons outside the 
body. A remarkable and fundamental 
service has been rendered by another 



1 82 HUMANICULTURE 

great Frenchman, Professor Bouchard, 
who has the distinction of having demon- 
strated that the body is engaged in the 
manufacture of poisons both in health 
and in disease. The work he has under- 
taken has been long, difficult, and labori- 
ous ; but it has been fruitful to an extent 
that is only beginning to be appreciated at 
its full value. Some of the most puzzling 
and troublesome diseases, from the point 
of view of causation, are those chronic 
maladies, such as gout, rheumatism, etc. 
They are not so dramatic and impressive 
as the microbic diseases, but they are apt 
to come early and stay till the end of life. 
The work of Professor Bouchard has been 
to group these diseases under a common 
cause, that of auto-toxaemia, or self-poison- 
ing. If his work had stopped there, it 
would have been another instance of giving 
diseases a new name and leaving things as 
they were. But he defined a condition 
that he called " retarded nutrition/' which 
can be looked on as the condition from 
whence a number of these diseases evolve. 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 183 

The progress of this subtle enemy can 
be best understood by following an ac- 
count of a common form of development 
of the trouble. The beginning of things 
is usually overwork or over-exercise, or 
the consequence of exposure to adverse 
surroundings. The individual becomes 
tired, there is no opportunity for rest. 
Perhaps the call for repose is met with 
stimulation in some form or other, such 
as alcohol, coffee, tea, or a large meal 
to " stoke up." The body is already 
tired, so that the fresh work thrown on it 
by the stimulating meal makes digestion 
peculiarly difficult and costly. Insidi- 
ously and almost unnoticed that formida- 
ble enemy dyspepsia installs itself. This 
may last for years, accompanied by acidity 
or not. The patient begins to be careful 
of his diet, such and such a beverage or 
food no longer suits him, he is no longer 
the man he was, he recalls that he is 
liable to be subject to "aristocratic" 
hereditary diseases. He may have a 
defective appetite, or he may be the sub- 



1 84 HUMANICULTURE 

ject of uncontrollable fierce dyspeptic 
hunger that is only satisfied by uncom- 
fortable and dulling repletion. Together 
with these symptoms are found one or 
other of those manifestations of the most 
modern of diseases known as hysteria, 
neurasthenia, psychasthenia, and the many 
other forms of nervousness. Later on 
the sufferer begins to lose the acid char- 
acter of his dyspepsia, instead of over 
acidity or hyper-acidity, there is hypo- 
acidity or under acidity. In these cases 
there are present a number of complica- 
tions that arise from the presence of intes- 
tinal fermentations from micro-organisms, 
which are continually introducing poison- 
ous substances into the body. This 
throws unnecessary work on the liver and 
kidneys, which are probably already over- 
taxed. Then begins the period of various 
inflammations of the intestinal canal, one 
of the best known being appendicitis. 
Nervous symptoms become more promi- 
nent; there may be fits of bad temper, 
irritability, or suicidal depression. These 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 185 

conditions are typically associated with the 
onset of the group of diseases character- 
ised by " nutrition retardante." They are 
gout and goutiness, rheumatism, gravel, 
bile-stones, migraine, neuralgia, asthma, 
Bright's disease, obesity, diabetes, and 
diseases of the heart and arteries. This 
formidable list of diseases are for the first 
time associated together, and are practi- 
cally certainly produced by the continual 
transgression of the laws of right living ; 
in other words, the adverse factors greatly 
preponderate over the favourable factors 
of environment. 

These diseases have been looked on as 
distinct in origin as in their pathological 
conditions ; they are, in all probability, 
nothing more than branches from the 
same trunk. The main errors of hygiene 
are excessive work when rest is required, 
and above all excessive and hurried eat- 
ing, with excess of alcohol and other stim- 
ulants. One can see, then, that in this 
important French school there is a strong 
note of hopefulness. It is classifying dis- 



1 86 HUMANICULTURE 

ease, and tracing it to its common origin 
in the unscientific adaptation to environ- 
ment. Just as we have seen that the 
important adverse factor in the microbic 
diseases was the state of health of the sub- 
ject, so we find that the time to cure 
chronic diseases is before they begin to 
show themselves in their distinctive forms. 
The explanations of the causation of these 
two large groups are approaching the same 
problem from difTerent standpoints ; each 
can be said to be asking the question, 
" What is health ? how is it attained and 
maintained ? " These new ideals are be- 
ing admirably supported by Professor 
Bouchard, who said : " We live in an 
epoch where our doctrine will be renewed, 
not so much in matters of detail, but in 
the fundamental notions of the science, 
and the domain of science will become 
enlarged." 

The following quotations from a paper 
by Dr. Mott, F. R. S., show that this 
distinguished authority looks on toxaemia 
as being one of the great causes of nervous 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES l8/ 

diseases : " There are a great number of 
functional and organic diseases of the 
nervous system in which poisons circu- 
lating in the blood act as contributory, 
predisposing, or exciting causes to persons 
with a neuropathic or psychopathic hered- 
ity, also to persons who have subjected 
their nervous systems to excessive func- 
tional activity or stress." " These three 
factors, toxaemia, stress, and hereditary 
neurosis or psychosis, combine to form a 
vicious circle in a majority of cases, a 
vicious circle that is continually extending 
its limits, and which can only be broken 
by the removal of one or more of the 
three factors. Obviously in individuals 
only the first two are capable of with- 
drawal." There is no peril that so im- 
presses itself on the imagination as the 
peril of lunacy and mental diseases, and 
there is nothing that is causing greater 
anxiety generally than the large increase 
of lunacy in recent times. There are, in- 
deed, good grounds for the opinion that 
in this scourge, as well as in the case of 



1 88 HUMANICULTURE 

other groups of disease, the primary cause 
is an ignorance of the science of adaptation 
to environment. 

There are, then, to be found many 
grounds for the confident hope that at last 
the medical sciences will find themselves 
in the position of having a definite orien- 
tation of thought and action towards the 
discovery of the means of the preven- 
tion of disease, and that there is a strong 
tendency to go over the old ground so as 
to dot the i's and cross the /'s, as it were, 
after the hard-won success in so many 
fields of research. This view receives 
support from the address delivered this 
year (1905) to the British Medical As- 
sociation by Dr. Maudsley, the President 
of the Section of Medicine : " Looking 
out on the present state and prospect of 
medicine, it is obvious that its future 
work will be mainly to prevent and stop 
the beginning of disease to take good 
order that it shall not come, and if it do 
come, to prevent functional disorder from 
lapsing into fixed disease, which must be 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 189 

given over either to the surgeon's knife 
or to the shears of Atropos ; for to de- 
spise the little things of functional disorder 
is to fall by little and little into organic 
disease." "In the work of fortifying the 
body to resist the encroachments of dis- 
ease, the most simple means are the best, 
and, as Hippocrates said, it is in the 
use of simple means that great physicians 
especially differ from others. Pure air, 
clean and proper food, regular and adapted 
exercise, these sum up the measures 
prescribed as proper to give it inward 
strength, and to keep it in sound and 
supple activity. But they are not all, for 
they leave out mind ; and as a sound body 
is the condition of a sound mind, so the 
wholesome exercise of a calm and well- 
disciplined mind, ready to meet all changes 
with composure, ministers mightily to 
health of body." 

" If mankind is to be perfected, the 
means of perfecting it must be sought in 
the medical sciences. For my part I can- 
not doubt that a positive science of human 



HUMANICULTURE 

nature, as it gradually emerges into form, 
will make it ever more and more plain 
that, by operation of natural law in the 
process of evolution, sound thought, good 
moral feeling, and devotion to a high 
ideal are the solid foundation of health 
and wealth of mind in individuals, in 
families, and through families in nations." 

Such an address as this is a sign of the 
times, and it is more than justified by the 
amazing improvement in conditions that 
are consequent on the solid and valuable 
contributions to positive science during 
the last two decades, that bid fair to revo- 
lutionise life as soon as the treatment and 
recognition of those manifold conditions 
at the frontiers of disease are not only 
fully understood, but treated thoroughly 
by regeneration. 

The object of Part II. has been to as- 
certain whether there is a justification for 
the views expressed in Part I. : 

(1) In the history of the genesis and 
growth of medical doctrines. 

(2) In the constitution, activities, and 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES IQI 

effects of hospitals and laboratories, espe- 
cially with reference to their influence on 
thought. 

(3) To see whether there is any ten- 
dency in the latest expression of modern 
medical doctrines of an orientation towards 
the adoption of the principles and practice 
of humaniculture. 

In the first chapter, in far too brief a 
manner, it is endeavoured to bring out the 
essential similarity, or rather the continuity, 
of ancient and modern dominating ideals 
in medicine. These ideals, then, have 
not disappeared, but they have become 
most profoundly modified by practice and 
the acquisition of that positive, permanent 
knowledge that is obtained by production. 
In these days faith cures are called sug- 
gestion and hypnotism, though at the 
same time we have, as it is well known, 
theocratic and other forms still with us. 
The expectant plan of treatment in these 
days is in high favour, more so than at 
any time in history ; empiricism, too, ren- 
dered more intelligent and subjected to 



192 HUMANICULTURE 

continual improvements, remains, fortu- 
nately, the trusted guide of practitioners ; 
the " cure idea " is popular, as one can 
see by the study of last year's forgotten 
novelties in the drug-lists, or of the 
patent medicines in the advertisements. 

Enough has been said to identify the 
character of the apparatus and the doc- 
trines of physicians throughout history, 
not only with the dominating ideals cur- 
rent among the people, but with their 
requirements. This is well illustrated in 
the humaniculture days of Greece. It was 
a time free from deforming ideals; in point 
of fact, the mental speculative conceptions 
coincided very closely with successful 
practice. In other words, the essential 
conceptions, both religious and philo- 
sophical, as well as the practical philoso- 
phy, of every-day life were harmonised, 
progressive, and therefore effective. Op- 
timum health, or, at any rate, a sufficiently 
close approximation to it, has been at- 
tained and maintained by the continued 
test of action in physical exercise ; such as, 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES IQ3 

for instance, in the case of the hardships 
of the Roman soldiers recounted by Julius 
Caesar. So soon, however, as men began 
to settle in towns and cities, an easier and 
insidious environment was substituted for 
the rugged tests of war ; there was no 
longer such need to keep in fighting trim ; 
nature, sphinx-like, then propounded a 
new question, how to make use of the 
supreme gift of reason for the scientific 
adaptation to the new environment. This 
question has not yet been answered, and 
daily, hourly, the penalty of the fabled 
sphinx is being paid all over the world. 

In the history of religions, where medi- 
cine was born, it is found that they are 
closely associated with practical, sensible 
laws for the conduct of life, though not 
in such a high degree of excellence as in 
Grecian mythology. It is easy to think 
of the Egyptian priest-doctors, with a 
pitying smile for the credulity of their 
patients ; but, on the other hand, Moses 
was educated by them, and thus was able 

to embody their excellent hygienic laws 
13 



IQ4 HUMANICULTURE 

with the ritual of the Jewish religion. 
Mahomet was closely familiar with the 
marked differences between the desert 
Bedouins and the inhabitants of the towns 
in Arabia, and thus was able to embody 
certain hygienic religious observances that 
have since proved invaluable. There are 
those who wonder at the vitality and en- 
durance of the Salvation Army ; their 
wonder would cease if they read a book 
written by General Booth entitled " Re- 
ligion for every Day." There are chap- 
ters on clothes, sleep, personal cleanliness, 
sickness, and hints on health and water 
treatment. Nothing explains the success 
of the Army better than the common sense 
and excellent counsels found in the book. 
The following quotation is chosen at 
random: "A man's food has much to do 
with the exercise of his gifts. It affects 
his ability to sing, to pray, to reason, to 
talk, to lead. A hearty meal of the plain- 
est fare, or a very small quantity of richer 
food, will often clothe my soul with 
torpor, make my brain feel like a log of 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 1 95 

wood, and render speaking or writing a 
positive torture." No more need be said 
than that the book is full of such practical 
direct counsel. This year two significant 
events occurred in Rome : a copy of the 
shrine at Lourdes was erected in the 
gardens of the Vatican ; the Pope received 
the gymnastic societies of Italy and other 
countries with marks of the highest 
favour. The observation can be made 
without any disrespect that His Holiness 
and the Cardinals habitually make use of 
the best medical talent available. These 
three instances illustrate the principles of 
faith cure, humaniculture, and orthodox 
medicine. 

A great difference is noted between the 
ways of the profession of engineering and 
those of the medical sciences. It would 
not be questioned that the <c physiology " 
of engineering is scientific physics, which, 
like human physiology, confines its activi- 
ties to laboratories. No one would be 
more astounded than Professor Thomp- 
son if he were asked to act as engineer. 



196 HUMANICULTURE 

or even to lay down laws for engineers' 
practical work, let us say on a man- 
of-war. On the other hand, it is most 
unquestionably laboratory physics that 
has been responsible for the immense 
progress in that department of human 
activity. 

Medical laboratory scientists have had 
just as great an influence on practice and 
ideas as have the physical scientists. In 
the same way that it would not be in the 
slightest degree derogatory to doubt the 
ability of Professor Thompson to act as 
engineer, one can effectively criticise the 
incursion of physiologists and bacteriolo- 
gists from the realms of observation and 
measurement into that of production. One 
might carry this parallel still further by 
doubting the ability of a captain of a 
man-of-war to handle a ferry-boat, or that 
of a famous physician to take charge of 
the education of a school in humanicul- 
ture. As long as physiologists have not 
conspicuous success in attaining and main- 
taining more than average health them- 



MODERN MEDICAL DOCTRINES 1 97 

selves, it is legitimate to say with the old 
proverb that " among the blind the one- 
eyed man is king," and to hope that the 
time is not far distant when none must 
necessarily be blind or even one-eyed. 

In answer to the question as to whether 
there is evidence of an orientation towards 
the principles of humaniculture in modern 
medical doctrines, all will admit that there 
is abundant evidence that medical doc- 
trines are undergoing profound changes^ 
This is sufficiently well shown by the 
quotations from Professor Bouchard, Drs. 
Mott and Maudsley, the address of Sir 
F. Treves, etc. The reason is that a pro- 
digious amount of work has been done 
in many directions, and as the work has 
all been done on man for man, the most 
urgent and dramatic diseases have been 
robbed of their terrors, and it is only 
natural that interest should have shifted 
to the origin of the more difficult chronic 
diseases, and to those minor ailments that 
Professor Hericourt so well calls " Les 
Frontieres de la Maladie." To sum up, 



198 HUMANICULTURE 

then, all evidence leads irresistibly to the 
conclusion that the cause of most troubles, 
the root and trunk of the vast spreading 
tree of disease, lies in the absence of 
business-like humaniculture. 



CHAPTER XI 

PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 

IT has been said that intemperate enthusi- 
asm and certain other circumstances have 
induced those who are interested in 
Fletcherism to make claims for its suc- 
cess which its importance does not justify ; 
in short, to exaggerate its value. To 
understand its peculiar importance it is 
necessary to define what is meant by 
" humaniculture." Looked at from the 
simplest point of view, a child is an 
organism that develops by virtue of the 
reaction of its body to its environment. 
The body is able to react to its environ- 
ment by virtue of certain aptitudes and 
qualities that characterise all human beings. 
It is obvious that the factors to which 
each body is exposed are either adverse 



200 HUMANICULTURE 

or favourable to the development of the 
organism. 

These factors can be divided into three 
classes : 

(1) The Respiratory Group. These fac- 
tors are naturally of vital importance, as we 
breathe on an average about twenty times 
a minute. They comprise all the external 
circumstances modifying the respiratory 
apparatus, the muscles, lungs, etc. 

(2) The Digestive Group. These factors 
are second in order of importance. As 
food and drink are usually taken in daily, 
it is necessary that their quality and quan- 
tity should be as nearly as possible those 
actually required by the body. These 
factors involve the ingestion of food, such 
as mastication and insalivation, that are 
influenced by taste and appetite. 

(3) The Group of Factors, guided by In- 
telligence, including the Physical and Mental 
Education of the Body. Education is of 
two kinds : (a) Those subjects that apper- 
tain to humaniculture in its relation to 
the fundamental aptitudes of respiration 



PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 2OI 

and digestion. It includes, in short, all 
those subjects that are necessary for the 
entire science, for the optimum adaptation 
to environment. (^) The ordinary physi- 
cal education on scientific lines, with the 
development of the mind by education 
controlled by psychological reasoning. 

When human development is looked 
at from these three essential standpoints, 
it is clear that, in the case of the respiratory 
group of factors, all those marked and 
valuable changes which have been insti- 
tuted through the reform in the treatment 
of phthisis by open-air methods have 
arisen in consequence of the more thorough 
comprehension of these vitally essential 
factors for the best conduct of life. It 
has been shown abundantly, in the case 
of the second group, concerned with 
digestion, that the tendency of scientific 
opinion is decidedly to realise that the 
root-causes of a number of diseases, both 
mental and physical, are derived from the 
occurrence of adverse factors directly or 
indirectly concerned with digestion. The 



202 HUMANICULTURE 

reason then that Mr. Fletcher's discovery 
is of such exceptional importance is that 
it deals with the essential and fundamental 
science of digestion. It is for this reason 
that it is a considerable contribution to 
humaniculture. Being as it is, therefore, 
a root-factor or root-question of life, the 
points raised by its discovery involve so 
many subjects and cover so wide a field, 
that it is obvious at present that only the 
surface of its relationship with other phe- 
nomena can be dealt with. It is well to 
repeat that this book does not attempt 
to do more than indicate suggestions for 
research, experiment, and practice. 

The greatest service that can be ren- 
dered by those who are interested in al- 
truistic work is the discovery of truth in 
the phenomena of life which can be gen- 
erally applied to the practical purposes of 
humaniculture. For the business-like ac- 
quisition and distribution of knowledge 
it is necessary to create an apparatus such 
as the medical sciences, which is admirably 
adapted to the purpose. We have seen 



PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 2O3 

that it has laboratories for scientific re- 
search, hospitals for the testing and ap- 
plication of science, and, finally, medical 
practitioners to serve as links between the 
higher organisations and the ordinary cit- 
izen. This organisation has grown to its 
present state by the labours and experi- 
ence of many generations ; the character 
of its growth has been due to the ex- 
pression of the enlightened needs of 
the public, and affords an example of 
the exceedingly efficient way in which the 
medical profession has met new wants. 

All progress that depends on the ac- 
quisition and distribution of knowledge is 
sane, slow, and assured. Anything vio- 
lent or revolutionary, that seems to ne- 
cessitate the adoption of fixed rules of 
conduct before knowledge justifies them, 
with many agitations and bothers, is 
bound to defeat its own object. The 
knowledge which it is necessary to pos- 
sess for emergencies and for decisions in- 
volving compromise, in order to neutralise 
as well as possible the adverse factors 



204 HUMANICULTURE 

which are imposed on those obliged to 
earn their living under modern conditions, 
necessitates the co-operation of skilled 
experts. 

It is clear, then, that the first thing to do 
is to acquire knowledge as soon as possi- 
ble of the most positive and unmistakable 
form. This can only be attained by 
making use of those trained in the scien- 
tific methods of the medical sciences. In 
the same way that the medical sciences 
have grown and adapted themselves to 
new needs by new methods and new skill, 
so they will adapt themselves, if there is a 
need for their services, in regeneration and 
humaniculture. 

Dr. Maudsley in his address to the 
British Medical Association in 1905 said: 
" For the adoption of the necessary meas- 
ures to ward off disease and nip it in the 
bud, the medical man does not get full 
and fair opportunities. Summoned to the 
bedside of one actually ill, the disease 
having got its hold, he sees the sick man 
for the first time when, being sick, he is 



PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 205 

not his true self. Ignorant, therefore, of 
the patient's constitution and habits, of his 
temper of body and mind, all which 
count for much in the prescribing of 
sound rules and directions, he is not 
qualified to counsel wisely as if he pos- 
sessed the necessary elements of compari- 
son between the sound and unsound man 
to instruct treatment." This last state- 
ment confirms the suggestion that a 
partial view is necessarily obtained of 
patients in a hospital. It would be inac- 
curate to look on the medical profession 
otherwise than in the light of people who 
have stored certain wares which they 
know they can sell. The public want 
and pay for disease experts ; so they are 
supplied. As soon as there is a want for 
those learned in the principles and prac- 
tice of regeneration and humaniculture, 
the medical profession will provide them. 
Success and conspicuous personal good- 
health will soon distinguish the successful 
health doctor. 

In a very remarkable and suggestive 



2O6 HUMANICULTURE 

book by Professor Hericourt of Paris, 
published in 1904, with the appropriate 
title of "Les Frontieres de la Maladie," 
or the beginnings of disease, he shows 
most clearly and scientifically how what 
he calls the fixed and more or less incu- 
rable forms of disease are preceded by 
curable conditions or stages during which 
matters can be set right comparatively 
easily. It is nearly always in consequence 
of readily ascertainable and common-place 
primary events that the organism ulti- 
mately succumbs to the serious condition 
of disease. Disease is generally an indi- 
cation that the body has given up the 
struggle because of the extensive changes 
that have taken place in consequence of 
its persistent reaction to adverse factors ; 
it means, in short, that the disease has 
won the fight. He points out that one 
often hears people saying : " What an odd 
profession yours is. You live on the 
troubles of other people; the more peo- 
ple that are ill the more pleased you are." 
When one asks a doctor whether he is 



PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 2O/ 

doing well, tc plenty of work " means that 
there is plenty of disease. It would 
clearly be an eminently practical reform 
to make it to the doctor's interest to re- 
joice in the freedom of his clientele from 
illnesses. 

This reform would occur almost with- 
out notice by the modification of the 
duties of the general practitioner, who, at 
the present time, has the most intimate 
knowledge of the home life of his patients. 
He is the chosen and often life-long friend 
of the family, and is sometimes consulted 
by anxious parents for very small matters. 
He is frequently called in for the decision 
of those anxious questions that involve 
the choice of the life-work of children. 
Among his brethren the intimate, family 
doctor-adviser will by far be the nearest 
to realise the ideal physician of the future. 
The eminent consultant knows little or 
nothing of his patient's surroundings and 
life except from the observations of the 
general practitioner who calls him to 
advise in grave emergencies. He, and 



208 HUMANICULTURE 

those specialists who are concerned with 
some restricted department of disease, 
are clearly typical disease experts, rather 
than health experts. 

If there were a sufficient number of 
people who contracted with their doctors, 
by means of an annual payment, to advise 
them how to conduct their lives so as to 
avoid disease and to be as efficient as pos- 
sible, it would enable them to have the 
necessary leisure to deal with the new 
problems that would be offered for solu- 
tion. One certain and incontrovertible 
fact brought out in the recent history 
of the medical sciences is the speedy 
way that the most difficult problems are 
solved by the extensive co-operation in 
work that characterises the present organ- 
isation of the sciences. It must be re- 
membered that in sociology as in biology 
the function preserves and develops the 
organ. This is well illustrated by the 
extraordinary development of dentistry in 
recent times. Diseases of the teeth, of 
modern origin, have led to the develop- 



PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 2OQ 

ment of a wonder among the exact sci- 
ences. If the kidneys and liver were as 
accessible as the teeth, humaniculture 
would have made a new world for us 
before this. If there was payment pro- 
vided for health experts, the present 
medical practitioners would soon devote 
their attention to the study of those 
all-important minor ailments that occur 
in the early and curable stages of dis- 
ease, and it would not take long before 
the most prosperous and useful members 
of the profession would be as expert at 
the prevention of disease as dentists are 
in saving teeth. 

There is a decided indication of a grow- 
ing demand for the profitable services of 
medical men, too, in the financial interests 
of employers of labour. An interesting 
experiment was carried out about thirty- 
six kilometers from Paris in a mill where 
there were employed forty-four men and 
seventy-five women and children. The 
medical officer of the mill first saw to the 
sanitary appliances and regulations, giving 
14 



210 HUMANICULTURE 

careful instruction and explanations. He 
gave some twelve practical instruction 
classes to the mothers that lasted three or 
four hours each ; these lessons were on 
diet and cooking, with cleanliness, the way 
to take body temperatures, and how to 
look at the children's throats. This ex- 
periment was entirely successful, though 
the doctor lived in Paris. There was not 
a single death in three years. There were 
one or two cases of scarlet fever and 
diphtheria that were promptly and effec- 
tively isolated. The men workers were 
allowed two hours' rest in the middle of 
the day, and the women two and one half 
hours, so that they could prepare the food. 
Each employee was entitled to fifteen 
days' holiday at full pay in the year. 
Alcoholism was unknown; most of the 
workmen became total abstainers. The 
regulations were adopted in consequence 
of the suggestions of the doctor, who acted 
as arbitrator in the interests alike of the 
employer and of the workers. This ex- 
periment was not philanthropic but finan- 



PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 211 

cial, the employer realising that he had 
better value in work from healthy hands. 

Similar results on a much larger scale 
have been obtained by Mr. Patterson of 
Dayton, Ohio, and by Messrs. Cadbury 
and Lever in England, as well as in many 
other instances too numerous to mention. 
As soon as manufacturers thoroughly 
realise that there is money to be made 
by seeing to it that their workers are 
healthy and efficient, there will be as much 
competition in " welfare work " as there 
is now in having the latest machinery. 
If this were desired by employers there 
would be no lack of competent medical 
men who would be able to satisfy the 
requirements. 

The ideal state of humaniculture will be 
attained when every man, woman, and 
child possess the knowledge that will en- 
able them to attain and maintain their 
optimum efficiency ; it is scarcely neces- 
sary to say that such an ideal is very 
far off unless there is general and even 
national co-operation. To carry out this 



2 1 2 HUMANICULTURE 

ideal, it is necessary to acquire and dis- 
tribute as much positive knowledge as 
possible. These ends can be best secured 
by the payment for research and instruc- 
tion in humaniculture and by the establish- 
ment of laboratories and professorships 
at the universities. Short of these larger 
aims it is certain that the discovery of 
truth in any form through the practice of 
private humaniculture, provided always 
that it is properly applied, is advantage- 
ous to the individual and the world in 
general. 

The distribution of knowledge for prac- 
tical application is the easier of the two 
desiderata, and one that could be well 
carried out by the formation of associa- 
tions for the study of humaniculture that 
would exchange experiences, encourage 
discussions, and pay for lecturers. It is 
obvious that the end of humaniculture is 
education, with its basis in the knowledge 
of the necessary aptitudes of the body 
and mind, and instruction of a plain and 
unmistakable character in the care, use, 



PRIVATE HUMANICULTURE 213 

and development of the body. This sub- 
ject is essentially a mothers' subject first 
of all, and one that Mr. Fletcher saw 
clearly was, as he expressed it, "founda- 
tion and not steeple work/' in his favour- 
ite scheme of Social Quarantine. The 
honourable professions of the future will 
surely be the seekers and the teachers of 
truth, researchers and distributors who will 
enable the world, which has waited so long, 
to realise its final and supreme mission, 
the science of the perfection of man. 



CHAPTER XII 

HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 

M. SOLVAY of Brussels, the well-known 
educational philanthropist, stated to the 
author that when he started in business 
he was able to forecast the present com- 
mercial development and progress, and by 
this means was able to make his large 
fortune. With his increased experience 
he is now more convinced than ever of 
the necessity for sociology being placed 
on the basis of the positive sciences, by 
the same methods that he has pursued in 
his business. If this is not done, the con- 
ditions to which society is proceeding will 
revolutionise the present state of affairs, 
and the world will find itself without a 
science of positive sociology for legislative 
reconstruction. He felt, at the time of 
the interview, that he was fast becoming 
an old man, and that nothing remained 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 

for him to do but to " crystallise his 
ideas," as he expressed it, in some per- 
manent form. He therefore founded first 
an Institute of Physiology, with the object 
of increasing men's basic efficiency, and 
next door to it an Institute of Sociology, 
to make, record, and organise observations 
on existing social phenomena from a posi- 
tive point of view. Since then he has 
added a beautiful building to his monu- 
mental group in Pare Leopold to be used 
as a School of Commerce. He wished 
thus to intimate, as Comte pointed out, 
that the positive basis of Sociology was 
to be found in the application of the all- 
inclusive science of Human Physiology, 
or, as it is called here, Humaniculture. 

Probably no statement would meet with 
less opposition than the general proposi- 
tion that to understand a subject it is 
necessary first of all to acquaint one's self 
with its factors, or the subsidiary subjects 
that appertain to it. This opinion would 
be held with vehemence and in the strong- 
est and most uncompromising way in a 



2l6 HUMANICULTURE 

question, let us say, of a locomotive or 
the construction of a bridge; in short, in 
the case of all positive subjects, especially 
those that are submitted to the test of 
superadded weight or action. On the 
other hand, in all those manifold subjects 
dealing with human phenomena such a 
statement would meet with doubts, fixed 
ideas, prejudices, doctrines, much discus- 
sion, a most insignificant basis of agree- 
ment, in fact, almost any one feels qualified 
to give and act on his opinion. Yet there 
are no subjects which are so complex, so 
difficult to understand, so full of pitfalls 
and errors. The foundation of the under- 
standing of such subjects must clearly be 
the science of humaniculture, in the widest 
sense of the word, at all ages, in health, 
physical and mental education, disease, 
and degeneration. The only side of the 
phenomena of these subjects that we are 
taught to think necessitates skilled and 
expert opinions is in those cases that in- 
volve actual disease. If such scientific 
knowledge is necessary in disease, it is 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 

surely infinitely more necessary in ques- 
tions of education, reformatories, and 
crime. In this business-like and scientific 
age we are as unbusiness-like and as un- 
scientific as we can possibly be in all those 
questions of regeneration and humanicul- 
ture, yet there are no subjects where the 
calm directing influence of positive knowl- 
edge is more needed. We all know more 
or less definitely that it is wanted, but 
there seem to be no concerted attempts to 
attain it. 

It is proposed to show that a Depart- 
ment of Humaniculture is becoming more 
and more necessary for the conduct of 
modern government; the urgent questions 
calling for solution with greater and greater 
insistence are those social problems con- 
cerned with physical and mental education, 
crime, pauperism, and the unemployed. 
A government without a Department of 
Humaniculture is in the same position as 
that of a man without sufficient science to 
conduct his life. There is an urgent 
want for organised research and experiment 



2 1 8 HUMANICULTURE 

by governments to elucidate and remedy 
the great and growing ills of society. 
There are few members of the representa- 
tive governing bodies who would allow 
themselves to direct operations in the 
manufacture of guns, but there would not 
be one of these legislators who would have 
any scruple against adjudicating and hav- 
ing the most decided opinion on any of 
the many questions involving human 
beings. Yet the latter points require 
wider and at the same time more spe- 
cialised knowledge and deal with infinitely 
more difficult subjects. The result of this 
state of affairs is divided counsels, expen- 
sive and ill-conceived experiments, and 
a very insignificant degree of progress for 
the work involved. The wrong issues are 
constantly being submitted for adjudication 
leading to worse and worse confusion. 

In a popular magazine published in 
England Mr. Arnold White writes on 
"The Waste of Charity." The article 
well illustrates the confusing and contra- 
dictory views which are widely held, 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 2 19 

though not so frequently expressed with 
such uncompromising freedom as the fol- 
lowing : " Our civilisation is largely run 
in the interests of invalids. Ill-health 
is almost universal among the women 
of the poorer classes in the great towns. 
Mothers work. Children are thus handi- 
capped for life before they draw breath. 
When the child is born it is fed on arti- 
ficial milks and foods. When it cries 
with pain it is soothed with patent drugs. 
Thus the boys and girls are anaemic and 
stunted undesirables, with bad teeth. We 
can continue the present system of nour- 
ishing and propagating lunatics, paupers, 
and criminals and of multiplying unem- 
ployables till about the year 1925. So 
far as human events can be ascertained 
before they happen, the survival of Great 
Britain as a great power is impossible after 
that date, if we continue our ghastly sys- 
tem of indiscriminate charity to the fit and 
unfit, to the vicious and the virtuous, to 
the guilty and the innocent. In view of 
these facts I have asked some eminent 



22O HUMANICULTURE 

physicians to answer a series of questions, 
of which the following is the last: * In 
your opinion is it possible for the medi- 
cal profession to speak out boldly on the 
subject of the breeding and degeneration 
of the people ? And are the habits of 
hospital patients such as to render support 
of the hospitals an endowment of thrift- 
lessness, undue consumption of drink, 
improvident marriage, and the manufac- 
ture of the unemployable? In other 
words, would not the destruction of every 
hospital in England sterilise a consider- 
able portion of the undesirable element in 
our population ? ' In every case but one 
I have met with deep appreciation of the 
truth of the facts set forth, of the evils 
that require redressing, and the need for 
prompt action ; but always coupled with 
the statement that the medical profession 
has nothing to do with the moral char- 
acter, physical condition, or origin of the 
disease of the patient. Whole-hearted to 
the process of curing him, without refer- 
ence to any other consideration whatso- 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 221 

ever, is the only duty recognised by the 
medical profession. This is a noble 
ideal ; but some, at all events, of the 
money given by generous subscribers to 
the hospitals is devoted, not to waste, but 
to the generation of vice and crime and 
to the perpetuation of sorrow. Statesmen 
stand by watching the contest between the 
battalions of diseased inheritors of misery 
and crime and the struggling army of the 
prudent and self-controlled. Where a 
man is criminal, pauperised, or diseased, 
he begets diseased, pauper, or criminal 
posterity. His children are handed on as 
burdens to posterity by the charity of our 
day. . . . Lunacy is galloping ahead, 
one in two hundred and ninety-three of 
the total population is a lunatic. In 1859 
only one in five hundred and thirty-six 
was a lunatic. But the officially known 
lunatics are to be supplemented by the 
lunatics uncounted by the State/' This 
article shows the chaotic and curious views 
which are held on the subject of degene- 
ration. The only remedy that is appar- 



222 HUMANICULTURE 

ently suggested is that hospitals should 
be abolished, a remedy that would be as 
practicable as hanging all brewers and 
publicans. 

It is scarcely necessary to repeat the 
facts and figures of the different forms of 
degeneration ; it is such common knowl- 
edge that now all admit it. The only 
difference is the attitude assumed towards 
it. There can be no question that such 
views as those expressed by Mr. Arnold 
White do great harm. They are widely 
held among the privileged classes ; the 
poor who live cheek by jowl with actual 
or possible criminals, paupers, and the so- 
called thriftless know better ; they are not 
able to express themselves in scientific 
phraseology, but, knowing more, they are 
nearer that state of knowledge where 
" tout savoir est tout pardonner." The 
lessons of despair, of hard, miserable, end- 
less experience show them only too clearly 
that drink, pauperism, thriftlessness, crime, 
disease, and death are the inevitable conse- 
quences of the environment that our want 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 223 

of foresight makes us pay for over and 
over again in its endless manufacture of 
the degenerate. 

There are many people who hold the 
most extreme views on heredity in con- 
nection with crime, etc., their evidence 
resting on similar ground to that of the 
Voit standard and Physiology's official 
explanation of mastication and swallowing, 
that is to say, on evidence founded on 
experiments on the lower animals (if not 
entirely so in the former, at any rate in the 
latter instance). It is not to be wondered 
at that the medical officers of hospitals 
should hold gloomy and pessimistic views 
on social questions. They are engaged in 
seeing an endless series of the diseased and 
degenerated coming to the hospital, from 
surroundings of which they have no real 
knowledge, nor, as we have seen, of their 
antecedents. They are so much in con- 
tact with disease during the whole of their 
active lives that they must almost neces- 
sarily look on it as inevitable and its 
causes beyond any possibility of remedy. 



224 HUMANICULTURE 

The only people in England who are 
concerned with active and practical regen- 
eration are those in the Salvation Army, 
and in the Church Army, where one finds 
hopefulness and confidence; and where, 
though their efforts are without science, 
they are wonderfully successful. Science 
should study the questions of the trans- 
mission of such acquired characteristics as 
crime, etc., at Dr. Barnardo's Homes. He 
does not find in practical experience that 
it is necessary to reject children with a 
bad pedigree, he does not find it neces- 
sary to inquire about it, yet the children 
he takes are those who are abandoned by 
their parents, who are derived from those 
classes about whom we are so disturbed. 
No one would wish to question that there 
are such lamentable occurrences as heredi- 
tary mental disease, in rare cases ineradi- 
cable hereditary crime and drink, also that 
there is a vast amount of hereditary ten- 
dency to degeneration. But it is neces- 
sary to realise that here is actually an 
experiment where, with altered environ- 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 225 

ment, this unpromising material was able 
to provide no less than some twenty 
thousand who have emigrated to Canada, 
and of whom it is said that no less than 
ninety-eight per cent have turned out 
well. This surely shows that there are 
far more urgent questions than the steril- 
isation of the unfit. How often will it be 
necessary to point out that to draw con- 
clusions from the study of guinea-pigs, 
pigeons, chickens, etc., and apply them 
to human beings is not only inaccurate 
and misleading, but unscientific in the 
highest degree ? Human beings must be 
continually studied in human surround- 
ings by competent scientific observers ; un- 
fortunately there is certainly no lack of 
material from which to establish definite 
principles. 

As previously mentioned there are few 
people who have rendered such great ser- 
vices to humanity as Mr. Z. R. Brockway 
in his experiment of the substitution of 
reformation for the punishment of crime. 
The following quotations from one of his 
15 



226 HUMANICULTURE 

reports will serve to show that he did not 
nurture any undue tenderness or blinded 
prejudice in the favour of criminals. The 
personal observation of some fifty thou- 
sand criminals enabled him to write the 
following : " They belong to the grade of 
humanity which is inferior. The whole 
inmate population may be divided into 
two grades of inferiority, those whose 
defectiveness is very apparent, and others 
whose mental and moral defects are con- 
cealed under good (and sometimes quite 
brilliant) capabilities in given directions. 
About one half of them have not been 
unfamiliar with life in institutions of one 
kind or another, with arrests and impris- 
onments, temporary or prolonged, in sta- 
tion house, jail, or prisons for juvenile 
offenders or misdemeanants ; while some 
of them had been imprisoned for serious 
crimes. More than sixty per cent of 
them are practically illiterate on admission 
to the reformatory, and at least one third 
of the whole are from a class of dull 
scholars in the public primary schools, or 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 22/ 

truants who burrow in lanes and alleys, 
where they form the worst associations 
and personal habits. They are without 
the ordinary amount of imagination, and 
without the common ambition of the non- 
criminal of their class of society. As a 
whole the prisoners are indolent, unstable, 
reckless, and unable to compete with nor- 
mal workers, and perhaps they are as 
unable as they are indisposed to contend 
with the temptations of vice and crime. 
Many of them are dishonest, dishonour- 
able, merciless, and base. They are of a 
class naturally, and it may be inevitably, 
criminal." The work at the remarkable 
institution of Elmira was carried on with- 
out the resources and interest which so 
important an experiment should have com- 
manded. In spite of all this, its success 
was extraordinary, in that out of no less 
than ten thousand, at least ninety per cent 
of such unpromising material as would 
have made most men despair were re- 
turned to society as useful citizens. 

Many other experiments besides those 



228 HUMANICULTURE 

of General Booth in the Social Wing of 
the Salvation Army could be quoted to 
tell the same tale, that any efforts made 
practically and continuously to effect re- 
generation have nearly all been followed 
by conspicuous success, conspicuous fail- 
ure existing mainly in our dangerous 
imaginations. 

In the case of disease, scientific men 
have acquired positive knowledge in the 
application of science to its treatment, and 
so ought science to be used in the treat- 
ment of social ills and diseases. The 
medical profession has, as we have seen, 
devoted itself, up to the present, mostly to 
the acute deviations from health. Crime, 
pauperism, thriftlessness, intemperance, 
etc., are instances of aberrant instincts, or 
the symptoms of those chronic deviations 
from optimum health in the uneducated 
and in those who have become degen- 
erated from environment. Brockway, 
Barnardo, Kellogg, and General Booth 
stand for environment against heredity, 

In the bewildering complexity of these 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 22Q 

human phenomena, measurement, which 
is science, alone will bring progress and 
order where now none exist. If we were 
able to measure man's deviation from his 
optimum health, we should then know 
what it costs in efficiency and human 
value to live in a slum, and the effect on 
the physical and mental machinery esti- 
mated in black and white. Science is the 
only true charity and the only true remedy. 
Are not the phenomena that so disturb 
us the effects of environment ? The asso- 
ciation of crime areas and bad environment 
is surely not accidental. Would it not be 
as certainly possible to produce a criminal 
in the surroundings of the cc submerged 
tenth " as it was for Barnardo to make a 
self-respecting and self-supporting citizen 
from their children? "Environment makes 
the man" ought to be written large in every 
school ; it ought to be burnt into the brains 
of law-makers and judges. How does en- 
vironment make the man ? What is the 
cost of foul air ? of bad food, of bad feed- 
ing ? Why is this man degenerated ? why 



230 HUMANICULTURE 

is the next one diseased and his brother a 
lunatic? Why is it that some parents 
have idiotic offspring? If they knew 
their condition, if enough was known to 
predict with scientific certainty that the 
disastrous event would have occurred, the 
parents might have been saved from de- 
generation, and would not, in their igno- 
rance, have committed the supreme crime 
of bringing such offspring into the world. 
No ; the fact is written everywhere, that 
at no time in the world has there been a 
concerted attempt to discover man's ap- 
titudes and capabilities and to make full 
use of them. 

If it is conceded that a case has been 
made out for the necessity for the ac- 
quisition and distribution of the science 
of humaniculture, it will be seen that it 
is to the direct and indirect interest of 
every citizen that it should be carried 
out as soon as possible. A matter that 
is the concern of every citizen is clearly 
the business of the State, who alone can 
undertake so vast a task. The first duty 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 231 

of a department of humaniculture in 
government would be the acquisition of 
knowledge by the classification of that 
which is already available, and the active 
prosecution of scientific research. As 
soon as it was clearly advisable it would 
be necessary to create the apparatus for 
the distribution of suitable and reliable 
information. These duties would slowly 
become administrative as knowledge and 
experience was gained. The necessary 
practice could be obtained by the estab- 
lishment of experimental prisons, refor- 
matories, workhouses, and institutions 
for paupers, drunkards, etc., with labour 
colonies, where observation and experi- 
mental research and the education of 
prison and other State officers could be 
carried out. The work could only be 
done by trained observers and practi- 
tioners of the medical sciences. The 
distribution of knowledge could be se- 
cured by the establishment of subsidiary 
provincial and municipal centres that 
would ultimately supply officers for the 



232 HUMANICULTURE 

administration of the institutions which 
come under the scope of regeneration and 
humaniculture. The department would 
grow slowly and surely, its actions should 
be extended with the greatest care, and 
only extended when it was clear that effi- 
cient men were trained for the new duties. 
Nothing would form so harmful and ret- 
rograde an influence as a tendency to 
undertake duties for which there was 
more enthusiasm than administrative ca- 
pability and experience. It would be 
advisable that the most generous provi- 
sion be made for the reward and pay- 
ment for private research. 

The great duty of the department 
would necessarily be that of education. 
It would be advisable to appoint medi- 
cal officers for regular inspection of the 
schools, so that defects of sight and hear- 
ing could be detected, and early symptoms 
of infective and contagious disease. The 
general condition of the children could 
be noted, and such measures taken that 
were thought to be advisable. The medi- 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 233 

cal officer could take charge of education 
in humaniculture with physical exercises. 
One of the first duties of the central de- 
partment would be to ascertain with the 
least possible delay the elementary or 
necessary information that should be im- 
parted to children in schools: (i) On 
human and general Anatomy ; (2) On 
human Physiology; (3) On Psychology; 
so that they would be enabled to avoid 
the unfavourable factors of degeneration, 
and make as much use as possible of the 
favourable factors. In this way alone 
could Huxley's conception of education 
be carried out : cc Education is the instruc- 
tion of the intellect in the laws of nature ; 
under which name are included not merely 
things and their forces but men and their 
ways, and the fashioning of the affections 
and the will into an earnest and loving 
desire to move in harmony with those 
laws. For me education means neither 
more nor less than this. Anything that 
professes to call itself education must be 
laid by this standard ; and if it fail to 



234 HUMANICULTURE 

stand the test I will not call it education, 
whatever may be the force of the authority 
or numbers on the other side." 

No nation is so fitted to carry out the 
work of humaniculture for itself and 
Humanity as is the United States. The 
country has shown itself pre-eminently 
capable in production, the science of " do- 
ing things/' It is free from the entang- 
ling customs of the past that clog the 
wheels of progress in Europe. It most 
nearly realises Spencer's ideal : " The in- 
tellectual progress of a people or of an 
individual is by nothing so clearly meas- 
ured as by the hold they have on the prin- 
ciple of causation." The enormous and 
varied annual emigration makes the prob- 
lem of humaniculture peculiarly urgent. 
The material progress of the United States 
has been largely made by men who have 
shown the greatest readiness to " scrap " 
old notions and try new and better 
methods. The success of the United 
States Department of Agriculture and its 
widespread usefulness is a fine example 



HUMANICULTURE AND THE STATE 235 

of what can be done on such lines. It 
has more money to spare than European 
countries. It has been estimated that the 
United States spends no less than six 
hundred million dollars annually on deal- 
ing with crime. If this enormous sum, 
together with that expended in other ways 
on disease, began to be diminished, it 
would provide more and more funds for 
the extension of humaniculture. May the 
crowning achievement of the most pro- 
gressive country be that of leading the 
way to a civilisation that will surpass 
that of Greece as much as the present 
age surpasses it in the solid progress of 
the sciences and their application ! 



CHAPTER XIII 

CONCLUSION 

IT has been shown that the medical 
sciences arose in consequence of the ur- 
gent need of the sick. The growth of 
the organisation affords an instructive il- 
lustration of co-operative evolution in the 
discovery and the application of knowl- 
edge. The commencement was in con- 
sequence of pre-eminent success in practice 
by individuals, and above all in their abil- 
ity to explain the reasons for their success. 
Such a man was Hippocrates, who would 
have gathered a number of pupils round 
him and thus established a school of 
thought and practice. These old pioneers 
comprised in themselves all the varied 
special activities that now occupy the 
exclusive attention of highly trained and 
efficient specialists. In these days there 
are researchers and teachers in laboratories 



CONCLUSION 237 

who deal more with general than prac- 
tical science. Many times in history suc- 
cessful practice has been for long periods 
ahead of scientific explanation. The 
pioneer work is, as we have seen, carried 
out in hospitals. The end of the whole 
system is in the faculty that the ordinary 
citizen possesses of having this science 
brought to his doors by the general 
practitioner, in whose hands the banner 
of progress will be worthily held in the 
more intimate work that regeneration and 
humaniculture will entail. It is clear that 
it would be inconceivable for the compli- 
cated sciences concerned in disease to be 
distributed to the general population, so 
that there is no prospect that disease ex- 
perts with their present aims and experi- 
ence can become health educators. 

It is only natural that the opinions of 
those who are engaged in the practice of 
the medical sciences in laboratories and 
hospitals should hold views that are 
largely influenced by their habitual occu- 
pation. For instance, it would not be 



238 HUMANICULTURE 

unfair to describe Professor Metchnikoff's 
view of human nature as being microbic, 
and that of the " eminent physicians " 
who, Mr. Arnold White tells us, are in the 
state of " deeply appreciating " the truth 
of his views, to be seeing their fellow 
creatures through hospital spectacles. 
The only reason in alluding once more to 
these views is to recollect that they tend 
to retard the realisation of such applica- 
tions of knowledge as humaniculture. 

The great and inestimable value of the 
medical sciences to humanity is not only 
that it has diminished the horrors and 
dangers of disease by prevention and cure, 
but, above all, that there has been accu- 
mulated a magnificent capital of positive 
science. In the story of Mr. Fletcher 
the attitude of the medical profession 
towards his discovery can be said to illus- 
trate two important facts : 

(i) That there was a want of orienta- 
tion towards the ideals of regeneration and 
humaniculture, because they had not dis- 
covered the facts themselves. Another 



CONCLUSION 239 

point that was brought out was the in- 
ability to measure the degree of health and 
fitness of an individual. It has been 
pointed out that where there is no meas- 
urement there is no, or at any rate little, 
science of the improvement of man. 

(2) On the other hand, the immense 
value of positive knowledge is shown by 
the fact that unless there had been the 
work of Pasteur, so ably followed by 
Metchnikoff, Koch, and the rest of the 
army of bacteriologists, we should not 
have known how important it was to 
diminish the putrescence in the intestinal 
canal which was looked on as inevitable 
and natural. From this source comes, 
too, the scientific demonstration how it is 
that the body protects itself against mi- 
crobes, and that this protection is pro- 
portionate to the health of the individual. 
Without the patient, unceasing labours of 
those practising the medical sciences there 
would not have been the growing convic- 
tion so ably voiced by Bouchard and his 
school, Mott and many others, that the 



240 HUMANICULTURE 

root-cause of disease consisted in auto- 
toxaemia or self-poisoning from an un- 
scientific adaptation to life. Without the 
knowledge and organisation of the medi- 
cal sciences, there would have been little to 
distinguish Mr. Fletcher's discovery from 
the numbers of fads, etc., that trouble us 
from time to time. 

Looking out on the world phenomena 
generally one finds that the other mani- 
festations of activity are, broadly speaking, 
similar to those of the medical sciences 
in that they are concerned with the satis- 
faction of man's most immediate needs. 
After all, one must recollect that a man 
who is cold gets himself clothes, a shelter, 
and a fire before he turns to the need in 
the next order of importance ; in the same 
way the world's activities, that are the 
expression of men's needs, have been de- 
voted to the means of supplying the most 
urgent of them in an economical manner, 
so as to save labour as much as possible. 
The material progress is by nothing so 
well shown as by the evolution of a rail- 



CONCLUSION 241 

way. It resembles a living organism ; it 
has almost endowed itself with a nervous 
system, with so delicate a mechanism that 
now one brain can control its activities, 
where many were previously necessary 
with their divided counsels. So in other 
directions where it is a question of win- 
ning or researching and of distributing or 
applying material or science, the woods 
have been cleared, and the roads laid for 
those who follow to walk over. Life is 
easier, means of communication are grow- 
ing and extending, news and thoughts are 
distributed from one end of the world to 
the other faster than the world moves 
round the sun. The world is triumph- 
antly winning its battle over material 
nature ; the fight is no longer so eager and 
hurried, the worst has been left behind. 
Now there is a pause with more leisure, 
the cost is being counted, the lists of the 
killed and wounded are being scanned. 
There is the same anxiety that France had 
after Napoleon, when she asked herself 

where were the bravest, the strongest of 
16 



242 HUMANICULTURE 

her sons who should have bred and 
trained the future generation to be 
stronger and more glorious than the last ? 
Every country is now asking itself what 
is the good of the wonderful and magnifi- 
cent facilities of life if man, the lord of 
creation, is to become a miserable degen- 
erate ? They see that the saving of effort 
is being too dearly paid for, if the next 
generation is to include countless unem- 
ployable inefficients, degenerates, and 
criminals. And thus free rein is given 
to gloomy imaginings, all sorts and de- 
scriptions of views are current, men 
eagerly discuss Utopias that are only to 
consist of men like themselves; no degen- 
erates are to be admitted ; remedies are 
being eagerly discussed. The world, in 
short, is pausing, and thinking uneasily in 
its leisure before it turns once more to this 
new task that presents itself, so that it can 
work with refreshed energies towards the 
final and unending task, the perfection of 
man, which is humaniculture. 

Humaniculture is the foremost of the 



CONCLUSION 243 

arts, for it realises not only the perfections, 
but the perfectibility, of man. These 
ideals made gods of men and men of gods 
in the Grecian mythology. It united all 
that was great and noble in the nation to 
the one glorious aim of human perfection. 
Their reward was great ; it has left behind 
a record of art that ennobled artist and 
subject alike, and a literature that has en- 
nobled mankind. Such a level can never 
be attained except through the adoption of 
a similar national movement. The litera- 
ture of Greece has been clung to with the 
strongest and the most instinctive per- 
sistency by the best minds in modern 
times. Its lessons can be said to be 
intimately mixed up with the foundations 
of all that is great and abiding in our 
civilisation. The mighty hold of classical 
ideals on the older universities, with their 
conceptions of physical education, is no 
accident : its explanation must be found in 
the conviction that they are instinctively 
holding on to truth, and that posterity 
will justify them. One great lesson that 



244 HUMANICULTURE 

is taught is, that a noble civilisation has a 
feeble grasp on life where its practice is 
not founded on positive science, however 
grand and abiding the utterances of their 
philosophers may be. 

Old Hippocrates said that Cf it was 
only by medicine that one can arrive at 
some knowledge of human nature, but 
on one condition, to embrace it in its true 
generality." 

Humboldt, too, tells us that " the final 
goal of man, that is to say, the goal that 
is imposed on him by the eternal and 
unbreakable exigencies of reason, . . . 
consists in, as far as possible, the harmoni- 
ous development of all his qualities in a 
complete and united whole." 

Seidleitz says, cc that moral and rational 
life consists in the carrying out of all the 
functions of the body to a satisfactory and 
proportionate degree." 

Bacon predicted a great future for 
medicine in its applications to the progress 
of hygiene, in civilisation and social better- 
ment, in the physique and mind of man. 



CONCLUSION 245 

The abiding impulse of the human 
spirit is towards perfection. The mission 
of the social teacher is to make this impulse 
both conscious and positive. There have 
been many panaceas, many definitions of 
what the Greeks called " the sovereign 
good " for humanity. It has been said that 
in the time of Grecian civilisation, when 
such matters were clearly interesting, there 
were no less than two hundred and eighty- 
eight counted. Heraclites, Socrates, Plato, 
and even Aristotle, and many others, were 
continually using their minds for the pur- 
pose of subtle word-spinning, for the 
manufacture of fine theories of magnifi- 
cent proportions resting on the slenderest 
of foundations. When Aristotle said that 
the greatest knowledge was the least use- 
ful, the practical Epicurus denied it flatly, 
and protested that the only way to judge 
knowledge was to know to what extent 
it contributed to man's happiness. He 
brought those wonderful and haughty in- 
tellects down to earth, down to the every- 
day commonplaces. His final definition 



246 HUMANICULTURE 

of philosophy was that it is not a pure and 
theoretical science : it is a practical law of 
action ; even more, it is itself an action, an 
energy that obtains by speech and reason 
a happy life. We want an Epicurus in 
these days to bring us down to earth ; the 
great social phenomena that confuse us by 
their magnitude, whether it be in their 
magnificence and grandeur or in their hor- 
ror and misery, are they after all any- 
thing more than the phenomena of the 
actions of one mind multiplied by thou- 
sands or millions ? We do not know our- 
selves. The greatest " sovereign good," 
to use the phrase of the old Greeks, is 
first to know ourselves, our Anatomy 
and Physiology, our capabilities and apti- 
tudes, and then, with all the resources of 
the experienced Old World, to cultivate 
ourselves. Our old Mother Earth will 
no longer have to listen to the hoarse 
discordant cry of the weak and degen- 
erate, battling with death. May she be 
gladdened with the harmonious song of 
her sons rejoicing in their common heri- 



CONCLUSION 247 

tage of all that is good and great in na- 
ture, a heritage made glorious through 
Humaniculture, the golden science of 
perfect man, the last " sovereign good " 
of all ! 



INDEX 



ADHYAYA, second, description 
of optimum health in, n 

Alcohol, craving for, 83 

Alimentary canal, three inches 
of, under our control, 51, 
100; bifurcation of, 52 

Alleviation, aim of, 12; of dis- 
ease, 14-15, 147, 154 

"American method" of pro- 
duction, 122-125, 191, 234 

Anderson, Dr. William G., 39, 
1 66; report on experiments 
with Mr. Fletcher, 40-47 

Animals, wild, rearing of the 
young, 9; adaptation to en- 
vironment, 118 

Anti-toxins, 180 

Appetite, effect of thorough in- 
salivation upon, 36 ; as an in- 
dicator in the choice of food, 
69; the strongest stimulus 
to the flow of gastric juice, 
70-72 ; phenomena of, 73-83 

Aristotle, 130, 245 

Asclepiades, 136 

Atrophy of muscle, 53, 55 

Augustus Caesar, treatment of, 

137 
Avicennus, 134 

BACON, 244 

Bacteriology, 16; laboratories 

of, 160-162; discoveries of, 

179-182 
Barnardo, Dr., regeneration 

work, 4, 120, 224, 229 



Bernard, Claude, 163-164, 165 

Bichat, 172 

Biot, 25 

Blondlot, 72 n. 

Booth, General, regeneration 
work, 5 ; his " Religion for 
Every Day," 194-195 

Bouchard, Prof., 75; on auto- 
toxaemia and "retarded nu- 
trition," 182-186 

Bowditch, Prof. Henry P~, 39 

Brain, action of, in automatic 
movements, 65 ; action of, in 
mastication, 66 

Breakfast, absence of appetite 
for, 75 

British Medical Association, 30, 

33,47 

Brockway, Z. JR., regeneration 
work, 4, 119, 225 

Buccal cavities and buccal pas- 
sage, 63-64 

Buddha, pessimism of, 2 

CABBAGES, Cato on, 140- 
141 

Cambridge, University of, Eng- 
land, first nutrition experi- 
ments at, 30-39 

Carbohydrates, as taken in the 
Yale tests, 41-42 ; Mr. Fletch- 
er's preference for, 46 

Cato, as an amateur physician, 
140-141 

Cereal foods, 78 

Cheese, 108 



250 



INDEX 



Chemistry, physiological, 116; 
pathological, 159 

Child, the, qualities of, at birth, 
6; conditions to which it is 
exposed, 7 ; penalties of ex- 
posure, 9 ; rearing of, 10 

Chittenden, Prof. R. H., 39; 
on optimum nitrogen supply, 
8; account of the Yale ex- 
amination of Mr. Fletcher, 
40-47; undertakes the Yale 
experiments in Fletcherism, 

47,49 
Church Army of Great Britain, 

5,224 
Cicero, 26 
Comte, 21 
Consumption, history of treat. 

ment of, 152-154 
Criminology, 5 

DEGLUTITION, process of, 
61-68 

De"j6rine, Professor, 107 

Dentistry, development of, 208 

Dextrine, 78-79 

Digestion, see Mastication, In- 
salivation, Appetite 

Digestion-ash, effect of thor- 
ough nutrition upon, 37, 41 ; 
changes in, produced by pol- 
tophagy, 84-89 

Disease, a deviation from opti- 
mum health, 11-12; allevi- 
ation of, 14; varies with 
environment, 15; the result 
of avoidable causes, 16 ; not 
malignant, but beneficent, 
I7.; feeding in cases of, 
70 ; a stimulus to the growth 
of medical science, 126; re- 
covery from, 135 ; methods 
of treating, 136-146; appa- 



ratus for the study and cure 
of, 147-162 ; discoveries of 
bacteriology relating to, 
179-182 ; symptoms of, in 
"retarded nutrition," 183- 
185 ; due to absence of hu- 
maniculture, 198; the fron- 
tiers of, 206 

" Disharmonies " of the human 
body, 172-179 

Dog, is psomophagic, 54-55 

EATING, rules for, by Horace 
Fletcher, 19 

Economy, in cost of food, 45 ; 
in quantity of food, see Food 

Edison, 124 

Egypt, ancient, medical prac- 
tice in, 139, 143-144, 193 

Empiricism, in medical prac- 
tice, 139-141 

Environment, as a factor in 
disease variations, 14 ; in- 
adaptation to, the cause of 
disease, 16, 89-92 ; Fletcher- 
ism a perfect adaptation to, 
1 06, 109, in ; harmony with, 
1 78 ; ignorance of, cause of 
disease, 186, 188; changes in, 
193 ; factors in, to which the 
body reacts, 199-201 ; effects 
of, 229 

Epicureanism, as embodied in 
Fletcherism, 109, 130-133 

Epicurus, doctrines of, 109, 

i3<>-*33, '3 6 245 
Epiglottis, 52, 54 ; in the dog 

and the horse, 54-55 
Esculapius, 144 
Eugenics, 120 

FATS, as taken in the Yale tests, 
41-42 ; appetite for, 79, 81 



INDEX 



251 



Fitz, Dr. G. W., 166 

Fletcher, Horace, investigation 
of optimum nitrogen supply, 
8 ; inquiry into the root- 
causes of his impaired health, 
18; his perseverance in in- 
vestigating human disabili- 
ties, 19; his conclusions on 
foods and feeding, 19; wide 
scope of his teaching, 20; 
importance of his theories to 
medical science, 23 ; his suc- 
cess due to his discovery of 
human aptitudes, 25 ; the 
story of his discovery and 
experiments, 26-50 ; his fail- 
ing health, 27; his recovery 
through deliberation in eat- 
ing, 28 ; his attempts to gain 
a hearing, 30; experiments 
in Cambridge, 32, 35 ; secures 
the support of the greatest 
authorities, 39; is tested at 
Yale, 40-47 ; establishes a 
new standard of nutrition, 
48 ; scientific confirmation of 
his discovery, 49 ; his discov- 
ery of the food-filter in man, 
51, 52, 68, 69 ; his claims for 
taste and appetite, 69-77; 
advises poltophagy as a rem- 
edy for putrescence, 85 ; ob- 
servations on mastication, 
100, 103 ; the principles of 
his teaching, 110-125; his 
discovery of " Nature's Food- 
Filter," in, 116, 202; atti- 
tude of medical science 
towards, 238 

Fletcherism, multiple benefits 
growing from, 20 ; history of, 
25-50; the principles of, 
110-125 ; involves human i- 



culture, 115 ; epicurean in 
tendency, 131; its peculiar 
importance, 199, 202 

Folin, Dr., investigates the 
Fletcher standard of nutri- 
tion, 48-49 

Food, treatment of, in right nu- 
trition, 34; an excess of, in- 
jurious, 35; reduction in 
amount of, 36, 40-46; quan- 
tity of, prescribed in disease, 
70; choice of, by taste and 
appetite, 77-82 ; precautions 
in the choice of, 94-95, 105- 
109 

Food-filter, in the mouth of 
man, description of, 51-68, 
69 ; discovery of, by Mr. 
Fletcher, in 

Foster, Sir Michael, invites Mr. 
Fletcher to Cambridge, 30; 
institutes the Cambridge ex- 
periments, 32 ; report on 
the nutrition inquiry, 33- 

39 

Fruit, juice of, 77; mainly use- 
ful for its salts, 81-82 

Fruitarians, 46 

GALEN, 134, 142-143 
Gastric juice, flow of, 70-72 
Gegenbaur, 26; on poltophagy 

and psomophagy, 52 
Gladstone, on the number of 

mastications, 101-102 
Governmental boards, studying 

regeneration, 5 
Greece, ancient, human iculture 

in, 5, 13, 116-117, 128-134, 

166, 192, 243, 245 
Greek philosophy, optimism of, 

2; practical character of, 

129-133 



252 



INDEX 



HABITS of the body, considera- 
tion for, 89-93 

Harvard Medical School, 39 

Harvey, discovery of the circu- 
lation of the blood, 134, 143 

Harvey, Gedeon, 138 

Health, see Optimum health 

Heredity, theories of, 5, 223; 
and optimum health, 10 

Hericourt, Professor, 70, 197 ; 
on " the frontiers of disease," 
206 

Hippocrates, 135, 144, 189, 236, 
244 

Holmes, Timothy, 155 

Hopkins, Dr., 32 

Horse, is poltophagic, 54-55 

Hospitals, scope and defects of, 
147-157 ; abolition of, pro- 
posed, 220-222 

Humaniculture, in ancient 
Greece, 5, 13; scientific, 
foundation for, 6; optimum 
health essential to, n ; aims 
and methods of, 12-13 > im ~ 
proved facilities for, 13; first 
stage in development toward 
the ideal, 20-22 ; faulty ori- 
entation, 23 ; a part of Fletch- 
erism, 115; production the 
true method of, 117-125; 
practice of, in ancient Greece, 
128-134; effect of bacteriol- 
ogy upon, 162 ; not a func- 
tion of physiology, 165; 
tendency toward, in medical 
science, 191, 197 ; definition 
of, and factors, 199-201 ; the 
foundation of sociology, 216; 
a department of, necessary in 
the State, 217; its spread 
the concern of every citizen, 
230; duties of a government 



department of, 231-233 ; the 
foremost of the arts, 242 ; the 
golden science of perfect 
man, 246-247 

Humboldt, 244 

Hunger, distinct from appetite, 
76 

Huxley, conception of educa- 
tion, 233 

Hyper-mastication, 102 

Hypertrophy of muscle, 53, 55 

INSALIVATION, thorough, an 
essential of right nutrition, 
34; effect upon appetite, 36 ; 
benefits of, 46 ; process of, 
51, 63-68 

International Congress at Tu- 
rin, 3> 33. 47 

Intestine, large, changes in, 
produced by poltophagy, 37, 
88-89 ; conditions in, 85-88 ; 
a "disharmony," 176, 177 

JAFFA, Professor, 46 

KELLOGG, Dr. and Mrs. J. H., 
regeneration work, 4, 120 

LABORATORIES, researches of, 
in various branches of med- 
ical science, 148, 157-167 

Lecky, W. E. H., on influence 
of pessimism, 2-3 

Lister, 160 

Lombroso, Professor, theories 
of criminology, 5 

Louis XIV., treatment of, 137 

Lucretius, 137 

MAHOMET, 194 

Majendie, 164 

Marey's tambour, 56-59 



INDEX 



253 



Massachusetts General Hospi- 
tal, 48 

Mastication, thorough, as a fac- 
tor in Mr. Fletcher's recov- 
ery, 28 ; an essential of right 
nutrition, 34 ; benefits of, 46 ; 
processes of, 51-68; direc- 
tions for the practice of, 98- 
109; number of movements 
in, 100-102 

Maudsley, Dr., on the task of 
medicine, 188-190; on its 
limitations, 204-205 

McCurdy, Dr., 166 

McLean Hospital at Waverley, 
48 

Meals, times for, 75-76, 84 

Meat, craving for, 80, 81 

Medical science, and alleviation 
of disease, 14 ; importance 
to, of Fletcherism, 23 ; not 
possessed of final knowl- 
edge about nutrition, 38 ; its 
imperfect knowledge and 
methods, iii-nS; origin and 
progress of, 126-146 ; appara- 
tus of, 147-167; modern doc- 
trines of, 168-187 ; the future 
task of, 188-190; changes in, 
J 97 > growth of, 203, 236 ; 
practitioners of , 207-208, 237 ; 
value of, to humanity, 238 

Metabolism, tests at Yale, 40- 
47 ; measurement of changes 
of, n6; errors of, 159 

Metchnikoff, Professor, 3, 85 ; 
on human "disharmonies," 
172-179 

Moses, sanitary laws of, 144, 193 

Mott, Dr., on nervous diseases 
186-187 

Mouth, see Mastication and 
Jnsalivation 



Muscles, atrophy and hyper- 
trophy of, 53 ; actions of, 
in mastication, 63-68 ; auto- 
matic movements of, 65-66 

Mylohyoid, 64 

NAVVY, British, 81 

Nitrogen, optimum supply of, 
8, 48; intake and output of, 
in the Yale tests, 41-43 

Nutarians, 46 

Nutrition, experiments in, at 
Cambridge, 30-39; experi- 
ments in, at Yale, on Mr. 
Fletcher, 40-47 ; Professor 
Chittenden's investigation of, 
49 ; physiological process of, 
51-68 ; taste and appetite as 
indications in, 69-72 ; the- 
ories of, by Bouchard, 182- 
185 

" Nutrition retardante," Bou- 
chard's theory of, 182-185 

OPTIMISTIC school of thought, 
i ; concerned with research 
and experiment, 4; in medi- 
cal science, 170 

Optimum health, definition of, 
10; description of, in sacred 
writing of the East, n; de- 
viations from, n -i 2 ; methods 
of securing, 12-14; an< ^ re ~ 
sistance against disease, 17; 
effect of poltophagy upon, 
84; measurement of devia- 
tions from, 1 70, 229 ; attained 
by physical exercise, 192 

O'Reilly, Surgeon-General, 49 

PALATE, soft, 51, 52; of the 
dog, 54; movements of, in 
man, 56-68, 104 



254 



INDEX 



Paracelsus, 134 

Pasteur, 160, 179-181, 239 

Pathology, 150; laboratories of, 

159 

Patterson, Mr., 121 

Pavlov, on the nervous impulses 
in the mouth, 51; on appe- 
tite as a stimulus, 70-72 

Pessimistic school of thought, 
1-3; guided by speculation, 
4; in medical science, 170- 
177 

Pharynx, 67 

Physiology, standard of nutri- 
tion in, 31, 41-43; tardiness 
of researches in, 71 ; not quali- 
fied to decide practical human 
questions, 111-113; ^ ts im ~ 
perfect knowledge and meth- 
ods, 114-116; laboratories of, 
163-167 

Poltophagy, 52; as practised 
by the horse, 55 ; as practised 
by man, 62-68 ; appetite phe- 
nomena in, 73-76, 81, 82 ; 
changes produced by, 84-89 ; 
precautions in the adoption 
of, 92-96; directions for the 
practice of, 98-109 

Popular Science Monthly, ac- 
count of the Yale experiments 
in Fletcherism, 40-47 

Production, "American meth- 
od" of, 122-125, I 9 I > t* 16 
realm of, 196 

Proteid, amount of, in right 
nutrition, 34, 35, 41-43 ; ap- 
petite for, 79-81 

Psomophagy, 52 ; as practised 
by the dog, 5 5 ; as practised 
by man, 62, 67-68, 75, 76, 
104 

Ptyalin, 63 



REGENERATION, aim of, 12; 
methods of, 14, 105-109; ap- 
paratus for, 147; future ap- 
plication of, 190; efforts at, 
224-228 

Respiration, experiments in, in 
investigating the soft palate, 
58-59; factors in, 200 

Rest, perfection of, 103-107 

Rome, medical practice in, 

I 36-i37, 139, 140 
Ross, Major, 161 

SACCULI, of the large intestine, 

86-88 
St. Martin, Alexis, the case of, 

69 
Saliva, action of, in mastication, 

63, 66, 74 

Salvation Army, 5, 194, 224 
Seidlitz, 244 
Seneca, 171 
Seton, E. Thompson, on wild 

animals, 9 
Sheffield Scientific School of 

Yale, 39 

Sigmoid flexure, 88-89 
Sloss, Dr., 80 
Sociology, the positive basis of, 

214-218 ; the work of humani- 

culture for, 224-235 
Solvay, M., his benefactions for 

sociological work, 214-215 
Spencer, Herbert, on the ideal 

of harmonious development, 

21-22 

Stahl, 138 

Starch, appetite for, 78-79, 81 ; 

effect of poltophagy upon, 

103 
Stomach, theory of contact 

stimulus in, 70 ; appetite the 

strongest stimulus, 70-72 



INDEX 



255 



Storey, Dr., 166 

Sugars, 78-79 

Suggestion, influence of, 93-94 

Surgery, 150, 160 

Swallowing, poltophagic and 

psomophagic, 62-68 
Sydenham, 138 

TASTE, as an indicator in the 
choice of food, 69; phenom- 
ena of, as regards various 
foods, 77-83 

Theocratic medicine, ideals of, 
143-146 

Tongue, action of, in mastica- 
tion, 63-67, 102-104 

Toxaemia, 182-187 

Toxicity of disease, 181 

Treves, Sir Frederick, on the 
proper conception of disease, 
17 n. 

Tyrolese peasants, 81 



UNITED STATES, especially 
fitted for the work of hu- 
maniculture, 234; its grand 
opportunity, 235 

VAN SOMEREN, Dr. Ernest, 
collaborator with Mr. Fletcher 
in nutrition inquiry, 30, 35; 
reports on experiments, 33, 

34, 47, 48 

Vegetables, salts of, 77, 81-82 
Voit standard of nutrition, 31, 
41, 43, 48; proved to be 
grossly incorrect, 114 

WATER, daily intake of, 82 
Waste products, see Digestion- 
ash 

White, Arnold, on the " Waste 
of Charity," 218-222 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



Do not 
remove 
the card 
from this 
Pocket. 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



