'Hips 

s/ 




COMPLIMENTS OF 

A. F. JOHNSTON 
R'AIMCY 

SANTA MONICA, CALIF. 



Iji 

~ 






3 



}jo 






!H 

t * ^> 








THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



EX LIBRIS 

The Jones Family 




I 




NATURAL FRTJIT FLAV< 
OF PERFECT PU*.: 



. 
- 

Q 



For Flavoring Ice Or*. 
.Pudding* Custards. Sauces, 
Jellies. Syrups, etc. 



PRICE FLOORING HTBACT CO. 




30th Edition 
COPYRIGHT, 1903 



DR. PRICE'S 

* 

DELICIOUS DESSERTS 



CONTA1NIN 



PRACTICAL RECIPES 



Carefully Selected and Tested 



EXCELLENT SIMPLE DELICATE 



PRICE TLAVORING EXTRACT CO. 

NEW YORK CHICAGO 

ST. LOUIS SAN PRANC1SCO 

Seat free to oat/ oat sending their Name and Address fa full. 



IN ARRANGING the following pages, our intention has been to 
furnish the housewife with a number of delicious recipes in a 
simple, practical form. We have endeavored to avoid those not 
pertaining strictly to desserts, hoping to make this work of practical 
utility. Our selections have been made chiefly with the view of 
obtaining a choice and tested few, rather than embarrassing you 
with a useless number of inappropriate recipes. Economy has not 
been ignored in the quantities of the different ingredients employed, 
but every recipe has been limited to the exact proportions compat- 



ible with the best results. 



THE best ingredients are not only essential to good cooking, but 
more economical. Many persons entertain the false philosophy 
that it is more economical to buy cheap products of any kind than 
pay a reasonable price for what they can be assured is first class in 
all respects. Obtain the purest, and economy will be shown in the 
smaller quantity required. Our aim has been to meet the ever- 
increasing demand for great purity in articles used in our daily 
food. Our extensive business has been built up by supplying the 
housewife with the best and purest, and consumers who are willing 
to encourage our efforts are invited to ask for Dr. Price's Delicious 
Flavoring Extracts. 



THE responsibility for inferior flavoring extracts often rests with 
the consumers themselves, as they seek the cheapest, irre- 
spective of quality. This desire to purchase cheap commod- 
ities has greatly promoted food adulteration. Just so long as we 
are constantly striving to purchase for five cents that for which we 
ought to pay ten, the manufacturers will cater to our wishes and 
put upon the market something that can be sold for five cents. 
Imitations are often proclaimed to be superior to the genuine, and 
humanity goes bravely on hoping for the realization of the impos- 
sible and an opportunity to get something for nothing. Good goods 
cost money; poor stuff can be had at any price. Is there any econ- 
omy in a cheap flavoring extract of which you must use double the 
quantity at a quarter less in cost? Pure food and good health 
accompany each other and are worth your careful consideration. 



DR. PRICE'S DELICIOUS FLAVORING EXTRACTS have 
been in use for nearly half a century. They have acquired 
a world-wide popularity, due entirely to the care exercised in 
their manufacture, every stage of which is under the supervision 
of an experienced chemist. The aroma of every flavor is developed 
to its full extent by a process known only to ourselves. Their high 
degree of strength makes them unexcelled for economical cookery. 
The fruits from which they are made are selected with care, and all 
objectionable substances removed. Chemical compounds, natural 
to all fruits, which disguise the true flavor, are eliminated by our 
process, thus producing an extract many times stronger, more 
durable and delicious than any other in the market. In consequence 
ot the high degree of purity attained, Dr. Price's Delicious Flavor- 
ing Extracts can be carried in stock indefinitely without any loss 
ot strength or change in flavor. Their freedom from ethers, poison- 
ous oils, coal-tar substances and artificial coloring removes all 
danger from chemical reaction, assuring their healthfulness and 
wholesomeness. 



VALUED ENDORSEMENTS. 



"The superior quality of Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts does 
not need to be told, as the name is a sufficient guarantee." 

MRS. S. T. RORER, 
In her demonstrating lectures at the World's Columbian Exposition. 



"I have given Dr. Price's Flavoring Extracts the most careful trials, and 
have found them thoroughly satisfactory, both in strength and taste. Every 
American housewife, who wishes to have the certainty of achieving the best 
results in her cookery, should use these Extracts." 

CHRISTINE TERHUNE HERRICK. 
Brooklyn, N. Y. 

"After havi'ng tested the various articles of flavoring extracts in the 
market, I unhesitatingly pronounce Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts 
superior to all others in strength and purity, and take pleasure in recom- 
mending them to the use of housekeepers who desire good cakes and well- 
flavored custards, creams and sauces." ELIZA R. PARKER, 

Bedford Springs, Ky. 

"Since using Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts, I unhesitatingly 
pronounce them the finest natural flavors. In strength, purity and delicacy 
of taste, they are, in my judgment, unequaled." 

MARION McBRIDE. 
In "Cottage Hearth." 

"We have much pleasure in bearing our testimony to the flavor, aroma 
and fine quality of Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts. We find them 
to be of exceptional purity and free from any deleterious substance." 

THOMAS HEYS. 
Professor of Chemistry. Toronto School of Medicine. 

PETER J. RICE. 

Analytical and Consulting Chemist, Ontario School 
of Pharmacy, Toronto. Canada. 



"I have examined Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts, and find 
them to be of rare excellence." PETER COLLIER, 

Chief Chemist, Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 



"I find Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts exactly what they are 
represented to be true and pure flavors, free from impurities and hurtful 
ingredients." H. C. WHITE. 

Prof. Chemistry. University of Georgia, State Chemist. Athens, Ga. 



"I take pleasure in renewing my endorsement of ten years ago of Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts, that I find the same strong, pure and 
of natural flavor, obtained from pure and fresh material." 

PROF. M. DELAFONTAINE. 
Analytical and Consulting Chemist, Chicago. 111. 



"I am so well pleased with Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extract? that 
lose them in my own family and recommend them to my friends." 

R. C. KEDZIE. 

Professor of Chemistry, Michigan State Agricultural 
College, Lansing, Mich. 



LEMON AND ORANGE. 



r AMI LIAR as we are with these fruits we have probably little 
considered their close analogy. In their cultivation the 
condition of soil, climate and entire surroundings are 
identical, yet they give two deliciously opposite flavors. 
The active flavoring principle of each is contained only in 
the rind or peel as an essential oil. It is from this peel that a pure 
flavoring extract is made, the pulp never being used. In Sicily, as 
in no other place, do these fruits grow nearer to perfection, from 
which country the essential oil or flavoring principle is mostly 
obtained. In extracting the oil from the peel, two methods are 
employed, known as the hand or cold process and the distilled. 
The hand-pressed oils are acknowledged superior for flavoring pur- 
poses and of greater commercial value. The method of extracting 
the oils by hand is very laborious and expensive, necessitating two 
days' work and one thousand lemons or oranges to produce one 
pound of oil. Three longitudinal slices are first cut from the fruit. 
These are then divided transversely and the peel separated from 
the pulp. This peel is deprived of its oil by pressing the exterior 
surface against a sponge. The oil vesicles are thus ruptured and 
the oil absorbed by the sponge. When the sponge becomes thor- 
oughly saturated, the oil is squeezed out into earthen vessels. The 
vessels are set aside until the oil has separated from the water. 
When this is complete the oil is decanted off, placed into coppers 
and hermetically sealed. The essential oils obtained by this proc- 
ess are of a yellowish color and have a strong fruit odor. 

In the distilled process the oils are liberated by rubbing the 
fruits on a coarse grater. The grated peel is then distilled. The 
product thus obtained is colorless, of an inferior quality and 
cheaper price. On account of the expense attached to the produc- 
tion of hand-pressed oils, they are frequently found mixed with the 
cheaper distilled oil, as well as adulterated with an entirely foreign 
oil. One of the most common adulterants used is oil of turpentine. 
This is evidenced from the fact based on reports that a single 
exporter uses ten tons of oil of turpentine a year. It is further 
instanced from the fact that alleged true oil is sold in the market 
at a price below the actual cost to produce a pure oil. In a pure 
extract of lemon or orange, hand-pressed oil and a given percentage 
of peel should only be used. Cheap extracts are made from both 
inferior and foreign oils and admixtures, artificially colored with 
aniline. The manufacture of a true extract of lemon or orange is 
much more intricate than one would suppose. To separate the 
pure, true fruit flavor from the balsamic matter so natural to these 
fruits without in any way destroying the strength or natural color 
necessitates much care and expense. Years of costly experiments 
favored the Price Flavoring Extract Co. with a process for so doing. 
Under this secret and original formula all the inert ingredients are 
entirely eliminated, resulting in the production of absolutely pure 
extracts of an intense and natural fruit flavor, entirely free from 
artificial or coal-tar coloring. That the housewife has recognized 
this is proven by the ever-increasing demand for Dr. Price's True 
Extracts of Lemon and Orange. 



VANILLA BEANS. 



THERE are several varieties of vanilla beans in the market 
possessing various commercial values and proper purposes: 
the Mexican, Bourbon, South American, Tahati and wild 
vanillas; and among the many artificial preparations and 
substitutes are Tonka or snuff beans, vanillin, coumarin (coal-tar 
derivitives) and artificial or aniline coloring. These inferior beans 
and substitutes enter wholly or are component parts of many 
alleged vanilla extracts. 

Prime Mexican Vanilla should only be used in the manufacture 
of food preparations. These are cultivated in the province of 
Vera Cruz, Mexico, which is the most important producing country 
in the world. These beans are from seven to nine inches long and 
of a dark brown color. The plant is grown from cuttings similar 
to grape vines, also from seeds. The cuttings are planted at the 
foot of trees, and by its aerial rootlets the vine attaches itself and 
clings to the tree. The production of these beans is not large and 
they are consequently held at a very high price. It is this high 
price that induces manufacturers of flavoring extracts to substitute 
the inferior grades of beans and artificial productions mentioned 
above. There is no flavoring extract in the market more delicate, 
agreeable to taste and universally used than Vanilla. The idea 
that a perfect extract of Vanilla can be easily produced is so absurd 
as to be unworthy of notice. Good extract is impossible unless the 
best Mexican Vanilla Beans are used, properly cured and aged, 
the flavor and natural color properly extracted and allowed to stand 
for at least one year to mature before offering for sale. The pure 
or true extract has not a decided taste or smell, which is a distin- 
guishing feature as compared to the strong, rank smell of an 
adulterated extract or substitute. Contrary to inferior productions 
a pure extract of Vanilla, properly manufactured, does not dete- 
riorate with age, nor is it affected by the heat of the oven or in 
icings. The heat used in baking drives off the spirits, leaving the 
flavor permeated through the cake. 

Thousands of pounds of the finest quality of Mexican Vanilla 
Beans are consumed annually by the Price Flavoring Extract Com- 
pany; more than by any other makers of flavoring extracts in the 
world. It is by their use, with extreme care, and by a process 
entirely original, combined with the facilities of forty years' 
experience and one of the largest and most completely equipped 
laboratories, that DR. PRICE'S DELICIOUS FLAVORING EXTRACT OF 
VANILLA obtains its rare excellence. 

6 








f * ~- 



SCENE IN MEXICO. 
GATHERING VANILLA BEANS FOR DR PRICE'S DELICIOUS FLAVORING EXTRACTS 



DELICIOUS DESSERTS. 

DINNER. 

PA f T?* 

SPRING. SUNDAY- Italian Cream: 35 

White Sponge Cake 15 

MONDAY Brown Top Pudding 30 

TUESDAY Baked Apple Dumpling 26 

WEDNESDAY Graham Pudding 27 

Lemon Sauce 31 

THURSDAY Fruit Charlotte 34 

Pink and White Cake 17 

FRIDAY Maryborough Pie 24 

SATURDAY Almond Custard 33 

Lemon Cookies 19 

A 

SUMMER. SUNDAY- Fruit Cream 36 

Angels' Food 15 

Roman Punch 

Almond Drops 22 

MONDAY Cherry Pie 25 

TUESDAY Peach Cottage Pudding 29 

Hard Sauce 31 

WEDNESDAY Strawberry Short Cake 26 

THURSDAY Pineapple Sherbet 37 

Pound Cake No. 2 14 

FRIDAY Charlotte Russe 34 

Ring Jumbles 20 

SATURDAY- Peach Pie 25 

AUTUMN. SUNDAY- Peach Ice Cream 37 

Caramel Cake 13 

MONDAY Railroad Pudding 29. 

Foaming Sauce 31 

TUESDAY Custard Pie 24 

WEDNESDAY Velvet Blanc Mange 32 

Sugar Cookies 19 

THURSDAY Pumpkin Pie 25 

FRIDAY- Cocoanut Pie 24 

SATURDAY Apple Fritters 30 

White Wine Sauce 31 

WINTER. SUNDAY- Steamed Berry Pudding 30 

Hard Brandy Sauce 31 

Wine Jelly 35 

Cream Walnuts 41 

MONDAY Indian Pudding 29 

TUESDAY Tipsy Pudding 28 

WEDNESDAY Victoria Pie 25 

THURSDAY Delmonico Pudding 29 

FRIDAY Neapolitan Blanc Mange 32 

SATURDAY Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream 33 

8 



PAGE 



DELICIOUS DESSERTS. 

TEA OR LUNCHEON. 

SPRING. SUNDAY Lemon Jelly 36 

Gold Cake 14 

MONDAY Floating Island. .............. 33 

Chocolate Cake 16 

TUESDAY Sliced Oranges. 

Philadelphia Jumbles ...... ... 19 

WEDNESDAY Boston Cream ' Cakes 22 

THURSDAY- Raspberry Tarts with whipped 

cream. .... 25 

FRIDAY Cup Custard 33 

Fruit Cookies 19 

SATURDAY Baked Sweet Apples with whipped 

cream. 
Clove Cake 12 

SUMMER, SUNDAY- Cream Pie 24 

MONDAY Strawberries and Cream. 

TUESDAY Cream Tarts 25 

WEDNESDAY Raspberries and Cream. 

Cheese Cakes 26 

THURSDAY Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream. ....... 33 

Sponge Cake 15 

FRIDAY Spanish Cream 34 

SATURDAY- Orange Jelly 36 

Tea Cakes. 19 

AUTUMN. SUNDAY- Blanc Mange. 32 

Delicate Cake 15 

MONDAY Lemon Pie. 24 

TUESDAY Sliced Peaches. 

WEDNESDAY Cream Puffs 22 

THURSDAY Sliced Oranges and Bananas. 

. White Mountain Cake 14 

FRIDAY Bavarian Cream 

SATURDAY Rice Pudding 28 

WINTER. SUNDAY Macaroon Custard 32 

Ginger Bread 21 

MONDAY Sweet Potato Pie 25 

TUESDAY Apple Sauce. 

Molasses Cookies 19 

WEDNESDAY Snow Pudding 30 

Roll Jelly Cake. 17 

THURSDAY Frozen Peaches 36 

Dew Drops.;. 23 

FRIDAY Cocoanut Tarts 26 

SATURDAY Cream Fritters 31 

Lemon Sauce 31 

9 



DELICIOUS DESSERTS. 



TVAHKS6IVIN6. 

Fruit Pudding 27 

Pumpkin Pie 25 

Coffee Ice Cream 36 

Peppermint Drops 43 

Roman Punch 39 

Chocolate Wafers 20 

Mince Pie. Assorted Cakes. 
Nuts. 

CHRISTMAS. 

Christmas Plum Pudding 27 

Peach Ice Cream 37 

Angels' Food 15 

Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream .. 33 

Almond Jumbles 20 

FruitCake 11 

FigCake 12 

Cream Walnuts 41 

Claret Punch : 39 

Mince Pie. 



DINNER. 

PAGE NEW YEAR. 



PAGE 

Fig Pudding 29 

Lemon Pie 24 

Italian Tutti-Frutti 37 

Maple Creams.. 4O 

Fruit Sherbet 38 

Almond Cookies 19 

Apple Pie 24 

Fruit Cake 11 

Peppermint Drops 43 

EASTER. 

Queen of Puddings 28 

Cream a la Rose 37 

White Lady Cake 14 

Almond Drops 22 

Lemon Ice 36 

Spice-Drops 23 

Plum Pie. Candies. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



4 
2 
2 
2 

4 



2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
10 



Teaspoonfuls - 

Tablespoonfuls 

Wineglassfuls 

Gills 

Teacupfuls 

Teaspoonfuls Salt - 

Tablespoonfuls Granulated Sugar 

Tablespoonfuls Flour 

Pint Loaf Sugar 

Pint Brown Sugar - 

Pint Granulated Sugar 

Pint Wheat Flour - 

Pint Corn Meal 

Ordinary Sized Eggs 

A Piece of Butter the size of an egg 



make One Tablespoonful 
One Wineglassful 
One Gill 
One Teacupful 
One Pint 
One Ounce 
One Ounce 
One Ounce 
weighs Ten Ounces 

Twelve Ounces 
Sixteen Ounces 
Nine Ounces 
Eleven Ounces 
about Sixteen Ounces 
Ounces 



Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts 

SOLD BY ALL LEADING GROCERS 

VANILLA, IDEAL, ZEPHYR, LEMON, ORANGE, ALMOND, ROSE, CELERY, 

COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, GINGER, NUTMEG, CLOVES, ALLSPICE, 

ESS. WINTERGREEN, ESS. PEPPERMINT, 

ESS. ANISE, ESS. CINNAMON 

Dr. Price's Onion Relish 

A Perfect Vegetable Condiment. Made from selected Bermuda Onions. To be 
used on the Table as well as in the Kitchen. 

Dr. Price's Aromatic Essence Jamaica Ginger 
Dr. Price's Harmless Colors 

Brquisite Colorings for Pros tings, Cakes, Creams, Ices, and for all Food purposes. 
FRUIT COLORING CHOCOLATE BROWN 

10 



CAICE,. 



GOOD cake depends quite as much upon the way of putting 
it together as it does upon the quantity and quality of the 
ingredients used. Careless mixing will spoil the best 
recipes. Always cream the butter and sugar; beat the 
whites and yolks of eggs separately; mix the yolks with the butter 
and sugar; add the milk; sift the baking powder with the flour, 
and stir in a little at a time; then the whites of the eggs; lastly, 
the flavoring. No cake, pudding, custard or cream will taste good 
if flavored with a poor, cheap extract. Always use the best. Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts are prepared from fruits that 
yield the finest flavor. None of greater strength. None of such 
perfect purity. Always certain to impart to Cakes, Puddings, 
Sauces, Ice Creams, etc., the natural flavor of the fruit. 

Black or Wedding Cake. One pound of brown sugar, one 
pound of butter, one and one-half pounds of flour, twelve eggs, one 
pound of currants, dredged; two pounds of raisins, seeded; one- 
half pound of citron, cut thin; one-half pound of figs, chopped; one 
pound of almonds, blanched and chopped; one glass of jelly, one 
wineglass of brandy, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of 
O'nnamon, one teaspoonful of Cloves, two teaspoonfuls of Nutmeg. 

Mix all well, the whites of the eggs and brandy last. Bake in 
two loaves for four hours, or longer if not cooked through. Will 
keep well for one year. 

Fruit Cake. Stir to a cream one pound each of brown sugar, 
butter and ten eggs; one wineglass of brandy, one of wine; mix in 
one t pound of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; add 
two pounds of seeded raisins, two of currants, one of citron, one- 
quarter of almonds, one teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Rose and Cinnamon. Bake three or four hours. 

Plain Fruit Cake. One cup of butter, one of brown sugar, one 
of molasses, one of sweet milk, three cups of flour, four eggs, one 
and one-half teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two pounds of raisins, seeded; one teaspoonful each of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Rose, Cinnamon, Nutmeg, and one -half teaspoon- 
of Cloves; one-half wineglass of brandy. 

Every housekeeper, after a trial of the Extracts, wilt endorse 
their claims for strength, delicacy of taste and purity. 

11 



Fig Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
cold water, three cups of seeded raisins, one pound of figs, chopped 
fine; three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
egg. Bake slowly. 

Imperial Cake. One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, juice and rind of one lemon, nine eggs, one pound 
of blanched almonds, one-half pound of citron, one-half pound of 
raisins, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Citron Cake. One quart of flour, one cup of butter, two cups 
of sugar, twelve eggs, one cup of cream, one glass of wine, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond, one cup of chopped 
citron. 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake. One pint of flour, two cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one cup of milk, five eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one cup of grated cocoanut, one-half teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Chocolate Loaf Cake. One cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
melted butter, three-fourths cup of milk, one and one-half cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder; yolks of eight eggs, 
white of one; grate one-quarter of a cake of Baker's chocolate into 
one-half cup of the milk and boil until thick. Flavor with Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla and mix into the batter. 

Coffee Cake. One cup of coffee or two teaspoonfuls of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Coffee, one cup of molasses, one cup of butter, 
one cup of sugar, one of raisins, one of currants, four cups of flour, 
one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinna- 
mon, one-half teaspoonful cloves, four eggs, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in hot water. 

Clove Cake. One cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of sour cream, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup of flour, a pinch of salt, one 
teaspoonful of cloves. 

Spice Cake. One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, two of 
soda, and one-half teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Clove, Allspice and Cinnamon. One-half cup of strong boiled 
coffee, flour enough to make a stiff dough. 

Hickory-Nut Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
three cups of flour, one cup of milk, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one cup of nut meats cut fine, one-half teaspoonful 
of Dr, Price's Extract of Almond. 

Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts are natural fruit fla- 
vors, and contain no poisonous oils, ethers or artificial colors. 

12 



Mottled Cake. One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, 
whites of twelve eggs, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; take 
one-half of the batter and stir in one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Fruit Coloring; fill the buttered cake pan by putting in one spoon- 
ful of white, then one of pink until all the batter is in. 

Washington Cake. One cup of butter, three cups of brown 
sugar, one cup of milk, four eggs, one cup of seeded raisins, three 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful 
each of Dr. Price's Extract of Clove, Nutmeg and Cinnamon. 

Chocolate Marble Cake. Whites of six eggs, one cup of but- 
ter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one-half cup of sweet 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla, one-quarter cake of chocolate grated 
and mixed into one-half of the batter; put into the cake pan in 
layers of dark, then white. 

Marble Cake. WHITE PART. One-half cup of butter, one and 
one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of milk, two and one-half cups 
of flour, whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

DARK PART. One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of molasses, 
two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of sour milk, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, two cups of flour, yolks of four eggs, one whole 
egg, one teaspoonful of extract of clove, one of Dr. Price's Essence 
of Cinnamon; put into well-buttered pan, one teaspoonful of white, 
one of dark, until all is used. 

Cup Cake. One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, four eggs, one-half cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon or White 
Rose. 

Caramel Cake. One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, one and one-half cups of flour, one cup of corn starch, 
whites of seven eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking .powder, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; bake in long pan. One- 
half pound of brown sugar, one-half pound of chocolate, one-half 
cup of milk, butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla; boil until thick enough to spread, spread 
over the top and sides of cake. Or two cups of brown sugar, one 
cup of sweet cream, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, butter the size of 
an egg; boil until it sugars; spread over top and sides 

These Delicious Flavoring Extracts are just as represented. 
No deception in quantity or quality. 



Pound Cake No. I. One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, sixteen eggs leaving out yolks of four one 
teaspoonf ul of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

Pound Cake No. 2. One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, 
one pound of flour, twelve eggs beaten separately very light, one 
wineglass of brandy. 

Lunch Cake. Four cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one-half 
cup of milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Gold Cake. One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
cup of milk; yolks of six eggs, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon. 

Silver Cake. One-half cup of butter, one and one-half cups 
of sugar, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, the whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful Dr. Price's 
Extract of Orange. 

Bride's Cake. Three cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, 
one of sweet milk, four cups of flour, one-half cup of corn starch, 
whites of twelve eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful each of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla and Lemon. 

White Pound Cake. One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, 
one pound of butter, whites of sixteen eggs, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 
Bake it in a slow oven. Will keep one year. 

White Lady Cake. One and one-half cups of flour, one cup 
of sugar, one-half cup of butter, whites of four eggs, one-half cup 
of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder; flavor with Dr. Price's 
Extract of Almond. 

White Mountain Cake. One pound of sugar, one and one-half 
pounds of butter, one pound of flour, whites of ten eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of Dr. Pace's Extract of Almond. 

White Cream Cake. Four cups of flour, one cup of butter, 
one cup of sweet cream, three cups of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, whites of ten eggs; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of White Rose. 

Quick Sponge Cake. Three eggs, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one- 
half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Lemon. 

Nice delicacies are improved by the use of Dr. Price's Extracts, 
because of their natural fruit flavor. 

14 



Delicate Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one and one- 
half cups of flour, one- half cup of corn starch sifted with the flour, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, whites of six eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder; flavor with one-half teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Pound Sponge Cake. One pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
flour, nine eggs, juice of one lemon; stir the yolks of eggs and sugar 
to a cream; add flour and lemon, the whites last, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

White Sponge Cake. One and one-half cups of powdered 
sugar, one cup of flour, a pinch of salt, whites of eleven eggs, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla. 

Cream Sponge Cake. Two cups of sugar, one of cream, two 
cups of flour, four eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Bake quickly. 

Angels' Food No. i. One and one-half tumblers of granulated 
sugar, one tumbler flour, each sifted seven times; in the last sifting 
put in one even teaspoonful of cream of tartar; whites of eleven 
eggs; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Almond or Vanilla. 

Angels' Food No. 2. One and one-half tumblers of sifted pow- 
dered sugar, one tumbler of flour sifted four times, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, whites of eleven eggs, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla; beat the eggs stiff, add sugar, then flour 
and baking powder. Do not butter the pan. 



LAYER CAKES. 

* 

Almond Cake. Two cups of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one cup of milk, two cups of flour, whites of six eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon. Bake in jelly tins. 

FILLING. Two pounds of blanched almonds, pounded fine; 
two eggs, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract 
of Vanilla. Spread between the layers and frost. 

Orange Cake. Make cake part the same as for lemon cake. 

FILLING. Whites of two eggs, three cups of sugar, the grated 
rind and juice of one orange, half the juice of one lemon, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Orange. Spread between layers. 

All of Dr. Price's Extracts are economical to use. They have 
strength and purity. 

15 



Chocolate Cake. Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one-half 
of milk, three of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

FILLING. Boil two 'ounces of chocolate, one cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Vanilla, until thick; let cool and spread. 

FILLING No. 2. Whites of three eggs, one cup of sugar, three 
tablespoonf uls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla. Mix smooth and spread. 

Cocoanut Cake. Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, three and one-half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, whites of four eggs, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. Bake in jelly tins. 

FILLING. One grated cocoanut, whites of two eggs, one cup 
of sugar, spread between layers and on top of cake 

Cream Cake.- One cup of sugar, one-quarter of a cup of but- 
ter, one-half cup of milk, the whites of two eggs, one and one half 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. 

FILLING. Yolks of two eggs, one cup of sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 
Spread. 

Apple Jelly Cake. Make any good white cake and bake in, 
jelly tins. 

FILLING. Pare and grate three apples, two-thirds of a cup of 
sugar, one beaten egg, mix all and cook, stirring while cooking; 
flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

Fig Cake. One and one-half v"ups of sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one-half cup of milk, three cups of flour, whites of six eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

FILLING. Boil fifteen minutes one pound of chopped figs, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of water. Spread between layers. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half 
of butter, one-half of milk, two and one-half cups of flour, three 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. One cup of sugar, one egg, grated rind and juice ot 
one lemon, one tablespoonful of water, one teaspoonful of flour. 
Boil until it thickens; cool and spread between the layers. 

Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon is prepared from the flavoring 
principle obtained from the rind of the lemon. No turpentine, no 
poisonous oil. 

16 



Minnehaha Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Almond, whites of six eggs. Bake in long pan. 

FILLING. One cup of sugar, one-quarter cup of water; boil 
until brittle; take from the stove and stir in the white of one egg, 
well beaten; one cup of seeded raisins, chopped; one of hickory 
nuts, chopped. Spread between layers. 

Hickory-Nut Cake. One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, three-quarters cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, 
whites of four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Ideal. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. Whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
one cup of chopped nut meats, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon. 

Metropolitan Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, four cups of flour, whites of eight eggs, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon. Take out enough of this batter to fill three 
jelly tins; bake. Add to the remaining batter one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful each of 
cloves and allspice, ground; one-quarter pound each of raisins, 
seeded, and sliced citron. Bake in two layers; put together with 
frosting, alternating light and dark. 

Pink and White Layer Cake. One cup of butter, two cups 
of sugar, one cup of milk, one of corn starch, two cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, whites of six eggs; separate 
enough batter to make two layers, and add one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Fruit Coloring. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. Make a boiled frosting; flavor with Dr. Price's 
Extract of Almond; color one-half with Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring. 
Spread white frosting on pink layer, pink frosting on white layer. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. Two cups of sugar, two cups of sifted 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, six eggs; beat all together 
quickly, bake in quick oven; when done spread quickly with jelly, 
roll carefully and wrap in napkin. 

Pineapple Cake. Whites of six eggs, one cup of milk, one and 
one-half cups of sugar, two and one-half of flour, one-half cup of 
butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Rose. Bake in layers. 

FILLING. Whites of three eggs, one cup of powdered sugar, 
one can of grated pineapple. Spread. 

One quality only, " The Best," in all our specialties. 

17 



ICINGS FOR CAKE- 

Boiled Frosting. One pint of granulated sugar with enough 
water to dissolve it. Let it boil until it threads from the spoon. 
Beat the whites of two eggs stiff and pour the boiling 1 sugar into it, 
beating all the time. 

Cream Frosting. Take the whites of two eggs, add an equal 
measure of cold water, stir into this confectioners' sugar until of 
the right consistency to spread. Flavor with one-half teaspoonf ul 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

The Best Icing. One pound of sugar, whites of three eggs; 
beat the whites until frothy, not white, add the sugar gradually 
with one hand while you beat with the other. Flavor with Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon or Almond. 

Frosting. Whites of two eggs, two cups of pulverized sugar, 
one-half cup of corn starch. Beat all together until stiff and frost 
the cake while hot. 

Soft Icing. Ten teaspoonfuls of sugar to one egg; beat twenty 
minutes. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. 

Almond Icing. Three cups of sugar, one pound of almonds, 
blanched and pounded to a paste; beat the whites of three eggs, 
and stir in the sugar and almonds. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Almond. 

Water Icing. Two cups of sugar, water enough to make a 
thick paste, a small pinch of cream of tartar. Beat well; if not stiff 
enough add more sugar. Flavor with one-half teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Rose. 

Chocolate Icing. Melt three ounces of chocolate in a little 
water, boil in two cups of sugar; stir the whites of three well-beaten 
eggs. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 



SMALL CAKE 



Scotch Cake. Rub three-quarters of a pound of butter into 
one pound of sifted flour, mix into it one pound of granulated sugar 
and one large tablespoonful of powdered cinnamon; mix it into a 
dough with three well-beaten eggs; roll out into a sheet; cut into 
round cakes and bake in a quick oven. They will require but a 
few minutes. 

The finest Mexican Vanilla Beans are used in Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Vanilla, which accounts for its rare excellence. 

18 



Philadelphia Jumbles. Take one pound of sugar, one-half 
pound of butter, eight eggs beaten light, flour enough to enable you 
to roll them out; stir the sugar and butter to a light cream, then 
add the well-whipped eggs, the flavoring and the flour; mix well 
together; roll out in powdered sugar in a sheet a quarter of an inch 
in thickness, cut into rings with a jagging iron, and bake in a quick 
oven on buttered tins. 

Tea Cakes. Put upon a pie-board one pound of flour which 
you have previously sifted, make a hole in the center, in which 
place one-half pound of butter, six ounces of powdered sugar and 
four eggs. Mix all well together and roll out your paste extremely 
thin; cut it out in rounds or squares, put in a pan which has been 
buttered slightly, brush your cakes with beaten egg, sprinkle on top 
one-half pound of currants; put in the oven, and when colored a 
bright yellow, remove them and serve as needed. 

Lemon Cookies. Beat six eggs, whites and -yolks separately; 
one cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon. Flour to make stiff enough to mold. 
Roll thin, bake in quick oven. 

Sugar Cookies. One cup of sugar, three-fourths cup of but- , 
ter, one-quarter of a cup of sweet milk, two eggs well beaten, three 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a pinch of salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon, and add grated nutmeg if 
desired; flour enough to roll; cut into round cakes, sprinkle with 
sugar and bake in a quick oven. 

Almond Cookies. One cup of butter, two and one-half cups of 
sugar, two eggs, one cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; flour enough to 
roll. Do not roll too thin. 

Fruit Cookies. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two cups 
of chopped raisins, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sour milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's Ex- 
tract of Nutmeg, Clove and Cinnamon; flour enough to roll, bake in 
quick oven. 

Molasses Cookies. Two cups of molasses, one cup of butter, 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, 
one-half teaspoonful of cloves, flour to mix soft, roll thick, bake in 
moderate oven. 

Purity and wholesomeness should enter into our daily food. 
Both qualities are found in Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring 
Extracts. 

19 



Anise Drops. Three cups of sugar and six eggs beaten together 
one-half hour; add one quart of flour, one-half teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Essence of Anise. Grease the pan with beeswax, and drop 
the mixture from a spoon. 

The Best Cookies. Two cups of powdered sugar, one-half 
cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, flour enough to make a soft batter. Bake in patty 
tins. Beat the batter hard for ten minutes before putting into 
tins. When cold, ice with soft white icing made with the whites 
of four eggs and powdered sugar enough to make them stiff. 

Lemon Jumbles. Take one egg, one cup of sugar, one-half cup 
of butter, three teaspoonfuls of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Lemon; flour enough to mix stiff, cut thin. 

Almond Jumbles. One pound of sugar, one-half pound of flour, 
one-half pound of butter, one teaspoonful of sour milk, five eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of White Rose, three-quarters 
of a pound of almonds, blanched and chopped fine; one teaspooa- 
ful of soda. Mix well, adding the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, last. Drop on buttered paper and bake quickly. 

Chocolate Wafers. One cup of brown sugar, one cup of gran- 
ulated sugar, one cup of butter, one egg, one cup of grated choco- 
late, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, enough flour 
to make stiff (about one and one-half cups); roll very thin, cut with 
little square cutter or tin lid; bake a very short time. 

Ring Jumbles. One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, four 
eggs, one pound of flour or enough to make soft dough, three tea- 
spoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. Mix all together, adding 
the well-beaten whites of eggs last. Line shallow tins with buttered 
paper. Bake quickly and sift fine sugar over them as soon as you 
take them from the oven. With a teaspoon form rings of the 
dough. 

Doughnuts. One pound of butter, one and three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar, one quart of sweet milk, four eggs, one-half a 
cake of yeast dissolved in a cup of lukewarm water, one teaspoon- 
ful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon. Mix together butter, sugar, 
milk, yeast and one quart of flour. Set to rise over night. In the 
morning add the eggs, well beaten, then the flavoring, and flour 
enough to make a stiff dough; let rise three hours; roll thick and 
fry in hot lard. 

Try Dr. Price's New Flavors Zephyr, Ideal and Onion Relish. 

20 



Fried Cakes No. i. Take three eggs, one cup of brown sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three 
tablespoonfuls of hot lard, one quart of flour, one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon. Fry in hot lard. 

Fried Cakes No. 2. One quart of flour, one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of milk, one-half cup of cream, two eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of 
Cinnamon. Fry in hot lard. 

Ginger Snaps. One and one-quarter cups of flour, one-quarter 
cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half pint of molasses, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, three tablespoonfuls of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Jamaica Ginger. 

Ginger Cookies. Two cups of molasses, one cup of lard, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of sour cream, one tablespoonful of 
ground ginger, two eggs, three and one-half teaspoonfuls of soda; 
flour to roll thick. Bake in quick oven. 

Ginger Bread. One cup of molasses, one-half cup of hot 
water, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the water, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one egg, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract 
of Jamaica Ginger, two and one-half cups of flour, a pinch of salt. 

Soft Sugar Ginger Bread. One cup of molasses and two cups 
of sugar beaten together, one cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, four eggs, five cups of flour and one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls of ground ginger. Bake thirty minutes. 

Sponge Ginger Bread (Eggless). Five cups of flour, one heap- 
ing tablespoonful of butter, one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus dissolved in 
hot waterj two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Ginger, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon; beat very light 
and bake in broad, shallow pans. Half a pound of seeded raisins, 
cut fine, added to this will make a delicious tea bread. 

Fruit Ginger Bread. Two pounds of flour, three-fourths of a 
pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of raisins, seeded 
and chopped; one pound of currants, two cups of molasses, one- 
half cup of sour cream, six eggs, one heaping teaspoonful of soda, 
two tablespoonfuls of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Essence of Cinnamon; mix well. Add the fruit last, well dredged 
with flour. Beat well and bake in tin pans. 

The great strength and characteristic flavor of Dr. Price's 
Essence of Peppermint are due to the care used in preparing it. 
Used externally it removes pain. 

21 



The Best Ginger Broad. One and one-half cups of molasses, 
one-half cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of sweet milk, one teaspoonf ul of soda, one teaspoonf ul each of Dr. 
Price's Extracts of Ginger and Cinnamon. Bake in shallow pans. 

Bread Cake. On baking day take from your dough when 
ready for baking, two cups of dough, add two cups of white sugar, 
one cup of butter, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sweet cream, 
one-half pound of currants, dredged, and one and one-half tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Cinnamon; beat hard for five 
minutes; put into two buttered pans and let raise for twenty 
minutes. Bake one-half hour. 

Cream Puffs. One-half cup of butter melted in one cup of hot 
water; set on the stove to boil; while boiling stir in one cup of 
flour; when cool, stir in three eggs, one after the other, without 
beating; drop on hot tins and bake twenty to thirty minutes. 

FILLING. One cup of milk, one egg, one tablespoonful of 
sugar; boil and thicken with corn starch, flavoring with one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

Boston Cream Cake. One-half pound of butter, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of flour, eight eggs, one pint of warm water; stir 
butter and water into a saucepan and boil slowly; while it boils stir 
in the flour, then boil one minute, stirring all the time. When cool 
stir in the eggs, beaten separately. Drop on buttered paper; bake 
ten minutes. 

FILLING. One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, two eggs, two cups of sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, one 
teaspoonf ul of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; boil the milk and 
add the sugar and butter, beat the eggs and take a little of the cool 
milk and corn starch, and stir to a smooth paste; add (his to the 
boiling mixture, then boil all ten minutes. Split the cakes with a 
sharp knife and fill with the cold cream. 

Ginger Drops. One cup of molasses, one-half cup of brown 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Ginger and Cinnamon; two teaspoonfuls of soda in one 
cup of hot water, three cups of flour, two eggs. Bake in drops on 
buttered tins. 

Almond Drops. Six eggs, one pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
one cup of cream, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 
Drop from spoon on buttered paper. 

No Tonka beans used in Dr. Price's Vanilla, which has a deli- 
cate aroma, and promotes digestion. 

22 



Spice Drops. Yolks of three eggs, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of molasses, one-half cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; spice with ground nutmeg, 
cloves, cinnamon, and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon; drop on tins lined with buttered paper. Bake 
quickly. 

Dew Drops. Two cups of powdered sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, flour enough to make a soft batter. Bake in patty tins and ice 
when cold. 



PAJTRT. 



In making pastry, care should be taken to handle it as little 
as possible. The surest way to make good crust is to chop it 
together without putting the hands into it. The water, butter or 
lard should always be cold. 

Pie Crust No. i. To one pint of flour add one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, mix in one cup of butter or lard; wet with ice water. 
Will make two pies. 

Pie Crust No. 2. Three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, a pinch of salt, one cup of cream, one-half cup of but- 
ter. Roll thin. 

Pie Crust No. 3. Four cups of flour, one cup of butter, one 
cup of lard, a pinch of salt, one cup of water. Chop together and 
roll thin. 

Pie Crust No. 4. One quart of flour, one-half cup of lard, 
one-half cup of butter, a pinch of salt, ice water to wet. Chop 
together and roll thin. 

Puff Paste No. i. One pound of flour to be mixed with ice 
water, roll and spread with one pound of butter. Fold over and 
roll until butter is all mixed in. 

Puff Paste No. 2. Three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
baking powder, a pinch of salt, one egg; mix flour and egg with ice 
water; roll out and put on butter in small bits, fold over and roll. 
Put on ice for twenty minutes. Roll thick. 

The purity of Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts is an 
established fact. 

23 



Apple Pie. Peel and slice very thin apples enough to fill a 
pie tin; line pan with crust, put in the apples, cover with sugar and 
ground cinnamon; cover with crust; bake. 

Cream Pie No. i. Three glasses of milk, three tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch, yolks of three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Lemon, a pinch of salt; boil until thick; pour into a 
baked crust; whip the whites with one cup of sugar and spread on 
top. Brown. 

Cream Pie No. 2. Stir to a cream one-half cup of sugar, one 
tablespoonful of butter, add two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, two cups of milk, two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Orange. Pour into pans lined with crust; bake. 

Lemon Pie. Grate the rind of one lemon and use the juice, or 
two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, one cup of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of milk, four 
eggs; mix; pour into pans lined with crust and bake. When done, 
spread the top with white of one egg, one-half cup of sugar; brown. 

Lemon Cream Pie. Boil one pint of milk, add three teaspoon- 
fuls of corn starch; when boiled take from stove and stir in the 
yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cup of sugar, 
the juice of two lemons and rind of one grated; pour into rich crust; 
bake twenty minutes. Whip the whites of four eggs with one cup 
of sugar. Spread over the top and brown. 

Custard Pie. One quart of milk, five eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 
Baked in pans lined with plain crust. 

Chocolate Pie. Four tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one 
pint of water, yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar, boil until thick; add one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; bake the crust, pour in the choco- 
late. Beat the whites of the eggs with one cup of sugar, spread 
over top and brown. 

Marlborough Pie. Six macaroons, roll fine; one cup of stewed 
apples, three eggs, one-half pint of cream, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Almond, two teaspoonfuls of chopped citron; 
mix. Line deep pan with crust, pour m the mixture; bake. 

Cocoanut Pie. One-half pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of 
butter, three eggs, one-half pound of grated cocoanut, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Rose; mix; pour into pan lined 
with crust; bake. 

After a trial of many years, all housekeepers acknowledge the 
superiority of Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts. 

24 




SECTION OF MEXICAN VANILLA VINE, SHOWING FRUIT. 




FRUITS USED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF 




PRICE'S DELICIOUS FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 




SICILY. 
GATHERING LEMONS FOR DR. PRICE'S DELICIOUS FLAVORING EXTRACTS. 



Victoria Pie. Steam six apples until tender, press through a 
sieve and mix a tablespoonf ul of butter with them while hot; let 
stand to cool. Add the yolks of four eggs, the juice of one lemon, 
one cup of sugar and one of cream. Line pie pans with plain paste; 
fill with the mixture; baka in a quick oven; cover tops with 
meringue. 

^ Cherry Pie. Line the pan with good crust and fill with ripe 
cherries, stoned; regulate the quantity of sugar you scatter over 
them by their sweetness. Cover and bake. When cold sift pow- 
dered sugar over upper crust. 

Blackberry, Raspberry and Plum pies are made in the same 
way. 

Pumpkin Pie. One-half cup of pumpkin, one cup of milk, 
sugar to taste; one egg, one teaspoonful extract of ginger, one- 
half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoonful ot cloves, 
one tablespoonf ul of whisky or brandy, enough for one pie. 

Sweet-Potato Pie. One pint of mashed sweet potatoes, one 
cup of sweet milk, one cup of butter, one cup of sugar, four eggs, 
one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 
Pour into pan lined with crust; bake. 

Mince Pie Meat. Boil two pounds of good meat tender; chop 
fine when cold; one-half pound of suet, chopped fine; one table- 
spoonful of ground cloves, one of nutmeg, one tablespoonful each 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Cinnamon and Ginger, two cups of sugar, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of wine, one of brandy, two pounds of 
seeded raisins, two pounds of currants, one pound of citron chopped 
fine, two pounds of tart apples chopped fine, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one teaspoonful of ground mace, one of allspice; mix well; put 
in stone jars and cover. Will keep all winter. 

Peach Pie. Line a pie tin with crust, slice the peaches and put 
sugar enough over to sweeten, allow three peach kernels to a pie, 
add a little water; bake with cross bars of crust across the top. 
Can be made from canned peaches. 

Currant and Raspberry Tart. Three cups of currants, one 
cup of raspberries, one and one-half cups of sugar; bake with under 
and upper crust. 

^ Tarts. Use the best puff paste for tarts, roll thick and bake in 
small pans; fill with jam, jelly or cream. 

Cream Tarts. Fill tart shells with whipped cream; put a 
spoonful of jelly on top of cream. 

Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring is the only coloring in the market 
that is safe to use. 

25 



Tart Shells. Roll thin good puff paste, cut out with a glass, 
then with a wineglass cut out the center of small ones, lay on top 
of each other and bake. Fill with jelly or jam. ( 

Almond Tarts. Beat to a cream the yolks of three eggs and 
one-quarter of a pound of sugar; add one-half pound of pounded 
almonds; one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; put in 
tart tins lined with paste; bake ten minutes. 

Cocoanut Tarts. Dissolve one-half pound of sugar in one-half 
pint of water, add one pound of grated cocoanut, boil; when cool 
add the yolks of three and the white of one egg; mix and pour into 
tart tins lined with crust; bake. 

Cheese Cakes. One cup of grated cocoanut, one cup of milk 
curds, one cup of cream, yolks of five eggs, one cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond; boil until thick; 
pour into tart tins lined with puff paste; bake ten minutes. Orange 
or lemon can be used in place of cocoanut. C 

Strawberry Short Cake. One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, a pinch of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls of butter and milk to make a soft dough; bake in 
two layers, one on top of the other, with butter between; when 
cool, slit open with a knife and cover with berries sprinkled with 
sugar, put other layer of crust on top and cover with berries. 



DUMPLINGS. 



Apple Dumplings. Make a soft dough; peel and core tart 
apples; wrap each apple in the dough, drop in boiling water; eat 
with sauce. 

Steamed Apple Dumplings. Make a good baking powder 
crust, peel and core tart apples, fill the cavity in apples with sugar, 
wrap each in the dough, and steam one hour. Serve with butter 
and sugar sauce. 

Baked Apple Dumplings. Make as for steamed dumplings; 
put in pan so as not to touch; bake brown. Serve with cream 
sauce. 

Peach Dumplings. Make the same crust as for apple dump- 
lings. Use canned peaches, put a little piece of butter with same 
and a little sugar, cover in dough and bake. Serve with foaming 
sauce. 

Chemists and Physicians all testify to the purity, strength and 
wholesomeness of Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts. 

26 



Barberries. Make a crust as for pie, roll out quite thin and 
cut in rounds with the top of a pint pail, if you are not fortunate 
enough to have a cutter the requisite size. On these rounds pour a 
good tablespoonful of this mixture: One coffee cup of stoned and 
chopped raisins, one piece of citron about the size of a trade dollar, 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one egg, one cup of sugar 
and a pinch of salt; mix all well. After putting it on the paste, 
wrap it together, thus making a sort of a little turn-over. Do not 
cut any vent in the dough, but press the edges so firmly together 
that not a drop can escape. When all are laid side by side in a 
pan or baking tin, wet them over with milk in which a little sugar 
is dissolved; this gives them a lovely brown. 



PUDDINGS. 



Christmas Plum Pudding. One pound of suet chopped fine, 
one pound of sugar, one pound of grated bread, one pound of 
raisins, two pounds of currants, one glass of brandy, two teaspoon- 
fuls of ground ginger, two teaspoonfuls of nutmeg, one of cloves, 
a pinch of salt, one pint of milk; beat well and steam five hours. 
Serve with rich wine sauce. 

Fruit Pudding No. i. Stew dried apricots or peaches until 
tender, and sweeten to taste. While hot pour over Boston crack- 
ers, split open, making alternate layers of fruit and crackers, the 
last one being a thick one of fruit. Stand away to cool, and serve 
with whipped cream. 

Fruit Pudding No. 2. One pint of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one of salt, one egg and milk enough to make a 
very stiff batter. Add one cupful each of raisins, currants, suet and 
one apple cut fine. Pour the mixture into a pudding bucket, and 
place in a vessel of boiling water, boiling steadily for two hours. 
Serve with foaming sauce. 

Suet Pudding. One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup 
of milk, one cup of seeded raisins, two cups of Graham flour, one 
cup of wheat flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Steam 
three hours. 

Graham Pudding. Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of 
molasses, one-half cup of milk, one cup of raisins, one pinch of salt 

and one teaspoonful of soda. Steam two hours. 

. . 

If something pure, nice and delicate is wanted, use Dr. Price's 
Delicious Flavoring Extracts of Vanilla, Lemon, etc. 

27 



Puff Pudding. Mix one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, a pinch of salt, and milk enough to make a batter. 
Pour into a greased pan; put steamed apples on top, then pour on 
more batter. Steam one-half hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

Cream Pudding. Mix one-half cup of sugar and one grated 
lemon. Beat six eggs to a froth and add one pint of flour, one pint 
of milk and one pint of rich cream, a pinch of salt. Bake in a but- 
tered dish. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Tipsy Pudding. Saturate a loaf of sponge cake with wine or 
brandy; make a rich boiled custard, place the cake in a deep glass 
dish and pour the custard over it. Stick the top full of blanched 
almonds and serve cold. 

Queen of Puddings. One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of 
milk, one cup of sugar, yolks of four eggs, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Bake; 
spread with a layer of jelly fruit. Whip the whites of the eggs to 
a froth with one cup of sugar and the juice of one lemon; then 
spread on top and brown. 

Rice Meringue. Boil a cupful of rice in one quart of water 
until tender, drain in a colander, add a pint of milk, a tablespooa- 
ful of butter and the yolks of six eggs beaten with two cupfuls of 
sugar, with the juice and rind of a lemon; pour in a baking dish 
and bake in a quick oven. Beat the whites of the eggs with a 
teacupful of powdered sugar, heap over the top. Set in oven to 
brown. 

Orange Pudding. Peel and cut up six oranges _nto the bottom 
of a dish; pour over them a custard. Make the frosting of the 
whites of four eggs and one-third of a cup of sugar. Spread over 
the top, brown a little and serve cold. 

Banana Pudding. Cut stale cake in thin slices and line a dish 
with slices. Cover the cake with banana sliced very thin. Over 
this pour a cupful of thin boiled custard. Make another layer of 
:ake and bananas and cover with custard. Set away to cool. 

Rice Pudding. One quart of milk, four eggs, one-half cup of 
rice, three-quarters cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one- 
half cup of raisins, seeded and chopped; boil the rice five minutes 
in one pint of milk. When cool, add the yolks of the eggs, also 
butter and sugar, then the pint of unboiled milk, the whites of the 
eggs and the raisins last; add one teaspoonful of nutmeg. Cook 
one hour and eat cold. 

Try Dr. Price's Onion Relish. Always ready to use, giving the 
cooked flavor of onions to soups, meats, etc. 

28 



Cottage Pudding. One cup of milk, half cup of sugar, two 
cups of flour, one egg, one tablespoonful melted butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; 
bake one*half hour. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Railroad Pudding. Beat one egg, add one cup of sugar, one 
teaspoonful melted butter, one and one-half cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; bake. Serve with foaming sauce. 

Peach Cottage Pudding. Stir sliced peaches into a batter 
made of one-half cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, one beaten egg, one cup of milk, one pint of flour, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder; bake in a loaf. Serve with hard sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. Boil one pint of milk, add one-half cup of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one large spoonful 
of corn starch; boil until thickened, then pour into a mold and 
place on ice. Serve with cream flavored with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Vanilla. 

Fig Pudding. One-half pound of figs, one-quarter pound of 
bread crumbs, one teacupful of milk, two and one-half ounces of 
sugar, three ounces of butter and two eggs; chop the figs fine and 
put in the butter, sugar and eggs. Butter a mold and sprinkle with 
flour. Steam three hours. 

Macaroni Pudding. One cup broken macaroni, one quart milk, 
four eggs, juice and grated peel of one-half lemon, three-quarters 
of a cup of sugar and two tablespoonfuls of butter; boil the mac- 
aroni in one-half the milk until tender; while hot stir in the butter, 
sugar, lemon and eggs. Bake in a buttered mold one-half hour. 

Delmonico Pudding. One quart of milk, one tablespoonful of 
corn starch .dissolved in cold milk; yolks of five eggs well beaten, 
six tablespoonfuls of sugar; boil five minutes, then pour into pud- 
ding dish and bake one hour; beat the whites of six eggs with sugar 
and flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; return to the oven 
and brown. 

Indian Pudding. Pour enough boiling water on two cups of 
Indian meal to wet, add one-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, a 
pinch of salt; two cups of milk, one-half cup of molasses and one 
cup of seeded raisins, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of 
Cinnamon and a little nutmeg. Bake three hours and serve with 
cream. 

A good appetite is essential to a good digestion, and digestion 
is promoted by pure food. No poisonous oils or ethers are found in 

Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts. 

2y 



Tapioca Fruit Pudding. Soak one cup of tapioca over night, 
cook soft in water, then add, and cook thoroughly, one pint pre- 
served raspberries; cool in a mold and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

Delicate Pudding. One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, 
one cup of raisins, butter the size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Steam one hour. 

Steamed Berry Pudding. One cup of sugar, two cups of flour, 
one cup of milk, two cups of berries and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Steam two hours. 

Cup Pudding. One cup of milk, one cup of molasses, one cup 
of butter, one cup of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder; 
steam two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

Brown-Top Pudding. Put into a pudding dish slices of stale 
cake, pour over it a custard flavored with Dr. Price's Extract of 
Lemon; cover the top with a meringue; bake brown. Serve with 
lemon sauce. 

Boston Pudding. One cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one cup of seeded 
raisins and a pinch of salt. Boil four hours. 

Snow Pudding. One-half box of gelatine, dissolve in one pint 
of boiling hot water; when nearly cool add one cup of sugar, juice 
of one lemon, strain; add whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth; 
beat all thoroughly and quickly; pour into a mold. Serve cold with 
soft custard made of the yolks of three eggs, one-half teaspoonful 
of corn starch stirred in one pint of boiling milk; sweeten to taste 
and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

Fritters. Four eggs well beaten, one quart of flour, two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful of salt, milk 
to make a batter; fry in hot lard; sprinkle with sugar or eat with 
syrup. 

Apple Fritters. One cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one tablespoonf ul of sugar; 
a pinch of salt; heat the milk and add it slowly to the yolks and 
sugar; add the flour and whites of eggs; stir well; add thin slices, 
of sour apples; drop from spoon into boiling hot lard; fry light 
brown. Serve with lemon sauce. 

Peach Fritters and Pineapple Fritters can be made in the same 
way. 

Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts are so highly concen- 
trated only a small quantity is required to impart the fruit flavor. 

30 



Cream Fritters. Stir into one pint of sweet milk one and one- 
half pints of flour which has been previously mixed with two heap- 
ing teaspoonf uls of baking powder, adding six eggs well beaten, one 
teaspoonful of salt, and lastly one pint of good sweet cream; drop 
this mixture from a tablespoon into hot lard and fry same as dough- 
nuts. 

Apple Charlotte. Butter, then flour a pudding dish; line it 
with thin slices of bread buttered on both sides; put a thick layer 
of apples cut in thin slices, sugar and a little cinnamon and a few 
small pieces of butter; another layer of bread and butter, apples, 
sugar, cinnamon, and butter last. Bake slowly for two hours, 
leaving the dish covered until half an hour before serving, then let 
the apples brown on top. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Lemon Sauce. One pound of sugar, three ounces of butter, 
one-half cup of water, juice and rind of two lemons; boil and beat 
in the yolks of two eggs; when cold add the whites of two well- 
beaten eggs, 

Foaming Sauce. Beat the white's of three eggs; melt one cup 
of sugar in a little water and boil; stir in one glass of wine and the 
eggs. 

Hard Sauce. One cup of butter, three cups of sugar; beat to a 
cream and flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 

Good Pudding Sauce. Beat together four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar and four ounces of butter; stir in one cup of boiling water; 
flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Hard Brandy Sauce. Two cups of powdered sugar, one-half 
cup of butter beaten to a cream, and add one wineglass of brandy, 
half teaspoonful of extract of cinnamon. 

White Wine Sauce. Beat to a cream one-half cup of butter 
and two and one-half cups of powdered sugar, add one-half cup of 
boiling water. Stir in gradually two wineglasses of white wine and 
one teaspoonful of extract of nutmeg; put into a double boiler and 
stir until the sauce is hot, but do not let it boil. Serve cold. 

The most cultivated palate is never offended by these Extracts, 
because of their natural fruit flavors. 

31 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND JELLIES. 



Blanc Mange. In seasoning custards and blanc mange, never 
use ginger, allspice, mace or cloves. Cinnamon and nutmeg are the 
only spices used, but the fruit essence of cinnamon is the most suit- 
able for flavoring. 

Blanc Mange for Summer No. i. Sweeten one quart of cream 
and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; 
dissolve one tablespoonf ul of gelatine in hot water and pour into 
the cream. Set on ice and serve with whipped cream. 

Blanc Mange for Summer No. 2. Take two cups of cream, 
one-half ounce of gelatine, one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful 
Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; dissolve the gelatine in water; mix; 
let it come to a boil, then pour into mold. 

Corn Starch Blanc Mange. Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of 
corn starch in one pint of milk, add three teaspoonfuls of sugar and 
the whites of three eggs. Put this mixture into a pint of boiling 
milk. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; pour into cups. 
Turn out when cool and serve with jelly and cream. 

Neapolitan Blanc Mange. Make a corn starch blanc mange 
and separate into four parts; put the white into the bottom of the 
mold; stir into one part, while warm, one heaping tablespoonf ul of 
grated chocolate, and pour into the same mold on top of the white; 
color the next part with one-half teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Fruit 
Coloring and pour it on top of the chocolate; color the last part 
with the yolk of an egg and pour all into the mold. Cut into thin 
slices and serve with whipped cream. 

Velvet Blanc Mange. Two cups of sweet cream, one-half cup 
of gelatine dissolved in hot water, one-half cup of powdered sugar, 
one glass of white wine, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Almond; boil the cream, sugar and gelatine until it is smooth, then 
take it from the fire and flavor by adding the wine last. Stir well 
and pour into a mold. 

Macaroon Custard. Take one quart of milk, set it on to boil; 
mix one-half tablespoonful of butter and three of flour, and stir 
into the boiling milk; beat the yolks of six eggs with one-half cup 
of sugar; stir into the milk and take from the fire to cool; flavor 
with Dr. Price's Extract of Orange; now crumble one dozen mac- 
aroons over the top of the dish and pile on meringue. 

The superior quality of materials used makes Dr. Price's Deli- 
cious Flavoring Extracts the finest in the market. 

32 



; , Boiled Custard. One quart of milk, two eggs, one tablespoon- 
ful of corn starch, one teacup of sugar, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla. 

Almond Custard. One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, one- 
quarter pound of blanched almonds, chopped; stir over the fire; add 
the well-beaten yolks of four eggs. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Rose; put into cups and pile on meringue. 

Gup Custard. Beat four eggs with two-thirds of a cup of white 
sugar, add a quart of rich new milk; flavor with one teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Almond or Vanilla; stir all together; pour into 
cups and place them in a dripping pan of water; set in an oven and 
bake with moderate heat. 

Floating Island. One quart of milk, four eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, one-half cup of currant 
jelly; heat milk to scalding, but not boiling; beat the yolks, stir into 
them the sugar, and pour upon them gradually, mixing well, a cup 
of the hot milk; return to saucepan and boil until it begins to thick- 
en; when cool, flavor and pour into a glass dish; heap upon the top 
meringue of whites, whipped until you can cut it, into which you 
have beaten the jelly a teaspoonful at a time. 

Dr. Price's Tapioca Cream. Soak two tablespoonfuls of tap- 
ioca over night in just enough water to cover it; in the morning 
boil one quart of milk with the soaked tapioca, by placing it in a 
tin can or pail set in water to boil; add two-thirds of a cup of sugar 
and a^ittle salt; beat the yolks of three eggs thoroughly; when the 
milk has boiled ten minutes, stir in the yolks, remove from the fire 
and stir rapidly for five minutes, so that it will not curdle; flavor 
with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; pour into a baker or pudding 
dish; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, which pour over 
the top of the cream; sift sugar over the top and brown a few min- 
utes in the oven. Serve cold. 

Bavarian Cream. One quart of sweet cream, yolks of ,four 
eggs, one-half box of gelatine, one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; soak the gelatine in one cup of 
cold water twenty minutes, then pour into one pint of boiling hot 
sweet cream; add the yolks of the eggs well beaten and heat until 
it begins to thicken, then take from the stove and while hot add the 
other pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth, and flavor with Dr. 
Price's Extract of Zephyr. Mold, and set on ice until ready for use. 

Dr. Price's Aromatic Essence of Jamaica Ginger, prepared 
from selected roots, is useful in every family. 

33 



Baked Custard. One quart of milk, four beaten eggs, ftfur 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and a pinch of salt. 

Fruit Charlotte. Line a mold with lady fingers and sections of 
oranges; soak one-half package of gelatine in one cup of cold 
water for one-half hour; pour in one and one-half cups of hot water 
and stir until dissolved, then add one cup of sugar and set in ice 
until it begins to thicken. Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong 
froth that does not separate; mix lightly with gelatine; flavor with 
Dr. Price's Extract of Orange and pour into a mold. Put into the 
refrigerator until ready for use. 

Charlotte Russe. One pint of rich cream whipped to a stiff 
froth, one-half cup of powdered sugar, whites of two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Zephyr; line a glass dish with 
lady fingers or smalFslices of cake, and pour on the whipped cream. 

Russian Cream. Four eggc, one cup of sugar, one quart of 
milk, one-half box of gelatine dissolved in one pint of hot water; 
make a custard of the milk, sugar and yolks of eggs; take from the 
stove and stir in the well-beaten whites of the eggs, add the gel- 
atine, and flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. Pour into a 
mold and when cold serve with whipped cream. 

Spanish Cream. One-half box of gelatine, one quart of milk, 
yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar; soak the gelatine in the milk 
for one hour, put on the stove and stir as it warms; beat the yolks 
and sugar together and stir into the boiling milk; flavor with Dr. 
Price's Extract of Vanilla. Pour into mold and serve with cream. 

Swan's-Down Cream. Whip stiff one pint of rich cream, then 
beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, sweeten with a cup of sugar, 
and flavor with two teaspoonfuls of Dr. Price's Extract of 
Almond. Beat all together; pour into a glasfe dish and set into a 
bowl of hacked ice to send to the table. Eat with sponge cake. 

Almond Cream. One pint of milk boiling hot, two tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch, a small handful of almonds blanched and 
chopped fine, one cupful of sugar. When quite thick take from fire 
and pour over it the beaten whites of three eggs. Set on ice and 
serve with whipped cream. 

Apple Snow. Pare and core six good-sized apples, steam them 
in two tablespoonfuls of water with a little lemon peel till quite soft, 
add one-fourth pound of finely -sifted white sugar, the whites of 
two fresh eggs. Beat it well for three-quarters of an hour without 
stopping, and serve heaped up in custard glasses. 

Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts have no equals. They 
are always reliable. 

34 



Italian Cream. One-half box of gelatine, one-half pint of milk; 
soak the gelatine in milk one-half hour; add a pint of milk and 
yolks of four eggs, stir while boiling, and sweeten to taste; take 
from the stove and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla and one wineglass of brandy; stir in the whites 
of eggs well beaten; pour into a mold to harden. 

Rice Cream. Wash half a cup of rice and cover with three 
cups of milk, steam until soft, add one pint of milk, four table- 
spoonfuls of sweet cream, the yolks of three eggs beaten with half 
cup of sugar. Put all in a double kettle and let it cook ten min- 
utes. Pour out in an earthen pudding-dish. Frost with the beaten 
whites of two eggs, to which is added four tablespoonfuls of sugar 
and a teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon; set in the oven 
a few minutes. 

Snow Balls. Wash a cupful of rice and put in a saucepan 
with a cupful of milk; boil until tender, add a pinch of salt and put 
into small cups to cool. When cold, turn out into a dish and pour 
over boiled custard. 

Wine Jelly. One package of gelatine, one cup of cold water; 
soak two hours. Add three cups of sugar, juice of three lemons, 
pour over this a quart of boiling water; stir until dissolved. Add 
one pint of sherry wine. Strain through a cloth into molds. 

Chocolate Cream. Soak one-half box of gelatine in one-half 
cup of warm water one hour. Add to the same one-half cup of 
grated chocolate, one-half pound of white sugar, and one pint of 
new milk; stir all together and boil five minutes by placing the ves- 
sel in another of boiling water, then add one-half pint of rich 
cream, boil one minute. Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Va- 
nilla, and pour into molds to cool. 

Cider Jelly. This can be made the same as wine jelly by sub- 
stituting sweet cider in place of the wine. 

Fruit Desserts. Make a lemon jelly by any good recipe (see 
page 37); have ready a handful of candied cherries, some Malaga 
grapes, the meat of two oranges and two bananas sliced. Pour a 
little jelly into a mold to harden, then put in fruit and more jelly, 
etc. When it is to be served, break it up and serve on a platter with 
a thin custard made of one quart of milk boiled with the yolks of 
four eggs, and one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon. 
The jelly may be made in two parts, coloring one-half pink with 
Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring. 

There is economy in strength, and there is strength in Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts 

35 



Lemon Jelly. To a package of gelatine add one pint of cold 
water, juice of four lemons; let it stand one hour. Add one pint of 
boiling water, one-half teaspoonf ul of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, 
three cups of sugar. Let come to a boil. Strain through a cloth 
into a mold. Set away to get cold. 

Orange Jelly. Make the same as lemon jelly, using one lemon 
and three oranges. 



ICE CREAMS, ICES AND SHERBETS. 

Coffee Ice Cream. One pint of cream, one pint of new milk, 
one large cup of sugar; whip the cream to a stiff froth, add the 
sugar and milk; flavor with two tablespoonfuls of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Coffee. 

Ice Cream No. i. Three eggs separated, two cups of sugar 
beaten with the yolks; add one pint of cream and one quart of 
milk, beat the whites of eggs light and mix well; flavor with one 
tablespoonf ul of Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. This will make one 
gallon of cream. 

Ice Cream No. 2. One pint of cream, one cup of good milk, 
one cup of sugar, whites of two eggs well beaten, one tablespoonf ul 
of gelatine dissolved in hot water. ' Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Lemon. 

Fruit Cream. One pint of cream, one pint of milk, one cup of 
sugar, one-half pound of figs chopped fine, one-half pound of 
almonds, one can of peaches, one teaspoonful each of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Orange, Vanilla and Coffee; mix well before putting 
into the freezer. 

Frozen Peaches. One can or twelve large peaches, two coffee 
cups of sugar, one pint of water and the beaten whites of three 
eggs; break the peaches and stir all ingredients together. Freeze 
the whole into form. 

Roman Punch No. i. Juice of eight lemons and five oranges, 
three pints of sugar, three pints of water; boil and strain; add one 
wineglass of rum and two of champagne; also the beaten whites of 
three eggs. Freeze. 

Lemon Ice. The juice of six lemons and one large sweet 
orange, one quart of water and two cups of sugar. Stir until dis- 
solved and freeze in the usual manner. 

Ignorance and want of judgment lead to the injudicious use of 
extracts containing poisonous oils and ethers. 

8C 



Cream a la Rose. Two quarts of fresh cream, two cups of 
sugar, one teaspoonf ul of Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring, two teaspoon- 
fuls of Dr. Price's Extract of Rose, yolks of twelve eggs; heat the 
cream boiling hot; stir the sugar in, then the coloring and flavoring; 
beat the yolks light and pour in the cream, stirring all the time; 
boil in double boiler until it thickens. Freeze. 

Italian Tutti-Frutti. Take a large form for ice cream; have 
ready as great a variety of ripe fruit as possible, watermelon 
included; seed the watermelon, cut it into lozenges or squares, put 
a layer of it into the form, sugaring it well with granulated sugar; 
then a layer of varied fruits; sugar abundantly, and proceed in' this 
way until the form is packed full of fruit and sugar; cover it, set 
in double boiler just long enough for the sugar to dissolve and the 
juices to be started; then let it cool; when cold, freeze. This is the 
genuine tutti-frutti and is delicious. 

Peach Ice Cream. One pint of peaches run through a sieve 
and sweetened to taste; one pint of cream, one of milk, sweetened, 
whites of two eggs; mix milk and cream, put in freezer as soon as 
it sets, add peaches, freeze five minutes and add the eggs whipped 
light. Freeze hard. 

Strawberry Ice. Crush two quarts of strawberries with two 
pounds of sugar; let them stand an hour or more; squeeze them in 
a straining cloth, pressing out all juice; add to this an equal 
measure of water, and when half frozen the beaten whites of eggs 
in the proportion of three to a quart. 

Currant Ice. A refreshing ice is made of currants, raspberries, 
or equal parts of each. Squeeze enough fruit in a jelly bag to make 
a pint of juice; add a pint each of water and sugar; pour the whole 
boiling hot on the whites of three eggs, Beaten to a stiff froth, and 
whip the mixture thoroughly; when cool, freeze in the usual man- 
ner. Any juicy fruit may be prepared in this manner. 

Orange Sherbet. Juice of six oranges, two lemons, one pint 
of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of gelatine soaked in cold water; mix 
the juice with one pint of cold water, add the sugar and pulp of 
fruit, stir in the gelatine and flavor with one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Orange. Freeze like ice cream. 

Pineapple Sherbet. One can of grated pineapple, or one pint 
of fresh fruit, one pint of sugar, one pint of water, one tablespoon- 
ful of gelatine dissolved hi hot water, and one tablespoonf ul of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon. Mix well and freeze. 

Dr. Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts have the taste and 
smell of the natural fruits. 

37 



Almond Milk. Almond milk is a delicious Coverage, but it 
does not keep long. Take three dozen fresh almonds, blanched, 
and pound to a paste; two lumps of sugar and one pint of water; 
mix one gill of boiling water with the almonds; when you have 
pounded them in a mortar, strain, return to the mortar and pound 
with more water until you have used a pint in all; sweeten to taste. 

Pomegranate Sherbet. Juice and pulp of four oranges, one- 
quarter of a box of gelatine dissolved in hot water, one cup of 
sugar, one pint of cold water, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Fruit 
Coloring and one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Ideal. 

Pudding Glace. Thicken one pint of new milk wfth two table- 
spoonfuls of arrowroot; boil three pints of milk, pour in the pint of 
thickened arrowroot, also three eggs and three cups sugar; stir in 
one-half pound each of chopped figs, raisins and sitron. Flavor 
with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla. Freeze. 

Frozen Pudding. One pint of cream, yolks of four eggs. Make 
a syrup of one pound of sugar and one pint of water, put on the 
fire until boiling; then stir in forty blanched almonds pounded fine, 
two ounces each of chopped citron, raisins and currants, one ounce 
each of candied orange and lemon peel, one glass of brandy. 
Freeze. 

Raspberry Royal. Put four quarts of berries into a stone jar; 
pour one quart of cider vinegar over them; add one pound of 
sugar; mash to a paste and let stand in the sun four hours; strain 
out all the juice and add one pint of brandy; put into bottles; seal 
and lay in the cellar; stir two tablespoonfuls into a glass of ice 
water when you wish to use it. 

Fruit Sherbet. Fruit sherbets are now being sold at confec- 
tioner's stores, but they can be as easily made at home. Mash any 
ripe fruit and pass it first through a coarse, then through a fine 
sieve. To every quart of juice add a quart of water, and sweeten 
with powdered sugar; when the sugar is dissolved strain again and 
keep in the refrigerator until wanted. 

Kumyss. Take seven pints of milk, three pints of tepid water, 
one-half of a cake of yeast and thirty lumps of loaf sugar; dissolve 
the yeast in part of the tepid water, dissolve sugar in the rest; 
when both are thoroughly dissolved, mix all the ingredients and let 
stand over night; in morning, strain and place in bottles; bottles 
must be tightly corked and fastened, let stand for two or three days 
before using. A little less sugar could be used, if too sweet. 

If health is considered, use only reliable articles like Dr. Price's 
Delicious Flavoring Extracts. 

38 



A Delightful Fruit Punch. Dissolve a pound and one-quarter 
of sugar in a quart of boiling water; add the grated rind of one 
lemon and one orange, grate only the yellow rind, the least bit of 
the white will make it bitter; stir in two tables poonfuls of gelatine 
that has soaked for an hour in a half cup of water; simmer for five 
minutes until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved; take from the 
fire, and when cool add Dr. Price's Extract of Orange or Lemon to 
suit the taste; when cold put in a freezer and stir until frozen^ do 
not stir rapidly, but slowly and evenly; color with Dr. Price's Fruit 
Coloring (perfectly harmless), if desired. 

Strawberry Sherbet. One quart of berries crushed to a paste, 
three pints of water, juice of one lemon, one teaspoonful of Dr. 
Price's Extract of Orange; mix and let it stand three hours; strain 
out the juice into one pound of sugar; stir well and set on ice until 
ready to use. 

Roman Punch No. 2. Three cups of good lemonade, one glass 
of champagne, one glass of rum, two tablespoonfuls of Dr. Price's 
Extract of Orange, whites of two eggs, one-half pound of sugar; 
mix well and serve in glasses half filled with broken ice. 

Claret Punch. One quart of claret, one-half pint of ice water; 
cover two lemons sliced thin with one-half cup of powdered sugar; 
let them stand ten minutes; add the water and wine; mix well; 
serve in glasses half full of pounded ice. 

Jamaica Ginger Beer. One four-ounce bottle of Dr. Price's 
Jamaica Ginger, one ounce cream of tartar, six quarts of water, 
one pound of sugar, grated rind of one lemon; mix and heat through, 
add one-half cake yeast; bottle^ tie down the corks and lay in cel- 
lar. Good in four days. 



CONFECTIONERY. 



Uncooked French Candies. For the uncooked cream, break 
the whites of two eggs into a bowl, add an exactly equal measure 
of cold water, and stir in powdered sugar until you have it stiff 
enough to be moulded into shape by the fingers; flavor with any 
essence you like. Now, for the varieties to be made with either of 
these as a foundation: Mold some of the cream into little balls 
half an inch in diameter, and clap on either side the half of an 
English walnut; have ready some chocolate melted in a bowl set 

To give artistic touches to table delicacies use Dr. Price's Ex- 
quisite Fruit Coloring. 

39 



dver a boiling teakettle, and after these little balls of cream are dry, 
stick a long hat pin into them and dip into the melted chocolate, 
and you have most delicious chocolate creams; roll them in until 
thoroughly coated; they may also be dipped in the chocolate after 
putting the nuts on, or the cream may be colored with a few drops 
of Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring. Another variety is given by adding 
the peel of an orange or lemon to the cream, and as it thins some- 
what, stir in more sugar/ For cream figs, tear the fig in two, leav- 
ing it joined at the stem end, insert an oblong piece of the cream 
and press the fig together at the bottom; serve dates the same way. 
Pineapple or any kind of preserved fruit may be drained from the 
syrup, cut into slices and rolled in the cream.' A novel candy is 
made by molding some of this candy into a flat pan, spread with 
any kind of jelly that is so stiff that it can be cut with a knife, and 
put on another layer of cream. A most delightful nut candy is made 
by stirring several kinds of chopped nuts into the cream, then make 
into squares or bars, and wrap in waxed papers if it is to be kept 
for any length of time. Seeded raisins, figs and citron, chopped 
fine, make a fruit mixture that can be used in the same way. The 
cream may be flavored with Dr. Price's Extract of Chocolate and 
colored with a few drops of Dr. Price's Chocolate Brown Coloring. 

Maple Creams. Take one-half as much water as maple sugar, 
cook without stirring, and when nearly done put in a small piece of 
butter; try in water, and when it begins to harden take off and stir 
rapidly until it becomes a waxen substance; then make in balls and 
put halves of English walnuts on either side, putting on a greased 
plate to cool; 

Chocolate Creams. Two cups pulverized sugar, one-half cup 
cream, flavor to suit taste with Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla; boil 
five minutes and make into balls while hot; take as much chocolate 
as required and steam over a teakettle; when soft, cover the balls 
and set them away to harden. 4 

Marshmallows. Dissolve one-half pound of white gum arabic 
in plrrt of water, strain and add one-half pound fine sugar and place 
over the fire, stirring constantly until the syrup is dissolved, and 
'all of th consistency of honey; add gradually the whites of four 
eggs well-beaten; stir the mixture' im til it becomes somewhat thin 
and does not adhere to the fiti-gfer; -flavor to taste with Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla and pour into a tin slightly dusted with powdered 
starch, arid when cool divide into small squares. 

In all particulars that constitute perfect flavors, Dr. Price's can 
not be approached by the various extracts in the market. 

40 



Vanilla Taffy. One pound white sugar, one cup cream, one 
ounce gum arabic; boil sugar and cream together; when half done 
add dissolved gum arabic; when done, flavor with Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla. 

Butter Scotch. Three pounds "A" coffee sugar, one-quarter 
pound butter, one-half teaspoonful cream tartar, eight drops Dr. 
Price's Extract of Lemon; add sufficient water only to dissolve the 
sugar; boil without stirring till it will easily break when dropped 
in cold water, and when done add the lemon; pour into a well-but- 
tered dripping-pan one-quarter inch thick, and when partly cold 
mark off into small squares. 

Cream Walnuts. Two pounds white sugar, one teacup of 
water, boil until it threads; flavor highly with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Vanilla; take from the fire and stir until white and creamy; have 
walnuts prepared, make the candy into small round cakes; press 
walnuts into the sides, drop in granulated sugar. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy. One cocoanut, one and one-half 
pounds granulated sugar; put sugar and milk of cocoanut together, 
heat slowly until sugar is melted; then boil five minutes; add, 
cocoanut (finely grated), boil ten minutes longer, stir constantly to, 
keep from burning; pour on buttered plates; cut in squares; will 
take about two days to harden; use prepared cocoanut when other 
cannot be had. 

Hoarhound Candy. Boil two ounces dry hoarhound in one 
and one- half pints of water for about half an hour, strain and add 
three and one-half pounds of brown sugar; boil over a hot fire until 
sufficiently hard; pour out in flat, well-greased tins, and mark in 
sticks or small squares with a knife as soon as cool enough to retain 
its shape. 

Molasses Candy. One cup molasses, one cup sugar, butter 
size of an egg (sweet and not salt), and a tablespoonful vinegar; 
boil, but do not stir, until it hardens when dropped into cold water; 
when done, stir in a teaspoonful of soda and beat well; pour into 
buttered pans, and when cool pull until white; cut into sticks; flavor 
if desired just before pouring out to cool. 

Hickory-Nut Candy. One cup hickory-nut meats, two cups 
sugar, half cup water; boil sugar and water without stirring until 
thick enough to spin to a thread; flavor to suit taste with Dr. Price's 
Extract of Vanilla; set in cold water; stir quickly until white, then 
stir in the nuts; turn into flat tin; when cold cut into squares. 

Artistic, delicate and tasteless are Dr. Price's Fruit Colors. 
Use will prove their merit. 

41 



Honey Candy. One pint of white sugar, water enough to dis- 
solve it, and four tablespoonfuls of honey; boil until it becomes 
brittle on being dropped into cold water; pull when cooling. 

Chocolate Caramels No. i. One and one-half cups of grated 
chocolate, four of brown sugar, one and one-half of cold water, 
butter size of an egg and two tablespoonfuls sharp vinegar; boil on 
the top of a stove over a brisk, fire until it becomes brittle when 
dropped in water; do not stir, but shake the vessel while boiling; 
flavor with two teaspoonfuls Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla just 
before taking from the fire; pour into a buttered and floured drip- 
ping-pan and check off into even squares while soft. 

Chocolate Caramels No. 2. Take four ounces of chocolate; 
put into a saucepan with one-half teacup of water and dissolve; 
then add three pounds sugar, one-half pint of cream and one small 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar; stir slowly until it will crack; when 
done, pour in buttered pans and mark off in squares. 

Hickory-Nut Macaroons. To hickory nuts pounded fine, add 
mixed ground allspice and nutmeg; make a frosting as for cakes; 
stir in the meats and spices, putting in enough only to make it con- 
venient to handle; flour the hands, and make the mixture into balls 
about the size of a nutmeg; lay them on tins well-buttered, giving 
room to spread; bake in a quick oven; use washed butter for greas- 
ing the tins; lard or salt butter gives an unpleasant taste. 

Lemon Drops. One cup of powdered sugar, two teaspoonfuls 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, water enough to dissolve; boil 
until crisp when dropped into water; drop in buttered plates in 
drops to cool. 

Cream Candy. One pound white sugar, one tablespoonful 
vinegar, one teaspoonful Dr. Price's Extract of Lemon, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar; add a little water to moisten sugar, boil 
until brittle; put in extract, then turn quickly out on buttered 
plates; when cool, pull until white and cut into squares. 

Pop-Corn Candy. Put into an iron kettle one tablespoonful of 
butter, three tablespoonfuls of water and one cupful of white sugar; 
boil until ready to candy, then throw in three quarts of nicely 
popped corn; stir vigorously until the sugar is evenly distributed 
over the corn; take the kettle from the fire and stir until it cools a 
^ittle; in this way you may have each kernel separate and all 
coated with the sugar. 

Dr. Price's Onion Relish appeals to the taste, giving an appe- 
tizing relish to whatever used. 

42 



Peppermint Drops. One cupful of sugar crushed fine and just 
moistened with boiling water, then boil five minutes; take from the 
fire and add cream of tartar size of a pea; mix well and add one- 
half teaspoonf ul of Dr. Price's Essence of Peppermint; beat briskly 
until mixture whitens, then drop quickly upon white paper; have 
cream of tartar and essence of peppermint measured while the 
sugar is boiling. If it sugars before it is all dropped, add a little 
water[_and boil a minute or two. 

Wintergreen drops are made the same way by using one-half 
teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Essence of Wintergreen. 

Stick Candy. One pound of granulated sugar, one cup of 
water, one-quarter cup of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one tablespoonful of glycerine; flavor with a teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Extract of Vanilla, Rose or Lemon; boil all except the 
flavoring until crisp when dropped into water; when cooked, add 
one-half teaspoonful of soda; after pouring into greased pans to 
cool, pour a teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Flavoring Extract over the 
top; when partly cool, pull white; draw into sticks and cut with 
shears. Color with one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring. 



ONION SALAD DRESSING. 



Place in a soup plate (not bowl) a piece of ice about the size of 
an egg; three-quarter teaspoonful of salt; one-half teaspoonful of 
Dr. Price's Onion Relish; cayenne pepper to suit; one tablespoonful 
tomato catsup. Stir these with the ice. Then add one table- 
spoonful of table oil; two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mix all well 
together, stirring ice around with other ingredients so all will be 
cold. More or less oil and vinegar can be added to suit taste. 
This is one of the most palatable dressings for lettuce, chicory or 
endive, escarole, watercress, cold asparagus tips, romaine, or any 
of the combinations with cucumbers, tomatoes, etc. 



Aside from their excellence there is economy in using Dr. 
Price's Delicious Flavoring Extracts, as being pure it takes less to 
flavor. 

43 



DECORATIVE DISHES. 

Peach Sherbet. One quart of white peaches canned, or on 
dozen fresh peaches; mash and strain, beat with a spoon until per- 
fectly smooth. One pound of sugar, one quart of water, boil 
together for five minutes; while hot add one tablespoonful of gela- 
tine which has been dissolved in four tablespoonf uls of water for 
half an hour, strain, and when cold add peaches, and juice of one 
lemon. Color to taste with Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring. When 
partly frozen add the beaten white of one egg. 

Sunshine Cream. One quart of cream, one quart of milk, one 
and one-half cups of sugar, one tablespoonful of flour. Mix sugar 
and flour together thoroughly, boil the milk, stir in sugar and 
flour, and boil until the consistency of cream; when cool, add 
cream, flavor with one teaspoonf ul of Dr. Price's Extract of Zephyr. 

Grape Sherbet. One quart of white canned grapes mashed 
fine, the juice of four lemons; sweeten to taste. Color a delicate 
pink with Dr. Price's Fruit Coloring. When partly frozen stir in 
the beaten white of one egg. 

Sunshine Cake. One and one-half tumblers of sifted powdered 
sugar, one tumbler of flour sifted four times, the whites of eleven 
eggs, one teaspoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Orange, and the 
yolks of six eggs. Beat the whites of eggs stiff, add sugar, then 
flour, add the yolks of eggs beaten very light, last the baking 
ppwder. Make a boiled frosting, flavor with Dr. Price's Extract 
of Zephyr. 

Almond Cream Cake. Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter 
creamed, one cup of milk, three and one-half cups of flour, and 
the whites of eight eggs, beaten stiff; ac'd last two teaspoonf uls of 
baking powder; bake in layers. 

ICING. Two cups of sugar, the juice of one lemon, one cup of 
water, boil to a clear, thick syrup. Pour into the beaten whites of 
three eggs; flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Almond. 

Ideal Cake. Two cups of pulverized sugar, one-half cup of 
butter, creamed; one cup of milk, two cups of flour, one of corn 
starch, the whites of seven eggs beaten stiff, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder; flavor with Dr. Price's Ideal Extract. 

Peach Cake. Make any good white cake, bake in layers; slice 
peaches very thin, prepare cream by whipping and sweetening. Put 
peaches between layers, pour cream over each layer of peaches. 

Dr. Price's Onion Relish does not fill the house with the odor of 
onions nor disagreeably affect the breath. 

44 



Delicious Cakes. One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
two eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, one-half cup of 
milk, one and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoonf ul baking powder. 
Flavor with Dr. Price's Extract of Zephyr; bake in small crescent- 
shaped tins. Make a boiled frosting and color with any of Dr. 
Price's Fruit Colors. These are dainty served at an afternoon tea. 

Rose Cake. Use recipe for Angels' Food No. 1, flavoring with 
Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. 

Rose Mousse. Soak one-quarter of a box of gelatine for half 
an hour in one-quarter of a cup of cold water. Whip one pint of 
cream, add the gelatine and two-thirds of a cup of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of Dr. Price's Extract of Rose. Stir carefully until it 
begins to stiffen, put in a freezer; when nearly frozen place in a 
mold packed in ice and salt, let stand for one or two hours. 

Ideal Ice. One pint of cream, one cup of good milk, one cup 
of sugar, the whites of two eggs well beaten. Flavor with Dr. 
Price's Ideal Extract. When partly frozen remove dasher and 
beat in one-half cup of Jamaica rum, freeze to the consistency of 
an ice and serve in glasses. 

Frozen Mint. Make a plain lemon ice, and when frozen add 
the following: three tablespoonfuls of water, one-half teaspoonf ul 
of Dr. Price's Essence of Peppermint. Pack the freezer, and let 
it stand some time. Serve as you would a cordial, in small wine- 
glasses. This is considered a good aid to digestion. 

Muscat Water Ice. Take the juice of four lemons, mix with 
two cups of granulated sugar and let it stand for half an hour. 
Soak one tablespoonful of gelatine in a quarter of a cup of cold 
water for half an hour, then add half a cup of boiling water, stirring 
until dissolved; three cups of water added to the lemon and sugar 
gradually, stirring constantly; put in the gelatine and one-half cup 
of sherry. This is very pretty if colored a delicate brown with Dr. 
Price's Chocolate Brown Color. Freeze and serve in cups. 

Corn Starch Flummery. Put in a double boiler one quart of 
water, a saltspoonful of salt, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
let it come to a boil, then stir in the beaten whites of three eggs 
again let it come to a boil. Serve with the following sauce: One 
cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, yolks *f two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of corn starch, one teacup of hot water, one teaspoonful 
of Dr. Price's Extract of Zephyr; stir constantly and let it come to 
a boil. Serve hot. 

If the housewife desires flavors at cheap figures she must 
expect quality to correspond. 

45 



INDEX. 



CAKES. 

PAGE 

Angels' Food No. 1 15 

Angels' Food No. 2 15 

Black or Wedding Cake 11 

Bride's Cake 14 

Caramel Cake 13 

Chocolate Loaf Cake... 12 
Chocolate Marble Cake.. 13 

Citron Cake 12 

Clove Cake 12 

Cocoanut Loaf Cake 12 

Coffee Cake 12 

Cream Sponge Cake 15 

Cup Cake 13 

Delicate Cake 15 

Fig Cake 12 

Fruit Cake 11 

Gold Cake 14 

Hickory-Nut Cake 12 

Imperial Cake 12 

Lunch Cake 14 

Marble Cake 13 

Mottled Cake 13 

Plain Fruit Cake 11 

Pound Cake No. 1 14 

Pound Cake No. 2 14 

Pound Sponge Cake 15 

Quick Sponge Cake 14 

Silver Cake 14 

Spice Cake 12 

Washington Cake 13 

White Cream Cake 14 

White Lady Cake 14 

White Mountain Cake.. 14 

White Pound Cake 14 

White Sponge Cake.... 15 

LAYER CAKES. 

Almond Cake 15 

Apple Jelly Cake 10 

Chocolate Cake 16 

Cocoanut Cake 16" 

Cream Cake 16 

Fig Cake 16 

Hickory-Nut Cake 17 

Lemon Jelly Cake 16 

Metropolitan Cake 17 



LATER CAKES Cent 'd. 

PAGE 

Minnehaha Cake 17 

Orange Cake 15 

Pineapple Cake 17 

Pink and -White Layer 

Cake 17 

Rolled Jelly Cake 17 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

Almond Icing 18 

Boiled Frosting 18 

Cream Frosting 18 

Chocolate Icing 18 

Frosting 18 

Soft Icing 18 

The Best Icing 18 

Water Icing 18 

SMALL CAKES. 

Almond Cookies 19 

Almond Drops 22 

Almond Jumbles 20 

Anise Drops 20 

Boston Cream Cake 22 

Bread Cake 22 

Chocolate Wafers 20 

Cream Puffs 22 

Dew Drops 23 

Doughnuts \ 20 

Fried Cakes NQ. 1 21 

Fried Cakes No. 2 21 

Fruit Cookies 19 

Fruit Ginger Bread 21 

Ginger Bread 21 

Ginger Cookies 21 

Ginger Drops 22 

Ganger Snaps 21 

Lemon Cookies 19 

Lemon Jumbles 20 

Molasses Cookies 19 

Philadelphia Jumbles... 19 I 

Ring Jumbles 20 

Scotch Cakes 18 j 

Soft Sugar Ginger 

Bread 21 

Spice Drops 23 

46 



SMALL CAKES Cont'd. 

PAGE 
Sponge Ginger Bread 

(Eggless) 21 

Sugar Cookies 19 

Tea Cakes 19 

The Best Cookies 20 

The Best Ginger Bread 22 

PASTRY. 

Almond Tarts 26 

Apple Pie 24 

Chocolate Pie 24 

Cherry Pie 25 

CheeseCakes 26 

Cocoanut Pie 24 

Cocoanut Tarts 26 

Cream Pie No. 1 24 

Cream Pie No. 2 24 

Cream Tarts 25 

Currant and Raspberry 

Tarts 25 

Custard Pie 24 

Lemon Pie 24 

Lemon Cream Pie 24 

Marlborough Pie 24 

Mince Pie Meat 25 

Peach Pie 25 

Pie Crust No. 1 23 

Pie Crust No. 2 23 

Pie Crust No. 3 23 

Pie Crust No. 4 23 

Puff Paste No. 1 23 

Puff Paste No. 2 23 

Pumpkin Pie 25 

Strawberry Short Cake 26 

Sweet Potato Pie 25 

Tarts 25 

Tart Shells 26 

Victoria Pie 25 

DUMPLINGS. 

Apple Dumplings 26 

Baked AppleDumplings 26 

Barberries 27 

Peach Dumplings 26 

Steamed Apple Dump- 
lings 26 



PUDDINGS. 

PAGE 

Apple Charlotte 31 

Apple Fritters 30 

Banana Pudding 28 

Boston Pudding 30 

Brown-Top Pudding 30 

Chocolate Pudding 29 

Christmas Plum Pud- 
ding 27 

Cottage Pudding 29 

Cream Fritters 31 

Cream Pudding 28 

Cup Pudding 30 

Delicate Pudding 30 

Delmonico Pudding 29 

Fig Pudding- 29 

Fritters 30 

Fruit Pudding No. 1 27 

Fruit Pudding No. 2 27 

Graham Pudding 27 

Indian Pudding 29 

Macaroni Pudding 29 

Orange Pudding 28 

Peach Cottage Pudding 29 

Puff Pudding 28 

Queen of Puddings 28 

Railroad Pudding 29 

Rice Pudding 28 

Rice Meringue 28 

Snow Pudding 30 

Steamed Berry Pudding 30 

Suet Pudding 27 

Tapioca Fruit Pudding 30 
Tipsy Pudding 28 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Foaming Sauce 31 

Good Pudding Sauce... 31 

Hard Brandy Sauce 31 

H ard Sauce 31 

Lemon Sauce 31 

White Wine Sauce 31 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND 
JELLIES. 

Almond Cream 34 

Almond Custard 33 

Apple Snow 34 

Baked Custard 34 

Bavarian Cream 33 

Blanc Mange 32 

Blanc Mange for Sum- 
mer No. 1.. .32 



CUSTARDS, ETC. Cont'd. 

PAGE 

Blanc Mange for Sum- 
mer No. 2 32 

Boiled Custard 33 

Charlotte Russe 34 

Chocolate Cream 35 

Cider Jelly 35 

Corn Starch Blanc 

Mange 32 

Cup Custard 33 

Dr. Price's Tapioca 

Cream 33* 

Floating Island 33 

Fruit Charlotte 34 

Fruit Desserts '... 35 

Italian Cream 35 

Lemon Jelly 36 

Macaroon Custard 32 

Neapolitan BlancMange 32 

Orange Jelly 36 

Rice Cream. 35 

Russian Cream 34 

Snow Balls 35 

Spanish Cream 34 

Swan's Down Cream... 34 
Velvet Blanc Mange.... 32 
Wine Jelly 35 

ICE CREAM, ICES AND 
SHERBETS. 

A Delightful Fruit 

Punch 39 

Almond Milk 38 

Claret Punch 39 

Coffee Ice Cream 36 

Cream a la Rose 37 

Currant Ice 37 

Fruit Cream ,... 36 

Frozen Peaches 36 

Frozen Pudding 38 

Fruit Sherbet 38 

Ice Cream No. 1 36 

Ice Cream No. 2 36 

Italian Tutti-Frutti 37 

Jamaica Ginger Beer... 39 

Kumyss 38 

Lemon Ice 36 

Orange Sherbet 37 

Peach Ice Cream 37 

Pineapple Sherbet 37 

Pomegranate Sherbet.. 38 

47 



ICE CREAM, ETC. Cont'd. 

PAGE 

Pudding Glace 38 

Roman Punch No. 1 36 

Roman Punch No. 2 39 

Raspberry Royal 38 

Strawberry Ice 37 

Strawberry Sherbet.... 39 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Butter Scotch 41 

Cream Walnuts 41 

Chocolate Cara mels 

No. 1 42 

Chocolate Caramels 

No. 2 42 

Chocolate Creams 40 

Cocoanut Cream Candy 41 

Cream Candy 42 

Hickory-NutMacaroons 42 

Hickory-Nut Candy 41 

Hoarhound Candy 41 

Honey Candy.. 42 

Lemon Drops 42 

Maple Creams 40 

Molasses Candy 41 

Marshmallows 40 

Pop-Corn Candy 42 

Peppermint Drops 43 

Stick Candy 43 

Uncooked' French 

Candies 39 

Vanilla Taffy 41 

DECORATIVE DISHES. 

Almond Cream Cake... 44 
Corn Starch Flummery 45 

Delicious Cakes 45 

Frozen Mint 45 

Grape Sherbet 44 

Ideal Cake 44 

Ideal Ice 45 

Muscat Water Ice 45 

Peach Cake 44 

Peach Sherbet 44 

Rose Cake 45 

Rose Mousse 45 

Sunshine Cake 44 

Sunshine Cream 44 

WEIGHTS AND M E A s - 
URES 10 

ONION SALAD DRESSING 43 



D? PRICE'S 

WHEAT FLAKE CELERY 



III 





1OR NEARLY 
three genera- 
tions I have 
been known 
among grocers as a pio- 
neer in the scientific man- 



ufacture of pure foods. The articles which bear my 
name are to-day staples upon the shelves of grocers of 
two continents, and I know that seven out of every ten 
American housewives will acknowledge that my produc- 
tions are the best in their line. 

Forty years of my life have been devoted to pure- 
food manufacture, and during all that time I have been 
possessed with the belief that evolution would develop 
a pure, ready-to-eat, wheat flake health food. I, there- 
fore, with entire confidence, have placed in the market 
Dr. Price's Wheat Flake Celery Food, which I consider 
the triumphant achievement of a lifetime. 



'/I 



MANUFACTURED ONLY BY THE 

PRICE CEREAL FOOD CO 

.CHICAGO. 





Send your name and address in full and we will mail you, free of 
charge, Dr. Price's Wheat Flake Cook Book. 



*'-\Vo*>V 

EXTRACT 



EXTRACT 

ALMOND! 



LEMC 



EXTtADT 

OF TRUE 

CHOCOLATE 



EXTRACT 
COFFEE 



pRpRICE'5 ^ 

ESSENCE 

PEPPEBMiNT 



pRpRICE'5 

ESSENCE 
WINTEBGREEN 



FRUIT j 
COLORING! 



- or 

ANISE 11 









PRICE FLAVORING EXTRACT co. 



Look upon cheap Extracts as evidence 

of impurity; 
Pure articles cannot be sold as cheap as 

adulterated ones. 

& 

Perfect purity and excellent quality, 
Rather than adulterations for the sake of 
cheapness. 



