641.509773 
G591 





UNIVERSITY OP 

ILLINOIS LIBRARY 

AT URBANA CHAMPAION 

OAK STREET 

LIBRARY f A6IUTY 



Corner Book Shop 

102 Fourth Ave. 
Vf-w York 3. N. Y. 



GOOD RECIPES 



** Nothing lovelier can be found in woman than to study 
household good.'''' — Milton. 




PUBLISHED BY THE WOMAN'S SOCIETY OF THE 

WINNETKA CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH 

WINNETKA, ILLINOIS 



Copyright, 1906 

BY 

The Woman's Society of the Winnetka 

Congregational Church 

Winnetka, Ili, 






WE take pleasure in presenting this small 
book, which in no sense assumes to be 
complete, but contains a collection of choice and 
selected recipes of friends and neighbors in our 
own community. We wish to express our appre- 
ciation of their kindness in sharing with us some 
of their best recipes, and thus making the collec- 
tion possible. 



Breads 



BREADS 



" Not bread, nor meat, nor wine. 
But f.re on hearths and cheer in gratejul heart. 
Make home divine." 

Donald G. Mitchell. 



An Easy Way to Make Bread 

Take 2 tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons of sugar, and i of salt. 
Scald by pouring over this i pint of boiling milk or water, let it 
stand until cool and then add 2^ dry yeast cakes (not compressed) . 

Boil I dozen good-sized potatoes, mash them and add 2 
quarts hot water; put through a sieve, and when cool stir into it 
the yeast made according to the above recipe, and put away 
in a crock to stand a day or two before using. It will keep a 
long time in winter, and for two or three weeks in hot weather, 
if kept in a cool place. When ready to make bread take one 
large coffee cup of mixture to a quart of flour and beat together 
without any other wetting. Let rise, mould into loaves, and let 
rise again. Jane E. Dale. 

Steamed BroTvn Bread 

One cup corn meal, i cup Graham flour, i cup rye flour, i 
cup molasses, i pint sour milk, i teaspoon soda. Mix all to- 
gether and steam three and one-half hours. Mrs. A. F. Irons. 

Graham Bread 

Three cups graham flour, 2 cups thick sour milk or butter- 
milk, i cup molasses, i large teaspoon soda, i teaspoon salt. 
Mix like cake and bake. 



Good Recipes 



Maiden Brown Bread 

Two cups Indian com meal, i cup graham flour, i cup white 
flour, I cup molasses, 3 cups warm water, i tablespoon soda, 
I teaspoon salt. 

Mix meal, flour, and salt. Dissolve soda in water and add 
molasses. Pour on dry ingredients and beat quickly. Steam 
in brown bread tins. 

Raisins may be added if desired. This quantity fills five 
one-pound tins, and requires only one and one-half hours steam- 
ing in small tins, four hours for one large tin. 

Mrs. B. S. Winchester. 

Currant Buns 

Scald a quart of milk, add J cup of butter, § cup sugar and a 
little salt. When luke-w.arm add 2 well beaten eggs, ^ cup of cur- 
rants, I yeast cake dissolved in i cup of luke-warm water, and 
enough flour to make a dough as soft as can be handled. Cover 
and let rise over night. In the morning shape the dough into 
buns, lay them apart on buttered tins. Let rise until light. Bake 
in a quick oveii from fifteen to twenty minutes. When done 
brush the tops with the sweetened beaten white of an egg. 

Mrs. C. S. Thome. 

Nut Bread 

Take i quart whole wheat flour, i pint white flour, i cup 
pecans (cut fine), i tablespoon sugar, salt. Mix thoroughly. 
Make sponge with 5 tablespoons white flour and i cake yeast; 
when light turn it into the flour with i^ pints milk, which has 
been scalded and cooled. Set it to rise, and when light form into 
loaves, handling as little as possible. Let rise and bake one hour 
in moderate oven. Mrs. Charles Eastman. 



Breads 



Boston Brown Bread 

One pint of rye or graham flour, i pint corn meal scalded in 
J quart boiling water, J quart sour milk, a little salt, i small 
cup molasses, i rounded teaspoonful soda dissolved in water. 
Steam four hours and dry in oven. Mrs. S. W. Crandall. 

Quaker Oats Bread 

Two cups boiling water, i cup molasses, J teaspoonful salt, J 
yeast cake dissolved in ^ cup lukewarm water, i cup Quaker Rolled 
oats, 4^ cups flour. Add boiling water to oats and let stand 
one hour; add molasses, salt, dissolved yeast cake and flour; let 
rise, beat thoroughly, turn into buttered bread pans, let rise again 
and bake. This is improved by adding nuts. 

Mrs. McCordic. 



Good Recipes 



HOT BREADS AND PAN 
CAKES 

"Full many a gem, which should have raised serene, 
Burns to a crisp behind the oven door. 
And many a sack of flour is born to burst unseen, 
And waste its whiteness on the pantry floor ." 

HA. E. A. 



Wheat Muffins 

One tablespoon butter, i tablespoon sugar, 2 eggs, 2 cups 
flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, i cup sweet milk, a little salt. 
Rub butter and sugar together, add eggs well beaten, then the 
flour and baking powder, and lastly the milk. 

Hot Com Bread 

One cupful of com meal, \ cupful of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, 2 eggs, i cupful of flour, i cupful of sweet milk, 
I teaspoonful of baking powder, i teaspoonful of salt. Mix the 
meal, salt, sugar and flour well together. Add the milk, then the 
butter and the eggs well beaten, stirring vigorously as each is added. 
Butter the tins in which the bread is to be baked, then add the 
baking powder, stirring well, and bake thirty minutes. If pre- 
ferred sour milk may be used instead of sweet milk, in which case 
take J teaspoonful of soda instead of baking powder. If sour 
cream is available, add a cupful of it, omitting the sweet milk and 
butter, and again substituting soda for the baking powder. When 
baked, cut into squares and serve on a napkin, folding the extra 
length over the bread to retain the heat. Marietta Ellison. 



Hot Breads and Pancakes 



Corn Bread 

Three-fourths cup of white corn meal, } cup of flour, 2 eggs, 
I cup of sweet milk, i heaping tablespoon of butter, J teaspoon 
salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Stir all together until light and 
smooth, pour into a greased shallow pan and bake twenty or thirty 
minutes. C. C. P. 

Commeal Pancakes 

Two cups corn meal, i large cup flour, 2 eggs, little syrup, salt. 
Enough sour milk (sweetened with soda) to make them quite thin. 
Bake on griddle. Mame McFarlin. 

Corn Fritters 

Two eggs well beaten, 2 tablespoons cream, i teaspoon sugar, 
6 ears com cut and scraped from cob, 2 tablespoons flour, in which 
has been sifted a teaspoon baking powder, pinch of salt. Fry like 
griddle cakes. Emaroy J. Smith. 

Oatmeal Gems 

One cup oatmeal soaked over night in a cup of sweet milk, add 
I cup sour milk sweetened with a teaspoonful soda, and i cup 
of wheat flour and a little salt. Bake quickly. 

Mrs. W. V. Cull. 



10 Good Rec ip e s 



SOUPS 



Cooks, I am convinced, are horn, not made" 

Julia Marlowe. 



Bouillon 

One chicken, boiled the day before using. Get all the grease 
off the second day. 4 lbs. of cut-up beef, 5 eggs, crushed shell 
and all, i allspice, i clove, 3 bay leaves, i carrot, medium size, 
I onion, medium size, pinch of cayenne pepper, salt to taste, \ tea- 
spoon mace. Mix all together with the hand after you add to 
chicken stock. Cook two hours. Do not boil. Strain while hot. 
Kinsley's recipe. Given by Mrs. Wm. M. Hoyt. 

Okra Gumbo 

Put into a saucepan a spoonful of pure lard and one of flour. 
Stir it well until it is a light brown. Chop an onion into small 
pieces and put them in. Cut up a fat capon or chicken into a 
quart of boiling water and leave it on the fire for two and one half 
hours. During that time you take either a can of okra or the 
fresh okra and chop it up a bit. Put it in a saucepan with a little 
water and let it simmer one-fourth of an hour, stirring all the time. 
Then add to it either six fresh tomatoes or | can and cook slowly 
for an hour, uncovered. When your gumbo has cooked 2 J hours 
take it off, let it cool, and skim off all grease. Put back in sauce- 
pan, add tomatoes and okra and simmer for an hour, or, until the 
okra is thoroughly cooked. Serve hot, and eat with dry rice served 
in a separate dish. 

From Mrs. Callahan's Creole Cook Book. 



Soups 11 



Pea Soup 

Pick over and wash i quart of dried peas, and soak over night 
in 3 quarts of cold water. In the morning pour off all this water, 
put the peas into the soup kettle with 7 quarts of cold water, i 
pound of salt pork, 3 cloves, 2 large onions, and i teaspoonful of 
celery salt. Boil gently for seven hours, stirring often, and at the 
end of that time rub the soup through a fine sieve. Return it to 
the kettle and add 2 bay leaves and 2 sprigs of parsley tied to- 
gether. Add a pint of milk or cream, and after the soup boils up 
serve with toasted bread cut into dice. Mrs. Rudolph Matz. 

Pea Soup with Rice 

Boil I teaspoonful of rice. Cook until tender i pint or i can 
of peas. Add to the rice and peas i pint of hot water and let boil, 
then remove from the fire and stir in quickly the yolk of i egg, 
beaten with i pint of cream. Salt and pepper to taste. This may 
or may not be rubbed through a colander. Mrs. Frank Bissell. 

Mock Bisque Soup 

One half can of tomatoes, i teaspoonful of corn starch, i quart 
of milk, I teaspoonful of salt, J cup of butter, J salt spoonful of 
pepper. Stew the tomatoes until soft enough to strain easily. 
Boil the milk in a double boiler. Cook i teaspoonful of the butter 
and the cornstarch together in a small saucepan, adding enough 
of the hot milk to make it pour easily. Stir it carefully into boiling 
milk and boil ten minutes. Add the remainder of the butter in 
small pieces and stir until well mixed. Add salt and pepper and 
the strained tomatoes. If the tomatoes be very acid, add ^ salt 
spoonful of soda before straining. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. C. C. Blatchford. 



12 Good Recipes 



Veal Soup 

Put a knuckle of veal into 3 quarts cold water, salt, and add i 
tablespoon rice, boil slowly 4 hours, beat yolk of i egg, and mix 
with it i cup cream, adding small piece of butter. Strain stock 
over this, stirring all the time. Serve at once. Mrs. J. G. Weart. 

Noodles 

Two eggs, I tablespoonful water, pinch of salt. Mix and stir 
into it enough flour to knead into a stiff dough. Divide into two 
pieces, roll as thin as possible, then put aside about an hour to dry. 
When dry, fold up and cut with a sharp knife very thin. Leave to 
dry longer, and cook in soup or salt water twenty or thirty minutes 
when wanted. Agnes Graves Zoellin. 

Rice Tomato Soup 

Boil one pint of tomatoes fifteen minutes with a bay leaf, slice 
of onion, salt, little sugar and red pepper. Strain and add one 
quart of rice water. Boil five minutes. Just before serving 
add butter. 

(After boiling rice strain through colander and use water for 
soup.) Lucy W. Bulkley. 



A ROAST A LA MODE 

" Pluck off the f eatners of vanity and priae — but do 
it gently ~ that you may not injure tne self-respect, as 
usually a bird of this feather does not nave an over- 
aDundance of tnat quality. Clean carefully, removing 
injured innocence, self-pity. Singe the pin-feathers of 
self-deception over a blaze of trutn. Baste frequently 
witn its own good temper and common sense, if any 
ooze out. Gamisk witk patience and appreciation and 
place in position for serving." 



[13] 



14 Good Recipes 



ENTREES 



''Eating is a pretty frequent and a pretty important 
thing, after all. There's no reason why it shouldn't 
be pleasant." 



Canape Lorenzo 

To a small cup of rich cream sauce, add one can of crab meat; 
cook for a few moments, stirring to prevent burning. Add i 
teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and yolks of four eggs, then 
set aside to cool. When ready to serve take a piece of toast for 
each person, cover thickly (heaping) with the crab-meat, sprinkle 
with grated cheese (as much as will remain upon the rounded 
surface), put a little butter on top, and then put in oven until 
brown and serve hot with pieces of lemon. Alice R. Butz. 

Mexican Eggs 

Take canned Mexican peppers and scald on stove for ten 
minutes. Put each pepper into a small cup to hold it in shape and 
drop into each pepper an egg. Put the cups into a pan of water 
and bake until the eggs are set. Turn peppers onto a platter 
and serve with cream gravy. Mrs. James Houghteling. 

German Apples 

Take i cup raisins, i cup English walnuts, ^ cup sugar, ^ tea- 
spoonful cinnamon. Chop all together quite fine. Pare and core 
12 apples and stuff with this mixture. Place in pan with a little 
water and bake i^ hours in slow oven, basting frequently. 

Mrs. James Houghteling. 



Entrees 15 



Cheese Souffle 

2 tablespoons butter, J teaspoon salt, i heaping tablespoonful 
flour, dash of cayenne, ^ cupful of milk, 3 eggs, i cupful grated 
cheese. Put the butter into a saucepan; when it is melted, stir 
in the flour and let it cook a minute (but not color), stirring all 
the time; add one half cupful of milk slowly and stir till smooth, 
then add salt and cayenne. Remove from the fire and add, 
stirring constantly, the beaten yolks of three eggs and the cupful of 
grated American or Parmesan cheese. Replace it on the fire, and 
stir until the cheese is melted and the paste smooth and consistent 
(do not cook too long, or the butter will separate). Pour the 
mixture on a butter dish and set away to cool. When ready to 
use, stir into it lightly the well-beaten whites of the three eggs; turn 
it into a pudding dish and bake in a hot oven for twenty to thirty 
minutes. Do not open the oven door for ten minutes; do not 
slam the oven door; do not move the souffle until after fifteen 
minutes ; serve it at once when done. Like any souffle, it must go 
directly from the oven to the table, or it wiU fall. 

Mrs. Morris Greeley. 

Baked Beans Recipe 

Wash the beans and soak them over night. Boil them slowly 
until tender, changing the water several times. Boil with them 
a small piece of salt pork, a bay leaf, and an onion. Remove them 
from the water when the skin will break easily; put them in a 
bean-pot, bury in them ^ lb. salt pork, with rind scored; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Pour over them a tablespoonful of molas- 
ses and enough salted water to cover them. Cover the pot closely 
and place it in a slow oven to cook for six to eight hours. 

Mrs. Morris Greeley. 



16 Good Recipes 



Virginia Com Pudding 

Cut the grains from 9 ears of tender sweet com, add 2 eggs, 
beaten light, i teaspoonful sugar, a heaping tablespoonful of 
flour and a moderate one of butter, i pint of milk, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Bake one-half or three-fourths of an hour until it 
is a nice brown on top. Mrs. Watt. 

Curried Tomato 

Six tomatoes, J pint cream, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, i teaspoonful 
curry, i tablespoon flour, salt. Put tomatoes (cut crosswise in 
halves) in the butter. Let cook together for few minutes. Pile 
up tomatoes on one side of the dish, and into the liquid stir the 
paste, made of the flour, curry, cream and salt. Add tomatoes 
and let simmer together a moment. Mrs. James Fentress. 

Spanish Stew 

Three cups cold lamb or veal, cut in pieces the size of a walnut, 
I can of tomatoes, pulp and juice without the seed, i teaspoonful 
salt, I teaspoonful French mustard, i salt spoonful paprica, 
I tablespoonful Worcestershire, 2 drops Tabasco sauce, lump of 
butter if meat be lean, piece of an onion the size of a hazel nut. 
Cover with water and simmer for three hours. Thicken and 
serve with plain boiled rice. Mrs. G. H. Connor. 



HASH 

""^ Mix equal parts or flattery and a ''musn of conces- 
sions together and brown over a fire of self-interest. 

*" Tnis aisn is often eaten with relisn, but cannot be 
recommenaea as a wliolesome one/' 



[17] 



18 Good Recipes 



MEAT LOAF, CROQUETTES 

"It's poor eating where the flavor oj the meat lies in 
the cruets^ — George Eliot. 



Veal Loaf 

Three and a half pounds lean veal and J pound salt pork, 
chopped fine; 8 tablespoonfuls cracker crumbs, 2 eggs, butter size 
of an egg, i tablespoonful pepper, i tablespoonful salt. Mix 
together into form of loaf. Put crumbs and bits of butter on top. 
Set in the oven with water in the pan and baste often. Bake two 
hours. Mrs. R. M. Graves. 

Beef Loaf 

One pound raw (or rare) chopped beef, 3 large crackers rolled 
and sifted, \ teaspoon salt, J teaspoon pepper, i well-beaten egg. 
Work until all is thoroughly mixed. Press into bowl and turn 
out on buttered tin. Rub a little butter over it and pour on a 
large cup of canned tomatoes. Bake J of an hour, basting fre- 
quently with the tomato. Serve hot. Lilian L. Cole. 



Salmon Loaf 

One 2 pound can salmon, i cup bread crumbs, 4 eggs, 3 
tablespoons butter, pepper and salt. Steam one hour in a bread 
tin. When ready to serve pour over it sauce made of i can 
tomatoes, strained and thickened with butter and flour, salt 
and pepper. Lilian L. Cole. 



Meat Loaf, Croquettes 19 



Meat Loaf 

Three pounds lean meat .chopped fine, 2 eggs, 8 crackers 
rolled, Kenosha or Boston, ^ small cup water, i tablespoon salt, 
I small tablespoon pepper, i nutmeg. Mix thoroughly, bake 
slowly one and a half hours. Mrs. Jesse B. Alton. 

Croquettes 

One pint milk, scalded ; 2 level teaspoonfuls butter, 4 heaping 
tablespoonfuls flour or 2 of cornstarch, ^ teaspoonful salt, ^ tea- 
spoonful celery salt, J salt spoon white pepper, trifle of cayenne. 
Place the butter in a granite saucepan, and when it bubbles add 
the flour or cornstarch and stir until well mixed. To this add 
J of the hot milk and stir as it boils and thickens; then add J of the 
remainder and bring again to a boil, and when perfectly smooth 
add the rest of the milk. It should be very thick when done, 
almost like drop batter. Stir in the salt, celery salt, and pepper. 
Mix in while hot with the fish or meat which has already been 
seasoned. If more highly seasoned sauce is desired use J a sliced 
onion, 3 sprigs of parsley, 2 allspice, and scald with the milk. A 
stalk of celery may be cooked in the milk instead of the celery 
salt. Mrs. R. M. Graves. 



20 Good Recipes 



PICKLES AND JELLIES 

^'Who peppered the highest was surest to please.'^ 



To Pickle Cucumbers 

Wash with care and put into a crock. Make a weak brine 
(about a handful of salt to ij gallons of water). When scalding 
hot pour this over the cucumbers, and cover. Repeat this process 
three mornings in succession, taking care to skim thoroughly. 
On the fourth day have ready a porcelain kettle, with vinegar, to 
which has been added a piece of alum the size of a walnut. When 
scalding hot put in as many cucumbers as may be covered with the 
vinegar; do not let them boil, but skim out as soon as scalded 
through, and replace with others, adding from time to time a 
little more alum. Drain well, pack into jars and pour over them, 
while hot, about J of the vinegar, necessary to cover them, in which 
has been scalded spices, mustard seed, pepper pods, horse radish 
roots, and a handful of brown sugar. - Fill up with cold vinegar 
and when thoroughly cold cover with a doth and plate. To make 
the cucumbers green place grape leaves among them while prepar- 
ing them in the brine and vinegar. If green peppers are used 
prepare them also with the cucumber in the brine to prevent 
them getting soft. J. E. D. 

Pickled Beets 

Boil young beets until tender; slice and place in glass jars. 
To I quart vinegar add } pound sugar, \ teaspoon salt. Boil 
two minutes, turn over the beets and seal while hot. 

Mrs. Charles Eastman. 



Pickles and Jellies 21 



Muskmelon Pickle 

Choose small, hard melons, which will not ripen; pare and 
slice. To each lo pounds allow 3 J pounds granulated sugar, 
3 pints cider vinegar, a good handful of whole cinnamon, some 
cloves and allspice. Boil twenty minutes, dip out spice and pour 
hot over the melon. Repeat after twenty-four hours. The 
third morning cook the melon in the liquor until tender, dip out, 
and boil the liquor and spice down to a thick syrup, remove most 
of the spice and turn symp over the melon. Mame McFarlin. 

Oil Pickle 

Twelve cucumbers sliced thin without peeling; 6 onions sliced. 
Put § cup salt on both and let stand for 2 hours. Drain and 
rinse with cold water and then add, i pint vinegar, § cup white 
mustard seed, ^ cup black mustard seed, 2 tablespoons celery 
seed. Put in glass jars. When serving add olive oil to taste. 

Mrs. Landon Hoyt. 

Tomato Soy for Cold Meats 

One peck ripe tomatoes, peeled; 4 green peppers, 4 large onions. 
Chop and boil all together for one hour. Add ^ teacup salt, 2 
teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 2 teaspoonfuls cloves, 2 cups sugar, i 
small teaspoonful black pepper. Let boil hard, then add one 
quart vinegar and take immediately from fire; seal while hot. 

Belle W. Thome. 

Strawberry Jelly 

One and a half pint berries, after they are washed and capped ; 
I pint sugar, J cup water. Boil sugar and water until it threads, 
then add berries and boil twenty minutes. This will make five 
glasses of jelly. Catherine C. Poarch. 



^'^ Good Recipes 



India Pickle 

Two ounces ground ginger, 2 ounces mustard, 2 ounces salt, 
I ounce mustard seed, i ounce tumeric — this you have to get 
of the druggist — i ounce black pepper, a very little cayenne, 2 
quarts of vinegar. Boil together for a few minutes. Put any 
kind of pickles into this, excepting onions. I make my other 
pickles, then take from the jars and put into this preparation, 
when it is cold, small cucumbers, cauliflower, beans or anything 
that I have. Onions destroy the flavor. You can keep putting 
in as your jar becomes empty. No need of heating it over. It 
makes a yellow pickle, like chow-chow. Mrs. Shackford. 

Pickled Peaches 

Skin peaches by dipping in hot water. Make a syrup of i quart 
wine vinegar, 7 pounds sugar, whole cloves and stick cinnamon 
put into bags. Mrs. Landon Hoyt. 

Grape Marmalade 

One quart grape juice, after grapes are colandered, 2 pints 
sugar, ^ pound seeded raisins, \ pound English walnuts, chopped 
fine. Boil until it thickens. Mrs. Landon Hoyt. 

Wild Crabapple Jelly 

Wash the apples in soap suds, rinse well and bring to a scald 
in weak soda water. Drain and rinse, then again cover with 
clear water and boil until the fruit breaks up. Then strain off 
juice, and allow i cup sugar to each cup of juice. Boil and skim 
fifteen minutes before adding the sugar, w^hich has been heating in 
the oven during the boiling. Then boil the juice again fifteen 
minutes unless it jells sooner. The remainder of the fruit may 
be separated from the cores and made into a spiced marmalade to 
be eaten with meats. Jane E. Dale. 



Puddings 23 



PUDDINGS 

"Cold pudding settles one's love." — Proverb. 



Peach Delight 

Pare, cut in halves, and stone, a dozen fine, ripe peaches, reserv- 
ing few of the pits. Boil the pits in half a cupful of water for 
fifteen minutes, then strain. Mix well together a generous half 
cupful of sugar and a tablespoon of flour. Butter a deep pudding 
dish well, put in a layer of peaches, sprinkle with sugar, dot with 
bits of butter, cover with another layer of the peaches and proceed 
in this way until all are used. Pour over the water which was 
strained off the pits. Make a nice biscuit crust for the top, roll 
out about half an inch thick, place it over the fruit, make several 
incisions to allow the steam to escape and bake in a moderate 
oven. In serving cut the crust in pieces as for pie, put the fruit on 
top and cover with whipped or plain cream. 

Mrs. C. S. Thome. 

Spanish Cream 

One-fourth box gelatine or i tablespoon granulated gelatine, 3 
cups milk, whites 3 eggs, yolks 3 eggs, ^ cup sugar (scant) , \ tea- 
spoon salt, \ tablespoon lemon juice or i teaspoon vanilla. Scald 
milk with gelatine, add sugar, pour slowly on yolks of eggs, slightly 
beaten. Return to double boiler and cook until thickened, 
stirring constantly. Remove from range, add salt, flavoring, and 
whites of eggs, beaten stiff. Turn into individual molds. Serve 
with cream. More cream will be required if large moulds are 
used. Mrs. Allsebrooke, 



24 Good Recipes 



Graham Pudding 

One cup molasses, i cup milk, i even teaspoon soda, i\ 
cups Graham flour, i cup raisins, i small teaspoon cinnamon, ^ 
nutmeg, J teaspoon of salt. Piece of butter size of walnut. Put 
butter in pan it is cooked in. Steam three hours. Sauce, yolk 
of I egg, I cup sugar. Mrs. J. B. Alton. 

Brown Betty Pudding 

Spread in the bottom of a baking dish a layer of bread crumbs 
and scatter bits of butter over them. Cover this with a layer of 
sliced or chopped apples, sprinkled with sugar and cinnamon. 
Over this spread another layer of the bread crumbs, and so pro- 
ceed until the dish is full, the last layer being of crumbs and 
butter. Lastly, pour in around the edges i cup of hot water. 
Cover until the apples are nearly cooked, and then leave brown on 
top. Eat with sugar and cream. Jane E. Dale. 

Cranberry Pudding 

Half cup butter, i cup sugar, 3 eggs, 3 J cups flour, ij table- 
spoons baking powder, ^ cup milk, i^ cups cranberries. Cream 
the butter, add sugar gradually, and eggs well beaten. Mix and 
sift flour and baking powder, and add alternately with milk to 
first mixture, stir in berries previously washed, turn into buttered 
gem pans and bake twenty-five minutes. Serve with Foamy 
Sauce. 

Foamy Sauce 

Two eggs, whites; i cup pulverized sugar, ^ cup butter, juice of 
^ lemon. Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and the lemon 
juice. Just before serving add whites, stiffly beaten. 

Inez M. Cutter. 



Puddings 25 



Chocolate Souffle 

White of 8 eggs, 8 tablespoons sugar, 8 tablespoons chocolate, 
grated; a little salt. Beat eggs very light, add sugar and choco- 
late mixed. Bake till pufifed well and serve promptly with 
cream. B. M. de Windt. 

Tapioca Pudding 

Pour I cup water over 6 tablespoonfuls tapioca, and when well 
softened add i quart milk, a little salt and a small piece of butter. 
Boil in a double boiler until clear, then stir in } cup sugar and the 
beaten yolks of 3 eggs, and cook until it thickens like custard. 
Take off the fire, add flavoring, and lightly stir in the whites of the 
eggs, which have been beaten to a stiff froth. J. E. D. 

Lemon Pudding 

Two lemons, ij quarts sweet milk, i heaping pint of bread 
crumbs, i cup sugar, and 6 eggs. Soak the bread crumbs in the 
milk. Use all the yolks and the whites of 2 eggs in the pudding. 
When baked cover with frosting made from the whites of the 4 
eggs and a large tablespoonful powdered sugar. Eaten with cream 
and sugar, and good hot or cold. J. E. D. 

Mother's Bread Pudding 

Butter several small slices bread, place in pudding dish. Cover 
with one quart of milk, 3 eggs, pinch of salt. Bake until brown ; 
allow about half hour for baking. Serve with hard sauce. 
Hard Sauce 
One coffee cup powdered sugar, J teacup butter, beaten to 
cream; add beaten white of one egg, J teaspoon vanilla. 

Emaroy J. Smith. 



26 Good Recipes 



Suet Pudding 

One cup finely chopped suet, i cup molasses, i cup milk, 3 
cups flour, I teaspoon soda, ^ teaspoon salt, ^ cup chopped raisins, 
^ cup currants, ^ teaspoon each ginger, cloves and nutmeg; i 
teaspoon cinnamon. Mix and sift dr}' ingredients, add molasses 
and milk to suet, combine mixtures, add chopped fruit. Turn 
into buttered molds, cover and steam three hours. This makes 
four baking powder tins full. Serve with egg sauce. 

Egg Sauce 

One cup sugar, i egg, i lemon, juice and grated rind. Beat egg 
and sugar together until light, add ^ pint boiling water, let come 
to a boil, remove from fire and add lemon juice and rind. 

Mrs. E. J. Allsel^rooke. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding 

Three-fourths pearl tapioca, soaked over night in i quart of 
water. Cook in double boiler until clear and will pour like cream. 
Add } cup sugar, a small piece of butter, a little nutmeg, and salt. 
Mix well together and pour into a baking dish, which has been 
buttered and half filled with sliced apples. Bake and serve with 
cream. Jane E. Dale. 

English Plum Pudding 

One pound suet, i pound raisins, i pound currants, J pound 
soda crackers, J pound citron and small piece of candied lemon 
peel, I pound brown sugar, i teaspoon salt, i tablespoon molasses, 
I pint milk, 6 eggs, spices to suit. Figs and nuts may be added 
if desired, also wineglass of brandy. Put in molds and steam 
five hours. Mrs. C. S. Thome. 



Puddings 



Black Pudding 

One cup molasses,.! cup butter, 2 cups flour, i cup sour milk, 
4 eggs, I teaspoon soda, nutmeg and salt. Mix sugar and butter 
to a cream, add eggs well beaten, then molasses, then seasoning, 
then flour and sour milk, and lastly the soda, in a little warm 
water. Steam three hours. 

Sauce 

Half cup butter and i cup sugar, mixed to a cream. Put 
i^ teacups water in a sauce pan, and when it boils, thicken with 
cornstarch to the consistency of cream. Take from the fire 
and stir rapidly into it the butter and sugar. The sauce should 
be like white foam. Flavor to taste. Mrs. R. M. Graves. 

Baked Indian Pudding 

Boil 2 cups of milk, and while hot, sprinkle into it ^ cup corn- 
meal and boil 15 minutes. When cooked enough, beat into it 
I egg and ^ cup sugar, salt, flavoring, fruit if desired, and bake 
one hour. Mrs. S. Gilbert. 

Date Souffle 

One cup sugar, i cup English walnuts, i cup dates, i tablespoon 
flour, I teaspoon baking powder, 2 eggs. Cut nuts and dates in 
small pieces. Bake in moderate oven twenty minutes. Use 7x12 
tin. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Charles Eastman. 



28 Good Recipes 



PIES 



' There is a knack in doing many a thing 
Which labor cannot to perfection bring — 
Therefore, however great in your own eyes. 
Accept these hints regarding making pies.'* 



Mince Meat 

Four bowls chopped apples, 2 bowls chopped meat, J pound 
chopped suet, 4 teacups molasses, 2 large teaspoons cinnamon, 
2 large teaspoons cloves, 2 nutmegs, 2 pounds rasins, i pound cur- 
rants, i pound citron cut fine, 2 quarts boiled cider, or fruit juice 
from pickled peaches. Sugar and salt to taste. 

Mrs. Jesse B. Alton. 

Pineapple Pie 

Yolks of 2 eggs beaten with J cup of sugar, J can (small) of 
grated pineapple and milk for one good-sized pie. Bake with 
one crust. When cool, frost with the whipped whites, 2 tablespoons 
of granulated sugar and very little lemon juice. Return to oven 
for a few minutes. Mame McFarlin. 

Lemon Pie 

Six eggs, I J cups sugar, 3 lemons, (juice and yellow of rind 
5 cups of cold water, 4 even tablespoons cornstarch, butter size of 
egg, salt. Put the yellow of the eggs into a double boiler and beat 
into them the sugar and lemons, then add the cornstarch dissolved 
in a little cold water, the butter and the water, and stir until cooked. 
This will fill two pies. 



Pies 29 



English Cherry Pie 

One cup lard and butter mixed, 2 cups flour, i teaspoon salt. 
Work the shortening into the flour with a knife, mix with sufficient 
ice water to hold together, handling as little as possible. Line 
the sides of a deep earthen baking dish, fill two-thirds full with 
stoned cherries, add two cups sugar and place i small cup (inverted) 
in the center of the dish. Cover with a thick top crust, no bottom 
crust being used. Spread over the crust a liberal coating of lard 
or butter before placing in oven. Mrs. C. S. Thome. 

Lemon Pie 

One lemon (grate rind and juice) i cup cold water, i cup sugar, 
I large tablespoon cornstarch, butter size of walnut, 3 eggs. Put 
water, sugar and cornstarch on fire and stir until thick, adding 
yolks and lemon last, pour into crust which has been previously 
baked, and spread whites of eggs beaten stiff, and sweetened to 
taste, over top and brown slightly. Lilian L. Cole. 

Squash or Pumpkin Pie 

Mix I cupful each of milk and dry steamed pumpkin, J cupful 
sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls each of molasses and melted butter, one 
teaspoonful of ginger, 2 eggs slightly beaten, i teaspoonful cinna- 
mon and ^ teaspoonful of salt. Pour into a pastry-lined plate 
and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes. 

Lilian L. Cole. 

Apple Custard Pie 

I pint of sweet milk, 3 grated sweet apples, 2 well beaten eggs, 
a little salt, and sugar and nutmeg to taste. Bake with under 
crust only. 



30 Good Recipes 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

^'Glittering squares oj colored ice 
Sweetened with syrups. 
Tinctured with spice; 
Creams and cordial and sugared dates." 



Cafe Parfait 

One quart of thick cream, i scant cup powdered sugar, ^ pint 
of black coffee. Place dish containing this mixture in a pan of 
ice water and whip, draining and whipping again until all has 
been whipped. Pour carefully into a packed freezer and let stand 
for three hours. 

I ate a delicious grape ice cream not long since, but all the in- 
formation I could gain from the cook who made it was that she 
used 2 cups of grape juice to i cup of cream and made exactly as 
plain vanilla ice cream. It was new to me and very delicious, but 
I have not yet tried it at home. Mrs. Frank Bissell. 

Pineapple Sherbet 

One and J quarts of water, i pint of sugar, i can of grated pine- 
apple and the juice of three lemons. Beat the whites of 3 eggs 
very stiff, add to mixtiu-e and freeze. Mrs. William Boyden. 

Peach Mousse 

One quart cream, 2 cups sugar, 12 peaches. Whip the cream, 
add sugar and peaches chopped fine. Pack in freezer and let stand 
four hours. Mrs. H. M. Anning. 



Frozen Desserts 31 



Maple Mousse 

Four eggs, j cup of maple sugar, i pint of cream. Beat yolks 
of eggs very light, pour on them the hot syrup. Cook in double 
boiler, stirring constantly, till it thickens. Take from fire and 
beat, in pan of ice water, till cool. Add the whipped cream and 
whites of eggs (it is not necessary to use the whites). Turn into 
mould and pack with ice and salt. Let stand four hours. 

Mrs. James Fentress. 

Delicious Cherry Ice Cream 

One quart of cream, i quart of preserved cherries, i teaspoonful 
of vanilla. Whip the cream until stiff. Add vanilla, and just at the 
moment of freezing add the preserved cherries. Sometimes the 
cherries do not make it sweet enough, and that must be determined 
by tasting. Mrs. G. H. Conner. 

Frozen Eggnog 

One pint cream, i cup sugar, 4 eggs, 4 tablespoons sherry, i 
tablespoon brandy, i teaspoon Maraschino wine; beat yolks of 
eggs and sugar, add cream. Whites of eggs, beaten separately, 
and added just before freezing. This recipe will serve eight. 

Mrs. Douglas Smith. 



32 Good Recipes 



CAKE 



' With weights and measures just and true. 

Oven oj even heat, 
Well buttered tins and quiet nerve, 

Success will he complete. ^^ 



Crumb Cake 

One cup granulated sugar, i cup pastry flour, } cup butter. 
Mix thoroughly with the hand. Now to the above add: i egg, 
I cup chopped raisins, i cup sour milk, i teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in a two teaspoons of warm water. Lastly, i more cup 
of flour, stirring in the last named ingredients with a spoon. Bake 
in layers or . a solid. Mrs. Weaver, of Cleveland, gave me this, 
and it is fine. C. C. P. 

Maud S. Cake 

One and one-half cups of sugar, J cup of butter, J cup of milk, 
ij cups of flour, 3 eggs. Cook together the following: 8 table- 
spoons of grated chocolate, 5 tablespoons of sugar, J tablespoon 
of milk. When cool stir into the cake with J cup of flour and 2 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake as a loaf or layer cake. Use 
any frosting. Mrs. Landon Hoyt. 

Fruit Cake 

One pound brown sugar, i pound flour, 14 ounces butter, 2 
pounds currants, 2 pounds raisins, i pound citron, i cup molasses, 
I cup brandy, 10 eggs, i nutmeg, i teaspoonful cloves, i teaspoon- 
ful rose water, i teaspoonful soda. Bake i\ hours. 

Mrs. G. W. Heath. 



Cake 33 



Chocolate Cake 

Two eggs, I J cups sugar, § cup butter, i cup sweet milk, 2 
heaping cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, J cup grated 
chocolate. Mrs. J. E. Hyde. 

Chocolate Cake 

Half coffee cup butter, i coffee cup sugar, | coffee cup sweet 
milk, 4 eggs (leaving out whites of three for your chocolate), 1} 
coffee cups flour (measiured before sifting), J teaspoonful vanilla, 
2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, § teaspoonful salt. Sift flour, bak- 
ing powder and salt together, cream butter and sugar thoroughly. 
Add the eggs (that is the yolks and the one whole egg), beaten well, 
milk and flour alternately. Bake in jelly tins, well buttered, in a 
hot oven. 

Chocolate Part 

Six tablespoonfuls of scraped Baker's Chocolate, ij coffee cups 
powdered sugar (free from lumps), whites of 3 eggs, i teaspoonful 
vanilla, 2 tablespoonfuls hot water. Put the chocolate and 8 table- 
spoons of powdered sugar into double boiler, or saucepan, with 
two tablespoons of hot water, cook until smooth and glossy, stir- 
ring all the time, then remove from stove. Beat the remainder of 
the sugar into the whites, with teaspoon, stir this into chocolate 
mixture, and lastly add vanilla. Let it cool before spreading. 

Mrs. Frank Ogden Magie. 

White Cake 

Two and one-half cups of sifted flour, i cup sugar (G.), i cup 
sweet milk, J pound butter, 3 eggs (whites), i teaspoon of cream, 
level teaspoon soda, J teaspoon salt, flavoring. Cream all in- 
gredients except milk and eggs, add milk and beat; then fold in 
the beaten whites. Mrs. Charles Eastman. 



34 Good Recipes 



Othello Cake 

One cup sugar, J cup butter, J cup milk, i oz. chocolate, J tea- 
spoon vanilla, i j cups flour, i teaspoon baking powder, 2 whites 
of eggs, 4 yolks. Scrape chocolate, add 3 teaspoons of the sugar, 
and I teaspoon water, stir over fire till smooth. Add with 
vanilla, to creamed butter and sugar. Add beaten yolks, beaten 
in flour sifted with baking powder, then beaten whites. Bake in 
layers or in one cake, as preferred. Frosting: Beat 2 cups pow- 
dered sugar into 2 whites, add 2 ozs. melted chocolate, i teaspoon 
vanilla, and i pint chopped walnut meats. This is enough for a 
four-layer cake. Mrs. B. S. Winchester. 

Coffee Cake 

One cup sugar, J cup molasses, J cup butter, J cup cold coffee, 
2i cups flour, 2 eggs, i teaspoonful soda, i teaspoonful cloves, i 
teaspoon ful cinnamon, i cup raisins, i cup currants, J pound 
citron. Dissolve soda in coffee. 

Sponge Cake 

Weigh 10 eggs; allow their weight in flour. Beat the yolks 
light, whip the sugar into them, stir in half the grated peel and all 
the juice of a lemon, then the flour, lastly the whites folded in 
lightly. Bake in a loaf tin in a very steady oven. 

Mrs. J. O. Parker. 

Sponge Cake 

Yolks of 3 eggs beaten light, i cup sugar, 3 tablespoons hot 
water. Add i level cup flour into which i teaspoon baking powder 
has been sifted. Flavor, then fold lightly in the whites of the eggs, 
which have been beaten stiff. Bake in little cake tins in a quick 
oven. Mrs. C. Prouty. 



Cake 35 



Chocolate Cake 

*■ 

One-half cake chocolate cooked in a scant cup of milk, i pint 
pulverized sugar mixed with yolks of 4 eggs. Add to this mixture 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, i teaspoon vanilla or lemon, i cup 
sifted flour, large ^ teaspoon baking powder. Bake in shallow 
pan. Do not heap cup of flour. Cook chocolate enough to 
thoroughly dissolve it. 

Afternoon Tea Cake 

Into I cup cf sugar mix i teaspoon baking powder. Beat the 
yolks of the two eggs until light and add. Then add cup by cup 
2J cups Quaker oats. Flavor with vanilla or chopped raisins, or 
almonds. Lastly, add the whites of the twd eggs beaten till creamy, 
but not stiff. Drop with teaspoon on buttered pans, leaving two 
inch space between, and bake in slow oven. 

Mrs. Carlton Prouty. 

Spice Cake 

{Without eggs. From Good Housekeeping.) 

One cup sugar, J cup butter, i cup sour milk, 2 cups flour, 
sifted with i teaspoon soda, i teaspoon cinnamon, J teaspoon of 
cloves, ^ nutmeg grated, i cup floured raisins. Bake in a steady 
oven, preferably in a long, narrow deep tin. 

Mrs. B. S. Winchester. 

Velvet Sponge Cake 

Two eggs beaten very light, add i cup sugar, in J cup sifted 
flour, with I teaspoon baking powder, J scant cup boiling 
water mixed in slowly. Put in buttered tin and in the hot oven at 
once. By the addition of one more egg any layer cake can be made, 
using whites for the frosting. Lilian L. Cole. 



36 Good Recipes 



Spice Cake 

One and one-half cups sugar, i cup butter, i cup aour milk, 
2i cups flour (or less, try it), yolks of five eggs, whites of 2, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls cinnamon, i teaspoonful cloves, little nutmeg, i cup 
chopped raisins, i teaspoonful soda. Mrs. Alton. 

Hickory Nut Cake 

One and one-half cups sugar, i cup butter, j cup sweet milk, 2 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Whites of 4 eggs well 
beaten, i cup broken nuts added last. Mrs. J. B. Alton. 



Gingerbread, Cookies, Doughnuts 37 

GINGERBREAD, COOKIES, 
DOUGHNUTS 

AUNT CELIE'S GINGERBREAD 

*' How I make dot good gingerbread ? O, I jes' makes 
ity Miss, jes' makes it. How you make it ? Well, 
now, Miss, I dunno; well, les' see. You jes' takes 
about Jour hanjulls oj flour and water and about so 
much sugar and about three gullups oj molasses, an' 
ginger 'cording to your jedgment. What a gullup? 
Law, Miss, doan you know how that of mV asses 
jug done 'Gul-lup' when yo' tips it up?" 



Soft Gingerbread 

One cup sugar (G. or light brown) 2 cups molasses, i teaspoon 
soda, 4 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, i cup sweet milk, i 
cup butter, 4 eggs, 2 tablespoons ginger, 2 tablespoons cinnamon. 

Mame McFarlin. 

Drop Taylor Cakes 

One-half cup of sugar, J cup of lard and i cup butter, 3 eggs, i 
pint of molasses, ij tablespoons soda, i\ tablespoons ginger, ij 
tablespoons cinnamon, J pint of boiling water. Flour enough 
to make batter stiff as pound cake. Drop in pans and bake in 
a quick oven. Emma D. Ely. 

Nut Wafers 

Three fourths cups butter, f cups sugar, i cup flour, i cup 
baked peanuts crushed, i cup milk (scant), i egg. Drop on but- 
tered tins and bake quickly. B. M. de Windt. 



38 Good Recipes 



Sunrise Cake 

One glass sugar, § glass flour, J teaspoon cream tartar, 6 eggs 
pinch of salt and flavoring. Beat whites with pinch of salt until 
stiff. Then add cream tartar and sugar, then the beaten yolks, 
then flour and flavoring. Stir evenly and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty-five or forty minutes. When done, turn upside down, leave 
till cold. Then take a knife and run along sides to loosen. Tins 
must not be greased. Mrs. Alton. 

Canada Gingerbread 

One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, i cup molasses (New Orleans) 
5 cups flour, I cup sweet milk, 3 eggs, i pound currants, or raisins, 

1 tablespoon cinnamon, i tablespoon ginger, J grated nutmeg, i 
teaspoon soda, i teaspoon baking powder. Beat butter to a 
cream, add sugar, molasses, eggs, milk, spices and soda. Then 
three cups flour and baking powder, stirring well. Lastly two 
cups flour and the fruit. Bake forty-five minutes in well-greased 
pans two 8x12 or one larger. Be careful about burning at the 
bottom. C. C. P. 

Oatmeal Drop Cakes 

Two cups rolled oats, 2 cups flour, } cup butter, i cup sugar, 

2 eggs, 4 tablespoons sweet milk, ^ teaspoon soda, i teaspoon 
cinnamon. Drop by teaspoonfuls into a buttered pan and bake 
slowly. Mame McFarlin. 

Peanut Cookies 

Two eggs, 4 tablespoons sweet milk, 4 tablespoons granulated 
sugar, 4 tablespoons butter, i teaspoon baking powder, ij cups 
flour, I cup peanuts (chopped), i tablespoon vanilla. Drop them 
in buttered tin and bake in quick oven. Mrs. Wm. Bird Dale. 



Gingerbread, Cookies, Doughnuts 



39 



Ginger Drop Cakes 

One-fourth cup butter or drippings, i cup sugar, i cup mo- 
lasses, 2 eggs, I teaspoon each ginger and cloves, i cup boiling 
water, 2 teaspoons soda, mixed with little salt, 2J cups flour. 
Cream butter, add sugar and eggs, well beaten, the molasses and 
boiling water. Sift soda and salt with flour, add to first mixture 
with the spices. Beat well, and bake in greased and floured gem 
pans about fifteen minutes. This makes twenty cakes. Sift 
powdered sugar over tops after baking. Inez M. Cutter. 

Fairy Gingerbread 

One-half cup butter, i cup sugar, J cup milk, ij cups flour. 
Cream butter, add sugar gradually and milk very slowly. Mix 
and sift flour and ginger and combine mixture. Spread very 
thinly with a broad-bladed knife on a buttered inverted dripping 
pan. Bake in moderate oven. Cut in squares before removing 
from pan. Mrs. McCordic. 

Margerettes 

White of I egg, well beaten, i cup powdered sugar, \ teaspoon 
baking powder, J cup English walnuts or pecans ground or chopped 
fine. Stir all together, spread on Long Branch crackers, set 
in a slow oven until a slight tinge of brown is seen on the mixture. 
Nice with tea or as cake with dessert. Caroline C. Poarch. 

Rocks 

One and one-half cups of sugar, i cup of butter, ij cups raisins, 
I cup of chopped nuts, 3 cups of flour, 4 eggs, i teaspoon soda, 
I teaspoon cinnamon, pinch of salt. Drop from spoon on but- 
tered tin. Mrs. Landon Hoyt. 



'^^ Good Recipes 



Ginger Cookies 

One and one-Jialf cups of brown sugar, f cups shortening (beef 
drippings best), i cup New Orleans molasses, f cup cold water, 
I tablespoonful ginger, i tablespoonful cinnamon, i tablespoonful 
soda (mixed in molasses), 2 eggs, and teaspoonful salt. J. E. D. 

Peanut Cookies 

Remove the skins from two cupfuls of shelled peanuts and put 
them through a meat chopper. Cream together 3- teaspoonfuls of 
butter and i cupful of sugar. Add three eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
milk, I salt spoonful of salt, the nuts and enough flour to make a 
soft dough. Roll them on a floured board, cut them with a small 
cutter, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Raised Doughnuts 

Dissolve I cake of yeast in luke-warm water, with i teaspoon 
of sugar. Mix the yeast with about i pint of flour and enough 
warm milk to make a thin batter. Then set away in a warm place 
to rise. When risen add 4 eggs well beaten, a good i pound of 
melted butter, 2 teaspoons salt, 4 or 5 tablespoons sugar, and about 
I pint of warm milk, and gradually work in enough flour to make 
a soft dough. Then knead until bubbles appear on the dough, 
when set away to rise. When risen, roll about an inch thick, cut 
into shape and set away to rise again until double their first size; 
then fry in hot lard, or equal parts of butter and lard. When 
partly cool roll in sugar with a little cinnamon. This recipe will 
make about fifty doughnuts. Everything must be warm before 
using. To make stuffed doughnuts put a teaspoonful of preserves 
or apple sauce between the doughnuts and press the edges well 
together. Mrs. Christ Eckel. 



Gingerbread, Cookies, Doughnuts 41 



Ginger Cake 

One-half cup molasses, J cup sugar, J cup butter, § cup cold 
water, i egg, i teaspoonful soda, J teaspoonful ginger, a little cin- 
namon. Make soft with flour, about two cups after sifting. 

B. M. deWindt. 

Doughnuts 

Two eggs, I large coffee cup milk, f large coffee cup sugar, 3 or 
4 tablespoons melted butter or lard, about i quart of flour, 2 heap- 
ing teaspoons baking powder, i teaspoon salt, nutmeg for flavoring. 
Directions: Mix baking powder and salt in the sifted flour, dis- 
solve i of the sugar in the milk; to the beaten eggs add the remain- 
der of the sugar and the butter and stir to a cream, after which 
stir in the milk and thicken with the flour until of the consistency 
of cake, when beat to a smooth, light batter. Gradually add the 
remainder of the flour until the soft dough is stiff enough to mould, 
when turn out on the board, which has been well covered with 
flour, and mould with the palm of the hand into a smooth paste 
as soft as can be handled. Roll to one-half inch thickness and 
cut out the whole before beginning to fry. Have the lard so hot 
that the dough will slightly ttlrn brown as soon as it rises, turn 
them over at once, and frequently, taking care that they do not 
cook too fast. ' Grace Graves. 

Vienna Cookies 

{Old German Recipe) 

Beat stiff the whites of 2 eggs, add J cup of finely granulated 
sugar and stir until well creamed ; then add J cup of flour and the 
yellow of the rind of a lemon grated. Put on buttered tins in 
small teaspoonfuls 2 or 3 inches apart and let stand a few minutes 
before baking in a moderate oven. Mrs. Christ Eckel. 



MAYONNAISE FOR BLUE MONDAY 
SALAD 

Cut Up some lively capers, acU to tkem a sauce made 
of tne milk of numan kindness, tkickened witk oil of 
peace, and spiced to taste. 

Wnen using tnis mayonnaise always serve some f resk 
peals of laugkter with tke salad. If you find it impos- 
sible to obtain the fresn peals, use some tLat you kave 
sun-dried for emergencies. 



[42] 



Salad Dressings and Sauces 43 

SALAD DRESSINGS AND 
SAUCES 

"My saladf days when I was green in judgment." 

Shakespeare. 

"Labor is the best sauce." — Latin Proverb. 



Boiled Salad Dressing 

One and one half tablespoons sugar, J teaspoon salt, i teaspoon 
mustard, few grains cayenne pepper, ^ tablespoon flour, yolks 
2 eggs, li tablespoons melted butter, } cup milk, J cup vinegar. 
Five times this rule makes quart of salad dressing. Mix dry 
ingredients, add yolks of eggs slightly beaten, butter, milk and 
vinegar, very slowly. Cook over boiling water until mixture 
thickens. It is quicker in single kettle, but needs to be stirred 
constantly. Mrs. Farmer's Recipes, as enjoyed by ^Irs. 
Allsebrooke. 

Hollandaise Sauce 

Carefully cream J cup butter, add yolk of i egg, mix gradually. 
Add another yolk of egg, add juice of ^ lemon or not quite that 
quantity, then add ^ cup boiling water. Stand in pan of boiling 
water till it thickens. If not made with care, it sometimes 
curdles. Mrs. Matz. 

Chili Sauce 

Twelve large tomatoes, 3 peppers, 3 onions, i cup vinegar, 
I tablespoon sugar, i^ tablespoons salt, i teaspoon each cloves 
and cinnamon. Mrs. Bradstreet. 



44 Good Recipes 



Salad Dressing 

Four tablespoons butter, i tablespoon flour, ^ tablespoon 
salt, I tablespoon sugar, i heaping teaspoon mustard, speck of 
red pepper, ij cup milk, J cup vinegar, 3 eggs. Let the butter 
get hot, add flour and stir until smooth, being careful not to 
brown, add milk, and boil up. Beat eggs, salt, pepper, sugar, 
and mustard together and add the vinegar. Stir this into the 
boiling mixture, stirring it till it thickens like boiled custard. 

Mrs. Charles Eastman. 

Beefsteak Sauce 

One dozen ripe tomatoes, skinned and sliced, 2 or 3 green 
peppers, i onion chopped fine, i cup sugar, 2 cups vinegar, i tea- 
spoon salt. Cloves, cinnamon, allspice and ginger. Boil all 
together for two or three hours. Bertha M. de Windt. 



SAUCE PIQUANT 

"''' Equal parts of wit and repartee stirred until tkey 
effervesce m mirtn. Season with tact and salt witk 
good-w^iU. 

'"'' This sauce may accompany every course at dinner/' 



[45] 



46 Good Recipes 



CONFECTIONS 

Things sweet to taste are in digestion sour." — Rich. II. 



Butter Scotch 

Six spoons molasses, 4 spoons brown sugar, 4 spoons water, 
2 spoons butter. Any size spoon may be used. The addition 
of peanuts makes a delicious peanut brittle. Lilian L. Cole. 

Candied Orange Peel 

Peel from 6 oranges, thick peel being the best. Soak in cold 
water one hour or more, clip into strips with shears, cook for one 
hour in plenty of water. Drain off water and throw it away. 
Add to peel two cups granulated sugar and cook till syrup congeals 
in cold water, same as in making candy. Skim the peel out onto 
a platter, sprinkle with granulated sugar, stir up till cool enough to 
prevent sticking together, using plenty of sugar. L. H. Winship. 

Fondant 

To make Fondant, which is the basis of all French candies: 
2 cups of coffee A sugar, i cup of water, cream of tartar size of 
a bean, dissolved in teaspoon water. Stir before but never after 
it starts to boil. Remove the skimmings from top of sugar with 
a large spoon. When boiled ten minutes, add i teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Try in cold water and when a ball can be made in the 
fingers pour in large bowl. When cold enough to dip finger in 
beat as rapidly as possible. When too stiff to beat, work with 
hands like dough. If while stirring the fondant becomes too 
hard, use a tablespoonful of white of egg, well beaten, and more 
if necessar}\ It is well to mix the remainder of the egg in when 
finished, and put away in bowl for three days. 



For the Chafing-Dish 47 

FOR THE CHAFING-DISH 

"Man is an animal that cooks his victuals.^' — Burke. 



Capilotade of Turkey 

Cut up the remains of cold turkey in small pieces. Put in the 
chafing dish 2 tablespoons of butter, and when melted add 2 table- 
spoons of flour, stirring constantly until smooth; season with 
pepper, salt and i tablespoon of chopped parsley. Add ^ pint 
of cream or milk, put in the turkey with J can of mushrooms. 
Let it simmer for ten minutes, then add i glass of sherry and 
serve on small squares of toast. Mrs. W. C. Boyden. 

Welsh Rarebit 

One half pound cheese, 2 eggs, trifle cayenne pepper, i tea- 
spoonful mustard, ^ teaspoonful salt, i tablespoon butter, ^ cup 
cream. Break the cheese into small pieces and put with the 
other ingredients into the chafing dish. Stir until the cheese 
melts, then spread on slices of crisp toast and serve immediately. 

Jane E. Dale. 

Finnan Haddie 

{Armour Institute.) 
The fish — a thick one — simmer in water, cold at beginning, 
ten minutes; after draining pick in pieces. 
Cream Sauce 
One tablespoon butter, i tablespoon flour, i cup cream. 
Season, salt, cayenne pepper, 2 teaspoons lemon juice. Add 
fish, heat thoroughly, serve on toast or with potatoes. 



48 Good Recipes 



Mushrooms 

Put 3 large tablespoons of butter in the chafing dish. When 
melted add i cup chopped olives. Fry fresh mushrooms until 
well browned and serve on toast with the melted butter and 
olives poured over them. Mrs. W. C. Boyden. 

Lobster a la Newburg 

Pick the meat from 2 lobsters, 2 large tablespoons butter, 
I cup cream, 3 tablespoons sherry wine. Put the lobster in dish 
with butter, cook for eight minutes, put in cream gradually. 
When nearly cooked add the wine. Season with cayenne pepper, 
and serve very hot. Mrs. Landon Hoyt. 

Mock Terrapin 

Melt 3 tablespoons butter in chafing dish, add 2 tablespoons 
flour, J teaspoon salt. Pinch of pepper, few grains of cayenne, 
and gradually i cup milk. When smooth add ij cups chicken 
in dice, yolks 2 hard boiled eggs, chopped fine, whites cut in large 
pieces. Cook three minutes, add 3 tablespoons sherry and serve. 

Mrs. Douglas Smith. 



For the Sick-Room 49 



FOR THE SICK-ROOM 

"Nou\ good digestion wait on appetite, and health 
on bothi" — Shakespeare. 



Buttermilk Gruel 

One pint cold buttermilk, 2 eggs well beaten. Mix thoroughly 
and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Sweeten and flavor to 
taste. A pleasant drink for the sick-room. Jane E. Dale. 

Lemon Foam 

{Passavant Hospital. Individual for convalescents.) 

Two eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar. Juice and grated rind of ^ 
lemon. Beat yolks in sugar, add lemon, and put bowl in dish 
of boiling water over fire. Stir until mixture begins to thicken, 
add beaten whites and stir 2 two minutes, or until whole is like 
thick cream. Remove from fire and serve quite cold in cups or 
glasses. Mrs. B. S. Winchester. 

Mutton Broth 

A 2 poimd shank of mutton (do not get the rib); wash, put 
ih two quarts of hot water; boil until the meat drops from the 
bones — sometimes three hours — add water as needed, then 
remove the meat, set the liquor away to cool; when cold, lift the 
fat from the liquor and if any particles of fat are left, take them 
off; then put liquor on to boil, add a pinch of salt, boil down to 
about I quart; strain; if not salt enough, add salt and pepper 
when served; good either hot or cold. 



50 Good Recipes 



Elderberry Wine 

Pour 4 quarts boiling water over 8 quarts of berries and let 
stand twelve hours stirring now and then. Strain and add 3 
pounds sugar to 4 quarts of juice, also i ounce powdered cin- 
namon and J ounce powdered cloves. Boil five minutes and set 
away to ferment in a stone jar covered lightly with a cloth. 
When it has fermented rack it off carefully and bottle. Keep in 
cool place. Jane E. Dale. 

Chocolate Cream 

{Passavant Hospital.) 

Two tablespoons sugar, J ounce Baker's chocolate, i pint 
cream, whites of 4 eggs. Cook first three together in double 
boiler until chocolate is dissolved, then stir in beaten whites and 
cook three mmutes. Serve cold in glass cups. 

Mrs. B. S. Winchester. 

Grape Juice 

Stem the grapes; put enough water in the kettle with the 
grapes to prevent scorching and cook just long enough to heat 
through thoroughly, stirring often. Strain the juice through a 
bag, squeezing out every bit possible. To 3 cups juice add 
I cupful water and one cup granulated sugar; bring to a boil 
and cook just a few minutes (not more than five), and bottle 
immediately. Use new corks and do not use old wine bottles. 



USEFUL NOTES 

Kerosene will remove rust from iron or brass. 

Ammonia cleans kair bruskes. 

Turpentine is good, for bums, excellent for corns, a 
sure preventive for motns, and drives ants from store- 
rooms if a few drops are sprinkled about. 

Gasoline, applied witb a clotb to tbe batb-tub, will 
remove -water stains, accumulation of soap, etc. 

Alcobol will clean almost any stain from one s bands. 

Fresb ink or iron stains can be removed by wetting 
tbe spot witk juice of lemon and tken immediately cov- 
ering spot vs^itk fine table salt. Lay tbe fabric in tbe 
sun ; repeat tbe process if necessary. 

From TJ. S. TJ. Cooking R.eci;^es. 



[51] 



TO REMOVE STAINS FROM CHAR- 
ACTER 

"■^ Xnis usually requires perseverance, out remember 
tnat no sucn stains are indeliDle, and that a constant ana 
plentiful application of tke great solvent Love will cause 
any discoloration to disappear. Love for tne Eternal 
Goodness and one s fellows will dissolve and -svasn away 
selfisliness, wnicn is tne cause of all tne sins known to 
man. A character treated in tkis way will not only 
emerge cleansed, but ^^rul gam a shining w^hiteness in- 
describably beautiful.' 



[52] 



The North Shore Creamery 

Supplies Fresh Butter, Eggs, and 
Poultry toWinnetka's best tables. 
If you are interested call up Tel- 
ephone Evanston 630 or drop us 
a postal and our wagon will call. 

803 Dempster St. Evanston, Illinois 

ELECTRIC CARS 

TO 

MILWAUKEE 

EVERY 40 MINUTES 



Fares from Winnetka 
One way $1.10 Round trip $1.85 



TICKETS SOLD BY 

\VINNETKA DRUG CO. 
Agents Chicago & Milwaukee Electric Railroad 



Important to North Shore Suburbs 
IMPORTING GROCERS 

110-112 Madison St. Chicago, Illinois 

Will deliver within a few hours of the receipt of order TABLE 
LUXURIES, WINES, CIGARS, FRUITS, COFFEES AND 
TEAS to North Shore Residences by American Express, pre- 
paid, within certain limits at Lake Forest, Highland Park, 
Glencoe, Winnetka, Kenilworth, Wilmette, Evanston and 
Ravenswood. 

THIS IS IMPORTANT as it places homes of North Shore 
People within the immediate delivery circle of this enterpris- 
ing store. TELEPHONE CENTRAL 1234 



Wm. topple — Practical Decorative Painter, 
Paper Hanger, Hard Wood Finisher, Etc. 



THE LEADER 

New Samples and Ideas in 
Wall Papers 

Phone 424 Cor. Ridge and Winnetka Aves. 



O. G. St.PETER S. a. St.PETER 

Reliable Laundry 

High-Class Launderers and Cleaners of 
Rugs and Carpets 

Telephone 107 HIGHLAND PARK, ILL. 

BUY YOUR GROCERIES OF 

M. K. MEYER 

Use them as directed in this or 
any other good cook book and 
you will have gratifying results 

Telephone 2 WINNETKA, ILL. 



^l^/'AS offered, a few years ago, for a formula 
which would make the best soap in exis- 
tence. In this competition, more than one hun- 
dred samples of soap were submitted, and the 
prize was eventually won by a Frenchman. He 
created a soap which, according to all standards 
and tests, was the best toilet soap submitted. 

We took this soap and combined it with 
Liquozone, to make the soap antiseptic. Then 
we perfumed it with the most delightful odor 
ever used in a soap. The result is called Liquo- 
zone Antiseptic Soap. 

It has these great advantages : 

It is remarkably agreeable to the skin. 

It is exquisitely perfumed — not too much nor 
too little. 

It is antiseptic, destroying the cause of impurity. 

The soap sells for 15 cents — two cakes for 
25 cents. Yet if you paid ten times the price 
you could not get a soap that is better. Next 
time you buy soap, please try it. 

THE LIQUOZONE COMPANY 
CHICAGO 



If any recipe in this book 
makes you sick telephone 

Minnetka E)rua Si /llbbse do. 

ELM STREET AND LINCOLN AVENUE 
Day and Night Telephone 33 



H. \^. Pond, R. Ph. 




E. O. Carlson, R. Ph. 

Pure Drugs and Chem- 
icals, Flavoring 
Extracts and 
Spices 



Choicest Obtainable 
Confectionery 



Imported and Domes- 
tic Cigars and 
Tobaccos 



China and Glassware 



Dinner Cards, Fancy Crepe and Tissue Papers, 
Napkins, Paper Boxes, Etc. 

Stationery, Artists' Materials, Toys 
and Novelties. 



H. A. CARPENTER, General Manager. 



For Spring Weddings 

For Easter Gifts 

For Graduation Gifts 

Chas. E. Graves & Co. 

Jewelers and Silversmiths 

Are offering the very newest things in Sterling 

Silver Tableware, Compotes, Baskets, 

Relish Dishes, Tea Sets and 

Flatware Combinations 



Picture Frames in Sterling Silver, Belt Buckles, 
Combs and Collars Set with Stones 



Hand Engraved and Etched Toilet Ware, 
All Open Sets 



Novelties in Purses, Card Cases, Vanity 
Boxes made in Gold and Silver. 



Madison St. and Wabash Avenue, Chicago 



Office Phone 943 Residence Phone 993 

Taul 2). 'BlaKe 

Electrician 

Wiring, Repairing, Fixtures and 
Supplies, Estimates Furnished 

Opposite Depot WINNETKA, ILLINOIS 



JOHN A.COLBY 

^ SONS feuaEWW""'«5 

1-48 to 154 Wabaslx Ave., near Monrof 



Hotels, Families and Restaurants Supplied with Ice 

TELEPHONE 12 

Dealer in Hay, Feed and Grain 
Hard and Soft Coal, Wood, Etc. 

Store on Elna Street One Block West of Depot 



T. P. EVANS 



TELEPHONE 52 



Staple and 



F 



ancy 



G 



roceries 



Fruits and Vegetables 

East Elm and Market Streets 

WINNETKA - ILLINOIS 



THE WAY TO SAVE 

in household and personal expenses is easily 
seen and made simple by using 

Bradstreef s Practical Account Book for Home Expenses 

Two minutes a day will show exactly where your money goes and the 
places to economize. Book is unique, practical, complete, and yet re- 
quires no bookkeeping experience to keep it. A full cloth bound book — 
150 pages — last three years — sent to you prepaid for $t.oo. Order one 
today — it will soon pay for itself many times over. 

P. W. BRADSTREET & CO. 320 Main St. Evanston, 111. 
Proprietor London Dye House 

Telephone 66 

H. S. SINGER 

Merchant Tailor 

Cleaning, Dyeing and Repairing 
Goods Called For and Delivered 

We Clean and Dye the Most Delicate Fabrics 
1557 SHERMAN AVE. EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 

Driveway Lights, Etc. Telephone and Bell Installation 

Schwarz & Schlott 

Electrical Construction and Supplies 

Electric Light Wiring for Interior and 
Exterior Decoration 

Telephone 961 WINNETKA, ILLINOIS 



E^t laktBtlit ^r»0 

R. R. I>ONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY 
CHICAGO 



