COOKBOOKS 




Edna 



/ 

LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY OF 
V CALIFORNIA 

1GRIC.RBF. 

SERVICE 



We can live without poetry, music and art, 

We can live without conscience and can live 
without heart, 

We can live without friends and can live without 
books, 

But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 



HOME 
BAKINGS 

Edna Evans 




Price Fifty Cents 



AGBIC.BBF, 

gEHVICS 



Copyright, 1912, 

by 
Th Golden Gat* Compressed Yeast Co. 



DEDICATED TO 

The Golden Gate Compressed Yeast Co. 
OF 

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, 

WHOSE EXCELLENT COMPRESSED YEAST 

HAS MADE MY WORK IN 

HOME BAKINGS 
MORE THAN SATISFACTORY 



499 



DRAWINGS BY HAROLD EVANS 



CONTENTS 

Page 

Bread 13 

Cakes 35 

Fillings for Cakes 41 

Puddings and Sauces 45 

Meats 51 

Poultry .- 57 

Fish 61 

Salads and Dressings 67 

Vegetables . 75 

Miscellaneous 83 

Household Hints 93 



TABLE OF MEASURES 



Sixty drops equal one teaspoonful. 

Three teaspoonfuls equal one tablespoonful. 

Four tablespoonfuls equal one-quarter cup or one-half 
gill. 

Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of dry material equal 
one cupful. 

Sixteen tablespoonfuls of liquid equal one cupful. 

One cupful of liquid equals two gills or one-half pint. 

One heaping tablespoonful of sugar equals one ounce. 

One heaping tablespoonful of butter equals two ounces. 

Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour equal one ounce. 

Two rounded tablespoonfuls of ground spice equal one 
ounce. 

One cupful of butter or sugar equals one-half pound. 

Two cupfuls of flour equal one-half pound. 

Five medium-sized nutmegs equal one ounce. 

One quart of sifted pastry flour equals one pound. 

One pint of granulated sugar equals one pound. 

One pint of butter equals one pound. 

One pint of ordinary liquid equals one pound. 

One solid pint of chopped meat equals one pound. 

One cupful of rice equals one-half pound. 

One cupful of Indian meal equals six ounces. 

One cupful of stemmed raisins equals six ounces. 



BREAD 




Bread 



Dough should be thoroughly mixed with a perforated General 
spoon before kneading. Hints on 

Make small loaves and bake well. 

If your dough is not light and spongy enough, give 
your dough more age; if too much so, take it younger. 

Cold and salt check fermentation; salt retards yeast; 
heat hastens it. Sugar is food for yeast and helps it 
to bud and grow. 

Keep dough well covered to prevent crust from form- 
ing; a tin pan or earthen dish covered over bowl con- 
taining dough is better than a cloth or paper. 

Bread is ready for the oven when the dent produced 
by pressing the finger on loaf will remain. 

Bread and rolls should be set in a place only moder- 
ately warm. If dough becomes chilled, bread will be 
heavy, slow and coarse. If too warm, it will be coarse, 
dark and probably sour. 

Let dough double in size before baking; this should 
require one hour. 

If for any reason, dough has soured, a teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little water will help it, but will not 
bring back the sweet flavor home-made bread should have. 

It is impossible to tell in any recipe just how much 
flour to add to a dough or batter of any kind, as flour 
differs in many ways. Some flour requires more water 

13 



Bread 



or milk than others, so that the quantity required may 
vary for dough of a proper consistency. 

If any dark flour (Graham, etc.) is used for bread in- 
stead of white, use whole wheat flour, as it possesses 
more healthful properties than any other flour. 



Scald one and one-half pints milk; dissolve one cake 
compressed yeast in two-thirds cupful lukewarm water; 
add two tablespoonfuls sugar; sift two sifters of flour 
in mixing bowl. When milk is lukewarm, add one 
large tablespoonful salt; add dissolved yeast to milk; 
make well in center of flour, and add milk. Stir with 
mixing spoon until flour is all taken up, then turn out 
on board and knead well for twenty minutes. Return 
to bowl and let raise in warm place, well covered. This 
will take from two to three hours. When sufficiently 
risen, punch down and let stand for three-quarters of 
an hour longer (doubled in bulk). Mold into loaves or 
rolls, handling the dough very gently. Put in well- 
greased pans, let raise and bake. Rolls should raise at 
least one-half hour and loaves one hour. Bake rolls 
twenty-five minutes and loaves one hour in wood or coal 
range, or forty-five minutes in gas range. If desired to 
make this bread over night, use only one tablespoonful 
sugar and one and one-half tablespoonfuls salt. Bread 
made by this method can be set at seven o'clock in the 
morning and should be out of the oven by noon. 

14 



Bread 



If desired to make bread at night, use method as above 
at night just before retiring, and in the morning dough 
will be ready to put into pans; let raise and bake. If 
dough is made into loaves at seven in the morning, it 
should be baked by nine o'clock. 
* 

Take a piece of bread dough, put in a bowl, and add to Light 
it two eggs, one-half cup sugar and one-half cup butter. Biscuit 
Mix this in thoroughly, adding just enough flour to 
keep it from sticking to bowl. Knead well and make 
into small rolls, put in well-greased pan and let raise 
until very light. Bake in quick oven for one-half hour. 

MX 

Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one-half cup Whole 
lukewarm water; scald one pint of milk; when hike- Wheat 
warm add yeast ; add white flour enough to make batter ; Bread 
beat well and set aside for one hour; when raised, add 
two tablespoonfuls sugar or molasses, a teaspoonful salt 
and whole wheat flour enough to make a rather stiff 
dough. Put on molding board and knead until smooth 
and elastic. Put in well-greased pan and set aside to 
raise. This will take about three hours. When light, 
brush top with cold water and bake in moderate oven one 
hour. ^ 

Scald one pint of milk; when lukewarm add one cake Nut 
compressed yeast dissolved in one-half cup luke warm Bread 
water; add one cup white flour, four tablespoonfuls 
molasses, one-half teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little 

15 



Bread 



water, three tablespoonfuls butter, one teaspoonful salt 
and whole wheat flour enough to make dough stiff enough 
to knead. Work in one cupful chopped walnuts. Knead 
until smooth; put in bowl to raise. When light, make 
into loaves, put into well-buttered pans; let raise again 
and bake one hour. 



Scald one pint milk; when lukewarm add one cake 
of compressed yeast dissolved in one-third teacupful 
lukewarm water; add white flour enough to make a 
batter; set aside for one hour to raise. Cream one-half 
cup sugar with three tablespoonfuls butter; add three 
eggs, one cupful molasses, one teaspoonful soda, dis- 
solved in a little water, one teaspoonful salt and one 
cupful lukewarm milk; add these to sponge, with flour 
enough to make batter as for cake ; sift in, one heaping 
tablespoonful ginger, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, 
one-quarter teaspoonful each of allspice and nutmeg. 
Put in well-greased pans, let raise until very light, and 
bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 



Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one cupful luke- 
warm milk; add flour to make batter; set aside for one 
hour. Put boiling water over one-half package saffron 
and let steep. Take one cupful sugar and cream with 
one-half cup butter and one-half cup lard; add one tea- 
spoonful salt, nutmeg to taste, three-fourths pound 

16 



Bread 

currants, three-fourths pound candied lemon peel and 
raisins, if desired ; add saffron and water (there should 
be at least a cupful); water must be lukewarm; add 
flour enough to make dough you can dip out with 
hands. Stir well and set aside to raise ; when light, put 
in pans as buns or make into loaves. Bake buns twenty 
minutes and loaves forty minutes. If boiling water is 
poured over lemon peel, it will slice very readily. 
Mrs. W. G. George, Grass Valley. 



One pint of lukewarm milk and one pint of lukewarm Raisin 
water; dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one-third Bread 
cup water and add to milk and water; add two table- 
spoonfuls sugar, same of butter and two quarts of sifted 
flour in which one pound of raisins has been thoroughly 
mixed. Be sure to dredge raisins with flour. Mix thor- 
oughly and put on board and knead twenty minutes. 
Put in bowl to raise and when quite light, make into 
loaves, set in warm place to raise again and bake in 
moderate oven. More sugar can be added, if desired. 



Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in two-thirds cup- German 
ful lukewarm water; add two tablespoonfuls sugar; Coffee 
scald one-half pint milk; when lukewarm add to yeast Cake 
with enough flour to make a batter; set aside for one 
hour to raise. Cream one cup sugar with one-fourth 
cup butter, add three eggs, a teasponf ul salt ; dredge one 
cupful Sultana raisins, one cupful currants and one- 

17 



Bread 



fourth pound citron with flour, and add to sponge with 
flour enough to make a batter, after adding one cupful 
lukewarm milk. Stir thoroughly, then add enough 
flour to make a very soft dough. Knead fifteen minutes, 
then put in well-greased pan and let rise in warm place 
until very light. Bake in moderate oven forty minutes. 



French Pare two large potatoes ; cover them with boiling water, 
Potato boil five minutes and throw water away. Now cover 
Rolls with one pint boiling water and boil until potatoes are 
soft and mealy ; drain, saving water. Mash potatoes and 
add one pint scalded milk ; beat until smooth. Now add 
water in which they were boiled ; add a level teaspoonful 
salt and when mixture is lukewarm, add two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and one cake compressed yeast dissolved in 
one-third cup lukewarm water; add a pint and a half 
flour; cover and stand in warm place until light; then 
add flour enough to make a very soft dough. Knead 
lightly until dough loses stickiness, put back in bowl and 
when it has doubled its bulk, make into tiny rolls. Put 
into greased French roll pan, and when very light, bake 
in quick oven fifteen minutes. Be sure to have dough 
soft as possible. ^/ 

Squash or Take two cups of squash or pumpkin (or sweet potato 

Pumpkin is equally good) add one-half cup butter, five tablespoon- 

Rolls fuls sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half cup sweet 

milk. Put in saucepan over fire and warm to lukewarm 

Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one-half cup 

18 



Bread 



lukewarm water, add this to lukewarm squash. Now 
add flour sufficient to make a dough as soft as can be 
handled. Turn out on board and knead thoroughly until 
dough loses stickiness; put back into bowl and set well 
covered in warm place until light. Make into rolls, put 
into well-greased pans and let raise for one-half hour, or 
until very light, then bake in moderate oven. These 
rolls are delicious if cut in two when cold, toasted, but- 
tered and set in the oven again until hot. 



Scald one pint milk ; take from fire and add two round- Vienna 
ing tablespoonfuls butter. When lukewarm, add a cake Rolls 
of compressed yeast dissolved in one-third cup luke- 
warm water; add one-half teaspoonful salt and flour 
enough to make dough as soft as you can knead. Knead 
well twenty minutes; put back in bowl and leave for 
several hours until very light. Then make very small 
rolls, putting into well-greased pans so they will not 
touch each other. Give them plenty of room to raise. 
Cover and stand aside until light. When ready for 
oven, cut across the top of each roll both ways, brush 
with white of egg, and bake in a quick oven twenty 
minutes. % 

Scald one pint of milk ; add three tablespoonfuls butter Crumpets 
and when lukewarm add a cake of compressed yeast 
dissolved in one-third cup lukewarm water; add a pinch 
of salt and enough flour to make a batter. Beat well, 
cover, and let stand until very light. Heat griddle 

19 



Bread 



French 

Sweet 

Rolls 



slightly, grease crumpet rings and place them on 
griddle. Put two tablespoonfuls batter in each ring; 
bake slowly on one side, then turn them, rings and all. 
As soon as they are sufficiently baked, remove the rings, 
push the crumpets to one side of griddle, remove rings 
and fill again. Pull them apart ; do not cut. 



Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one-half cup 
lukewarm water; take one cup lukewarm milk, add 
yeast to it and enough flour to make a batter. Let raise 
in warm place, well covered. When light, rub together 
one-half cup butter and one-half cup sugar, beat gradu- 
ally into sponge; add two eggs well beaten and flour to 
make same thickness as at first. Stand aside and let 
raise again ; then add flour enough to make a soft dough 
and knead thoroughly. Set aside again until it has 
doubled in size, then roll out on board and cut as for 
Parker House rolls, only folding two sides over after 
spreading with soft butter. Press down in center of roll, 
put in pans well separated, and when quite light, brush 
with white of egg mixed with a little water and vanilla. 
Sprinkle granulated sugar thickly over top and bake 
fifteen minutes. If a napkin is laid over rolls in the pan 
for five minutes it gives a very tender crust. 



Swedish Scald one pint of corn meal, one pint of boiling 

Bread water. When cool, add one quart lukewarm water, a 

scant teaspoon ful salt and one cake compressed yeast 

20 



Bread 



dissolved in one-third cup lukewarm water. Now add 
rye meal enough to make a stiff dough ; break off a piece 
about the size of a pint cup, roll out thin, place on a 
cloth, cover for one hour and bake in moderate oven 
forty minutes. This dough should be kneaded well, using 
whole wheat flour for kneading. 



Scald one pint of milk; add to it three tablespoonfuls German 
butter, and when lukewarm, add one cake compressed Horns 
yeast to it; let dissolve, then stir in flour enough that 
you can knead it. Put on board and knead twenty 
minutes, adding flour on board as needed. Put back in 
bowl and set well covered in warm place until very 
light. Put on board and roll out in sheet about an inch 
thick; cut or shape into crescents, place in greased pan 
so they will not touch and let raise for about one-half 
hour. They must be very light. Put into quick oven 
and while they are baking, beat together one tablespoon- 
ful sugar, one of milk and one of white of egg. Have 
some almonds chopped fine. When rolls have been in 
oven ten minutes take out and brush with egg mixture 
and dust thickly with almonds immediately. Put back 
in oven and bake five minutes longer. 



Scald a half pint milk; add two rounding tablespoon- Nun's 
fuls butter. When lukewarm add one cake compressed Puffs 
yeast, dissolved in one-third cup lukewarm water. Now 
stir in gradually as much flour as can be worked with a 



21 



Bread 



spoon, but not with the hands ; cut off spoonfuls of this ; 
drop into greased pans. Cover and stand in warm place 
for one hour or until light. Bake in quick oven thirty 
minutes. % 

Cupid's Beat up four eggs, add one cake compressed yeast dis- 
Cakes solved in one cupful lukewarm water, add one pound 
butter, one and one-half cups sugar and one-half pint 
milk. Sift one and one-half pounds flour in mixing 
bowl; make well in it and add mixture. Knead dough 
thoroughly and set in warm place until light. Bake in 
individual tins, first putting candied orange peel cut in 
thin strips on each cake. Bake twenty minutes. 

French Scald one and one-half pints milk; when lukewarm, 
Rolls add one cake compressed yeast dissolved in one-fourth 
cup lukewarm water. Stir in enough flour to make a 
batter; beat well, cover and set in a warm place until 
very light. Now add another half pint of lukewarm 
milk and a tablespoonful salt; rub two tablespoonfuls 
butter into a pint of flour and stir this in. Then go on 
adding flour until you have a dough stiff enough to 
knead. Knead this thoroughly for twenty minutes, put 
back in bowl and when it has doubled its bulk, roll it 
out carefully in long narrow strips. Cut in pieces about 
four inches long, put in a pan so they will not touch 
each other; cover, and when very light, bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes. French roll pans can be purchased 
at any good hardware store. 



Bread 



Melt a piece of butter the size of an egg in pan ; add Parker 
two teaspoonfuls sugar, one pint of lukewarm milk, House 
which has been scalded, one teaspoonful salt, and one Rolls 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in a little water. Sift 
flour enough in mixing bowl to make a soft dough. 
Knead well, cover and stand in warm place until light. 
Turn out on molding board and roll out in sheet an 
inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter, cover with soft but- 
ter; fold over one side, pinching a small place in the 
center to make it stay together. Put in pans so they 
cannot touch each other, set in warm place to raise, then 
bake about fifteen minutes in hot oven. 



Dissolve one cake of compressed yeast in one pint luke- Irish 
warm milk; add flour enough to make moderately stiff Bread 
sponge; let rise until light. Take one cup sugar, mix 
with one cup butter, add whole wheat flour enough to 
make a dough as soft as can be handled, first adding one 
cup dredged raisins. Knead well and let rise. Put in 
pans, and when light, bake as rolls or loaves. 



Rub together two tablespoonfuls butter and one Dutch 
pound pastry flour. Mix together one-quarter pound Cake 
sugar, one teaspoonful allspice and one teaspoonful cara- 
way seed ; add to butter and flour and mix. Scald a half 
pint milk, and when lukewarm, add one cake com- 
pressed yeast dissolved in one-third cup lukewarm 
water; add to flour and mix, adding a cup of currants 

23 



Bread 



Grand- 
mother's 
Brown 
Bread 



and one of raisins, which have been dredged in flour. 
Put on board and knead for twenty minutes. Put in 
well-buttered pan (a pan used for Boston brown bread 
is best), put dough in pan, cover and stand in warm 
place until light. Bake in a moderate oven. It must be 
very light. Caraway seed may be omitted, if desired. 



Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one pint of luke- 
warm milk; add flour to make sponge; let rise until it 
begins to drop. Rub together butter the size of an egg 
and one teacupful sugar; add this to sponge with a 
cupful of warm milk. Now add flour to make dough as 
soft as can be handled; roll out about one inch thick, 
spread thickly with butter, sugar and cinnamon. Roll 
as for jelly cake and cut off pieces from one end of 
dough. Put in pan so they will not touch each other, 
let raise for one-half hour then bake in moderate oven 
twenty minutes. % 

Take three pints of whole wheat flour and the same 
amount of yellow corn meal; take one-half teacupful of 
molasses, two teaspoonfuls salt, one of soda and one cake 
of compressed yeast dissolved in one-third teacupful luke- 
warm water; add lukewarm water enough to make a 
dough as stiff as you can stir with a spoon ; butter pans 
well and fill two-thirds full of dough; brush with cold 
water to smooth loaves and set aside in warm place to 
raise. They must be very light. Bake in moderate oven 
one hour. 



24 



Bread 



Allow one-half pint of ground rice to one quart of Rice 
milk ; put one pint of milk over fire ; add one teaspoonful Bread 
salt ; dissolve rice in remainder of milk and add this to 
the pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly. Allow to 
boil four minutes, then at once stir in as much flour as 
you can with a spoon. When lukewarm add one cake 
compressed yeast which has been dissolved in one-third 
cupful of lukewarm water; stir well. Let stand till 
morning, then knead in more flour until it does not stick 
to molding board. After thoroughly kneading, put into 
well-greased pans and let raise until very light. Bake 
in moderate oven. 



Put one pint of milk over the fire to boil. When boil- Raised 
ing, stir in two-thirds of a cupful of corn meal; cook as Corn Meal 
you would mush; take from fire and add one pint of 
scalded milk and a teaspoonful salt. When lukewarm 
add one cake compressed yeast dissolved in one-third 
cupful lukewarm water; add a pint of white flour and 
beat thoroughly ; cover and let stand in warm place until 
very light. Now add flour enough to make a dough, add- 
ing two tablespoonfuls sugar and one rounding table- 
spoonful butter. Knead until it loses all stickiness. 
Make into loaves and set in warm place until very light. 
Brush with cold water and bake in moderately hot oven 
three-quarters of an hour. 

25 



Bread 



Rye Scald one pint of milk and add one-half pint of water ; 

Bread when lukewarm add one cake compressed yeast dissolved 
in one-third cupful lukewarm water; add one-half tea- 
spoonful salt and stir in sufficient white flour to make a 
batter; beat thoroughly; cover and stand in a warm 
place for one hour, or until very light. Now add rye 
flour enough to make a dough; put on molding board 
and knead twenty minutes. Make into loaves ; cover and 
set in a warm place one and one-half hours. Brush with 
cold water to smooth loaves and bake in moderately hot 
oven three-quarters of an hour. 



Rolls Dissolve one cake yeast in one pint lukewarm water; 

stir in sifted flour to make a light sponge and stand in 
warm place until light. Then add to sponge one-half 
pint milk, one tablespoonful salt, two of sugar and two 
of melted butter. Mix into a soft dough and let stand 
in well-covered bowl until light. Then make into rolls, 
let stand for one-half hour, and bake. 



Waffles Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one cup of luke- 
warm water ; add one pint lukewarm milk ; one teaspoon- 
ful salt and one egg, well beaten. Stir gradually three 
and one-half cups flour. Let rise three hours and bake 
in hot waffle rings. 

26 



Bread 



Dissolve one cake of compressed yeast in one-half cup Raised 
lukewarm water ; add two tablespoonf uls sugar ; add one Plain 
cup lukewarm sweet milk and flour enough to make a Cake 
batter; set aside in warm place to raise. This will take 
an hour or more. Cream one and one-half cups sugar 
with one-half cup butter; add to sponge when raised; 
then add four well-beaten eggs, a teaspoonful vanilla and 
flour enough to make a batter as for any other loaf cake. 
Stir well and put in well-greased pans; cover and set 
aside until light. Bake in moderate oven. 



Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one cup luke- Muffins 
warm milk; dissolve one and one-half teaspoonfuls salt 
into one quart lukewarm milk, add one cup sugar, one 
tablespoonful butter, two eggs and flour enough to make 
rather stiff batter. Mix over night and bake in the 
morning. 



Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one cup luke Raised 
warm milk; add flour enough to make batter and set Coffee 
aside in warm place to rise. This will take about one Spice 
hour. When light, add one cup strong black coffee, luke- Cake 
warm, one cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup 
butter, creamed with sugar, four well-beaten eggs; add 
one and one-half teaspoonfuls mixed spices with flour 
enough to make batter as for cake, put in well-buttered 
tins, and set in warm place to rise. This will take about 

27 



Bread 



three hours. When very light, bake slowly in moderate 
oven. This cake can be set over night, if desired. Put 
in all ingredients and set in kitchen. 



Finger Scald one-half cup cream, add two tablespoonfuls 
Rolls sugar and one-half tablespoonful salt. When mixture is 
lukewarm, add one cake compressed yeast, dissolved 
in a little lukewarm water (one-fourth cup). When 
thoroughly mixed, add one and one-half cups flour. Put 
on board and knead until smooth ; cover, and set in warm 
place to raise. When very light, return to board and 
gently roll to one-half inch thickness ; shape with a lady 
finger cutter, place in buttered pan so they will not 
touch. Let raise again, and bake in moderate oven. 
When they have been baking for ten minutes, take out 
and brush over with melted butter; return to oven for 
five minutes. 



Reception Scald two cups milk; when lukewarm add two table- 
Kolls spoonfuls sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-half table- 
spoonful salt and one cake compressed yeast dissolved in 
one-fourth cup lukewarm water; add three cups flour, 
beat thoroughly ; cover, set in warm place to rise ; when 
quite light, add two and one-half cups flour, knead well ; 
cover, let rise again ; then put on board, roll out one-half 
inch thick, make into rolls ; let rise again and bake. 

28 



Bread 



Mix one cupful of lukewarm wheat mush, one-fourth Date 
of a cupful of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter and Bread 
one-half tablespoonful salt. When lukewarm, add one 
cake compressed yeast dissolved in one-fourth cupful luke- 
warm water; add enough flour to make dough; knead, 
working in one cupful chopped and stoned dates; cover, 
set in warm place to raise. When light, put in buttered 
pan as rolls or loaves. Let raise again and bake in 
moderate oven. 



Take six good-sized potatoes, boil and mash very fine ; Potato 
add one pint potato water and two pints hot water. Stir Bread 
in flour until you have a stiff batter; when lukewarm, 
add one cake compressed yeast dissolved in one-fourth 
cupful lukewarm water; cover, set in warm place to 
raise. When light, add two tablespoonfuls sugar, one 
tablespoonful salt and one tablespoonful butter (melted) ; 
add flour to make dough, knead twenty minutes. Let 
raise again, make into loaves or rolls. Let raise and bake. 



Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one-half cup Raised 
lukewarm water; cream one-half cup butter with one Feather 
and one-half cups sugar, add one teacupful milk; add Cake 
yeast and four well-beaten eggs; add one teaspoonful 
vanilla and flour enough to make an ordinary batter. 
Set aside and let raise. When light, pour in well-but- 
tered pans and let raise again ; then bake as any ordinary 
cake. 



Bread 



Raised Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one cup milk; 

Layer add one teaspoonful sugar and flour enough to make 

Cake batter. Set aside in warm place, well covered, to raise. 

When light, have ready one-half cup butter creamed 

with one and one-half cups sugar; add to sponge. Now 

separate sponge, dividing it in half; add to one-half 

of it the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, vanilla and flour 

enough to make ordinary cake batter; put in well-but- 

tered pans and let raise and bake. Do same with other 

half, using whites of four eggs. 



Raised Dissolve one cake compressed yeast in one cup luke- 
Potato warm milk; add one cup of finely mashed potato and 
Cake flour enough to make a sponge rather thin; set aside in 
warm place, well covered until light. Cream two cups 
sugar with three-fourths cup butter; add one-half cup 
lukewarm milk, four eggs, one at a time, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one cup chopped English walnuts, one cup 
raisins, two cupfuls flour and three tablespoonfuls ground 
chocolate; mix all ingredients well together and put in 
buttered pan to raise. Set in warm place. When light, 
bake in moderate oven slowly. Eequires long baking. 



Baking Four cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one- 
Powder half cup sugar, two cups sweet milk, two eggs, one tea- 
Nut spoonful salt, one cup chopped walnuts, one cup seedless 

Bread raisins. Mix dry ingredients, add milk and eggs, mix 

to stiff dough; put in pans, stand thirty minutes, then 

bake one hour. Makes nice toast. 

30 



Bread 

Rub two rounding tablespoonfuls butter in one quart Milk 
sifted flour; add two teaspoonfuls baking powder and a Biscuits 
level teaspoonful salt; grease a baking pan, have rolling 
pin and cutter ready; then add sufficient milk to make 
a soft dough. Turn on board and knead quickly; roll 
out and cut in small biscuits. Put in pan so they will 
not touch ; brush with milk and bake in quick oven. 



Beat up two eggs; add one-half pint milk and a cup Muffins 
and a half white flour and beat thoroughly; add two 
tablespoonfuls melted butter, one-half teaspoonful salt 
and one rounding teaspoonful baking powder. Beat well 
and pour into well-greased gem pans. Bake twenty 
minutes. 



Three pints graham flour, one cup molasses, one tea- Graham 

spoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt and sour milk enough Bread with 

to make soft dough. Stir thoroughly, put in pans, bake baking 

one hour. powder 




31 



MEMORANDA 



CAKES 




Cakes 

In one full cup of flour mix one cup sugar. Beat up Sponge 
he yolks of four eggs ; add two tablespoonfuls cold water Cake 
,nd a little vanilla ; add this to flour and sugar and last 
,dd whites of four eggs, well beaten. Beat all together 
.nd bake in a slow oven one-half hour. 



Take four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one tea- Roll 
poonful baking powder and a pinch of salt. Beat eggs Jelly 
eparately; add sugar, flour, baking powder and salt to Cake 
-oiks of eggs and lastly add whites. Spread in long 
>ans. Bake in quick oven and spread with jelly and roll 
rhile hot. 



Take one cup niolasses, one-half cup boiling water, one- Molasses 
ourth cup butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one Cake 
easpoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves and two 
ups flour. Mix cinnamon and cloves in flour before 
.dding to other ingredients. 



Two cups molasses, one-fourth cup butter, two tea- Soft 
poonfuls soda, one cup sour milk and two well-beaten Gin-ger- 
ggs and mix together thoroughly. Take two tablespoon- bread 
uls ginger, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon and a little 
lutmeg, and allspice and mix with one cup flour; add 
>ne-half teaspoonful salt; add flour and spices to other 
ngredients and add enough more flour to make a rather 
tiff batter. Bake in a moderate oven at least forty 
ninutes. 

35 



Cakes 



Madeira 
Cake 



Pound 
Cake 



Spice 
Cake 



Layer 
Cake 



One-half cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful baking powder and one cupful flour; 
cream butter and sugar, mix baking powder with flour 
and add to butter and sugar, and lastly add well-beaten 
eggs. Bake in buttered tin for one-half hour. 



One pound butter, two cupfuls sugar, ten eggs and 
two tablespoonf uls rose water ; add flour enough to make 
batter. Beat the sugar and butter together to a cream ; 
add rose water and about one-fourth of the flour you 
intend to use. Beat eggs until very light, and gradually 
stir in the butter and sugar ; then add flour, a small quan- 
tity at a time, beating constantly. Put in well-buttered 
pan and bake in moderate oven about two hours or longer. 



Cream one-half pound butter with one cup sugar ; add 
two well-beaten eggs, a teacupf ul milk ; mix together one 
heaping teaspoonful baking powder, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls mixed spices and one-half pound Sultana 
raisins with one pound of flour ; add gradually to butter, 
sugar, etc. Beat thoroughly. Put in buttered tins and 
bake in moderate oven one hour. 



One heaping cupful sugar, one-half cupful milk, two 
eggs, one pint flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder and 
one teaspoonful lemon or vanilla extract. Cream to- 
gether butter and sugar ; add milk and well-beaten eggs ; 



36 



Cakes 

add baking powder to flour, add extract, stir well and 
bake in rather hot oven. This cake can be depended 
upon, and is better if more eggs are used. 



Cream one-half pound butter with one cupful sugar; Plain 
add three well-beaten eggs, one teacupful milk ; take four Cake 
cupfuls flour, add two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one 
teaspoonful mixed spices and either two ounces of cara- 
way seeds or one cupful Sultana raisins dredged in flour ; 
add this to butter, sugar and milk ; stir well, and bake in 
buttered tin for one hour. 



Two quarts fresh milk, one quart sugar, three well- Lemon 
beaten eggs. Freeze ten minutes, then stir in juice of Sherbet 
six lemons and finish freezing. A can of grated pine- 
apple may be added, if desired. 



First part Cream one-half cup butter with one and a Devil's 
half cups granulated sugar ; add two eggs well beaten, one Food 
cup of sweet milk, two cups unsifted pastry flour. Second 
part One-half cup grated chocolate, one-half cup boiling 
water, one teaspoonful of soda ; mix well and add to first 
part. This makes a thin batter. This cake should be 
served with the following filling : FUDGE FILLING Two 
cups of sugar, one-half cup butter (scant), one-half cup 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Cook like fudge, but not quite so long. Beat 
until it thickens, than spread on cake. 

37 



Cakes 



White 
Layer 
Cake 



Pine- 
apple 
Sherbet 



Maple 
Mousse 



Potato 
Cake 



One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, two cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, whites of four eggs, well beaten, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Serve with following filling : MARSH- 
MALLOW FILLING Two cups of sugar, one-half cup corn 
syrup. Boil until it spins a thread. Pour this into 
beaten whites of two eggs and add small box of marsh- 
mallows, stirring constantly. 



Boil one quart of sugar and one quart of water until 
it is a good syrup ; take one can of grated pineapple and 
the juice of three lemons; strain. Pour hot syrup in 
this and let cool; add one pint of cold water and the 
beaten whites of three eggs; freeze. 



One cup maple syrup, yolks of six eggs; whip eggs 
thoroughly; put in double boiler with syrup and cook, 
stirring constantly; let cool and beat into one quart of 
whipped cream. Put in a can and pack ice and salt 
about it as for freezing. Let stand six hours, and when 
ready for use, dip can an instant in hot water and the 
mousse will slip out on a platter, and can be sliced off. 



Two cups sugar, three-fourths cups butter, one cup of 
mashed potato, one-half cup milk, two cups of flour, one 
cup chopped English walnuts, four eggs, two heaping 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful cinnamon, 



38 



_ Cakes 

one teaspoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
one cup of raisins, three tablespoonfuls brown chocolate. 
Mix all ingredients together and bake in slow oven. 



One and a half cups sugar, mix in five eggs, one at a Dainty 
time; five tablespoonfuls of chocolate, a little cinnamon, Chocolate 
one tablespoonful whisky or brandy. Mix in one and Squares 
one-half cups of flour and two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Mix all together, and bake in quick oven. 



Put one cup water, one-half teaspoonful salt and one- Cream 
fourth cup butter in saucepan over fire to boil; as soon Puffs 
as it boils, add one and one-half cups pastry flour and 
stir well until it leaves side of pan; this will take about 
five minutes. "When mixture is cool, add four well-beaten 
eggs, one at a time. When well mixed, drop in a well- 
buttered bake pan, a small tablespoonful at a time, allow- 
ing room for spreading. Bake thirty minutes in rather 
hot oven until well risen. They must be well baked. 
Split open when cool and fill with following: One pint 
boiled milk, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch; three eggs 
well-beaten, three-fourths cup sugar and one-half tea- 
spoonful salt. Wet corn starch in cold milk and cook in 
boiling milk for about ten minutes, stirring constantly. 
Beat up eggs, add sugar and salt ; stir into milk and let 
cook for a few minutes. When cool flavor with any ex- 
tract desired. These cream puffs are also delicious when 
filled with stiffly whipped cream. 

39 



Cakes 



Chocolate 

Drop 

Cakes 



Nut 

Ginger 

Cookies 



Cream one cup sugar with one-half cup butter. Beat 
in three eggs, adding eggs one at a time, until mixture 
is smooth; add one cup sweet milk and one and two- 
thirds cups flour in which has been sifted two table- 
spoonfuls baking powder and two tablespoonfuls pow- 
dered chocolate or cocoa. Beat well together, and bake in 
muffin or gem pans, well buttered. 



One cup sour milk, one cup molasses, one-half cup 
butter, one and one-half teaspoonfuls soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls ginger, one teaspoonful salt, one cup chopped 
nuts. Dissolve soda in a little water, add to molasses 
and beat thoroughly; add milk, butter, ginger, salt and 
flour enough to make batter or very soft dough. Put on 
board, add chopped nuts (English walnuts are best), roll 
lightly; cut into cookies and bake in rather quick oven. 



A pinch of salt added to the whites of eggs will make 
them whip better. 



Try ground caraway seed as flavoring for a simple 
cake. Many prefer the ground spice to the seeds. 



40 



Fillings for Cakes 



Two-thirds cup maple sugar and two tablespoonfuls Maple 
butter cooked until it shreds. Take from fire, have Cream 
ready whites of two eggs, stiffly beaten; pour gradually Filling 
into hot syrup, stirring constantly. Beat until smooth, 
then add one-half cup cream, whipped. Flavor with a 

little vanilla. 

& 

Take one-half cup butter, cream into it as much pow- Hard 
dered sugar as possible. Beat smooth. Flavor with Sauce 
vanilla for Devil's food cake or with sherry for suet or 

plum pudding. 

* 

Put one cup sugar, one-third cup milk and one heaping Soft 
teaspoonful butter over fire and boil, without stirring, Frosting 
five minutes. Remove from fire and beat rapidly, adding 
a little lemon juice while beating. Put on cake before 
it hardens and smooth with knife. 



Take three squares of chocolate and chop finely; put Chocolate 
in dish with one-third cup sweet milk and one cup sugar. Frosting 
Boil in double boiler until thick; add the yolks of two 
beaten eggs and cook until smooth, stirring constantly. 
Spread on cake at once. 



Take two cupfuls granulated sugar and two-thirds Boiled 
cupful water ; put in dish over fire. Boil without stirring Frosting 
until it threads. Take from fire ; have ready the beaten 
whites of two eggs; add to syrup slowly, stirring con- 



41 



Fillings for Cakes 



stantly. Put on cake before it hardens. This is a dif- 
ficult icing to make successfully, as it is so easy to cook 
too long; add any kind of fruit to icing, if desired. 



Icing for Take three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, add to it 
Drop one tablespoonf ul water ; stir. Put on drop cakes before 
Cakes they are cold and let harden. This is also a nice frosting 
for sweet buns, snails or cinnamon rolls. 



Frosting 
for Dark 
Cakes 



Take two tablespoonfuls sugar, one tablespoonful flour 
and one teaspoonful cinnamon. Take butter the size of 
an egg and mix with sugar and other ingredients to a 
cream. Put on cake with knife while cake is hot. The 
heat of cake will harden icing sufficiently. This is nice 
for coffee cake, loaf cake and any spice cake. Any kind 
of chopped nuts can be added to frosting, if desired. 



Tutti 

Frutti 

Filling 



Take whites of two eggs, well beaten; add powdered 
sugar to make soft icing; flavor with vanilla. Stir into 
icing one cupful seeded raisins, chopped fine; three 
tablespoonfuls currants. If liked, add two tablespoonfuls 
marmalade (orange). Any other fruit or nuts may be 
used for this icing, if desired. Figs are particularly 
nice. 



Nut One cupful sugar, one cupful thick, sweet cream and 

Filling butter the size of an egg. Boil together ten minutes, 

after adding one cupful nuts of any kind, chopped fine. 

42 



PUDDINGS 

AND 

SAUCES 




Puddings and Sauces 



Scald one quart of sweet milk in double boiler; add Sago 
one-half cup of sago and one-half teaspoonful salt and Pudding 
cook until transparent, stirring frequently ; add one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls butter and one beaten egg; melt 
one-half cup sugar in sauce pan until brown; add one- 
half cup water and stir into the sago. Turn into a dish 
and bake about one-half hour. Serve with any sauce 
desired. 



Mix together one and one-half cups of flour, one table- Ginger 
spoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful soda, one cup Pudding 
molasses, one-half cup suet, chopped fine ; two-thirds cup 
boiling water and two beaten eggs. Steam one hour or 
more, and serve with hard or liquid sauce. 



Take one cupful bread crumbs, two eggs, one teacup Bread 
sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one-half teaspoonful Pudding 
salt, one teaspoonful vanilla and one pint of sweet milk. 
Mix all together thoroughly, sprinkle with nutmeg and 
bake for one-half hour. A cup of raisins may be added, 
if desired. Serve with soft sauce. 



Pare three cooking apples ; cut in eighths and core. Baked or 

Make a baking powder biscuit dough, roll out one-half Steamed 

inch thick, cut in squares about as big as a sauce dish ; put Apple 

three pieces of apple on each square and fold over and Dumplings 
pinch together so they will remain closed. Put in steamer 



45 



Puddings a nd Sauces 



Apple 
Tapioca 



Caramel 
Sauce 



Rice 
Pudding 



Banana 
Pudding 



and steam, well covered, for three-quarters of an hour. 
They can be put in oven and baked, if liked that way. 
Serve with soft sauce. 



Cook three-fourths cup of pearl barley in one quart 
boiling water until soft; pare and core six large, firm 
apples ; put in baking dish, add one cup sugar and small 
piece of butter. Pour tapioca into dish with apples and 
bake until apples are done. Serve with any sauce de- 
sired. This is better cold. Any fruit is equally good 
with the tapioca. Berries may be used. Do not cook 
them, but put in hot tapioca and let cool. 



Put one cup sugar in sauce, pan and stir constantly 
over fire until sugar melts and turns a light brown. 
Then add water and let boil two minutes or more ; then 
let cool. % 

Take one quart of milk, one cup boiled rice, one cup 
sugar, three eggs, a little salt, and one cup dredged 
raisins. Mix all together and bake ; add a little cinnamon 
or nutmeg sifted over pudding before baking. 



Put into a sauce pan one cup sugar, four tablespoonf uls 
butter and one-half cup corn starch ; beat together until 
smooth, then add one quart of boiling water; beat yolks 
of four eggs very light, and add mixture to them. Put 
over fire and stir until thick. Cut some ripe bananas 
very fine and add to custard before it sets. Beat the 



46 



Puddings and Sauces 



whites of the eggs stiff, flavor with juice of one lemon, 
adding one cup powdered sugar. Spread on custard 
and brown in oven slightly. Serve cold. 



One-half pound dried figs, two cupfuls bread crumbs, Fig 
one cupful chopped suet, one cupful brown sugar, three Pudding 
eggs, one-half cupful flour, one-half cupful milk, nutmeg 
to taste. Mix ingredients well, adding eggs last. Boil 
four hours in double boiler. 



One cup chopped suet, one cup seeded raisins, one cup Suet 
molasses, one cup sour milk, one cup currants, one egg, Pudding 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of soda, three 
cups flour. Put in floured pudding bag, leaving room 
to swell, and steam or boil two hours. Serve with lemon 
pudding sauce as follows : 

LEMON SAUCE Cream one cup sugar with one-half 
cup butter; add juice and rind of one lemon; add one 
egg well beaten, one-half teaspoonful grated nutmeg. 
Set dish in pan of hot water ; add one cup boiling water, 
stir five minutes. Keep hot until used. 



Three eggs, three cups of flour, one cup of chopped English 
suet, one-half cup candied lemon peel, one cup molasses, pi um 
one cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful salt, one-half cup chopped citron, one-third 
teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg; one 
cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup brown sugar, two 
level teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. Tie loosely in pud- 
ding bag and steam or boil four hours. 

47 



MEMORANDA 



MEATS 




Meats 



Beef should be a bright, clear red, and the fat should 
be white. The finest pieces are the sirloin and the ribs 
the latter making the best roasting piece in the animal. 

Before cooking steaks, put them on platter containing 
a little olive oil, and turn several times. This makes 
them tender, and is much better than pounding them. 

In selecting pork, great care must be exercised. Do 
not buy clammy pork. If the rind is hard, pork is old. 

Veal should be of a delicate pink color, fine in grain 
and with plenty of kidney fat. It should never be eaten 
under two months old. 

Mutton should be firm, the flesh close grained and the 
fat white and hard. 



With roast pork apple sauce or cranberry sauce. Meats 

With roast mutton caper sauce, currant jelly. and 

With roast beef mustard, tomato sauce, cranberry Their 
sauce, pickles. Accom- 

With cold roast beef, mutton or pork horseradish, paniments 
mustard or dill pickles. 

With boiled mutton caper sauce, onion sauce. 

With roast lamb mint sauce. 

With boiled fowls bread sauce, cranberry sauce or 
jellies. 

With roast turkey cranberry sauce. 

With boiled turkey oyster sauce. 

With wild game cranberry jelly, currant jelly. 

51 



Meats 



With roast goose cranberry or apple sauce, or grape 
jelly. 

Serve spinach with veal, and green peas with spring 
lamb. 



Spiced Boil a shank of beef in as little water as will merely 

Beef cover it ; cook till meat falls from bone. Chop very fine, 

spice with ground cloves, pepper, salt and summer 

savory ; add sufficient of the liquor in which it was boiled 

to moisten well. Press into moulds, and when cold, slice. 



Tenderloin Roast the tenderloin; when taken from oven, lay on 
with a platter; slice thin, but lay together closely and pour 

Mush- over a mushroom cream sauce. Serve at once. 
rooms ^ 

Fried Take one set brains; scald for a few minutes in hot 

Calves' water after cleaning thoroughly; dip into beaten egg 
Brains an d cracker crumbs and fry in butter a light brown. 
Garnish with parsley and serve hot. 



Scrambled To one pound of sausage use five eggs; have pan hot 

Sausages and well buttered; break sausage into bits, keep turning 

until done, but not brown; turn the well-beaten eggs 

over this; scramble with sausage until thick. Serve at 

once. 

52 



Meats 



Take two cups flour, one-quarter pound of suet, cut Pasties 
fine, one-quarter pound of lard and a little salt; mix 
together with a little water or milk and roll out flat; 
now spread over one-half of it a layer of cold chopped 
meat (raw), one sliced potato, one small onion, a little 
turnip or parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a table- 
spoonful butter; fold, paste over and crimp around all 
sides. Bake well done. 



Make a sauce of two tablespoonfuls butter and one- Calves' 

fourth cup flour ; add one and a half cupf uls milk ; add Brains 

one can mushrooms, or one-half pound fresh ones, and and 

cook seven minutes; then add two sets of well-cleaned Mush- 

brains, salt and paprika to taste. When ready to serve, rooms 
add one tablespoonful lemon juice and one tablespoonful 
chopped parsley. Serve on toast. 



Accumulated drippings can be clarified (except mut- 
ton) by putting into a basin and slicing into it a raw 
potato, allowing it to boil long enough for the potato 
to brown, which causes all impurities to disappear. 
Remove from fire and drain into basin. 



53 



MEMORANDA 



POULTRY 




Poultry 



Boil chicken until tender; when done remove the Hungarian 
bones and cut meat into small cubes. Put chicken back Chicken 
into liquor, add six tomatoes and six small onions, salt, Goulash 
pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of 
butter. Cook all fifteen minutes and serve on toast. 



Boil two chickens until tender enough to fall from the Pickled 
bones. Put meat into a stone jar and pour over it one Chicken 
and a half pints of cider vinegar which has been mixed 
with half of the water in which the chickens were boiled ; 
add a few whole spices, if desired. This will be ready in 
two days, and is good for luncheon or supper. 



Cut up two chickens and boil them with very little Pressed 
water until the meat drops from the bones; remove the Chicken 
bones and skin and chop the meat coarsely; return it to 
the liquor and season with salt and pepper; bring to a 
boil and turn into an oblong bread pan. When cool, this 
will turn out as jelly, and may be sliced. 



Prepare two young chickens, cut, ready for serving; Chicken, 
season with salt and pepper and fry in butter ; remove the Southern 
seeds of eight red peppers; cover them with water and Style 
boil until soft; mash and rub through a sieve; add one 
teaspoonful of salt, one onion and two cloves of garlic, 
finely chopped ; add this to the chicken with three cupfuls 

57 



Poultry 



Creamed 
Chicken 



Delicious 
Dressings 



of boiling water ; cook until done. When ready to serve 
remove the chicken and thicken the liquor with three 
tablespoonfuls each of butter and flour, rubbed together. 



Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, add four and one- 
half tablespeonfuls of flour, and stir until thoroughly 
blended (a wire whisk being the best utensil to use for 
this purpose), then pour on gradually, while stirring 
constantly, three-fourths of a cupful each, of chicken 
stock and rich milk. When the boiling point is reached 
add one and one-half cupfuls of cold cooked chicken cut 
in dice, and season with one-half of a teaspoonful of salt, 
one-eighth of a teaspoonful of celery salt, and a few 
grains of cayenne. Let stand in a double boiler twenty 
minutes, that the chicken may absorb the sauce. 



A delicious dressing for turkey or chicken is made with 
one cup sausage meat, mixed with two cupfuls bread 
crumbs ; season with pepper and salt ; no butter is needed. 

As a dressing for duck, take one cupful mashed pota- 
toes, three cupfuls bread crumbs and five or six stalks 
celery, chopped finely; add one onion, chopped; add 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

For roast veal, one-half pound of chestnuts, finely 
chopped; three cupfuls bread crumbs, slightly browned; 
butter, salt and pepper to taste. Moisten with milk. 
This must be well seasoned. 

58 



FISH 




_ Fish 

If fresh, the eyes will be bright and bulging out. The Hints about 
flesh will be firm. Fish 

Do not leave fish in water after boiling. If cooked 
too soon, take from water, put on dish and cover. 

In frying fish use deep pan. Fat must be smoking hot 
when fish are put in to fry. When done, drain and serve 
with parsley and lemon. When broiling fish, have the 
gridiron clean, and when hot, grease slightly. Lemon is 
always served with fish. 



Boil for twenty minutes, take from water, and drain ; Baked 
butter a tin dish, put roe on it; dredge well with salt and Shad.Ree 
pepper ; add bits of butter and a thin slice of bacon over 
each roe. Bake in oven for thirty minutes, basting 
frequently with salt, butter and a little water. 



Pour the oil from a can of sardines into a frying pan ; Sardines 
put sardines in carefully and let fry for few minutes; on Toast 
then turn and fry on other side. Have ready fingers of 
toast ; put a sardine on each small piece of toast, garnish 
with a sprig of parsley and a slice of lemon. This is a 

dainty entree. 

HS 

Three tablespoonfuls flour, a pinch of salt, two eggs, Batter for 
one tablespoonful lemon juice. Mix all together and Frying 
stir to consistency of cream; add a little water, if Fish 
necessary; dip fish in batter and fry at once; drain on 
soft paper. 

61 



Fish 

Sweet and Take about four medium slices of salmon and soak 
Sour them for two hours in vinegar; then slice two small 
Salmon carrots very fine in round pieces; also one good-sized 
onion ; slice onion fine ; let boil for ten minutes. While 
boiling, add about thirty raisins, a small piece of stick 
cinnamon, a few whole cloves, one-half cup sugar and one- 
half teaspoonful salt ; let this simmer for twenty minutes. 
Ihen take the salmon out of the vinegar in which it has 
been soaking and put them into the boiling mixture ; let 
boil for fifteen mintes ; take fish out and put on platter ; 
put carrot, onion and raisins on and about them for 
garnishing; leave gravy in sauce pan; beat the yolks of 
three eggs well and add gravy gradually to eggs, beating 
constantly ; return to sauce pan and let come to a boil ; 
when gravy begins to thicken, stir constantly, so eggs will 
not stick ; when done pour over fish, and, lastly, sprinkle 
thickly with blanched almonds, finely chopped; do not 
use other kind of nuts. This is a most delicious dish. 
If a little salt is put in with the vinegar it will harden 
and whiten fish. 



Scalloped Take two dozen good-sized oysters; butter the bottom 
Oysters and sides of bake pan and put in layer of oysters; add 
layer of bread crumbs with salt, pepper and butter ; add 
layer of oysters and keep this up until pan is filled. Take 
juice of oysters, one-half cup milk and one beaten egg; 
pour over oysters and bake in oven about an hour. 

62 



_ Fish 

Take one pint milk, one pint oysters, one-half teaspoon- Oyster 
ful salt, a little pepper, one scant teaspoonful baking Fritters 
powder and flour enough to make thin batter; stir in 
the oysters, drop from spoon in hot lard or butter and 
fr to a delicate brown. 



Take one-half cocktail glass of shredded crab meat, a Crab 
little grated horseradish, a little lemon juice, and fill Cocktail 
glass with any good cocktail dressing. Serve very cold. 



Wash and drain large oysters; dip in melted butter, Broiled 
roll in fine bread or cracker crumbs and broil in wire Oysters 
broiler over hot fire. Serve on toast with piece of lemon. 



Season one pint of lobster chopped rather fine, with Lobster 
one-half teaspoonful salt, a little cayenne and a little Newburg 
nutmeg. Put this in sauce pan with two tablespoonfuls 
butter, and heat slowly; add two teaspoonfuls sherry 
and let cook five minutes; then add one-half cup cream 
and yolks of two eggs. Stir until thick, then take from 
fire and serve at once. 



Wash and place in vessel; cover tightly, laying the Oysters 
upper shell downward so liquor will not run out. Put Steamed in 
vessel in boiling water and let boil rapidly for five Shell 
minutes or until shells open. Serve at once with melted 
butter, salt and pepper. 

63 



MEMORANDA 



SALADS 

AND 

DRESSINGS 




5 a lads and Dressings 



Scald and slice two tomatoes ; set on ice while you slice ComKna- 
two cucumbers and one small onion ; add one cup cooked tion 
green beans, one cup cooked peas, two radishes, sliced Salad 
very thin. Rub salad bowl with garlic bean and line 
with crisp lettuce leaves. Put in tomatoes, cucumbers, 
pour over them the beans and peas, and lastly the sliced 
radishes. Have ready two hard-boiled eggs, slice them 
over salad; add a few stalks of asparagus, if desired, 
also beets cut in small fancy shapes. Pour over this a 
French dressing. This salad can be made as simple 
as desired by omitting any vegetables not in season. 



Line salad dish with crisp lettuce leaves; slice thin Banana 
three bananas; pass one cup English walnuts through Salad 
grinder or chop fine with chopper; add to bananas, 
and mix lightly with mayonnaise dressing. This amount 
will serve six people. 



Boil a chicken until very tender ; when cold, cut up in Chicken 
very fine pieces. Can be chopped in bowl. Place them Salad 
in a basin, sprinkle with salt and pepper; squeeze over 
it juice of two lemons and add three tablespoonsful olive 
oil: stir and mix well and set aside until ready for use. 
Have some crisp lettuce leaves shredded in salad bowl 
and when ready to serve, place chicken in bowl on 
lettuce, garnish with hard-boiled eggs sliced, and pour 
mayonnaise over all. Serve at once. 

67 



Salads and Dressings 



Salad 



Take one shredded crab or one entire tin of crab meat ; 
add two apples (tart apples are best) chopped fine ; a few 
finely chopped stalks of celery and the juice of one lemon. 
Mix well with mayonnaise dressing. Line salad bowl 
with luttuce leaves, add crab meat, garnish top with 
hard-boiled egg and spoonful of mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve at once. 



Individual Select as many medium sized, firm, round tomatoes as 

Tomato there are people. Cut at each side about one-third from 

Salad top of tomato, and form into baskets with handles. Fill 

with any desired salad, after scooping out most of the 

pulp of the tomato. Garnish with sprigs of parsley or 

water-cress. 



Lemon 

Jelly 

Salad 



Soak one box gelatine or use one box jello; add one 
pint of boiling water if gelatine is used, and stir until 
gelatine is thoroughly dissolved ; add juice of two lemons ; 
season with salt, pepper and paprika; pour into jelly 
molds filled with lobster, pimiento, crab meat, or cold 
vegetables. Serve with mayonnaise. 



Pimiento Cut one can pimiento morrones in thin rings; slice 

Salad several stalks of celery fine; separate whites from two 

hard-boiled eggs and cut whites into long thin strips. 

Mix oil from pimiento can, juice of one-half lemon, salt 

and pepper and yolks mashed fine. Beat with Dover 

68 



Salads and Dressings 



egg beater. Pour over pimientos, celery and egg; mix 
well. Serve in nests of lettuce. This salad is dainty. 
Served in individual tomato baskets. 



Pare and grate three cucumbers; simmer in one cup Cucumber 
of water for five minutes, then add hot water to make Jelly 
one pint; add juice of one lemon, salt and pepper and Salad 
pour into mold. Serve with tomatoes and mayonnaise 
dressing. 



Boil or bake liver; salt after cooking. Take out and Liver 
chop fine. Slice two good-sized onions and mix in with Salad 
chopped liver ; garnish with parsley and two hard-boiled 
eggs, sliced. 



One can sliced pineapple, three sweet oranges, sliced Fruit. 

fine; four bananas sliced; a few grapes. Make a syrup Salad 

of one large cup sugar; add three tablespoonfuls good (Sweet) 
brandy. Pour over fruit and serve. 



Boil six eggs hard; when cold, cut lengthwise and Deviled 
remove yolks ; mash yolks fine ; add one-half teaspoonf ul Eggs 
mustard, one tablespoonful vinegar, salt and pepper to 
taste. Mix well together; put back in whites of eggs, 
smooth; put on platter; garnish with lettuce or water 
cress, and serve. A small spoonful of mayonnaise dress- 
ing may be added to filling, if desired. 



5 a la ds and Dressings 



Salmon 
Salad 



Cut up a few lettuce hearts; heat a can of salmon 
enough to warm oil in it ; open can and pour off oil and 
liquid in can. When cool, cut salmon in small pieces, 
slice three sour cucumber pickles fine, add a few capers 
and chop up two hard-boiled eggs, and mix all together ; 
add a few anchovies, if desired. Serve with French 
dressing or mayonnaise. 



Apple 
Salad 



Take six small, red apples ; remove core with corer, and 
scrape out with spoon all the apple you can without 
spoiling shape of apple. Now with a sharp penknife, 
fashion four-pointed petals on each apple. Mix pulp of 
apples with chopped walnuts, chopped celery and mayon- 
naise. Fill apples and serve. 



Another Slice two rather tart apples, three bananas, two 
Fruit oranges ; add one can sliced pineapple ; cut each slice of 
Salad pineapple into four pieces Mix well together ; add sugar 

and salt to taste ; add one cup mayonnaise dressing when 

ready to serve. 



Tomato 
Aspic 



Drain juice from stewed tomatoes ; put over fire with a 
sliced onion, bay leaves, a stalk of celery ; to one pint of 
this add one full tablespoonful of gelatine, seasoned with 
salt and pepper. Serve with cold meats or may be served 
by pouring little in cups; arrange chicken or other cold 

70 



5 a lads and Dressings 



meats upon it ; add more jelly. Let cool and serve on a 
lettuce leaf with slices of hard-boiled eggs and mayon- 
naise dressing. _ ^ - 

Peel and slice two large cucumbers and one small Cucumber 
onion. Put over fire with one pint of water ; cook slowly Aspic 
one hour; add one-fourth box gelatine which has been 
moistened in cold water; season with salt and white 
pepper ; strain, set aside to cool ; green vegetable coloring 
added will make beautiful color. Mold in cup. Serve in 
lettuce leaves with French or mayonnaise dressing. 



Three tablespoonfuls salad oil, two tablespoonfuls vine- French 
gar, one teaspoonful Worcester sauce, paprika, salt and Dressing 
pepper to taste. Mash one teaspoonful Roquefort cheese 
very fine and add to other ingredients. Pour over salad 
when ready to serve. Cheese may be omitted, if desired. 

- & - - 

One cupful fresh, sweet cream, three tablespoonfuls Cream 
vinegar, one tablespoonful flour, whites of two eggs, two Salad 
tablespoonfuls salad oil, one teaspoonful sugar (pow- Dressing 
dered is best), one-half teaspoonful pepper, one tea- 
spoonful mustard. Heat cream to boiling point; stir in 
flour which has been wet with cold milk ; boil three min- 
utes, stirring all the time ; add sugar and take from fire. 
When nearly cold, beat in the whites of eggs whipped. 
Set aside to cool. When cold, beat in the oil, pepper, 
mustard and salt. When ready to serve, add vinegar and 
pour over salad. 

71 



Salads and Dressings 



Mayon- 
naise 
Dressing 



Cooked 

Salad 

Dressing 



Yolks two eggs, well beaten; add salad oil gradually, 
drop by drop, stirring all the time; have ready juice of 
one lemon and add a little lemon juice along with oil, 
beating continuously. When stiff as desired, add salt 
and pepper to taste. One-half teaspoonful mustard may 
be added, if desired. 



Take two eggs, two tablespoonfuls vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful sugar, salt and pepper to taste; stir them to- 
gether, and put over fire, stirring constantly. When 
thick, remove from fire. When cold, add two table- 
spoonfuls sweet cream. 



TABLE OF PROPORTIONS. 

One level teasponful of baking powder to one level 
cupful of flour. 

One teaspoonful of cream of tartar to one cupful of 
flour. 

One-half teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of flour. 

One teaspoonful of soda to one cupful of molasses. 

Two heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch to one 
quart of milk. 

A little over an ounce of gelatine to one quart of 
liquid. 



72 



VEGETABLES 




Vegetables 



Peel and wash fresh mushroooms ; put in sauce pan Sauted 
with plenty of butter and simmer until tender; about Mushrooms 
twenty minutes ; season with salt and pepper ; have ready 
thin slices of toast ; put mushrooms on toast ; garnish with 
slices of lemon and parsley or water cress. If there is 
much liquid, thicken with a little corn starch. 



Cut off hard stems of six summer squash and parboil ; Stuffed 
scoop out a part of the contents and fill with the fol- Squash 
lowing mixture: To cream sauce and centers of squash 
add one-half teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, one-half 
cupful grated cheese, two tablespoonfuls cracker crumbs 
and one well-beaten egg; stir over fire until melted. 
Fill squash and brown in quick oven; add cream to 
remainder of mixture to make sauce, pour around squash 
and serve. % _ 

Bake potatoes until tender; cut a piece from a side Stuffed 
and scoop out soft part, leaving the shell; mash and Potatoes 
beat until creamy with two tablespoonfuls cream or milk, 
two tablespoonfuls butter, salt, pepper and paprika to 
taste. Refill shells, sprinkle with bread crumbs, dot with 
butter and brown in hot oven. Serve very hot with 
bunches of parsley for garnishing. 



Peel and slice small summer squash very thin ; dip in Fried 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry brown in bacon fat; Summer 
make a cream gravy with fat left in pan and pour over Squash 
fried squash before serving. 



75 



V e ge tables 



Fried Select large tomatoes; slice rather thin; soak in salt 

Green water for one-half hour before using. When ready for 
Tomatoes use, dip in flour or cracker crumbs and fry in hot fat ; 
season with salt and pepper. Serve at once. 



Stuffed 
Peppers 



Select large sweet peppers; soak for several hours in 
cold water; cut off tops; have ready one cupful finely 
chopped or ground meat veal or pork is very nice; 
add one-half cup bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls but- 
ter, one finely cut up tomato and salt and pepper to 
taste ; add a few of the pepper seeds and the tops of the 
peppers chopped fine to meat and other ingredients, and 
stuff peppers. Set in pan; add one cup water and sev- 
eral lumps of butter; bake in oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. This is a good way to use up cold meat. If 
liked, meat may be omitted, and to serve as a straight 
vegetable, fill with half-cooked and well-seasoned rice. 



Sweet Cut corn off cob or use canned corn; take two cups 

Peppers corn; if raw cook for ten minutes; fry three finely cut 
with Corn peppers in butter for ten minutes; add peppers to corn, 

season with butter, salt and pepper, and put in oven and 

bake a light brown. 



Boiled Select firm white asparagus ; tie in parcels ; put in hot 

Aspara- water and boil twenty minutes ; take out, untie and serve 
gus on small individual plates with melted butter or mayon- 



76 



Vegetables 



naise dressing. A French dressing is liked by some 
people. This makes a most delicious and dainty salad 
when cold. _ 

Select a medium-sized, firm white cauliflower; soak in Creamed 
cold water for several hours before using ; strip off green Cauli- 
leaves; put in kettle of hot water and boil for twenty flower 
minutes. Take from kettle and put in covered dish. 
Make a cream sauce of two teaspoonfuls butter, melted; 
one tablespoonful flour and milk enough to make cream- 
like consistency. Pour over cauliflower and serve at 



Green corn should be cooked on the day it is gathered ; Boiled 
strip off the husks, pick out all the silks and put in Green 
boiling water; boil twenty minutes and serve at once. Corn 
If corn is not entirely fresh, add a teasponful sugar to 
water in which it is boiled. Do not add any salt if not 
fresh. ^ 

Artichokes must be carefully cooked and not be left Boiled 
too long in the water, as they turn black. Put each arti- Artichokes 
choke in a pan of vinegar and water to preserve its color ; 
put in boiling water and boil until tender. Serve with 
melted butter or mayonnaise dressing. Artichokes also 
make a most delicious salad when cold. Serve one whole 
on small plate with a spoonful mayonnaise dressing on 
plate beside it. 

77 



V e ge table s 



Creamed Select medium-sized white onions; peel and put in 
Onions boiling water; boil until tender; put a spoonful salt 

in water in which onions are boiled. Serve with rich 

cream sauce. 



Boiled 
Cabbage 



Royal 
Potatoes 



Beets 



Take one firm white cabbage ; boil whole in kettle until 
tender; then cut up rather fine; add one-half cup sweet 
milk, one well-beaten egg, one tablespoonful melted 
butter, salt and pepper to taste; stir all together, and 
when well mixed, put into a buttered dish; sprinkle 
thickly with bread crumbs and bake, covered, for one-half 
hour. Remove cover, brown and serve. 



Select large light-colored potatoes; bake in oven until 
soft; break them open, scoop out contents and place in 
sauce pan with one cupful milk; beat until potatoes are 
quite smooth; add yolks of two eggs and four table- 
spoonfuls butter, salt and pepper to taste; stir and beat 
this over fire until it leaves the sides of sauce pan, then 
turn out on dish to cool. Shape into small balls and dip 
into egg and cracker crumbs; have ready some smoking 
hot fat and drop in potato balls. Allow them to become 
a golden brown color. When cooked, drain and serve 
while very hot, with parsley for garnish. 



Select small young beets ; wash carefully, so as not to 
break the tender skin; boil about an hour; plunge into 
cold water and remove skins; chop rather coarsely; 

78 



Vegetables 



season with salt, pepper, butter and heat again before 
serving. If used for pickles, slice; cover with a rather 
weak vinegar; salt and pepper to taste. Let stand sev- 
eral hours before serving. 



Wash and scrape parsnips, and cut in strips; put in Parsnips 
cold water until ready to use. They may be boiled until 
well done; put in vegetable dish and melted butter 
poured over them, with salt and pepper to taste, or put 
in pan with roast pork and baked an hour with roast. 
Thev are delicious when served in this manner. 



Put sweet potatoes in boiling water ; boil until tender ; Sugared 
remove skins, slice lengthwise, put in bake pan with one Sweet 
cup water, a little sugar, lumps of butter, and salt and Potatoes 
pepper to taste. Put in oven and bake until brown. 
Baste often. 



vegetable" is grown in Mexico, Cen- Alligator 
tral America and Honolulu, and is considered by the Pears 
natives as almost a staple article of diet, when in season. 
They sometimes subsist almost entirely upon them, as 
they grow wild and in great profusion. Owing to their 
being very perishable, they are a delicacy with us, and 
are really most delicious, served in any w&y. I am giv- 
ing a few ways to use them, which are very satisfac- 
tory: 

79 



Vegetables 



Served Cut alligator pear in half, the long way, remove seed 
for with spoon ; scoop out meat from shell or skin, chop fine ; 

Breakfast season with salt, pepper and vinegar, and serve along 
with steak, chops or ham and eggs. 



Served as Chop fine one medium-sized onion, mix with finely 
a Salad chopped pear ; add salt, pepper and vinegar ; add one 
finely chopped pickled beet on top of mixture and serve 
at once. The pear may also be used as a salad, by 
cutting in two lengthwise, removing seed and pouring 
a French dressing in hollow left by seed. To be eaten 
in this way with a spoon. 



Served in Take any good, rich meat stock, and just as you serve 
Soup it, add finely chopped alligator pears as you would grated 
cheese. This is delicious. The seed of the alligator 
pear will grow into a beautiful house plant if it has not 
been frozen in transportation. Take seed and stick two 
toothpicks in two opposite sides, put over ordinary 
water glass with end downward which looks like it is 
sprouting. Fill with water just to cover this end, and 
add a little water as it evaporates. Do not insert tooth- 
picks in seed further than necessary to hold it up. The 
seed will burst open and roots will grow, at which time 
it can be put in sandy earth and kept very moist. 



Potato Five large potatoes, mashed while warm ; add one quart 

Rolls of flour, salt to season and one teacupful of milk; stir 

until light. Make into rolls ; let stand two hours, then bake. 

80 



MISCELLANEOUS 




Miscellaneous 



Put one tablespoonf ul butter in chafing dish, and when Welsh 
melted, add one pound Eastern cheese. Let melt, stir- Rarebit 
ring at intervals. Take three eggs, beat up, adding one- 
half teaspoonful mustard, a tablespoonful Worcestershire 
sauce, paprika, salt and pepper to taste; add a dash of 
tobasco sauce, if desired. When cheese is melted, stir 
in slowly one cup cold beer or ale; when thoroughly 
mixed, add other ingredients, stirring constantly. When 
thickened, serve at once on toasted bread or on crackers. 



Six eggs, one and one-half cups grated cheese, two cups Filling 
grated bread crumbs, two kernels garlic and one small for 
onion, finely chopped, with a little parsley; take some Raviolis 
spinach or lettuce and boil until tender, chop fine, then 
add to the dressing about two cupfuls; add one set of 
brains, cleaned and chopped fine (if brains cannot be had, 
use a small piece of cold roast beef) ; fry brains a little 
before adding to dressing; add to all these ingredients 
six tablespoonfuls olive oil, two tablespoonfuls butter, 
and salt and pepper to taste. This amount will make 
dressing to ravioli for six people. 



Two tablespoonfuls gelatine dissolved in a half tumbler Velvet 
of water; one pint rich cream; four tablespoonfuls of Cream 
sugar; flavor with almond or vanilla extract. Put in 
molds and set on ice. This is a delicious dessert and 
can be made in a few minutes. It can be served with 
or without cream. 



Miscellaneous 



Claret Take one quart good claret ; add sugar to taste, several 

Punch sticks cinnamon, a few cloves and put over fire and let 
(Hot) boil for ten minutes. Strain and serve while hot. 



Lemon Whites of six eggs, whipped to a cream ; whip one and 
Syllabub one-half pints sweet cream up stiffly and add to whites 
of eggs ; add one pound sugar, juice of three lemons and 
one gill of sherry wine. Serve in tall glasses. 



Nectar Take two quarts water, two pounds sugar and make a 

syrup ; have ready six oranges, six lemons and six limes ; 
cut these into small thin slices, remove seeds; lay them 
in syrup and let boil two hours. The syrup will become 
quite thick; strain at once through bag and add one 
quart fresh milk and one pint good sherry; boil again 
for ten minutes and serve while hot. This is a very 
refreshing drink. M/ 

German Beat three eggs together, add one-half teaspoonful salt, 
Toast one cup milk and two tablespoonfuls sugar, and flour 
enough to make a very thin batter. Take six slices of 
stale bread, dip in mixture and cook on hot, well-greased 
griddle, browning on both sides. Sprinkle with sugar 
when ready to serve, if desired. 



Raspberry Put one-half pint of rice (scant) in one quart of boil- 

Pyramid ing water, salted, and boil with lid off for twenty min- 

utes; do not stir. When the grains are soft and dry, 

spread on a large dinner plate a layer of rice ; cover this 



84 



Miscellaneous 



with a layer of raspberry preserve or jam and build up a 
pyramid of alternate layers, pressing all into shape with 
a bowl. It makes a richer dish to put a pint of milk to 
the same of water for the boiling, or to add so much 
milk to the rice as the pint of water boils away. 



Mix one and one-half cupfuls of Eastern cheese Cheese 
(grated) with one-fourth teaspoonful each of salt and Balls 
paprika ; then cut and fill into the mixture the whites of 
three eggs beaten stiff ; shape into small balls ; roll these 
in fine cracker crumbs and fiy in deep fat to a pale 
straw color; drain in soft paper. Serve with plain 
lettuce salad. Don't mix with salad; separate dish. 



Six pounds Concord grapes, one pound raisins, three Grape 
pounds granulated sugar, one pint nut pits ; pulp grapes ; Conserve 
cook and run through colander; add skins, sugar and 
raisins ; cook thick and add nuts when you remove from 
fire. 



Six pounds Concord grapes, two pounds raisins, four Grape and 
oranges, four pounds sugar ; cut off rind of oranges and Orange 
cut fine; pulp grapes and cook until they rub through Conserve 
colander; add the skins, raisins, orange peel, juice and 
sugar, and simmer gently until jellied. For California 
grapes cook grapes without removing skins. 

85 



Miscellaneous 



Plum Three bowls plums, cut from pit; three bowls sugar, 
Conserve two and one-half cups raisins, juice two oranges; cook 

and add one pound English walnuts when you remove 

from fire. 



Marsh- Two tablespoonfuls Knox gelatine, six tablespoonfuls 
mallows water; soak one-half hour; two cups sugar, ten table- 
spoonfuls water, one teaspoonful vanilla; boil until it 
spins a thread ; beat in the gelatine. 



Caramel One cup scalding milk; do not boil; put on stove in 

Ice iron or granite skillet ; six large spoonfuls of granulated 

Cream sugar and stir over fire until it melts, turns brown and 

boils; pour this into the boiling milk; stir over fire a 

minute, strain and let cool. Scald one quart cream; 

now add two well-beaten eggs and one-half cup sugar; 

stir and cook until mixture begins to thicken ; take from 

fire; strain, and then cool, add one teaspoontul vanilla 

extract and the caramel; freeze, and let stand about two 

or three hours. 



Panoche Put one tablespoonful of butter in sauce pan; when 
melted add two cupfuls brown sugar and one-third cupful 
of milk; bring to boiling point and let boil twelve min- 
utes; remove from range, add one cupful English wal- 
nuts; sprinkle with salt and beat until creamy. Turn 
into a buttered tin, cool slightly, and mark into squares. 

86 



Miscellaneous 



Two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup of corn Divinity 
syrup, half cup of boiling water; boil until it cracks Fudge 
when dropped into boiling water ; have the whites of two 
eggs beaten stiff, then beat into it the boiled mixture ; add 
one teaspoonful of vanilla and one cupful of chopped 
nuts ; beat until hard and creamy, then drop on buttered 
plate. 



Beat the whites of two eggs until stiff, and add gradu- Cocoanut 
ally, while beating constantly, half cup fine granulated Kisses 
sugar ; continue to beat until mixture will hold its shape ; 
cut and fold remaining sugar and add one-fourth tea- 
spoonful vanilla and three tablespoonf uls ' of shredded 
cocoanut; shape with a tablespoon or pastry bag and 
tube on wet board ; cover with letter paper. Bake thirty 
minutes in moderate oven. 



Pare and grate five large quinces; add five pounds of Quince 
sugar to water and stir over range until sugar is dis- Honey 
solved ; then add five quinces ; let simmer fifteen minutes 
and turn into jelly glasses ; cover when cold. 



Take one egg and beat it until very stiff; only very Egg 
fresh eggs will do for this. When stiff add the juice of Lemonade 
one orange and juice of one-half lemon; add sugar to 
taste and mix all well together. This is particularly good 
for convalescing people. 



87 



Miscellaneous 



Sparkling Take one dozen lemons and squeeze the juice from 
Lemonade them into one gallon of water; add sugar to taste; add 
one-half cake compressed yeast which has been dissolved 
in a little water; have water lukewarm and bottle at 
once; leave set in kitchen over night, and then set in 
cellar. This is not ready for use for a week. This drink 
can also be made from oranges, pineapple and lemons 
mixed, or with any kind of berries. 



Root Take five gallons lukewarm water; add to it four 

Beer pounds sugar; mix until sugar is melted; dissolve one 

cake compressed yeast in a little water and add to water 
and sugar; next add a twenty-five-cent bottle of Hire's 
root beer and mix well; have ready bottles with either 
screw tops or some other top which will not come off 
when beer is fermenting. Bottle while still warm and 
let stand in kitchen until next day ; then set in cellar or 
other cool place. It is ready for use the third day. 



TO CLEAN WHITE PLUMES. 
Make paste of gasoline and flour; dip in plume and 
rub thoroughly ; dip again, let dry, shake off flour. This 
may be repeated until plume is entirely clean. 



Soft, silk waists should be iron with only moderately 
hot iron while still wet. This keeps them from becoming 
yellow. 

88 



Miscellaneous 



CLEVER IDEAS FOR WASH DAY. 

WINTER WASHING Add a large handful of salt to the 
rinse water, and the clothes will not freeze while hanging 
them out. When ready to go out, wet the hands well 
with vinegar. Let it dry on, and you will have no cold 
fingers. 

To CLEAN FABRICS Two good-sized potatoes are 
grated into a pint of water. Then they are strained 
through a coarse sieve into another vessel containing a 
pint of clear water, and allowed to stand until thoroughly 
settled. The clear solution is poured off and used to 
sponge fine materials, which are afterwards washed with 
clean water, dried and ironed. 

To LAUNDER DELICATE WHITE WAISTS After washing 
and drying, apply boiled starch and hang until very dry. 
When ready to iron, wring out in hot water, and put 
through a wringer. They will not stick and will look 
sheer and fine. 

To WASH PONGEE SILK Do not wring pongee silk, but 
let it drip dry. Iron with a moderately hot iron when 
very dry. Do not sprinkle at all. 

A few drops of kerosene added to starch will make 
ironing easier. 

When laundering Battenberg pieces put a teaspoonful 
of borax in the rinsing water and there will be no need 
of starch. 

89 



Miscellaneous 



SOAP AND FANCYWORK. 

Hemstitching forms a dainty and inexpensive finish for 
household linen and underclothing, but the difficulty of 
drawing the threads often prevents the busy woman from 
undertaking it. If a piece of pure white soap be rubbed 
over the surface of the cloth on the wrong side, the 
threads may be drawn with perfect ease and at a saving 
of fully half the time usually required. When making 
the round perforations for eyelet embroidery, hold a 
piece of soap under the cloth allowing the stiletto to pass 
through into it ; when it is withdrawn it imparts a slight 
stiffness to the material that insures the making of very 
even, perfect embroidery. 



Soak hair brushes in ammoniated water to harden the 
bristles and prevent them from falling out. 

If a gown has become stained with lemon juice, am- 
monia applied to the spot will restore the cloth to its 
natural color. 

To remove ink stains from clothing soak the spot in 
sour milk. 

A faded dress may be made perfectly white by boiling 
it in water to which cream of tartar has been added. 



90 



HOUSEHOLD 
HINTS 




Household Hints 



If a pinch of ginger is put into doughnuts they will 
not absorb the fat in which they are fried. 

If potatoes are pared and laid in cold water before 
boiling they will remain white. 

Dry celery stalks and use them for seasoning. 

Never put strawberries in tinware. 

A hot cloth wrapped around jelly or ices will cause 
them to come out of the molds without sticking. 

A little boiling water added to an omelet will keep it 
from being tough. 

A little butter added to cake frosting greatly im- 
proves it. 

Dredge cake tins with flour and the cake will not stick 
to the tins. 

Wooden spoons are best to use in cakemaking. 

If raisins and currants are rolled in flour before being 
put into cake they will not sink to the bottom. 

When cutting fresh bread dip the knife in hot water. 

Keep an apple in the cake-box. It will keep the cake 
fresh for a long time. 

If grease is spilled on the kitchen floor cold water 
should be poured on it immediately. The water will 
harden the grease and prevent it from soaking into the 
floor. It may then be scraped up with a knife. 

When using valuable vases for table decoration fill 
them one-fourth full of sand to prevent them from being 
tipped over. 

93 



Household Hints 



Scatter a few drops of lavender in bookcases in the 
summer and no mold will be found. 

To preserve maps brush each with a solution of gutta 
percha which is quite transparent. . It may be applied to 
both sides. 

Moisten grease spots with cold water and soda before 
scrubbing. 

Soak new brooms in hot, salted water before using 
them. The salt toughens the bristles and the brooms 
will last longer. 

Try cucumber peelings to exterminate cockroaches. 
The cucumber acts as poison to the roaches. 

Stains on knives, however obstinate, will disappear if 
rubbed with a piece of raw potato. 

Try soft tissue paper for cleaning or polishing a 
mirror. 

Never use soap and water on varnished woodwork. 

To prevent flies from entering a house brush the screen 
doors with kerosene. 

If a drawer sticks, rub a little fresh lard on it. 

Sprinkle the cellar often with chloride of lime and it 
will be kept free from rats. 

To clean straw mattings wash them with soft water, 
changing the water often. 

Add a little kerosene to the water in which windows 
are washed. 

94 



Household Hints 



Burn orange peel on the stove instead of coffee for 
disagreeable odors the effect is more pleasant. 

A few drops of oil of lavender poured in a glass of hot 
water makes a pleasant odor in a sick room. 

Scour copper kettles with salt and vinegar. 

Keep an oyster shell in the teakettle to prevent the 
forming of a crust. 

Straw mattings will last longer if given a coat of 
varnish. 

A piece of camphor kept with silver will prevent the 
silver from tarnishing. 

Crushed eggshells or shot will clean a water bottle or 
vinegar cruet. 

Use lemon juice to remove mildew stains. 

Put a pinch of salt into water in which cut flowers are 
placed and they will last longer. 

To clean a clogged drain pipe, pour down some kero- 
sene and follow it immediately with boiling water. 

Polish a dining table with melted beeswax, rubbed on 
with a soft cloth. 

A gold chain may be made to look very bright by 
dipping it in a cup containing one part of ammonia and 
three parts of water. 

A teaspoonful of flour of sulphur, dissolved in hot milk 
and slowly sipped, is said to be helpful in case of sore 
throat. 

95 



Household Hints 



Apply common mud to a bee sting and the pain will 
cease. 

Scrape raw potatoes and apply the pulp to a burn. 
It will give immediate relief. 

The whites of eggs beaten, with salt, to the consistency 
of frosting and applied to a sprain will give great relief. 
Renew the application as the egg becomes dry. 

Celery, eaten abundantly, is said to be good for neu- 
ralgia. 

Lay thin slices of potato across the forehead in case of 
headache. 

A gargle of salt and water is a good remedy for sore 
throat. 

Boiled flaxseed juice flavored with lemon is excellent 
for a cough. 

To cure hiccoughs, take a long breath and hold it. 

Salt and sugar mixed together will sometimes stop a 
cough. 

When planting sweet peas have the rows run north 
and south. The plants will blossom better. 

When laundering lace curtains, if a creamy shade is 
desired, add clear, strong coffee to the starch. 

Wash challies in rice water made by cooking one pound 
of rice in five quarts of water. Strain and cool. 

Add a little turpentine to water in which clothes are 
boiled; it will whiten them. 

Clean flatirons with emery paper. 

96 



14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

AGRICULTURE LIBRARY 

40 Giannini Hail - Tel. No. 642-4493 

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or 

on the date to which renewed. 
Renewed books are subject to immediate recall. 




LD 21-40m-2,'69 
(J6057slO)476 A-32 



General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 



U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 



COE7147357E 



MRS. EVANS' SHORT METHOD FOR BREAD 
MAKING 



Scald one and one-half pints milk; dissolve 
one cake Golden Gate Compressed Yeast in two- 
thirds cupful lukewarm water; add two table- 
spoonfuls sugar; sift two sifters of flour in mix- 
ing bowl. When milk is lukewarm, add one 
large tablespoonful salt; add dissolved yeast to 
mil*; make well in center of flour and add milk. 
Stir with mixing spoon until flour is all taken 
up, then turn out on board and knead well for 
twenty minutes. Return to bowl and let rise in 
warm place, well covered. This will take from 
two to three hours. When sufficiently risen, 
punch down and let stand for three-quarters of 
an hour longer (doubled in bulk). Mold into 
loaves or rolls, handling the dough very gently. 
Put in well-greased pans, let rise and bake. 
Rolls should rise at least one-half hour and 
loaves one hour. Bake rolls twenty-five minutes 
and loaves one hour in wood or coal range, or 
forty-five minutes in gas range. If desired to 
make this bread over night, use only one table- 
spoonful sugar and one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls salt. Bread made by this method can be set 
at seven o'clock in the morning and should be 
out of the oven by noon. 

If desired to make bread at night, use method 
as above at night just before retiring, and in the 
morning dough will be ready to put into pans; 
let rise and bake. If dough is made into loaves 
at seven in the morning, it should be baked by 
nine o'clock. If desired, potatoes and potato 
water can be used in this recipe. 

RAISED LAYER CAKE 

lissilve une cake Golden Gate Compressed 
Yeast in one cup milk; add one teaspoonful sugar 
and flour enough to make batter. Set aside in 
warm place, well covered, to rise. When light, 
have ready one-half cup butter creamed with one 
and one-half cups sugar; add to sponge. Now 
separate sponge, dividing it in half; add to one- 
half of it the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, 
vanilla and Hour enough to make ordinary cake 
batter; put in well-buttered pans and let rise 
und bake. Do same with other half, using whites 
of four eggs. 



