NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736256 8 





v\ 






MARY JANE'S 



cv 



COOK 
BOOK 




COPYRIGHT 1916 
BY THE BOSTON TRAVELER 







TILDE . , .'iiOXS 

!' 1 143 L 








' 

PREFACE 



It has been possible for me because of the friendly interchange 
of recipes among' the Traveler readers, their helpfulness and their 
skill, to present them with this collection of recipes taken from the 
household columns of the Traveler during the past year. 

It is in no way intended as a text book for beginners, although 
the recipes may easily and successfully be used by beginners; neither 
is it by any means a complete encyclopedia of cookery. But because 
it contains practical, e very-day tried and tested recipes with many 
interesting new ones, and because you and I have contributed them, 
I am sure it will take a place on your kitchen shelf that no other 
book could fill. The blank pages will make it possible to add 
favorite recipes from future Traveler columns. 

MARY JANE. 



** 







TABLE OF CONTENTS 



PAGE 

BEVERAGES 3 

BREAD AND MUFFINS 13 

CAKE AND FILLINGS 37 

CANDIES 63 

CEREALS, RICE AND MACARONI 73 

CHAFING DISH RECIPES 79 

COOKIES AND CRACKERS 87 

' DESSERTS 97 

EGG AND CHEESE DISHES 137 

FISH 143 

FROZEN DISHES 151 

GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRIED CAKES 167 

HORS D'OEUVRES 175 

JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES 179 

MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES 201 

PIES 225 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 241 

SANDWICHES AND TOASTS <.. 253 

SOUPS AND CHOWDERS 261 

VEGETABLES . 273 



ERRATA 



Credit should be given to Miss S. K., Virginia, for her recipe. 
Old Colonial Punch, page 8; to Roselle, N. J., for her recipe, Prize 
Orange Pie, page 231; to Mrs. R. L. M., Cambridge, for her recipe, 
Gluten Bread, page 13 ; to P. M., Manchester, N. H., for her recipe, 
Jelly Roll, page 38; to Miss H. Keeper, for her recipe, Lancaster 
Gingerbread, page 18; to Maude 0., for her recipe, Ginger Gems, 
page 51 ; to Melisse, for her recipe, Molasses Orange Cake, page 53 ; 
to Grandmother, Cambridge, for her recipe, Egyptian Jelly, page 
126; to Rosa, for her recipe, Mint Jelly, page 182; to Arlington 
Housekeeper, for her recipe, Saratoga Potato Chips, page 275 ; to 
New Hampshire, for her recipe, Mint Paste, page 70. 



BEVERAGES. 



ICED TEA. 

Strong tea infusion, 1 1-3 cups. Sugar, 1 cup. 
Lemon ^>. Cold water. 

Into a two-quart pitcher cut up the lemon, first squeezing out 
the juice. Add sugar and strain over this the hot tea. "When sugar 
is dissolved let stand 2 or 3 minutes then fill pitcher with ice water 
and put into the refrigerator or add chopped ice. 

W. .V. C., West Medford. 

GINGER ALE JULEP. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Mint, 6 sprigs. 

Lemons, 6. Ginger ale, 2 bottles. 

Chopped ice, 1 cup. 

Into a pitcher put the sugar and squeeze on to it the juice of 
the lemons. Bruise the mint leaves and add with the ice. Lastly 
pour over all the ginger ale and serve at once. 

GINGER PUNCH. 

Cold water, 1 quart. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Preserved ginger, i/ 2 pound. Orange juice, % cup. 

Lemon juice, y 2 cup. 

Chop ginger, add to water and sugar and boil 15 minutes. Add 
fruit juice, cool, strain and dilute with crushed ice. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

MINT JULEP. 

Water, 1 quart. '-"ugar, 2 cups. 

Claret, 1 pint. trawberry juice, 1 cup. 

Orange juice, 1 cup. Lemons, 8. 

Boiling water, iy 2 cups. Mint, 12 sprigs. 

Make a syrup by boiling the quart of water and the sugar for 
20 minutes. Separate mint leaves and cover with the boiling water. 
Let stand for 5 minutes in a warm place. Strain and add to syrup. 
Add orange juice, strawberry juice, and juice of the lemons. Chill 
and pour into punch bowl, adding claret and large piece of ice just 
before serving. Garnish with mint leaves and strawberries. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 



BEVERAGES. 



JELLY PUNCH. 

Currant jelly, 1 glass. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Lemon, 1. 

Carbonated water, 1 quart. 

Whip the jelly to a froth, add the boiling water and stir till wel? 
dissolved. Add sugar and lemon juice and put aside to cool. When 
ready to serve, add ice and carbonated water. 

Alice, Medfield. 

ORANGE MINT JULEP. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Chopped mint, 1/2 cup. 

Limes, 6. Carbonated water, 1 pint. 

Orange juice, 1 quart. 

Mix the sugar with the strained fruit juices and stir till dis- 
solved. Add the mint and let stand on ice for at least one hour 
before serving. Then add the carbonated water. Fill glasses half 
full of shaved ice, fill up with the juice and add a sprig of mint to 
each glass. 

RASPBERRY PUNCH. 

Raspberries, 2 quarts. Fresh mint leaves, 1 bunch. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Cold water, 3 pints. 

Lemons, 6. Carbonated water, 1 quart. 

Sprinkle the raspberries with the sugar, let stand 1 hour and 
press out the juice. Add the juice of the lemons, the mint leaves 
slightly crushed and the cold water. Mix well and let stand half an 
hour. Add ice and the carbonated water just before serving. 

ICED CHOCOLATE. 

Cocoa, % pound. Water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 pound. Rich milk. 

Whipped cream. 

Make a syrup by boiling cocoa, sugar and water for about 3 
minutes. Remove from fire and cool. Put 3 tablespoons of the 
syrup in a glass with a little shaved ice. Fill the glass with rich 
milk, beat well and serve with whipped cream. 

A High School Girl, Cambridge. 



BEVERAGES. 5 



ORANGEADE. 

Oranges, 12. Sugar. 

Lemons, 2. Mineral water. 

Strain the juice of oranges and lemons, mix and sweeten. Add 
L' ur 3 times the quantity of mineral water, chill and serve over 
shaved ice. 

GRAPE JUICE PUNCH. 

Lemons, 3. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Oranges, 2. Grape juice, 1 quart. 

Grapefruit, 1. Water, 1 cup. 

Squeeze the juice from the fruits, add sugar and grape juice. 
Mix well, ice and add the water. Soda water may be used. 

CLEAR FRUIT PUNCH. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Lemon juice, y 2 pint. 

Water, 3 cups. Strawberry juice, 1 pint. 

Cold tea, 1 pint. Pineapple juice, 1 pint. 

Orange juice, 1 pint. Water, 2 quarts. 

Carbonated water, 1 quart. 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water boiled 15 minutes. Add 
the tea and fruit juices well strained. When chilled add the water 
and carbonated water and serve ice cold. Other fruit juices may be 
used. Enough for 6 quarts of punch. 

TUTTI FRUTTI. 

Water, 2 quarts. Malaga grapes, 24. 

Sugar, 1 pound. Tangerine orange, 2 slices. 

Lemons, 2. Pineapple, 4 slices. 

Oranges, 4. Banana, 1. 

Maraschino cherries, 1 pint. 

Boil half the water for 5 minutes, add sugar and stir till dis- 
solved, add grated rind of lemons and oranges and boil 10 minutes. 
Strain through a cheese cloth and add remaining cold water. Strain 
juice of the lemons and oranges and add with remaining ingredi- 
ents, halving and seeding the grapes. Pour over a cake of ice in a 
punch bowl. 



BEVERAGES. 



PINEAPPLE PUNCH. 

Water, 2 cups. Grated pineapple, 1 can. 

Sugar, 114 cups. Lemons, 4. 

Ice water, 1 quart. 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and water 10 minutes. Add 
the pineaple and the juice of the lemon. Cool, strain and add ice 
water. Serve in punch bowl with ice and strawberries as a garnish. 

LEMONADE VARIATIONS. 

To plain lemonade, add grape, pineapple or strawberry juice. 

Steep a bunch of mint leaves in 1 cup of water for y% hour. 
Strain and add juice of 2 lemons, 3 glasses of water and sugar to 
taste. 

Add carbonated water to plain lemonade. 

Egg lemonade is made by adding the beaten yolk of an egg to 
the juice of half a lemon in a tall glass. Add a pinch of salt, a 
tablespoon of sugar and mix well. Fold in the beaten white of the 
egg and fill glass with chilled carbonated water. 

Soak 14 CU P f bran in 2 cups of water over night. In the 
morning strain and add the juice of 1 lemon. Sweeten to taste and 
chill. Mrs. J. E. L., Andover. 

CHING CHING. 

Shaved ice, 2-3 glass. Sugar lumps, 4. 

Orange, 1. Essence of clove or pepper- 

mint. 

Fill a glass two-thirds full of shaved ice, add the sugar, the juice 
of the orange and 3 or 4 drops of the essence. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

EGGNOG. 

Egg yolk, 1. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Nutmeg. Whipped cream. 

Beat the egg yolk, add sugar and salt and then pour the milk in 
slowly, stirring all the time. Pour into a glass and top with a spoon- 
ful of whipped cream and a grating of nutmeg. 



BEVERAGES. 



GRAPE EGGNOG. 

Egg, 1. Cream, i/, wineglass. 

Grape juice. y 2 glass. Sugar. 

Beat egg very light, add grape juice and beat again, add cream 
and beat. Sweeten to taste. 

CIDER EGGNOG. 

Egg, 1. Cider, 1 cup. 

Sugar. Nutmeg. 

Whip the egg and sweeten to taste. Add cider and pour into a 
glass containing shaved ice. Grate a little nutmeg on top. 

GRAPE LEMONADE. 

Lemonade, 1 quart. Grape juice, 1 glass. 

Make the lemonade rather sweet and when ice cold add grape 
juice. B. E. W., Concord, N. H. 

ROOT BEER. 

Compressed yeast, 1 cake. Root beer extract, 1 bottle. 

Warm water, 1 cup. Salt. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Warm water. 8 quarts. 

Dissolve the yeast in the warm water, add sugar, salt and extract 
and mix well. Add water and bottle it. Set bottles in a warm place 
for 12 hours and then keep in a cold place. R. B., Cambridge. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Milk, 1 pint. Eggs, 3. 

Grated chocolate, 1 small cup. Vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Cold milk. Whipped cream, 1 pint. 

Sugar. Chopped ice, 2 cups. 

Carbonated water. 

Heat the milk in a double boiler and when almost boiling add 
the chocolate mixed with a little cold milk and the sugar and boil 
till quite thick. Remove from the lire and while still warm stir in 
the eggs, well beaten, and the vanilla. Place on ice until very cold, 
then stir in lightly the whipped cream and ice. Dilute if necessary 
with carbonated water. 



8 BEVERAGES. 



OLD COLONIAL PUNCH. 

Sultana raisins, % pound. Lemons, 2. 

Currants, 1 cup. Powdered sugar, 2 cups. 

Almond extract, 1 teaspoon. Grated cocoanut, 3 tablespoons. 

Preserved ginger, % cup. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon. 

Oranges, 4. Ginger ale, 1 quart. 

Boiling water, 1 quart. 

Steep the raisins and currants in the boiling water for half an 
hour, strain and when cold add the extract, the preserved ginger, 
fruit juices, sugar, coc.oanut and cinnamon. Mix all well and chill. 
When ready to serve pour over all the iced ginger ale. Serve with 
crushed ice. 

CHOCOLATE MILK SHAKE. 

Chocolate syrup, 3 to 4 table- Eich milk, % glass, 
spoons. 

Put syrup into glass and add milk. Shake vigorously back and 
forth with a shaker or a larger glass set over it. 

Chocolate syrup : 

Cocoa, 1-3 cup. Sugar, 2 cups. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Stir constantly till the boiling point is reached, then boil very 
slowly for 6 minutes. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

Put raspberries in an earthen bowl and nearly cover them with 
vinegar. Let stand over night, then scald and strain. Add a pint 
of sugar for each pint of juice. Let it come to the boiling point, 
skim and bottle. When using mix equal parts of ice water and shrub. 
A similar shrub may be made from blackberries, strawberries or cur- 
rants. H. R. B., Boston. 

BOTTLED LEMON JUICE. 

Use 1 pound of sugar to each pint of pure lemon juice. Stir 
sugar in till it is dissolved, fill small sterilized bottles to overflowing 
and cork tightly. Dip corks and tops of bottles in paraffin to seal. 
To make lemonade from this prepared juice add 2 tablespoons to a 
cup of ice water. F. D., Natick. 



BEVERAGES. 



GRAPE JUICE. 

Grapes, 10 pounds. Water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 3 pounds. 

Put grapes and water in preserving kettle and heat till stones 
and pulps separate, then strain through a jelly bag. Add sugar to 
juice and heat to boiling point. Pour at once into sterilized bottles 
and seal. When serving dilute with an equal measure of water. 

M. S. B., Maiden. 

COFFEE. 

Allow one tablespoon of freshly ground coffee to each person 
and one generous one extra. Break an egg into the pot with the 
coffee using the shell as well. Stir and add as many large cups of 
boiling water as spoons of coifee were put in. Let come to a boil and 
boil for just 5 minutes. Pour in a half cup of cold water and let 
stand a few moments but do not let boil. Pour coffee over cream 
and sugar in the cup. For weaker coffee use one dessertspoon to 
a person instead of one tablespoon. 

SWEET CHOCOLATE. 

Vanilla sweet chocolate, y Boiling water, 1 pint, 
pound. Salt, 1 pinch. 

Hot milk, 1 pint. 

Put chocolate, water and salt in double boiler, stir and beat 
with wooden spoon until smooth. Cook from 15 to 20 minutes, then 
add hot milk. Strain and serve with whipped cream. 

M. L. R., Roxbury. 

THICK HOT CHOCOLATE. 

Cornstarch, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 4 cups. 

Sugar, 1-3 cup. Unsweetened chocolate, 4 

ounces. 

Mix cornstarch and sugar and blend smooth with y 2 cup of the 
cold milk. Scald remainder of milk and .slowly pour in the corn- 
starch mixture, stirring all the time. Melt the chocolate over hot 
water, add to the hot milk and boil all together a few minutes. 
Serve piping hot with whipped cream. 



10 BEVERAGES. 



HOT CHOCOLATE. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 2 Boiling water, 1/2 cup. 

squares. Milk, iy 2 pints. 

Sugar, 14 cup. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, stir in sugar and add gradually, 
while stirring constantly the boiling water. Stir until smooth and 
cook for 8 minutes. Add gradually the milk which should be scald- 
ing hot, heat well and just before serving beat with an egg beater. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

For a delicious novelty substitute hot strong coffee for the 
boiling water in this recipe. 

COCOANUT CUP. 

Milk, 3 pints. Egg whites, 3. 

Unsweetened chocolate, % cake. Grated cocoanut, % cup. 
Cold water, 3 tablespoons. Whipped cream. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Bring the milk to the scalding point in a double boiler, stir in 
the chocolate, which has been grated fine and well mixed with the 
cold water. Allow the mixture to simmer for 5 minutes. Mean- 
while mix together the sugar, well beaten egg whites and cocoanut, 
which is finely grated. Heat this mixture for a few moments and 
pour into it the milk and chocolate. Stir rapidly and pour into 
cups, top with whipped cream and a pinch of grated cocoanut. 

MULLED GRAPE JUICE. 

Orange, 1. Cloves, 4. 

Lemon, 1. Mace, a pinch. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Egg whites, 2. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Grape juice, 1 quart. Water, 2 tablespoons. 

Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Soak grated rind of orange in the juice of the lemon for 15 min- 
utes, add boiling water and sugar. When sugar is dissolved add grape- 
juice, cloves and mace, bring to a boil and simmer for 10 minutes. 
Boil the sugar and water till it will spin a thread, then pour slowly 
on stiffly beaten egg whites, beating all the time. Pour grape juice 
over meringue, dust with nutmeg and serve at once. 



BEVERAGES. 11 



MULLED CIDER. 

Cider, 2 quarts. AVhole cloves, 4. 

Baked apples, 3. Bay leaves, 2. 

Into the cider put the baked apples, cloves and bay leaves. Bring 
very slowly to a boil in a porcelain or agate ware vessel. Strain and 
serve hot. 

MULLED FRUIT NECTAR. 

Boiling water, l l / 2 cups. Grape juice, 1 quart. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Whole cloves, 2. 

Lemons, 2. Cinnamon, 1 stick. 

Orange, 1. Egg whites, 3. 

Cherry juice, y 2 cup. Syrup. 

To the boiling water add the sugar, juice of the lemons, juice 
and grated rind of the orange, and the cherry juice (from cherry 
preserves). Let stand for 15 minutes then place on a slow fire and 
allow to come to the boiling point. Heat the grape juice, and 
when the first mixture is boiling add the grape juice to it, together 
with the spices. Place over a slow fire and let simmer for 15 min- 
utes. Meanwhile make a syrup of 1% cups of sugar and l / 2 cup of 
water boiled without stirring until it spins a thread. Beat the 
whites of the eggs until stiff and over them pour very slowly the 
syrup, beating hard all the time. To this meringue add the fruit 
juices, pour into chocolate cups, dust with cinnamon or nutmeg and 
serve immediately. Do not boil the fruit juices in a tin utensil. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 13 



WHITE BREAD. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Hot water, 1 pint. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. Milk, 1 pint. 

Shortening, 1 heaping table- Yeast cake, ^. 
spoon. Flour, 3 quarts. 

Mix sugar, salt and shortening, pour hot water over and let 
stand till shortening is melted, then add milk and yeast cake and 
lastly flour. Stir thoroughly till it is quite stiff without being hard 
and tough. It may need more flour. Let rise in a warm place 
over night. In the morning make into 4 loaves putting a bit of 
butter between loaves. Let rise till slightly rounding at top of 
pan and bake 45 minutes. Mother, South Weymouth. 

GLUTEN BREAD. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Egg, 1. 

Milk, 1 pint. Yeast, 14 cake. 

Butter, 1 teaspoon. Gluten. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Pour the water into the milk, add the butter and salt and let 
stand until lukewarm. Then add the egg well beaten, the yeast 
dissolved, and enough gluten to make a soft batter. Cover and 
stand in a warm place to rise, then add enough gluten to make 
a soft dough and knead it well. Form it into 4 loaves and let 
rise again. Bake for 1 hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Yeast, 1 cake. Lard or butter. 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, 1 cup. Graham flour, 4 cups. 

Lukewarm water, 1 cup. White flour, 1 cup. 

Molasses. 4 tablespoons. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Dissolve yeast and molasses in the lukewarm water and milk, 
which has been scalded and cooled, add butter or lard melted, and 
stir in flour and salt Gradually till dough is just stiff enough to 
be handled. Knead thoroughly keeping doutrh soft. Co\;er and 
lot rise in warm place for about 2 hours or until doubled in bulk. 
Then turn out on board, knead into loaves and place in well 
buttered pans. Let rise again till licrht and bake 1 hour in a slow 
oven. Mrs. Plain Face. 



14 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



ECONOMICAL BROWN BREAD. 

Slices of stale bread, 3. Molasses, i/2 CU P- 

Rolled oats, y 2 cup. Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon. 

Cornmeal, V/ 2 cups. Salt, pinch. 

Soak the bread in hot water to cover until soft. Moisten the 
rolled oats and cornmeal with enough cold water to wet thoroughly. 
Combine the mixtures and add the molasses, soda and salt. Steam 
for three hours. Mrs. 8. D., Wellesley. 

STEAMED BRAN BREAD. 

Bran, i/ 2 cup. Molasses, 2 cups. 

Graham flour, iy 2 cups. Hot water, l 1 /^ cups. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Raisins, 1 cup. 

Mix all ingredients, dissolving soda in hot water before adding. 
Steam 4 or 5 hours in small greased tins. 

BREAD WITH A BREAD MIXER. 

Milk, 1 cup. Lard or butter, 1 heaping table- 

Water, 1 cup. spoon. 

Sugar, 1 heaping teaspoon. Flour, 5 or 6 cups. 

Salt, a pinch. Yeast cake, y 2 . 

Warm water, y cup. 

Scald milk and pour over shortening to dissolve. Pour milk 
and water into bread mixer and, when lukewarm, add yeast dis- 
solved in warm water, sugar and salt. Stir until thoroughly 
mixed, then add 2 or 3 cups of sifted flour and beat thoroughly 
with a spoon till light. Add remaining flour, adjust the kneader 
and knead rather slowly for 15 minutes. There should be enough 
flour to form into a ball when kneaded, but not enough to make 
dough stiff and dry. Set to rise in a warm place well covered, over 
night. In the morning cut away from kneader with a knife and 
knead for 10 minutes or longer. Remove to floured board and 
knead with the hands for 5 minutes. Shape into loaves and place 
in bread pans. Let rise till nearly to top of pans, put in fairly hot 
oven, reduce the heat after 10 minutes and bake % of an hour. 
Makes 2 loaves. L. B. G., Allston. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 15 



RYE BREAD. 

Rye flour, 1 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Corn meal, y 2 pint. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Wheat flour, y 2 pint. Butter or lard, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. Milk % pint. 

Sift together rye flour, cornmeal, wheat flour, sugar, salt and 
baking powder; rub in shortening, add milk. Mix into smooth 
batter. Pour into well greased tin, bake in moderate oven about 
45 minutes. Protect loaf with paper first 20 minutes. 

ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Sour milk, 1 quart. 

Soda, 2 teaspoons. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Whole wheat flour, 8 cups. 

Mix soda with molasses till it foams, then add to milk. Sift 
in salt and flour enough to make as stiff as fruit cake dough, at 
least 8 cups. Put into bread pans and let stand in a warm place 
from 30 to 45 minutes, then bake about 1 hour in a slow oven. 

R. P., Newtonville. 

OATMEAL BROWN BREAD. 

Rolled oats, 1 cup. Molasses, y 2 cup. 

Boiling water. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cornmeal, 1% cups. Sour milk, 2 cups. 

Flour, 1% cups. Soda, 2 teaspoons. 

Cover rolled oats with boiling water and let stand 15 minutes. 
Then add rest of ingredients in order given, dissolving soda in sour 
milk. Mix well and steam 4 hours. Egleston Square. 

BRAN BAKING POWDER BREAD 

Flour, 1 quart. Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. 

Bran, 1 quart. Shortening, iy 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, iy 2 tablespoons. Milk, 1 pint. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Currants. 2 cups. 

Mix dry ingredients, rub in shortening, then add milk (water 
may be used) and last of all the currants dredged with flour. Bake 
about l 1 hours in a rather hot oven. Makes 2 small loaves. 



16 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



VIRGINIA SALT RISING BREAD. 

Salt, iy 2 teaspoons. Milk, 1 pint. 

Boiling water, 2 cups. Flour. 

Dissolve y 2 teaspoon of salt in boiling water and beat in 
gradually enough flour to make a soft dough. Beat for 10 minutes, 
cover and set in a warm place to rise for 8 hours. Dissolve re- 
maining teaspoon of salt in the milk and add enough flour to make 
a stiff batter, then add to risen dough. Mix and knead thoroughly 
and set to rise in a warm place till very light. Knead in enough 
flour to make consistency of ordinary bread dough, shape into 
loaves, let rise and when light bake as for bread. 

Mrs. A. 0. Y., Eoxbury. 

DARK OATMEAL BREAD. 

Rolled oats, 3 cups. Water, iy 2 cups. 

Molasses, 2-3 cup. Milk, iy> cups. 

Yeast cake, y 2 . Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Flour. 

Mix molasses, salt, butter and oats and pour on milk heated 
to the scalding point. Let stand till lukewarm, then add the yeast 
dissolved in a little warm water and enough flour to make a stiff 
batter, but not to knead. Let rise overnight. In the morning stir 
or cut with knife and put in bread tins. Let rise and bake slowly 
for an hour. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

Milk, 1 cup. Yeast, y 2 cake. 

Butter or lard, 1 teaspoon. Flour, 1% cups. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Cooked oatmeal, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 2 teaspoons. Warm water, 2 tablespoons. 

Scald the milk and in it melt the butter. Let cool and add 
the yeast, salt and sugar which have been creamed together and 
dissolved in 2 tablespoons warm water. Add flour enough to make 
a drop batter after beating well. Let rise till light and foamy in 
a warm place, then stir in lightly the oatmeal, which should be 
freshly made and warm. Let dough rise, covered, till double its 
bulk, shape into small loaves and let rise again. Bake in hot oven 
about 1 hour. 



BREAD AND Mri-nxs. 17 



OATMEAL ROLLS. 

Milk. 1 cup. Salt, i/ 2 teaspoon. 

Rolled oats, 1 cup. Yeast, 1 cake. 

Butter, 3 tablespoons. Lukewarm water, 1,4 cup. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Egg whites, 2. 

Flour. 

Scald the milk and pour over the oats, add butter, sugar and 
salt. When cool add yeast dissolved in the lukewarm water, well 
beaten egg whites and flour enough to knead well. Let rise till 
double in bulk and shape into small rolls. Let rise again and bake. 

BAKING POWDER OATMEAL BREAD. 

Oatmeal, % pint. Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. 

Flour, 11/2 pints. Milk, % pint. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Water, iy 2 pints. 

Boil the oatmeal in the water, well salted, 1 hour, add milk, 
and set aside until cold. Then place in bowl and add the flour 
mixed and sifted with the salt and baking powder. Mix very 
smooth. Bake about 45 minutes in medium oven. 

PRUNE BROWN BREAD. 

Whole wheat flour, 2y 2 pounds. Melted butter, 3 tablespoons. 
Brown sugar, 3 tablespoons. Yeast cake. 1. 

Milk, 3 cups. Prunes, 1 cup. 

Scald the milk and let cool somewhat, add sugar, yeast and 
flour and let rise till doubled in buV" Then add butter and prunes, 
washed, stoned and chopped fine. Knead well, and shape in bread 
pan. Let rise once more and bake in slow oven. Soutli Xaficl-. 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Sugar, 11/2 cups. Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Shortening, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons 

Milk, 1 cup. Salt, 

Flour. 

Mix ingredients and add flour enough to make quite still'. Just 
before baking sprinkle sugar over top. Serve hot. 



18 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



NUT BREAD. 

Flour, 3 cups. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, % cup. Egg, 1. 

Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. Milk, 1 cup. 

Chopped walnut meats, % cup. 

Sift together flour, sugar, baking powder and salt, add egg, 
well beaten, milk and walnut meats. Mix all thoroughly, turn into 
bread tin and let stand for 20 minutes. Bake in medium oven. 

NUT BREAD. 

Graham flour, 2 cups Warm water, 1 tablespoon. 

White flour, 1 cup. Molasses, 3 /4 cup. 

Sour milk, iy 2 cups. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Soda, 1 rounding teaspoon. Nuts, % cup. 

Dissolve soda in warm water and chop nuts before adding. 
Bake in a slow oven for 1 hour. Mrs. E. P. G., Reading. 

EGOLESS GINGERBREAD. 

Shortening, 1-3 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Molasses, y 2 cup. Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Brown sugar, y 2 CU P- Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Sour milk, % CU P- Salt, V 2 teaspoon. 

Flour, 2 cups. 

Cream shortening, molasses and sugar until smooth, add milk 
and soda dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water. Sift spices and salt 
with flour. Bake in a tubed pan in a moderate oven for 40 min- 
utes. One-half cup of seeded raisins may be added if desired. 

LANCASTER GINGERBREAD. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Sour milk, 1 cup. 

Butter, 2-3 cup. Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 3. Soda, iy 2 teaspoons. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Flour, 3y 2 cups. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, molasses and 
sour milk, and soda and ginger sifted with the flour. This makes 
three small or two large loaves. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 19 



SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Flour, 4 cups. 

Butter, 1 cup. Ginger, 1 tablespoon. 

Sour milk, 1 cup. Nutmeg and cinnamon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Soda, 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 3. Salt. 

Cream butter and sugar and add remaining ingredients in order 
given, beating the eggs and sifting dry ingredients together. Citron, 
raisins and currants may be added for a fruit cake or blueberries 
added for a good berry cake. Eternal Progress. 

CHOCOLATE GINGERBREAD. 

Sour milk, y 2 cup. Soda, 14 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. ^'ater, 2 tablespoons. 

Ginger, 1 teaspoon. Grated chocolate, 4 table- 
Mace, y> teaspoon. spoons. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Flour, 2 cups. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Seeded raisins, y 2 cup. 

Mix ingredients in order given, dissolving soda in water before 
adding and flouring raisins well. Put into a buttered and floured 
cake tin and bake in a steady oven 45 minutes. 

FRUIT BREAD. 

Raisins, 2 pounds. English walnuts, y 2 pound. 

Currants, 1 pound. Hickory nuts, i/ 2 pound. 

Brown sugar, 1 pound. Cinnamon, 1 tablespoon. 

Prunes, 1 pound. Cloves, 1 tablespoon. 

Dried apples, 1 pound. Sweet anise, 2 tablespoons. 

Dried pears, 1 pound. Lemon, 1. 

Citron, y pound. Flour. 

Almonds, 14 pound. Yeast, 1 cake. 

Cook each dried fruit separately. Stone prunes when cold. 
Dissolve yeast in juice of cooked fruits and add enough flour to make 
a sponge. Let rise, then add fruit and nuts, all chopped, siuar 
and spices. Make stiff by adding more flour and let rise again. 
Mold into loaves, let rise until light and bake. 



20 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



QUICK BUTTERMILK BREAD. 

Flour, 1 pint. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Buttermilk, 1 cup. 

Sift dry ingredients and stir in the buttermilk. Make into 
a loaf and bake in a moderate oven % of an hour. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Rye meal, 1 cup. Milk, 2 cups. 

Cornmeal, 2 cups. Molasses, 1 cup. 

Salt, 14 teaspoon. Egg, 1. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. Raisins, 1 cup. 

Sift together dry ingredients, add milk, molasses and egg well 
beaten. Stir in raisins whole or cut up. Steam for 4 hours in 
closely covered buttered mold. Keep water boiling constantly. 

8. W. E., Wollaston. 

NUT BISCUITS. 

Pastry flour, 1 quart. Shortening, 4 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Cold water. 

Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. Chopped nuts. 

Brown sugar. 

Sift dry ingredients, rub in shortening and add enough cold 
water to make a dough to roll out. Roll % inch thick and spread 
thickly with a mixture of chopped nuts and brown sugar. Roll 
sheet up like a jelly roll and cut in slices. Bake round side down 
on a buttered sheet in a hot oven. Patty Pans. 

STEAMED RAISIN BREAD. 

Cornmeal, 1 cup. Baking soda, 14 teaspoon. 

Sour milk, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Graham flour, 2 cups. 

Molasses, % cup. Sultana raisins. 1 cup. 

Scald cornmeal with sufficient hot water to moisten it well. 

When cool add remaining ingredients in order given, sifting flour, 

soda and baking powder together. Steam in a buttered, covered 
mold for 2y 2 hours. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 21 



POTATO BREAD. 

Mashed potato, 3 cups. Milk, 2 cups. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Yeast cake, y 2 . 

Flour, 9 cups. 

Have the potatoes finely mashed and with no lumps. Add the 
salt and 1 cup of the milk. Beat until light and white. In the 
second cup of milk dissolve the yeast cake and add. Sift in flour 
gradually. Let dough rise until light, cut it down and let rise 
again. Place on the molding board and shape into 2 loaves, let rise 
again and bake 1 hour. 

SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Milk, 2 cups. 

Hominy or rice, 2 cups. White cornmeal, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2 or 3. Salt, a dash. 

Mix butter with hominy or rice, which should be fresh and boil- 
ing hot. Add the eggs beaten and, very slowly, the milk, stirring 
all the time. Lastly add cornmeal and salt. The mixture should 
be of the consistency of pancake batter. Turn into a deep dish and 
bake % of an hour. Serve hot with a spoon from the dish in which 
it was baked. Butter liberally. R. E. L. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. (1) 

Butter, 1 cup. Powdered sugar, y 2 cup. 

Pastry flour, 2 cups. 

Knead all together thoroughly and roll out to i/o-inch thick- 
ness. Cut in squares or triangles, crimp edges and bake until light 
brown. New Machar, Dorchester. 

SCOTCH SHORTBREAD. (2) 

Butter, % pound. Powdered sugar, 1 pound. 

Flour, 1 pound. Cinnamon, 1 tablespoon. 

Eggs, 3. 

Rub together the flour and butter. Then knead in the sugar 
and cinnamon. Mix to a dough with the beaten eu-s ;md roll 
out y 2 inch thick. Cut in round cakes, crimp the edges and bake 
in a quick oven for a few minutes till a delicate brown. 



22 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



NORWEGIAN BREAD. 

Barley meal, 1 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Graham flour, y 2 pi nt - Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

White flour, i/ 2 pint. Milk, 1 pint. 

Sift together dry ingredients, mix into a firm dough with the 
milk, pour into a greased tin and bake in a moderate oven 40 min- 
utes, covering with paper for 25 minutes. 

Mme. X,, Eoxbury. 

HOMINY BREAD. 

Cooked hominy, 2 cups. Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Sour cream, 1 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 4. Baking soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Sifted flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Mash the hominy with the sour cream, beat in the yolks of the 
eggs, add the melted butter, salt, baking soda, flour and the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into well buttered tin and 
bake in quick oven. 

NORTH SHORE BREAD. 

Boiling water, 2 cups. Molasses, y 2 cup. 

Indian meal, l / 2 cup. Yeast cake, 1. 

Lard, 1 tablespoon. Salt. 

White flour. 

Pour boiling water over meal, add lard and molasses. When 
lukewarm add yeast cake, a pinch of salt and flour to make stiff. 
Let rise over night and proceed as with white bread. Makes 1 
loaf and 10 biscuits. B. R. S., South Weymoutli. 

PUMPKIN BREAD. 

Cornmeal, 1/2 cup. Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Stewed pumpkin, 1 cup. Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Mix ingredients in order given, beat all to a smooth batter and 
bake in greased bread tin for 30 minutes in moderate oven. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 23 



RAISED CORNMEAL BREAD. 

Cornmeal, i/ 2 cup. Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Yeast cake, y 2 . 

Lard or butter, 1 tablespoon. Warm water, y 2 cup. 

Molasses, y 2 cup. Flour. 

Into a bread mixer put the corn meal and slowly pour over 
it the boiling water, stirring all the time. When smooth, add the 
lard or butter, molasses and salt. Stir well and let cool. When 
lukewarm dissolve the yeast in the warm water and add it to mix- 
ture with enough bread flour to make a stiff dough. Knead well 
and set to rise where it is warm. Next morning knead again and put 
in bread pans to rise and bake. Egleston Square. 

SANDWICH BREAD. 

Brown sugar, y cup. Whole wheat flour, 2 cups. 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, y 2 cup. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Hickory nuts, y 2 cup. 

Beat egg, add sugar and beat again. Measure flour after sift- 
ing. Add flour sifted with baking powder and salt, alternately with 
the milk. Chop nuts and beat in last. Pour into buttered bread 
tin and let stand 20 minutes. Brush over with melted butter and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

CARAWAY BREAD. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Yeast cake, 1. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Lukewarm water, y 2 cup. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Caraway seeds, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, 2 cups. Rye flour, 6 cups. 

Entire wheat flour, V/ 2 cups. 

Over the butter, sugar and salt in a deep bowl pour the milk, 
scalded. When mixture is lukewarm add the yeast cake, dissolved 
in the lukewarm water, the caraway seeds and the rye flour. Mix 
well and turn out on floured board. Knead in the entire \\hr.it 
flour. Return to bowl and let rise until it is double in bulk. Again 
knead slightly, shape into loaves and put in buttered bread pans. 
Cover, let rise again and bake in medium <>ven. 



24 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



PHYSICAL CULTURE LOAF. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Salt, 1 saltspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Graham flour, 2 cups. 

Sour milk, % cup. Dates, 1 pound. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. Walnuts, 14 pound. 

Cream butter and sugar, dissolve soda in a little warm water, 
add to milk, then add milk to butter and sugar, stir in flour and 
lastly dates pitted and chopped and walnuts chopped. Bake in 
a slow oven l^ hours. Let stand 24 hours before cutting. 

New York Girl. 

CUSTARD CORN CAKE. 

Corn meal, y 2 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Flour, y 2 cup. Sour milk, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Soda, 1 rounding teaspoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Sweet milk, 1 cup. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add well beaten eggs and sour milk 
in which soda has been dissolved. Put butter in pan in which cake 
is to be baked and let it melt in the oven. Pour in cake batter and 
lastly pour into the centre of the cake the sweet milk, without 
mixing in either butter or milk. Bake at once. 

Egleston Square. 

EGG ROLLS. 

Shortening, 2 tablespoons. Milk, 2 cups. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Egg, 1. 

Sugar, 2 teaspoons. Yeast cake, 1. 

Flour, 5 cups. 

Pour the hot milk over shortening, salt and sugar. Cool, add 
beaten egg, yeast cake and flour. Let rise in a warm place until 
doubled in bulk, about 3y 2 hours, then roll out gently on molding 
board. Cut with cutter and form into oblongs. Rub melted butter 
on half of each and fold over other half. Let rise again for about 
2 hours. Bake 40 minutes. Makes 2 dozen large rolls. 

Mother, South Weymouth. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 25 



GRAHAM FRUIT BREAD. 

<ira ha m Hour, 2 cups. Water, 4 tablespoons. 

White flour, 1 cup. Sour milk, 1 cup. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Chopped nut meats, l / 2 cup. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Sultana raisins, 1/2 cup. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. Chopped dates, y 2 cup. 

Sift flour into bowl, add ingredients in order given. Mix and 
turn into buttered and floured bread tin. Bake in moderate oven 
for 1 hour. 

SOUR CREAM BISCUITS. 

Flour, 1 quart. Baking soda, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 level teaspoon. Buttermilk, 1 cup. 

Sour cream, 1 cup. 

Sift together the flour, salt, and soda. Have ready a well 
floured pan and have the oven hot. Quickly mix in the butter- 
milk and sour cream. Handle quickly, shaping into biscuits and 
bake at once. 

FLOWER ROLLS. 

Flour, 1 quart. Milk. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Egg, 1. 

Butter, % cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Sift flour and baking powder, rub in y cup of butter and mix 
with milk to the consistency of biscuit dough. Eoll out square and 
less than an inch thick. Cream the remaining half cup of butter 
with the sugar and beat in the egg. Spread this mixture on tli<> 
dough, then roll up like a jelly roll .and cut off slices an inch thick. 
Lay in well tmttered dripping pan on round side and bake in hot 
oven. 

ENGLISH TEA BISCUITS. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, 1 cup. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Almond flavoring, y 2 teaspoon. Salt, y 4 teaspoon. 

Milk, y 2 cup. 

Beat eggs and sugar, add flavoring and Hour sifted with sail 
and baking powder. Beat till smooth, then beat, in quickly the milk 
which has been heated to scalding point. Bake in gem pans. 



26 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



RYE ROLLS. 

Flour, iy 2 cups. Rye meal, y 2 CU P- 

Sugar, 2 teaspoons. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Shortening, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk. 

Measure flour after sifting and then sift again with sugar, salt, 
baking powder and meal. Work in the shortening and add enough 
milk to make a soft dough that can be kneaded. Knead lightly, 
roll out to i/4-inch thickness, cut with biscuit cutter. Butter y 2 of 
each biscuit very lightly, fold over, pinch together and place in an 
unbuttered biscuit tin. Let rise 10 minutes and bake in a hot oven. 

ROLLED OATS GEMS. 

Rolled oats, iy 2 cups. Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, iy 2 cups. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Egg, 1. Flour, 2 cups. 

Soak the rolled oats in the milk for 2 hours, then add the egg, 
well beaten, the sugar and the flour and baking powder, sifted to- 
gether. Bake in well greased gem tins. 

GEORGIA SWEET POTATO BISCUIT. 

Flour, 1 pint. Lard, 1 tablespoon. 

Mashed sweet potato, 1 pint. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Buttermilk. 

Bake the potatoes and run them through a meat grinder be- 
fore measuring them, then mix with the flour and sugar, rub in the 
lard and add soda and enough buttermilk to mix to aigood biscuit 
dough. Allow the dough to stand several hours, then mold into 
biscuits and bake slowly in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. F. C., Beverly. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Graham flour, 1 quart. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Brown sugar, 1 tablespoon. Egg, 1. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1 pint. 

Sift together dry ingredients, add beaten egg and milk. Fill 
well greased muffin tins 2-3 full. 



BREAD AXD MUFFINS. 27 



MAPLE TEA BISCUIT. 

Flour, 4 cups. Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Butter, 1-3 cup. 

Grated maple sugar, 1 cup. Milk. 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder together, rub in the butter 
and add enough milk to make a dough that can be rolled out. Stir 
in the maple sugar and roll out to ^-inch thickness. Cut into 
biscuits and bake in a quick oven. 

BRAN GEMS. 

Bran, y 2 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1/2 pint. Eggs, 2. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Molasses, l / 2 cup. 

Milk, 1 pint. 

Add ingredients in order given, beating eggs before adding. 
Mix well and bake in moderate oven from 30 to 35 minutes. 

POTATO MUFFINS. 

Potatoes, 3. Eggs, 2. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour. 

Boil and mash the medium-sized potatoes, add salt and butter 
and beat w T ell. Add beaten eggs, milk and baking powder sifted in 
enough flour to make a medium batter. Bake on a hot, greased 
griddle in rings. 

RICE MUFFINS. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Flour, 2 cups. 

Salt, !/2 teaspoon. Eggs, 2. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Milk, 1 cup. 

Boiled rice, 1 cup. 



Mix sugar, salt and baking powder with the flour and sift twice. 
Beat the eggs and add milk to them. Stir this gradually into the 
flour. When a smooth light paste, add the rice and beat thoroughly. 
Bake 35 minutes in hot mvasrd muffin tins. This makes 16 muffins. 



28 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



RAISED SQUASH MUFFINS. 

Squash (cooked or strained), Yeast cake, y 2 - 

1 cup. 
Lard or butter, 1 heaping table- Lukewarm water, y 2 cup. 

spoon. 
Sugar, y 2 cup. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Flour. 

Cream butter and squash together. Stir in sugar and yeast 
dissolved in the water. Add soda also dissolved in a few drops of 
warm water and enough flour to make a soft dough. Mix thoroughly 
and let rise over night. In morning mold into muffins in buttered 
muffin tins. Let rise again and bake in moderate oven. 

SWEET MUFFINS. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Milk, 1 pint. 

Egg, 1. Flour, 3 cups. 

Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add beaten egg, milk and 
butter. Beat hard and bake in quick oven. 

EGG MUFFINS. 

Flour, 1 quart. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Eggs, 3. 

Milk, li/4 pints. 

Sift together dry ingredients, rub in butter, add beaten eggs 
and milk. Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. 

CREAM MUFFINS. 

Flour, iy 2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

Baking powder, iy 2 teaspoons. Melted butter, 14 cup. 

Salt, 1-3 teaspoon. Cream, 2-3 cup. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt. Add the yolks of the eggs, 
beaten light, the melted butter and the cream. Beat well, then fold 
in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake 20 minutes. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 29 



RICE AND MEAL MUFFINS. 

Milk, iy cups. Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. 

White cornmeal, 1 cup. Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Boiled rice, 1 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Scald milk and pour on cornmeal, cover and let stand 10 min- 
utes. Add rice and flour sifted with sugar, salt and baking powder, 
lastly well beaten eggs and butter. Beat hard and bake in hot oven. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS. 

Oatmeal, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Flour, 11/2 pints. Lard, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, 1 pint. 

Sift together dry ingredients, rub in lard, add beaten eggs and 
milk. Beat well and bake in hot oven 15 minutes. 

BUTTERMILK BRAN MUFFINS. 

Bran, 2 cups. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Buttermilk, % pint. Molasses, y 4 cup. 

Chopped dates, y 2 CU P- 

Mix ingredients, dissolving soda in a tablespoon of hot water 
before adding. Add dates last, dredged with flour. Bake 45 min- 
utes in greased muffin tins. 

PINEAPPLE MUFFINS. 

Eggs, 2. Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. 

Melted butter, 1-3 cup. Sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Flour, 1 quart. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Pineapple, 1 cup. 

Beat eggs, stir in milk and butter slowly. Add flour sifted 
before measuring, and again with baking powder, sugar and salt. 
Mix well and add grated fresh pineapple. Bake about 1/2 hour in 
hot greased muffin tins. If canned pineapple is used, omit sugar. 

Don't Worry. 



30 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



BLUEBERRY MUFFINS. 

Butter, 1-3 cup. Milk, % cup. 

Sugar, 14 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. 

Blueberries, 1 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg yolks and milk alter- 
nately with sifted flour and baking powder. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten egg white and berries and bake in well greased muffin tins. 

CRANBERRY MUFFINS. 

Flour, 2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. Milk, li/ 2 cups. 

Sugar, i/o cup. Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Cranberries, 1 cup. 

Beat eggs, add milk and sugar, stir till sugar is dissolved. Add 
butter and flour sifted twice with baking powder, stir to a smooth 
batter. Stir in cranberries cut in halves. Bake 20 minutes in 
greased muffin tins. 

BAKED BEAN MUFFINS. 

Cooked baked beans, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Egg, 1. Flour, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, y 2 CU P- Indian meal, i/ 2 cup. 

Mash baked beans to a paste, add well beaten egg, sugar, salt 
and milk. Mix and sift in flour and baking powder, lastly stir in 
Indian meal. Mix well and bake in quick oven. 

SWISS MUFFINS. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Sugar, 3 tablespoons. Eggs, 4. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Flour, iy 2 pints. 

Milk, 1/2 pint. 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks, one at a time, beating 
each as it is added. Sift dry ingredients and add with milk. Lastly 
fold in egg whites beaten till stiff and dry. Half fill greased muffin 
tins and bake in hot oven 12 minutes. Mme. X., Roxbury. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 31 



POTATO GEMS. 

Cold mashed potato, 1 cup. Egg, 1. 

Milk, 1 cup. Cornmeal, 1 cup. 

Baking powder, iy 2 teaspoons. 

The mashed potato should be very smooth and without lumps. 
Add to it the milk, the egg, beaten, and the cornmeal and baking 
powder sifted together. Drop in hot greased gem pans. 

BRAN MUFFINS. 

Bran, 2 cups. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Wheat flour, 1 cup. Molasses, 6 tablespoons. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Mix the bran and flour sifted with the soda. Add the milk to 
the molasses, stir well, then add the bran mixture. Beat well and 
bake in hot greased muffin tins. 

DATE GEMS. 

Flour, 2 cups. Butter, 1-3 cup. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Dates, 1 cup. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Egg, 1. 

Milk, 1 1-3 cups. 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together and rub into 
this the butter. Add the dates, chopped fine, the egg, well beaten, 
and the milk. Bake in hot greased gem pans for 15 minutes. 

QUICK COFFEE CAKE. 

Flour, 3 cups. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Egg, 1. 

Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. Milk, 1% cups. 

Butter or lard, 2 tablespoons. Raisins or currants, % cup. 

Mix and sift the flour, salt and baking powder, rub in the 
butter, add the sugar and mix to a light, soft dough with the well 
beaten egg and milk. Lastly add the raisins or currants well floured. 
Turn into a large shallow biscuit pan, sprinkle all over with sugar 
and cinnamon, and bake in a moderate oven for from 20 to 30 
minutes. 



32 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



HONEY MUFFINS. 

Flour, 3 cups. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, i/o teaspoon. Eggs, 3. 

Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. Milk, i/ 2 cup. 

Strained honey, 1 cup. 

Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder, rub in the but- 
ter, add the well beaten eggs, milk and honey. Beat until smooth 
and bake in hot, greased muffin tins. 

CHEESE MUFFINS. 

Flour, 2 cups. Melted butter, 14 cup. 

Baking powder, 2 rounding Egg, 1. 

teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Grated cheese, 14 cup. 

Sugar, 14 cup. Milk, 1 cup. 

Sift together dry ingredients, add butter, beaten egg, cheese 
and milk. Stir well and bake in well buttered muffin tins. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Egg, 1. Milk, 1 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg, flour sifted with the 
baking powder, and milk. Cook in round shallow pan, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar when baked and serve hot for tea, cutting in sec- 
tions like a pie. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Flour, 1 pound. Butter, 2 ounces. 

Sugar, 1 ounce. Milk, % pint. 

Currants. 2 ounces. Salt, a pinch. 

Baking powder, 2 dessertspoons. Meringue. 

Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder. Heat the milk 
slightly and in it dissolve the sugar and melt the butter. Mix with 
the flour and knead into a smooth dough. Form into round cak^s 
and bake half an hour. Brush over with white of egg mixed with 
powdered sugar, in form of a cross. Mrs. H. J. K., Plymouth. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 33 



ENGLISH BATH BUNS. 

Yeast, 2 cakes. Flour, 4 cups. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 6 tablespoons. Eggs, 4. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Almonds, 1 cup. 

Dissolve the yeast cakes and one tablespoon of sugar in the milk, 
which should be lukewarm. Add the butter, melted, the eggs, un- 
beaten, and gradually flour sifted with the salt. The mixture should 
be thick but not stiff enough to handle. Cover and let rise in a warm 
place l l /2 hours or until light. Sprinkle the remaining 5 tablespoons 
of sugar, and the almonds, chopped fine, over the top, mix very 
lightly and drop into well greased muffin pans. Cover and let 
rise until light which should be about y 2 hour. Bake 15 to 20 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Don't Worry. 

COFFEE BUNS. 

Milk, 2 cups. Tepid water, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Eggs, 2. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Flour, 5 cups. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Currants. 

Yeast, i/2 ca ke. Cinnamon. 

Scald the milk, let cool and add ingredients in order named, 
dissolving yeast cake in tepid water and beating eggs before adding. 
Let rise till doubled in bulk. Roll out V 2 inch thick, spread with 
melted butter, dredge with sugar, a sprinkle of cinnamon and a 
handful of currants. Roll up like a jelly roll, cut in slices 3 /4-mch 
thick and lay in baking pan round side down. Let rise and bake in 
quick oven. Mrs. 8. K. of the W. R. C., Roxburi/. 

CINNAMON SQUARES. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Flour, 21-4 cups. 

Shortening, 1 tablespoon. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, 1 cup. Cinnamon. 

Butter and brown sugar. 

Cream shortening and sugar, add milk and flour and baking 
powder sifted together. Spread thin in shallow greased tin, dot 
with bits of butter, sprinkle generously with brown sugar and cin- 
namon and bake. Cut in squares and serve hot. 



34 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



POPOVERS. 

Eggs, 2. Milk, 2 cups. 

Flour, 2 cups. Salt, pinch. 

To the eggs, well beaten, add, gradually beating in, the flour, 
milk, and salt. Have ready hot, buttered custard cups, fill half full 
of batter and bake about 25 minutes. These may also be used with 
a fruit sauce as a dessert. 

GRAHAM POPOVERS. 

Graham flour, 3 cups. Milk, 2 cups. 

Salt, a pinch. Eggs, 2. 

Sift flour before measuring. Then sift again with salt, pour 
on slowly the milk. Beat eggs till very light and thick, add to first 
mixture and beat all together for 2 minutes. Turn at once into 
hot buttered gem pans. Bake in hot oven 30 minutes. 

P. D., Newtonville. 

FINGER STICKS. 

Cream, ^ cup. Yeast cake, 1. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Lukewarm water, 14 cup. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Flour, iy 2 cups. 

Scald cream, add sugar and salt and when lukewarm add the 
yeast cake dissolved in the lukewarm water and lastly the sifted 
flour. Beat well and toss on floured board. Knead and return to 
bowl. Cover and let rise till it has doubled its size. Roll out to 
14 inch thickness and cut in fingershaped strips. Arrange on but- 
tered sheet, cover again, let rise and bake until delicately browned. 
Brush over with milk and return to the oven for 1 minute. 

SCONES. 

Flour, 1 pound. Salt, a pinch. 

Butter, 3 ounces. Baking powder, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk. 

Mix and sift flour, salt and baking powder, rub in the butter 
and add sufficient milk to make a thick paste. Roll out to ^ inch 
thickness, cut out in triangles and bake in a quick oven. Handle as 
little as possible. Mrs. H. J. E., Plymouth. 



BREAD AND MUFFINS. 35 



HONEY BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Flour, 11/2 pints. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Honey, 1 cup. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Eggs, 3. 

Milk, 1/2 pint. 

Sift together dry ingredients, rub in butter and add beaten 
eggs, milk and honey. Bake in loaf in quick oven for 10 minutes. 

BUTTER CAKES. 

Flour, 1 pint. Butter, 2 rounding tablespoons. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Milk. 

Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Sift dry ingredients twice and rub in butter. Mix to a soft 
dough with milk, roll out % of an inch thick and cut in round 
cakes. Lay on a moderately hot greased griddle and when puffy 
and brown turn and brown the other side. Tear open, butter 
liberally and serve. Mrs. A. K. J., South Boston. 

BLUEBERRY BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Sugar, 3 tablespoons. Milk, 1 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Flour, 3 cups. 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 2i/o teaspoons. 

Salt, 2 teaspoons. Blueberries, 1 pint. 

Cream butter and sugar, add egg, well beaten and milk. Sift 
in the dry ingredients and mix well. Dredge berries with flour and 
add the last thing. 

SULTANA SCONES. 

Flour, 2 cups. Sultana raisins, 2 ounces. 

Sugar, 2 ounces. Egg, 1. 

Butter, 2 ounces. Milk. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Mix all well, using just enough milk to moisten. Roll out, brush 
over top with beaten egg and cut into squares. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 



36 BREAD AND MUFFINS. 



BAKING POWDER. (1) 

Cream of tartar, 1 pound, 2 Cooking soda, y 2 pound, 
ounces. Cornstarch, 1-3 pound. 

Sift and mix thoroughly. Keep in tight cans. 

BAKING POWDER. (2) 

Cream of tartar, 1 pound. Baking soda, y 2 pound. 

Pastry flour, y 2 pound. 

Be sure soda is pure. Mix all thoroughly and sift four times 
through a fine sieve or once through cheese cloth. 





^ 















4-tC 









*f* a:t + 

\ ^^7 














^ 

/ 2 




t* v 



n 




fy *y 




&? 





// 














*. 



\ 




MAPLF, FAVORITKS. 

Maple Caramel C.ike. One-half cup 
butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, one and a half cups flour, two ami 
a half teaspoons baking powder, one- 
half teaspoon vanilla. Cream butter, 
add su.-;ir gradually, add the yolks of 
the .veil beaten, then the whites 

ten until stiff. Add milk, flour 
sifted with baking powder, and 1 
well, add vanilla, bake in layers or 
loaf. 

Maple Dessert. Two eggs, one pint 
of cream, one-half cup of sugar, three- 
fourths cup of maple syrup, beat eg-g-s 
xmtil thick, and lemon colored, whip 
cream thin, beat eggs ami cream to- 



gether, add sugar and maple syrup 01 
flavor with one-half cup of candiec 
fruit. Cut in small pieces and pack ir 
ice for five hours. 

Maple Cake. One-quarter cup but 
ter, one cup of maple sugar, two egg 
whites, one-half cup milk, one am 
two-thirds cups flour, one and a hall 
level teaspoons baking powder, one- 
fourth teaspoon vanilla. Bake in loai 
tin. Cream butter, adding sugar grad 
ually till mixture is very smooth. 
Beat egg whites stiff and add flour 
and baking powder alternately with the 
milk, and bake in moderate oven forty- 
five minutes. 

Delicious Maple Frosting. Cream 
one cup of maple sugar with one fourth 
cup butter till very creamy. Flavor 
with a few drops vanilla and spread on 
cake with a broad bladed knife while 
cake is hot. This is especially good on 
maple cake. 

Maple Sandwiches. Put one cup of 
finely shaved map-le sugar through the 
meat chopper with one cup of blanched 
mix_this to a -paste with thick 



s.iap-G9.i SIT jc 
9U.1 Sutpuajap ut 
jo suumjoo s}i tuojj 

Suipnjoxa ui 

aaoui sasiojaxa jadBd O 
-UI91UOO SIT UJIM lajj-enb }ou s 

-seiuaqos Suinas >pois AuBduioo AUI: 



.. OU 

PUTJS 05 8X-B OU S-Bl{ 9JK[ IV.inU 

9i[} 9^'eioejdd'B spueui jrif~k 

t . V \J 

'iI6T jo sinuoui 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 37 



SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Egg whites, 5. Cream of tartar, y 2 teaspoon. 

Egg yolks. 4. Sugar, % cup. 

Salt, y s teaspoon. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

Pastry flour, i/ 2 cup. 

Add salt to egg whites and beat until light, add cream of tartar 
and continue beating until very stiff and dry. Beat yolks until thick 
and lemon colored and add 2 heaping teaspoons of the beaten whites. 
To the remaining whites add slowly, beating constantly, the sugar 
sifted five times, and vanilla. Combine mixtures carefully and cut 
and fold in flour measured after five siftings. Turn into an angel 
cake pan dipped in cold water and bake in a slow oven 45 to 50 
minutes. Don't Worry. 

OLD-FASHIONED LOAF CAKE. 

Bread dough, 3 cups. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 cup. Nutmeg, 1 pinch. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Seedless raisins, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2. 

To the raised bread dough add the remaining ingredients, dis- 
solving soda in a little water, chopping raisins and beating eggs light. 
Mix thoroughly with the hand and turn into round cake tins. Fill 
pans half full, let rise to the top and bake slowly in a moderate oven. 
Frost with egg white and powdered sugar. This recipe makes two 
loaves. 

ORIGINAL BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

(Used more than 65 years ago by an old cook at the American House.) 

Eggs, 6. Cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Cold water, 1 cup. 

Flour, 4 cups. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Lemon extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs till very thick and lemon colored, add 
sugar and beat, then the water and extract. Sift the cream of tartnr 
and soda with the flour three times and stir it in lightly. Beat the 
whites till stiff and fold them in lightly last of all. Bake in a good 
oven for 30 minutes. C. E. C., Dover, N. H. 



38 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



ORANGE SPONGE CAKE. 

Grated orange rind, 1 teaspoon. Orange juice, % cup. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Flour, 2 cups. 

Egg whites, 3. Egg yolks, 5. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Beat the egg whites to a stiff froth and gradually beat in the 
sugar, which should be of fine quality. Add yolks beaten till thick 
and light, orange juice and grated rind, and last, flour sifted with 
baking powder and salt. Bake in one loaf. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Eggs, 4. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Salt, a pinch. Potato flour, 4 tablespoons. 

Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat yolks and whites separately till very light. Add salt and 
half of sugar to yolks and other half of sugar to whites. Sift baking 
powder with the flour into the yolks and beat well. Fold in whites 
lightly. Bake in moderate oven. Rae, Concord. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Make a sponge cake dough, put it on large tins by spoonfuls, 
placing it around the edges. Then with a broad knife smooth it 
over toward the centre, making it as even as possible. The cake 
when done should be only y% inch thick and the crust should not 
be hard. As soon as it has been removed from the oven and before 
it has had time to cool, cut off the hard edges, spread it with 
cirrant jelly and roll it up evenly. Roll it in a paper and tie so that 
it will cool in a good even round shape. When serving dust the 
outside with sifted powdered sugar. 

POUND CAKE. 

Butter, 1 cup. Eggs, 5. 

Sugar, 1 2-3 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Mace, % teaspoon. 

Cream butter and beat in sugar gradually. Add eggs one at 
a time, beating well after each addition. When mixture is creamy 
fold in flour. Bake 1 hour in a slow oven. GreendaLe. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 39 



VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Lemon flavoring, 1 teaspoon. Boiling water, % cup (scant). 

Beat the eggs light, add the sugar and beat again. Add the 
flavoring and l / 2 cup of the flour and beat again. Add the other y 2 
cup of flour, sifted three times with the baking powder, and beat 
again. Add the boiling water and beat hard again. Put paraffin 
paper into a shallow bread pan and turn in the mixture. Bake in a 
quick oven 20 minutes. Constant Reader, Medford. 

INDIAN SPONGE CAKE. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 2-3 cup. Cornmeal, y 2 cup. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Beat the eggs separately, add sugar to yolks and beat. Add 
flour sifted with baking powder, cornmeal and lastly fold in the egg 
whites beaten stiff. Bake in a quick oven. 

ECONOMICAL CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Butter, 14 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Flour, iy 2 cups. 

Egg, 1. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. Cocoa, 2 tablespoons. 

Sour milk, y 2 cup. Boiling water, 14 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten egg, salt, soda dis- 
solved in sour milk, flour and vanilla. Dissolve cocoa in boiling 
water and add last. Frost with a white frosting. 

Mrs. F. R. N., Cambridge. 

ECONOMY CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Graham flour, iy 2 cups. 

Soda, y 2 teaspoon. Seeded raisins, 1 cup. 

Salt, y 4 teaspoon. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon. 

White flour, 1 cup. Clove, y 4 teaspoon. 

Milk or water. 

Mix as usual, using milk or water. They are equally good. 

Mrs. J. L. S., Foxboro. 



40 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



ANGEL CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Egg whites, 9 (if large). 

Flour, 1 cup. Cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1 saltspoon. Almond flavoring, y 2 teaspoon. 

Measure sugar and Hour after sifting once, then sift together 
5 times. Add salt to egg whites and beat till light. Sift in cream 
of tartar and continue beating till very stiff and dry. Cut and 
fold whites into flour and sugar very carefully, and add flavoring. 
Have an angel cake tin already lined with oiled paper, turn in 
cake and place at once in cool oven. In 25 minutes increase the 
heat and bake for 25 minutes more. Be careful not to jar while 
baking. 

MOCK ANGEL CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Salt, 1-3 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 1-3 cups. Milk, 2-3 cup. 

Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. Egg whites, 2. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients 4 times. Pour on gradually while 
stirring constantly the milk, which should be scalding hot. Cut 
and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites and flavoring. Bake in 
moderate oven 45 minutes. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Butter, 1 pound. Nutmeg, 1. 

Sugar, 1 pound. Mace, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 8. Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons. 

Cream, 1 cup. Currants, % pound. 

Orange juice, 1 wineglass. Raisins, % pound. 

Lemon, 1. Citron, y 2 pound. 

Flour, 11/2 pounds. Candied lemon peel, 14 pound. 

Candied orange peel, 14 pound. 

Cream butter and sugar, add salt and well beaten eggs, 2 at 
a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Add cream, fruit 
juices and flour mixed and sifted with spices. Flour the fruit lightly 
and add last. Line loaf cake pans with greased paper and pour 
in mixture. Bake in a slow oven. Makes 2 loaves. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 41 



PRIZE FRUIT CAKE. 

Butter, 1 pound. Currants, 2 pounds. 

Brown sugar, 1 pound. Seeded raisins, 2 pounds. 

Eggs, 10. Citron, 1 pound. 

Brandy, 1 cup. Clove, 2 teaspoons. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Nutmeg, 2 teaspoons. 

Pastry flour, 6 cups. Mace, 2 teaspoons. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, brandy, molasses 
and sifted flour. Flour fruit, cutting citron in thin slices, add 
with spices and soda dissolved in a little warm water. Bake in a 
very slow oven 4 hours. Makes 4 loaves. Do not cut for at least 
a week. Don't Worry. 

COFFEE FRUIT CAKE. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Eggs, 3. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Coffee, 1 cup. 

Clove, l /2 saltspoon. Flour, 5 cups. 

Mace, 1 saltspoon. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Cinnamon, 1 saltspoon. Citron, 14 pound. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Raisins, y% pound. 

Currants, % pound. 

Cream butter and sugar, add spices and molasses, beat for 5 
minutes and add well beaten egg yolks and coffee, then the sifted 
flour, soda dissolved in a little water, and egg whites beaten stiff. 
Chop citron, flour all fruit and add last. Bake in moderate oven. 

GRAHAM FRUIT CAKE. 

Graham flour, 3 cups. Seedless raisins, y 2 pound. 

White flour, 2 cups. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Baking powder, y> teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, 2 cups. Mace, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Sift flours with spices, soda and baking powder. Add remain- 
ing ingredients and mix well. Bake in slow oven for iy 2 hours. 

Mrs. M. T. 8., Wollaston. 



42 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



SOUR CREAM FRUIT CAKE. 

(No eggs, no butter.) 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. Flour, 3 cups. 

Warm water, 1 tablespoon. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Thick sour cream, 1 cup. Nutmeg, V 2 teaspoon. 

Molasses, !/ 2 cup. Ginger, 1 saltspoon. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Raisins, 1 pound. 

Dissolve soda m warm water in a mixing bowl. Add sour 
cream, molasses, and soft brown sugar. Stir till sugar is dissolved 
and add flour sii'ted with the spices. Beat until smooth and stir 
in raisins. Bake in a slow oven for 1 hour. One-half currants may 
be used instead of all raisins. Citron may also be used if desired. 
This cake should be kept 3 or 4 days before cutting. 

APPLE FRUIT CAKE. 

Butter, 1 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Raisins, 2 cups. 

Milk, 1 cup. Dried apples, 3 cups. 

Flour, 31/2 cups. Molasses, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. Citron, 1/2 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk in which dissolve soda, then 
the eggs, beaten, flour and lastly raisins, citron and apples which 
have been soaked overnight and then chopped fine and stewed 2 
hours in the molasses. Bake I 1 /*? hours. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Milk, i/ 2 cup. 

Orange, !/. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Flour, iy 2 cups. 

Cream butter and sugar and add juice and grated rind of the 
orange. Mix and sift flour and baking powder. To the butter and 
sugar, add one unbeaten egg and beat thoroughly, add a little flour 
and second egg. Beat well and alternate remaining flour with 
milk. When all is thoroughly mixed bake in a moderate oven 
about 30 minutes. Frost with orange frosting. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 43 



NUT CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Butter, % cup. \Valnuts, 1 cup. 

Water, i/ 2 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 2 cups. Egg whites, 4. 

Mix in order given, being careful to fold stiffly beaten egg 
whites in lightly. 

FROSTING : 

Sugar, 1 cup. Marshmallows, 12. 

Hot water, 4 tablespoons. Egg white, 1. 

Boil sugar and water till it spins a thread, add marshmallows 
cut fine and pour slowly over the stiffly beaten egg white, beating 
constantly until smooth and creamy. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

ARROWROOT CAKE. 

Butter, 1 cup. Arrowroot, i/ 2 cup. 

Sugar, 11/2 cups. Pastry flour, li/ 2 cups. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Soda, i/ 2 teaspoon. 

Almond extract, i/ 2 teaspoon. Cream of tartar, li/ 2 teaspoons. 

T>gg whites, 6. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk and extract, then sift in 
arrowroot, flour, soda and cream of tartar. Beat eggs till dry and 
stiff and fold in last of all. Bake in a moderate oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Flour, 2i/ 2 cups. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. 

-Eggs, 4. Chocolate, 2 squares. 

Milk, 1 cup. Vanilla, i/ 2 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and add gradually i/ 2 the sugar. Beat yolks 
of eggs till thick and add gradually the remaining sugar. Combine 
mixtures and add alternately milk, and flour mixed and sifted with 
baking powder. Fold in stiffly beaten cuu whites, add melted 
chocolate and vanilla. Bake 45 to 50 minutes. Cover with choco- 
late frosting. Dotty Dimple. 



44 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



LIGHT CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2y 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 2. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, y 2 CU P- Butter, y 2 cup. 

Flour, iy 2 cups. Unsweetened chocolate, 2 

squares. 

Mix sugar, eggs, well beaten, and milk. Sift flour and baking 
powder together and add, then vanilla, butter, melted, and chocolate, 
also melted. Beat thoroughly. May be used as a layer cake or 
single loaf. 

FILLING AND FROSTING: 
Unsweetened chocolate, 2 Water, y 2 ~cup. 

squares. 
Sugar, 1 cup. Egg white, 1. 

Heat sugar, chocolate and water till sugar is dissolved and 
chocolate melted. Then boil till it spins a thread, and pour very 
slowly into the stiffly beaten white of egg, beating hard all the 
time. Beat constantly till stiff enough to spread. 

Mrs. N. K., Framingham. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Pastry flour, iy 2 cups. 

Egg yolk, 1. Baking powder, 1 rounding 

teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Mix in order given and bake in 1 loaf. 
FROSTING : 

Egg white, 1. Butter, I teaspoon. 

Water, 2 teaspoons. Confectioners' sugar. 

Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. Unsweetened chocolate, 2 

squares, t 

To the egg white add the water, vanilla, butter and enough 
sugar to make frosting thick enough to spread. " When this is 
thoroughly cold melt the chocolate over hot water and pour quickly 
over the white frosting. Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 45 



BROWN SUGAR CAKE. 

Eggs, 4. Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Brown sugar, 2 cups. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 2 cups. Raisins, i/ 2 cup. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat the eggs till thick and creamy, add the sugar and beat 
again. Sift flour, salt and baking powder together and add to sugar 
and eggs. Add raisins, chopped, and vanilla and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

GINGER POUND CAKE. 

Butter, 1/2 pound. Molasses, y 2 pint. 

Sugar, y 2 pound. Soda, y teaspoon. 

Flour, % pound. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Sour cream, 1 cup. Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Cinnamon and nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon each. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, molasses, spices, 
cream and flour sifted with baking powder. Bake nearly an hour 
in a moderate oven. 

EGGLESS, BUTTERLESS, MILKLESS CAKE. 

Water, 2 cups. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Cinnamon, 3 teaspoons. 

Lard, 2 rounding teaspoons. Flour, 3 cups. 

Raisins, 1 package. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Boil all ingredients except flour and soda for 5 minutes, cool, 
and add flour sifted with soda. Line pans with greased paper. 
Bake about 1 hour. Makes 2 loaves. May BeV^_Beverly. 

EGGLESS GRAHAM CAK1 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Brown sug* 

Graham flour, 2 cups. Cinnamon.; 

Clove. Ginger. 

Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour mixed and sifted with bak- 
ing powder, spices and salt. Stir in milk and bake in a slow oven. 




46 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



LILY CAKE. 

Butter, i/o cup. Baking powder, 2 l / 2 teaspoons. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Egg whites, 3. 

Milk, y 2 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Pastry flour, 1% cups. Flavoring. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, baking powder mixed with 
pastry flour, sifted 4 times before measuring. Fold in egg whites 
beaten stiff. Add a pinch of salt and flavoring last. Vanilla, lemon 
or almond may be used. 

Crank on Cooking, Arlington Heights. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Water, y 2 cup. 

Brown sugar, iy 2 cups. Vanilla extract. 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, 2y 2 cups. 

Cocoa, 2 tablespoons. Baking powder, iy 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar and add lightly beaten eggs. Cook 
cocoa, milk and water together and cool. Mix alternately with the 
flour, baking powder and salt sifted together. Add flavoring and 
beat well. Bake in layer cake pans and put together with white 
filling and frosting. 

PORK CAKE. 

Fat salt pork, 1 pound. Warm water, 1 tablespoon. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Flour, 7 cups. 

Eggs, 4. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Allspice, 1 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Cassia, 1 teaspoon. 

Soda, 2 teaspoons. Currants, 1 cup. 

Raisins, 2 cups. 

Pour the boiling water over the finely chopped pork and let 
stand until nearly cold. Beat the eggs until very light, add the 
sugar and beat to a cream, then add molasses and soda dissolved 
in the warm water. Add this mixture to the pork and water and 
stir thoroughly. Then sift in flour and spice. Lastly add currants 
and raisins well floured. Young One, Boston. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 47 



VIENNESE CHOCOLATE SCHNUTTEN. 

Butter, 1/2 pound. Browned bread crumbs, 2y 2 

ounces. 

Sugar, 1/2 pound. Flour, 2y 2 ounces. 

Eggs, 16. Vanilla bean, y 2 . 

Grated almonds, 2y 2 ounces. Sweet chocolate, Vt cake. 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg yolks, almonds, crumbs, 
sifted flour, the soft centre of half a vanilla bean and the grated 
sweet chocolate. Bake in shallow lightly buttered pans in a moder- 
ate oven for 20 or 25 minutes, then turn out to cool. When cold cut 
in 2y 2 inch squares. Split squares with a sharp knife into 2 layers. 
Spread under layer with filling and upper with glazing. 

FILLING : 
Butter, y 2 pound. Sweet chocolate, y 2 cake. 

Grate chocolate and melt with butter. Beat together till smooth 
and creamy. 

GLAZING : 

Sweet chocolate, 14 cake. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Water, 14 cup. 

Boil all together for a few minutes, then beat till creamy and 
".ool and spread lightly over cake. 

SCRIPTURE CAKE. 

Sugar, 3 cups, Jeremiah 6 :20. Almonds, 1 cup, Genesis 43 :11. 

Butter, 1 cup, Judges 5:24. Eggs, 6, Isaiah 10:14. 

Flour, 3y 2 cups, I. Kings 4:22. Honey, 1 tablespoon, Judges 

14:8. 

Raisins, 2 cups, I. Samuel 30 :12. Salt, a pinch, Leviticus 2 :13. 
Figs, 2 cups, Matthew 24 :32. Spices to taste, I. Kings 10 :10. 

Milk, 1 cup, Exodus 3:17. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons, I. 

Corinthians 5 :6. 

Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys and you will 
have good cake, Proverbs 23 :14. Frost with y 2 cup pistachio nuts 
chopped fine, Canticle 6:11. 

Especially good cake to sell with its recipe at church fairs. 

Mrs. C. F. C., Boston. 



48 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



MAHOGANY CAKE. 

Sugar, li/o cups. Strong coffee, y 2 cup. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Pastry flour, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. Cocoa, 2y 2 dessertspoons. 

Sour milk, y 2 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar, add cocoa and beat well, then add well 
beaten egg yolks and vanilla. Add coffee and sour milk and flour 
sifted with the soda. Lastly add stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake 
45 minutes. Mrs. A. E. J., South Boston. 

CIDER CAKE. 

Butter, 1 cup. Flour, 4 cups. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Allspice. 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 3. Baking soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Cider. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, well beaten, flour sifted with 
soda and spice and cider enough to form a stiff batter. Bake in 
a shallow tin and serve hot without frosting. 

MAPLE SYRUP CAKE. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Sour milk, 1 cup. Cinnamon, iy 2 teaspoons. 

Maple syrup, l / 2 cup. Clove, y 2 teaspoon. 

Mix ingredients in order given and bake in a loaf in a moder- 
ate oven. 

WHITE CITRON CAKE. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Flour, 11/0 cups. Water, y 2 cup. 

Cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon. Citron, 1 cup. 

Egg whites, 2. 

Cream the butter and sugar. Sift in dry ingredients, add water, 
citron shredded fine and dredged with flour, and lastly fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in one loaf. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 49 



PRUNE CAKE. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Melted butter, 3 tablespoons. Stewed prunes, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. Sifted flour, 2 cups. 

Cinnamon, 2 tablespoons. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Stew prunes in just enough water to cover, then mash and 
use prunes and water in which they were cooked in measuring. 
Mix in order given and bake in layer cake tins. Put together with 
whipped cream. Mrs. T. A., Medford. 

VINEGAR CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Nutmeg, % teaspoon. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Egg, 1. Soda, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk and beaten egg, soda dis- 
solved in the vinegar, and cinnamon and nutmeg sifted with enough 
flour to make consistency of cake dough. 

HONEY CAKE. 

Honey, 1 cup. Flour, 1 pint. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Sour milk. 1 cup. 

Melted butter, 1/2 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Mace, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix together in order given and bake in modernte oven 30 to 
35 minutes. Mrs. B. N. K., Hingham. 

CRUMB CAKE. 

Flour, 2 cups. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Butter, 1/2 CU P- 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Raisins, 1 cup. Mixed spices. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. 

Mix and sift flour, sugar, baking powder and spices to taste. 
Rub in the butter, add bread onimbs, beaten esrg and milk. Flour 
the raisins and stir in last. 



50 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



COCOA SOUR MILK CAKES. 

Butter, 1/2 CU P- Dry cocoa, 3 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Sour milk, i/ 2 cup. 

Salt, a pinch. Soda, i/ 2 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 11/2 cups. 

Melt butter and cream with sugar, add salt, eggs, beaten, and 
ingredients in order given dissolving soda in sour milk. Bake in 
muffin tins and frost with white frosting. Egleston Square. 

ALMOND COCOANUT CAKE. 

Powdered sugar, 2 cups. Flour, %i/ 2 cups. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Baking powder, 2i/ 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Egg whites, 8. 

Almond extract, i/% teaspoon. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add milk, then the flour and 
baking powder sifted together, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff 
and the extract. Bake in layers and put together with the follow- 
ing frosting: 

Water, i/ 2 cup. Almond extract, i/ 2 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Cocoanut. 

Egg whites, 3. Blanched almonds. 

Boil sugar and water till it will spin a thread, then pour slowly 
onto the stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly. Add the 
extract and keep on beating till the right consistency to spread. 
Pour over layers and sides of cake, sprinkle entire surface with 
shredded cocoanut and decorate with halves of blanched almonds, 
about the edge of the cake. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Sour apple sauce. 1 cup. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Flour, 1% cups. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Clove and nutmeg, 1 teaspoon each. 

Cream butter and sugar. Dissolve soda in a little .warm" water 
and add to apple sauce. Lastly stir in flour mixed and sifted with 
spices. Mae D., Winthrop. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 51 



GERMAN APPLE CAKE. 

Flour, 2 cups. Butter, y 2 cup. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Milk, i/ 2 cup. 

Apples. 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder, rub in butter and stir in 
well beaten egg and milk. Grease a large shallow pan and spread 
the dough over it y 2 inch thick. Pare and core apples and cut in 
eighths. Press them into the dough in close even rows, spread 
with butter, sprinkle thickly with sugar and cinnamon or nutmeg 
and bake in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. 

GINGER GEMS. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Powdered mace, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Sour cream or milk, 1 cup. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Baking soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Chopped preserved ginger, 2 Flour, 5 cups. 

tablespoons. 

Put the butter, sugar and molasses in a saucepan and warm 
slightly but do not allow to melt. Beat well for 10 minutes. Add 
the ginger, mace and gradually the sour cream or milk. Sift the 
soda with the flour twice and add to mixture. Fill buttered and 
floured gem pans 2-3 full and bako in a hot oven. 



PINEAPPLE CAKE. 

Flour, 1/2 pound. -taking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 14 pound. Crystallized pineapple, 1/4 

pound. 

Eggs, 3. Almonds, 1 ounce. 

Sugar, 1/2 pound. Essence of pineapple, few 

drops. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, pineapple 
chopped coarsely, shredded almonds and flour and baking powder 
sifted together. Mix thoroughly and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. M. N. 0. P., Boston. 



52 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



BISQUE CAKE. 

Powdered sugar, 2 cups. Flour, 3 cups. 

Butter, 1 scant cup. Egg whites, 5. 

Milk, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Vanilla. 

Cream butter and sugar, stir in milk, add flour and baking 
powder sifted together, and fold in very lightly the stiffly beaten 
egg whites. Flavor and bake in 3 layers. 

ICING : 

Egg yolks, 5. Hickory nuts, 1 cup. 

Confectioner's sugar. Vanilla. 

Beat egg yolks thoroughly and add enough sugar to make stiff 
enough to spread. Chop nuts fine and add with a drop of vanilla. 

M. I. L., Eoxbury. 

COCOA CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Sour milk, 1 cup. 

Lard or butter, 4 teaspoons. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. Flour, 1% cups. 

Dry cocoa, y 2 cup. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

Cream sugar and shortening together. Add sour milk, soda 
dissolved in a little hot water and dry ingredients mixed and sifted 
together. Lastly add flavoring. For icing add a small piece of 
butter to confectioner's sugar and mix with a little hot milk. Add 
a handful of walnut meats chopped. 

POTATO CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mashed potatoes, 1 cup. Nut meats, 1 cup. 

Flour, 2 cups. Baking powder, 3y 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 4. Chocolate, 2 squares. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Shortening, 2-3 cup. 

Milk, y 2 cup. Cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 tea- 
spoon. 

Clove, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Cream shortening and sugar, add hot mashed potatoes, well 
beaten eggs, melted chocolate and milk. Mix and sift flour, baking 
powder and spices and add. Lastly stir in chopped nut meats. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 53 



SPICE CAKE. 

Sour civiini. y 2 cup. Clove, 14 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup (scant). Nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon. 

Shortening. 1 teaspoon (heap- Salt, y 2 teaspoon, 
ing). Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Flour, iy 2 cups. 

Ginger, y* teaspoon. Molasses, y 2 tablespoon. 

Cinnamon. 14 teaspoon. 

Raisins, y 2 cup. 

Mix in order given sifting dry ingredients together. Flour 
raisins and add last. M. C. N., Danvers. 



MOLASSES ORANGE CAKE. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Pastry flour, 2 cups. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Orange, 1. Baking powder, iy> teaspoons. 

Egg, 1. Cold water, y 2 cup. 

Mix the butter, molasses, juice, shredded pulp and grated rind 
of the orange, and the egg, well beaten. Add the pastry flour sifted 
with salt and baking powder, alternately with the cold water. Beat 
well together and bake in a shallow pan in a quick oven. 



EGOLESS DATE CAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Dates, 1 cup. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Sour milk, 1 cup. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Raisins, 1 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Cream butter and sugar, add sour milk and stir in flour mixed 
and sifted with soda, salt and clove. Lastly beat in raisins and 
chopped dates, previously dredged with flour. Frost w r ith white 
frosting decorated with halves of dates. 



54 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



LEMON CUSTARD SANDWICHES. 

Lemons, 2. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Egg yolks, 3. Butter, y 2 cup. 

Currant jelly. 

Grate the rind of the lemons, add the juice and beaten egg 
yolk, sugar and butter. Thicken in a double boiler, after beating 
well, then spread between slices of sponge cake. Garnish each sand- 
wich with a square of currant jelly. 



SILVER AND GOLD LAYER CAKE. 

SILVER PART: 

Sugar, 2 cups. Baking powder, 3 heaping tea- 

spoons. 

Butter, 2-3 cup. Flour, 3 cups. 

Milk, 2-3 cup. Egg whites, 8. 

Cream butter and sugar, add milk, mix, and add baking powder 
sifted with flour. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in 
2 layer cake tins. 

GOLD PART: 

Sugar, 1 cup. Flour, 1% cups. 

Butter, 34 cup. Egg, 1. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Egg yolks, 7. 

Baking powder, iy 2 teaspoons. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Figs, 1 pound. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, milk and flour 
sifted with baking powder and spice. Put y 2 of this mixture in 
a pan and lay on it the figs, chopped and floured. Put on this the 
remaining dough and bake. Put layers together while warm with 
boiled icing thickened with cocoanut, having the gold layer between 
the 2 silver ones. Mrs. J. L. S., Foxboro. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 55 



LEMON CAKE. 

Sugar, i/o cup. Milk, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, 1 cup. Eggs, 3. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Apples, 2. 

Raking powder, 1 teaspoon. Lemon, 1. 

Melted butter. 1 tablespoon. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Sift together sugar, flour and baking powder, add butter, milk, 
well beaten eggs and flavoring and mix thoroughly. Bake in 2 
layers. Put together with filling made by grating apples and lemon 
and sweetening to taste. 



RIBBON CAKE. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 2-3 cup. Molasses, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Raisins, 1 cup. 

Milk, iy 2 cups. Currants. 

Flour, 3 cups. Clove. 

Nutmeg. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, milk, and flour 
and baking powder sifted together. To 1-3 of this dough add the 
remaining ingredients with a bit more flour. Bake in 3 tins. 

Most Twelve, South Weymouth. 



COFFEE SPICE CAKES. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Mace, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Molasses, y 2 cup. Strong coffee, y 2 cup. 

Raisins, y 2 cup. Soda, a pinch. 

Flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, well beaten, molasses, raisins, 
chopped, and spices. Add coffee, which should be very strong, in 
which soda is dissolved and lastly flour to make a stiff batter. 
Bake in muffin or patty cake tins. 



56 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



MOLASSES LAYER CAKE. 

Flour, 2 cups. Egg yolk, 1. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 3 tablespoons. Raisins, 2-3 cup. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Clove, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Cream molasses and flour, add butter and sugar creamed, well 
beaten egg yolk, water, spices and raisins. Put together with boiled 
icing. Rae, Concord. 

PORTUGAL CAKES. 

(From Godey's Lady's Magazine, 1864.) 

Flour, 1 pound. Sugar, % pound. 

Butter, y 2 pound. Currants, y 2 pound. 

Egg yolks, 3. Lemons, 3. 

Cream, 1 gill. Egg white, 1. 

Sift flour, rub in half the butter, add egg yolks and cream to 
make a soft paste. Then add sugar, currants, well washed, the 
grated peel of the lemons and the stiffly beaten egg white. Roll out 
the paste putting in the remainder of the butter. Cut into small 
cakes and bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. C. F. C. 

BUTTER FROSTING. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Egg whites, 2. 

Confectioner's sugar, 1 cup. Vanilla. 

Cream butter and sugar until very soft. Add this to the stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Flavor and beat to the consistency of whipped 
cream, adding more sugar if necessary. Mrs. J. L. S., Foxboro. 

SIMPLE CREAMY FROSTING. 

To 2 cups of sugar, add just enough water to dissolve, boil till 
it will barely hold together when a little is dropped in cold water. 
Remove from fire at once and set in pan of cold water until syrup 
is cold. Then beat with a fork till of right consistency to spread, 
which will be some time. Nineteen, Wellesley. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 57 



CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 

Marshmallows, y 2 pound. Hot water, 1-3 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Egg white, 1. 

Chocolate icing. 

Put the marshmallows in an agate ware pan in the open oven 
till the}' have melted and run together. Meanwhile make a frost- 
ing of the sugar and water, boiling till the syrup spins a thread. 
Pour this slowly over the beaten white of egg, beating constantly. 
Add the melted marshmallows to this and beat slowly .for 5 minutes 
or until stiff enough to spread. Make a chocolate icing, spread 
it over the marshmallow as thin as paper with a knife dipped in 
cold water or with a pastry brush. 



CREAMY NUT FROSTING. 

Brown sugar, l 1 /^ cups. Egg whites, 2. 

AVhite sugar, Vi cup. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

Boiling water, 14 CU P- English walnut meats, 1-3 cup. 

Put the sugar and water in a saucepan and boil till the syrup 
will spin a long thread. Pour slowly over the stiffly beaten whites 
of the eggs, beating constantly. Beat the mixture till cool. Then 
set pan into a larger pan of boiling water on the range and stir 
till it becomes slightly granular around the sides of the pan. Re- 
move and beat till it will hold its shape. Add the flavoring and 
nut meats and spread with the back of a spoon, leaving the surface 
rough. Trying to Help, Neponset. 



CARAMEL FROSTING. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. Vanilla. 

Put 2 cups of the sugar with milk and butter in a saucepan. 
Set on the stove till butter is melted and sugar dissolved. Meanwhile 
put the remainder of the sugar in a frying pan and let it brown. 
When it is smooth pour milk, sugar and butter mixture into it, stir 
thoroughly and cook as for fudge till soft ball stage is reached. 
Flavor with vanilla. 



58 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 

Granulated sugar, 2 cups. Marshmallows, ^ pound. 

Cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon. Egg whites, 2. 

Water, y 2 cup. Vanilla flavoring. 

Mix the sugar, cream of tartar, and water and boil until it 
threads. Then add the marslimallows and stir until they melt. Then 
remove mixture from fire. Pour at once over the egg whites, stiffly 
beaten, beat till thick, add flavoring and spread over cake. 

DATE-NUT FILLING. 

Chopped dates, y 2 cup. Boiling water, 1-3 cup. 

Chopped nuts, ^2 CU P- Sugar, 1-3 cup. 

Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Grind the nuts and dates very fine in a food chopper and mix 
to a paste. There should be 1 cup. Add the boiling water, sugar 
and lemon juice. Mix well and cook in a double boiler 10 minutes 
or until thick. Spread warm between layers of fresh cake. 



ORANGE FROSTING. 

Egg yolk, 1. Confectioner's sugar. 

Water, 1 tablespoon. Orange, y 2 . 

Add water and juice of the orange to the unbeaten egg yolk 
and stir in confectioner's sugar (about 1 pound) to make it right con- 
sistency to spread. Enough for 2 small cakes. Lemon frosting may 
be made in the same manner. 



MOCK MARSHMALLOW FROSTING. 

Confectioner's sugar, 1 cup. Butter, 2 heaping tablespoons. 

Cocoa, 1-3 cup. Milk. 

Egg white, 1. 

Sift sugar and cocoa together, add butter, melted, and blend 
well. Add just milk enough to make a stiff frosting, then stir in the 
stiffly beaten egg white. Beat until of the consistency of marsh- 
mallow and spread when cake is cool. B. T., Maiden. 



CAKE AND FILLINGS 59 



CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Light brown sugar, 2 cups. Cream of tartar, y 2 teaspoon. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 2 Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

squares. 

Milk, 1 cup. Cream, 1 tablespoon. 

Vanilla. 

Cook sugar, chocolate, milk and cream of tartar together to the 
soft ball stage, add the butter and when it is melted remove from 
fire, beat in the cream and flavoring and beat till thick enough to 
pour over cake. 

MOCHA FILLING. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Cocoa, 2 tablespoons. Strong hot coffee, 2 tablespoons. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix the sugar and cocoa thoroughly. Add the butter softened, 
but not melted, and the coffee, well strained, and lastly the vanilla. 
Beat until creamy and smooth. 

BROWN SUGAR FROSTING. 

Brown sugar, l 1 /^ cups. Cream, % cup. 

Butter, y 2 tablespoon. 

Cook together till soft ball is formed when a little is dropped 
in cold water. Remove from fire and beat till ready to spread. 

RASPBERRY AND CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Raspberry jam, 1 glass. Sweet chocolate, 1 cake. 

Egg white, 1. 

Beat egg white very stiff and add gradually the raspberry jam 
beating constantly. Stir in sweet chocolate finely grated and when 
light and creamy spread between layers of cake. 

FIG FILLING. 

Figs, V 2 pound. Sherry, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Mince the figs and cook with sugar and sherry till it is thick 
and syrupy. Spread at once. 



60 CAKE AND FILLINGS 



COCOANUT FILLING. 

Powdered sugar, iy 2 cups. Water, y 2 cup. 

Grated chocolate, ^ cup. Egg whites, 2. 

Shredded cocoanut, 14 pound. 

Boil sugar, chocolate and water together till it spins a thread, 
then pour slowly over the stiffly beaten egg whites, beating con- 
stantly. Add cocoanut and spread immediately. 

PINEAPPLE FILLING. 

Grated pineapple, 1 cup. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1/2 CU P- Confectioner's sugar. 

Cook pineapple and sugar for 10 minutes, add lemon juice. 
Remove from fire and add enough confectioner's sugar to make a 
firm filling. 

DATE FILLING. 

Dates, 1 pound. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Water, % cup. Nutmeg, % teaspoon. 

Lemon juice, 14 cup. Butter, 2 teaspoons. 

Chop dates fine and cook with sugar in the water and lemon 
juice till it is a thick paste. Add nutmeg and butter and beat hard 
for a minute. Spread while hot. 

CHOCOLATE FILLING. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 4 Sugar, 1 cup. 

ounces. 
Milk, 3 tablespoons. Egg, 1. 

Melt chocolate over hot water, dilute with milk and add sugar 
mixed with well beaten egg. Stir until thickened and spread over 
cake. H. E. G., Roxbury. 

APPLE FILLING. 

Egg white, 1. Sugar, 1 scant cup. 

Sour apple, 1. 

Beat egg stiff, add sugar gradually. Grate into this the apple 
and beat with egg beater till of consistency of whipped cream. 

D. C., Salem. 



CAKE AXD FILLINGS 61 



RIPE COCOANUT FILLING. 

Ripe cocoanut, 1. Confectioner's sugar, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2. Lemon, 1/2- 

Grate the cocoanut and add to it the stiffly beaten egg whites, 
the sugar and the juice of the lemon. Use as filling and frosting 
for Washington pie. Add the grated cocoanut to a cream filling and 
bake in a pastry shell if preferred. Mrs. G. B., Chelsea. 

LAYER CAKE FILLING COMBINATIONS. 

Filling, custard cream; frosting, chocolate and marshmallow. 

Filling, peaches ; frosting, white, flavored with almond. 

Filling, almond cream ; frosting, white, with pounded marcaroons. 

Filling, 2 or 3 jellies, as orange, currant and crab apple; frost- 
ing, white, with cubes of jelly. 

Fillings for 3 layer cake, lemon jelly, orange marmalade ; frost- 
ing, whipped cream with dots of quince jelly. Bay State. 

NUT FROSTING. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Egg white, 1. 

Water, 1-3 cup. Lemon flavoring. 

Nuts, 2 cups. 

Make a boiled frosting in usual manner and beat in gradually 
the nuts, coarsely chopped. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 4 Sugar, 1% cups, 

ounces. 

Water, 1 cup. 

Boil the sugar and water till it spins a thread. Pour slowly 
on to the chocolate, previously melted in a dry pan, stirring all the 
time. Especially good where a thin icing is desired. 

COFFEE ICING. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Strong coffee, 1 cup. 

Melt sugar and boil till it strings. Sot saucepan in dish of cold 
water until it begins to sugar around the edges, then work in coffee, 
mixing and blending. When it granulates spread on cake. 



,". 



CANDIES 63 



FUDGE. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Unsweetened chocolate, 2 

squares. 

Milk, 1 cup. Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Vanilla, 2 teaspoons. 

Place sugar, chocolate and milk in a saucepan over the fire and 
heat very slowly. The chocolate should be entirely melted before 
it is allowed to boil. Let boil evenly and gently for about 8 minutes, 
stirring occasionally. Test by dropping a little in cold water and 
if it forms a soft ball remove at once from the fire. Add the butter 
and beat it in, then add the vanilla and continue a firm even beating 
till it is very creamy and a slight crust is formed around the edge 
of the pan. Pour into buttered tins and let cool. Sister Anne. 

PINOCHE. 

Light brown sugar, 3 cups. Butter, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. Vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Nut meats, 1 cup. 

Boil sugar and milk to the soft ball stage. Then add butter, re- 
move from fire, flavor and stir in the chopped nut meats. Turn out 
into a shallow buttered pan and mark into squares. 

Poll, Worcester. 

UNCOOKED FUDGE. 

Chocolate, y 2 pound. Eggs, 2. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Melt chocolate, add sugar, beaten eggs and vanilla. Pour in 
buttered pan and cut when firm. Will keep soft a long time if 
well covered. B. R. S., South Weymoutk. 

HONEY FUDGE. 

White sugar, iy 2 cups. Honey, 1-3 cup. 

Brown sugar, 1/2 CU P- Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Butter, 1 dessertspoon. 

Boil sugar and milk a few minutes, add honey and boil till 

soft ball stage is reached. Add vinegar and butter and beat until 

creamy. Mother, South Weymouth. 



64 CANDIES 



COCOANUT FUDGE. 

Brown sugar, 2 cups. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, % cup. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

Shredded cocoanut, 1 cup. 

Bring sugar and milk to a boil. Add butter and cook till it 
threads. Take from fire, add flavoring and cocoanut and beat till 
it snaps. Pour quickly into buttered tin, cool and cut in squares. 

A. D. B., Brookline. 

POTATO FUDGE. 

Very small potato, 1. Cocoa, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter, 1 rounding tablespoon. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 
Salt, a pinch. Confectioner's sugar. 

Mash the potato and mix in other ingredients, using as much 
sugar as can be stirred in. Turn out on a sugared board and 
gradually knead in more sugar, until so thick that a piece can easily 
be broken off. Pat out or roll i/^-inch thick and cut in squares. 
Nuts may be added if desired. G. R., Wollaston. 

DIVINITY FUDGE. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Water, y 2 cup. 

Corn syrup, y 2 cup. Egg whites, 2. 

Walnuts, % cup. 

Boil sugar, syrup and water till it becomes brittle when dropped 
in cold water. Pour over the stiffly beaten egg whites, beating all 
the time. Add walnuts and beat until very thick. Pour into a 
buttered pan and cut in squares when cool. 

A Reader, Brighton. 

RUSSIAN TOFFEE. 

Condensed milk, 1 small can. Butter, 2 ounces. 

Sugar, 1 pound. Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Put sugar in saucepan and dissolve with the vinegar. Add the 
milk and boil till a little will form a firm ball when dropped in 
water. Stir in butter and pour into a well greased pan. 

Miss H. B., Roxbury. 



CANDIES 65 



MAPLE NUT CREAMS. 

Coffee sugar, 2 cups. Cream of tartar, y 2 teaspoon. 

Grated maple sugar, 1 cup. Butter, i/ 2 tablespoon. 

Boil sugars and cream of tartar with water till it will form a 
firm ball when dropped in cold water. Stir in butter and remove 
from fire. Set in a pan of cold water till finger can be dipped into 
the candy without burning, then beat with a spoon till it is creamy 
and smooth. Roll into small balls and press halves of nut meats 
on each side. Lay on oiled paper in cool dry place for 24 hours. 

M. S., Mattapan. 

CHOCOLATES. 

Egg whites, 2. Flavorings. 

Confectioner's sugar. Sweet cooking chocolate, y 2 

pound. 

Make a fondant by beating the egg whites very stiff and adding 
enough sugar to make mixture firm enough to mold. Separate into 
several portions and flavor each differently, with vanilla, coffee, 
orange, peppermint, etc. Mould into small balls and set aside for 
12 hours. Place the chocolate in a bowl and set in a pan of boiling 
water. When melted remove from fire and dip fondant using a 
fork or hat pin. Place on marble slab or smooth buttered paper 
to dry and harden. Bits of preserved ginger, candied fruits, 
caramels, marshmallows, butterscotch and nuts may all be used in 
place of the cream centres. v Sister Anne, Boston. 

CHOCOLATE CHESTNUTS. 

French chestnuts, iy 4 pounds. liutter, 1 teaspoon. 
Sugar, y 2 cup. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

Milk, y 2 cup. Salt. y 2 teaspoon. 

Sweet chocolate. 

Boil, shell and chop the chestnuts, pound to a paste adding the 
sugar gradually. Mix this with the butter and milk and cook till 
thick and smooth, stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add flavor- 
ing and salt and when cool enough mold into chestnuts. When firm 
dip each with a long hatpin into the sweet chocolate melted over 
hot water. Dry on a marble slab or paraffin paper. 

Marie, Somerville. 



66 CANDIES 



CREAM CARAMELS. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Glucose, y 2 cup. 

Heavy cream, 1 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Put sugar, salt and cream in a saucepan over the fire. When 
dissolved add glucose and bring to a boil. Boil steadily but gently 
for 15 minutes, stirring all the time. After 10 minutes of boiling 
test by dropping a spoonful in cold water. When it forms a firm, 
waxy ball it is done. Add vanilla and pour into a buttered pan. 
When the candy is cool turn out on to a marble slab or a buttered 
paper and cut in squares. 

To make chocolate caramels, add 2 squares of unsweetened 
chocolate to the above ingredients. Nuts, marshmallows, raisins 
or figs may also be added. Sister Anne. 

TURKISH PASTE. 

Granulated gelatine, 1 box. Lemon, 1. 

Orange juice, 2-3 cup. Water, y 2 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Candled cherries, 3 tablespoons. 

Soak the gelatine in the orange juice for 15 minutes. Dissolve 
the sugar in the water, put in the gelatine and boil for 20 min- 
utes. Remove from the fire and add the juice of the lemon and the 
chopped candied cherries. Pour in a pan to cool and harden. When 
firm cut in cubes and roll in powdered sugar. 

Miss n. B., Eoxbury. 

HONEY NOUGAT. 

Sugar, % pound. Orange or almond extract, y 2 

teaspoon. 

Clover honey, % pound. Blanched almonds, % pound. 

Egg white, 1. Candied cherries, 1 cup. 

Boil sugar and honey till it becomes brittle in cold water, then 
pour gradually on the stiffly beaten egg white, beating constantly 
until thick. Add flavoring, almonds cut in pieces and cherries 
halved. Spread an inch thick on oiled paper in a shallow pan. Let 
stand in dry place 24 hours, then cut in cubes or strips. 

Candy Maker, Jamaica Plain. 



CANDIES 67 



MARSHMALLOWS. 

Gum arable, 4 ounces. Powdered sugar, !/2 pound. 

Water, 1 cup. Egg whites, 3. 

Orange flower water, 2 teaspoons. 

Soak gum arable in the water until dissolved, then strain. Put 
into saucepan with the pow r dered sugar. Place pan over fire in a 
larger pan containing boiling water and stir till mixture becomes 
thick and white. Test by dropping a little in cold water. If it 
forms a firm ball remove from fire and stir in the egg whites stiffly 
beaten. Flavor and turn into a pan covered thick with cornstarch. 
The marshniallow layer should be 1 inch thick. Let paste stand 
12 hours then turn out on a slab, cut into inch squares and dust with 
confectioner's sugar. Candy Maker, Jamaica Plain. 

NOUGATINE. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Egg whites, 2. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Nut meats, 2-3 cup. 

Corn syrup, i/2 cup. Candied fruit, 2-3 cup. 

Water, 2-3 cup. Almond or vanilla extract, 1 

teaspoon. 

Heat sugars, syrup and water to boiling point and boil to soft 
ball stage, then gradually pour on the stiffly beaten egg whites, beat- 
ing vigorously all the time. Add broken nut meats, chopped candied 
fruits and flavoring. Turn into deep buttered pans, cool and mark 
in squares or bars. Mrs. K. A. S., Eoxbury. 

OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Melted butter, 1 ounce. 

Baking soda, a pinch. 

Mix molasses, sugar, vinegar and butter and let come slowly to 
a boil, stirring all the time. Cook till a drop in cold water will 
harden immediately. Stir in the baking soda dissolved in a little 
boiliner water and remove at once from the fire. Pour into buttered 
tins to cool, then pull, moistening the hands with butter or water. 
Pull till it is white and hard enough to cut into sticks. 



68 CANDIES 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Sugar, 2y 2 cups. Glucose, 4 heaping tablespoons. 

Cream, 1 cup. Chocolate, y 2 cake. 

Butter, 14 pound. Vanilla, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Nut meats, i/ 2 pound. 

Mix sugar, cream and butter and melt together, then add glucos~ 
and chocolate. Melt and boil. Try in water. When it forms a 
firm ball remove from fire, add vanilla and beat. Add nuts and pour 
into pan. Cut in squares when cool. 

EVERTON TOFFEE. 

Powdered sugar, 1 pound. Butter, 14 pound. 

Water, 1 small cup. Essence of lemon, y 2 teaspoon. 

Pour water over sugar and when well soaked add butter beaten 
to a cream. Boil about 10 minutes stirring constantly. Add lemon 
and turn out on a well buttered tin. Miss H. B., Roxbury. 

MARSHMALLOW CANDY. 

Brown sugar, 3 cups. English walnuts, 1 cup. 

Cream, y 2 pint. Marshmallows, y 2 pound. 

Boil sugar and cream for 8 minutes, stirring constantly. Stir 
in nuts and marshmallows and pour into buttered pan. Mark into 
squares before it hardens. May Bell, Beverly. 

GUM DROPS. 

Gum arabic, 1 pound. Sugar, 1 pound. 

Water, iy 2 pints. Flavorings. 

Vegetable colorings. 

Dissolve the gum arabic in the water and strain, add sugar and 
heat till sugar is dissolved. Flavor to taste and color with various 
colorings while mixture is warm. Fill a shallow, pan with corn- 
starch and make indentations the size of ordinary gum drops. When 
the mixture is the consistency of honey fill a pitcher with it and 
pour gently into the molds. Set the pan aside in a warm pla^e for 
several days till the gum drops are hard enough to handle. Remove 
from molds, wet a little and roll in granulated sugar. 

X. Y. Z., Braintree. 



CANDIES 69 



FRUIT LOZENGES. 

Powdered sugar, 2 cups. English walnuts, 6. 

Egg white, 1. Currants, i/ 2 cup. 

Water. Raisins. 

Dates, 12. Citron. 

Figs, 4. Maraschino cherries. 

Cocoanut. 

Mix the powdered sugar to a firm fondant with equal parts of 
egg white and water. Put all fruit through meat grinder, mixing 
them in feeding the chopper. Stir into the fondant and when 
well blended roll in shape like long sausages and cover with pow- 
dered sugar. Place on paraffin paper in a cool place. The next day 
cut with a very sharp knife into slices about as thick as a lozenge. 

A. D. B., Brookline. 

BUTTERSCOTCH. 

Brown sugar, 1 pound. Water, 1 cup. 

Butter, i/o pound. Vanilla extract. 

Boil sugar and water over a slow fire till it is a smooth thick 
syrup. Stir in the butter and boil y 2 hour more. It is done when 
a little dropped in cold water will harden immediately. Flavor 
with vanilla and pour onto fiat dishes, which have been wet with 
cold water. -Miss H. B., Roxbury. 

PEPPERMINTS AND FANCY MINTS. 

Granulated sugar, 1 cup. Confectioner's sugar, 4 heaping 

tablespoons. 

Hot water, 4 tablespoons. Essence of peppermint, 1 tea- 

spoon. 

Boil granulated sugar and water for 4 minutes, remove from 
fire and add confectioner's sugar and essence. Stir till it begins to 
thicken then drop by teaspoons on \vaxed paper. 

To make checkermints add l / 2 teaspoon of pink sugar to the 
granulated sugar before boiling and flavor with wintergreen. 

To make chocolate mints add one square of unsweetened choco- 
late before boiling and flavor with vanilla. Cinnamon, clove, ginger 
and other mints may be made in the same way. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 



70 CANDIES 



ICE CREAM TAFFY. 

Sugar, 4 cups. Cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Water, 1 cup. 

Mix sugar, butter and cream of tartar and add water. Boil till 
a little will harden when poured into cold water. Do not stir. Pour 
onto buttered plates and when cool enough pull until very white. 
Cut into small chunks and wrap in oiled paper. 

Sweet Sixteen, Newton. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

Sugar, 2 pounds. Roasted peanuts. 

Melt the sugar very gradually over a slow fire in a large shallow 
frying pan, stirring constantly till it caramels. Butter a marble 
slab or large platter and spread over it the shelled and skinned nuts. 
Pour over them the hot syrup, or mix nuts with syrup before pour- 
ing out on slab. When hard break into small pieces with the handle 
of a knife. 

PEANUT BUTTER CANDY. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Peanut butter, y 2 cup. 

Boil sugar and milk for 5 minutes, remove from fire and set pan 
into a larger pan of cold water. Stir until cool, add peanut butter, 
and turn out into pan. When almost cold cut in squares. 

MINT PASTE. 

Granulated gelatine, 3 table- Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

spoons. 

Cold water, 1 cup. Creme de menthe, 4 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Salt, a few grains. 

Soak the gelatine in y 2 cup of the cold water for y 2 an hour. 
Add the remaining y 2 cup of cold water to the sugar and bring to 
the boiling point. Add the gelatine and let boil 20 minutes. Re- 
move from fire and add the strained lemon juice, creme de menthe 
and salt. Pour into a flat pan and let stand till stiff and cold. Re- 
move from pan, cut in cubes and roll each cube in confectioner's 
sugar. 



CANDIES 71 

FRUIT BALLS. 

Dates, 1/2 pound. Figs, y 2 pound. 

Peanut butter, % cup. Confectioner's sugar. 

Pick out and remove stems from figs and stones from dates. 
Mix well with peanut butter and force all through meat chopper. 
Work with hands 011 board covered with sugar until well blended. 
Pat into 14 inch sheet and cut out in 3 /4 inch squares. Roll each 
in confectioner's sugar and form into round ball. Ch.ll thoroughly. 
Will keep indefinitely. 

CRYSTALLIZED MINT LEAVES. 

Mint leaves. Boiling water, Vi CU P- 

Granulated sugar, 1 cup. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Dissolve sugar and water and boil without stirring till a little 
dropped in cold water becomes brittle. Remove from fire and set in 
a pan of boiling water, add lemon juice and drop in the mint leaves 
one at a time. Coat thoroughly with the syrup and preserving the 
shape of the leaf lay on paraff.n paper that has been sprinkled 
thickly with granulated sugar. Shake more sugar over them and 
leave to dry, when they are ready for use. 

GLACED FRUITS AND NUTS. 

Sugar, 1 pound. Water, y 2 pint. 

Fruits or nuts. 

Have fruits, nuts or jelly prepared before starting to make 
syrup. A candy thermometer must be used to get good results. 
Boil sugar and w r ater till thermometer registers 290 degrees. Remove 
at once from the fire and quickly dip prepared fruits into the syrup. 
Lay on a marble slab or large platter, brushed with olive oil, to dry. 
Work as fast as possible as syrup quickly turns color and hardens. 

Priscilla Sears. 

STUFFED FIGS. 

Use whole figs. Pour hot water over thorn and let stand 5 min- 
utes. Open at one end and insert a marshmallow. Roll in pow- 
dered sugar. 



72 CANDIES 



STUFFED DATES. 

Stone perfect dates and stuff with a marshmallow, a piece of 
white or tinted fondant, a large almond, peanuts or English walnuts, 
or chopped mixed fruits. Press together and roll in powdered sugar. 

MARZIPAN. 

Almonds, 1 pound. Powdered sugar, 1 pound. 

Rose water. 

Blanch the almonds and when perfectly dry pound them or 
grind in a meat chopper. To this add gradually the powdered 
sugar and a little rose water. Cover a board thickly with powdered 
sugar and on this, with the fingers knead the mixture thoroughly. 
Allow the mixture to remain for an hour after kneading and roll 
out to the thickness of about 1/4 inch. Cut into small, fancy shapes 
and allow these to harden. If so desired the mixture may be pressed 
into a figured mold or into small molds and there allowed to harden 
before turning out. This does not require cooking but may be placed 
in a cool oven a few minutes to dry if desired. 

CANDIED GRAPEFRUIT PEEL. 

Soak grapefruit rind in cold salted water for 48 hours, chang- 
ing water 2 or 3 times. Put on in cold water to boil, changing water 
twice, till a straw can easily penetrate. Remove from fire, drain 
and when cool cut into strips. Make a syrup of 1 cup of sugar 
and 1-3 cup of water for the rind of each grapefruit, lay in strips 
and cook till syrup is all taken up. When cold roll each strip in 
granulated sugar and lay on platter to dry. Pack in preserve 
glasses to keep soft. Mrs. H. B. C., South Boston. 

KISSES. 

Egg white, 1. Sugar, 13 teaspoons. 

Vanilla extract, a few drops. 

Beat the white of egg to a very stiff froth, add sugar and vanilla 
and beat altogether. Drop by teaspoons on white paper placed on 
an inverted baking tin and slightly brown in a very moderate oven. 

Miss H. B., Roxbury. 



CEREALS, RICE AND MACARONI. 73 

FARINA MUSH. 

Milk, 1 quart. Farina, i/ 2 cup. 

Salt. Butter, 1 dessertspoon. 

Boil salted milk and when bubbling add farina, stirring con- 
stantly. Add lump of butter and cook in double boiler until done. 

SAMP. 

Samp, 1 cup. Boiling water, 2i/ 2 cups. 

Salt, i/) teaspoon. 

Cover the samp with cold water and soak for 8 hours. Drain 
and put into a double boiler with the boiling water and salt. Cook 
until tender. 

CEREAL-FRUIT PUDDING. 

Cold boiled cereal, (oatmeal, Fruit, (apples, pears, dates). 

hominy or rice). Buttered cracker crumbs. 

Sugar. 

Buttered cracker crumbs. 

Put a layer of the cereal in a baking dish, cover with a layer of 
sliced fruit and dredge with sugar. Repeat and cover all with the 
crumbs. Bake in a medium oven till fruit is soft and crumbs are 
brown. Serve with cream. Juicy apples are the best fruit to use. 

BERRIES AND FARINA. 

Berries, 1 quart. Farina, 1 cup. 

Salt. 

Wash, stew and mash berries in double boiler, add farina and 
salt and stew for 50 minutes. Let harden in small cups and serve 
cold with cream and sugar. Blackberries, strawberries and rasp- 
berries are best for this purpose. 

HOMINY. 

Hominy, 1 cup. Boiling water, 4 cups. 

Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Boil hominy rapidly in the salted water for 10 minutes, then 
eook in double boiler for 1 hour. 



74 CEREALS, RICE AND MACARONI. 

GRAHAM MUSH. 

Sift graham flour slowly into boiling water, stirring until it is 
as thick as can be stirred with one hand. Put into a steamer and 
steam for 3 or 4 hours. Eat with cream and sugar. 

FRUIT JUICE CEREAL. 

Stew any fresh or dried fruits or combination of fruits until 
tender with sugar to taste. Press through a fine sieve, cool and 
chill. Serve with any naked cereal. Cherries, strawberries, apples, 
prunes, apricots and peaches are best for this purpose. Lemon juice 
may be added for zest if desired. 

CUSTARD CEREAL. 

Milk, 1 quart. Sugar, 3 tablespoons. 

Eggs, 2. Cereal flakes. 

Bring milk to boiling point in a double boiler. Slowly stir 
in the well beaten eggs and sugar. Boil an instant, then remove and 
set aside to cool. Chill and serve with any cereal flakes instead 
of cream and sugar. 

RICE CAKES. 

Cold boiled rice, 2 cups. Salt, 

Egg yolks, 2. Sugar. 

Mix rice and well beaten egg yolks, add a pinch of salt and a 
tablespoon of sugar. Half fill buttered muffin tins and bake brown. 
Serve hot with cream and sugar, as a breakfast cereal. 

* 

BRAN AND CEREAL BREAKFAST FOOD. 

Bran, i/ 2 cup. Salt, i/o teaspoon. 

Oatmeal, y 2 cup. Boiling water, 1 pint. 

Raisins. 

Mix bran, oatmeal and salt and pour on, stirring constantly, 
the boiling water. Cook slowly in double boiler for 2 hours. Add 
a handful of raisins 10 minutes before it is done. Serves 3 people. 



Use as follows: 

ROLLED OATS 

or 
OATMEAL: 

1. For breakfast cereal, at least every other day. 

2. Put rolled oats through the food chopper and use this oat 

flour in Boston brown bread or quick bread with barley 
ai d corn, and alone in muffins, buscuits, in cookies and 
gingerbread, instead of white or Graham flour. 

CORN MEAL: 

1 . For breakfast or supper twice a week as mush. 

2. Cold mush moulded, sliced and browned in a small 

amount of fat. 

3. In corn breads, muffins, Boston brown bread, and baked 

Indian pudding. 

CORN FLOUR: 

1. In muffins, quick cakes, gingerbread and cookies alone 

or with barley flour. Use less flour or more liquid. 

2. To thicken soups and sauces. 

CORNSTARCH: 

1. For desserts. 

2. To thicken soups and sauces. 

BARLEY FLOUR: 

1 . For quick bread and muffins and in any other recipes 

that call for flour such as pastry, cake, cookies and 
puddings. 

2. To thicken soups and sauces. 

RICE: 

1 . For breakfast cereal. 

2. For dinner or supper, plain boiled and with cheese and 

white sauce as meat substitute. 

3. For dessert with milk or raisins. 

4. In quick bread and muffins with barley flour. 

RICE FLOUR: 

1. In cakes and cookies. }<- cup rice flour and }/% <^ip 
barley flour may be used instead of 1 cup white flour. 

POTATO FLOUR: 

1. In sponge and other cakes. Use % cup potato flour to 
replace 1 cup white flour. 

April 22. 1918 (over) 



or 

>i> 

ADMINlSTRATTOf 




ARRANGED FOR 

Jordan Marsh Company 

THE WOMEN'S MUNICIPAL LEAGUE OF BOSTON 

BY 

MISS ALICE BRADLEY 

and 
MRS. ELBERT A. HARVEY 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE PURCHASE OF WHEAT 

FLOUR SUBSTITUTES 

We suggest that substitutes be bought in the following pro- 
portions: 

ROLLED OATS 

or , 

OATMEAL . . 3 pounds $ .24 

CORN MEAL 3 pounds .24 

CORNFLOUR 1 pound .08 

CORNSTARCH 1 package .09 

BARLEY FLOUR 2 pounds .16 

RICE (Blue Rose) 1 pound .10 

RICE FLOUR 1 pound .12 

or 
POTATO FLOUR 1 pound .15 

The above amounts will furnish adequate cereals for a family 
of 

3 to 6 people 1 week 

2 to 4 people 2 weeks 

These are current prices in Boston. 
April 22, 1918. (Over) 



CEREALS, RICE AND MACARONI. 75 

SPANISH RICE. 

Rice, 1 cup. Onion, 1. 

Sweet pepper, 1. Butter, y 2 cup. 

Salt. Tomatoes, 1 pint. 

Cook rice as usual, parboil pepper from which seeds have been 
removed, chop pepper and onion and add to rice f with other in- 
gredients. Pour into buttered dish and bake in moderate oven 
20 minutes. 

SYRIAN RICE. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Water, 2 cups. 

Tomato, 1 cup. Rice, 1 cup. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add tomato, water and salt to 
taste. \Vhen it boils add the washed rice. Let boil hard for a few 
minutes, stirring well. Then set back on the range where it will 
just boil. Do not stir again but cover tight and cook about 1 hour. 

Seliva, Hyde Park. 

RICE HASH. 

Cold meat, iy 2 cups. Potatoes, 1 cup. 

Bread crumbs, y cup. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. Onion, 1. 

Boiled rice, 1 cup. Tomatoes, y 2 cup. 

Chop meat fine, mix with crumbs, parsley, rice, chopped toma- 
toes and diced potatoes. Melt butter in frying pan and fry chopped 
onion till light brown, then add hash and seasoning to taste, stir 
well and simmer for 1 hour. Serve hot on toast. 

RICED TOMATOES. 

Tomatoes, 1 pint. Chopped olives, i/ 2 cup. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Chopped green peppers, y 2 cup. 

Paprika, a pinch. Onion, 1. 

Chopped celery, 1 cup. Rice, 1 cup. 

Rub tomatoes through a fine sieve, heat in saucepan for 10 min- 
utes and add remaining ingredients, mixing well. Set on a brisk 
fire and boil 5 minutes. Then simmer very slowly for iy 4 hours till 
mixture is thoroughly blended. 



76 CEREALS, RICE AND MACARONI. 

RICE AU GRATIN. 

Boiled rice, 2 cups. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Cheese, 14 cup. Onion, 1. 

Milk, 1 cup. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Bread crumbs, y cup. 

Heat milk in double boiler and add flour, butter, salt and 
chopped onion well blended together. Slowly stir in the rice. Boil 
6 minutes and turn into buttered baking dish. Sprinkle the grated 
cheese and crumbs over the top and put in oven to brown. 



PEAS AND RICE. 

Canned peas, 1 cup. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Rice, 3 cups. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. 



Butter a baking dish and in it place a layer of l 1 /^ cups of rice, 
season with butter, salt and pepper and place on it the peas in a 
layer. Cover with the remaining l 1 /^ cups of rice, and again season. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in flour till well blended, then 
add a cup of the liquor from the peas and bring to the boiling 
point, then add the milk, heat again, pour in baking dish. Bake 10 
minutes. 

YOKOHAMA RICE CAKES. 

Rice, 4 ounces. Vanilla, i/o teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 pint. Cream, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1 saltspoon. Eggs, 2. 

Puff paste. 

Wash and drain the rice. Heat the milk, add salt and rice 
and let boil for 45 minutes, lightly stirring once in a while. Remove 
from fire, add cream, a whole egg and yolk of the second, well 
beaten, and stir. Line a pie plate with puff paste, pour in the 
rice and bake 25 minutes. H. R. L., Waltham. 



CEREALS, RICE AND MACARONI. 7? 

TURKISH PILAF. 

Rice, 1/2 C11 P- Brown stock, 1 cup. 

Tomatoes, % cup. Butter, 3 tablespoons. 

Wash rice, stew tomatoes and strain, add them to highly sea- 
soned brown stock and heat to boiling point. Add rice and steam 
all till rice is soft. Stir in butter with fork and keep uncovered. 
Serve in place of potatoes with a curry or fricassee of meat. 

Mrs. F. C., Beverly. 

MEXICAN MACARONI. 

Macaroni. Chopped onion, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter, 3 tablespoons. Brown stock, 1 small cup. 

Chopped green peppers, 2 Tomatoes, 1 cup. 
tablespoons. Salt and paprika. 

Boil macaroni in salted water, drain and blanch with cold water. 
Molt butter and add peppers and onion, cook 5 minutes, then add 
stock and tomatoes stewed, strained and measured. Season and add 
macaroni. Heat all well and serve at once. 

The Bride, Brighton. 

SOUR MILK MACARONI. 

Macaroni, 1/2 pound. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Chopped ham, i/ 2 pound. Sour milk or cream, 1 pint. 

Onion, 1. Sage cheese, l / 2 pound. 

Boil finely broken macaroni in salted water for 20 minutes, 
drain and add the remaining ingredients. Mix well and bake 45 
minutes. 

MACARONI AND TOMATOES. 
Macaroni, % cup. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Onion, 1. Tomato juice, l 1 /^ cups. 

Cracker crumbs, % cup. Grated Parmesan cheese, V 2 

cup. 

Break macaroni in fine pieces and boil till tender in water into 
which the onion has been sliced. Drain and add butter immediately. 
Add tomato juice, strained, seasoned, and slightly thickened, and 
the grated cheese. Pour into buttered baking dish. Spread with 
cracker crumbs, sprinkle with melted butter and brown in a hot 
oven. 



78 CEREALS, RICE AND MACARONI. 

BAKED MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Elbow macaroni, 1 package. Pepper, y 2 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Milk, iy 2 cups. 

Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. Grated cheese, 2 cups. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Bread crumbs. 

Boil macaroni in rapidly boiling salted water until tender. Make 
a white sauce by blending flour, butter and seasoning, adding boil- 
ing hot milk and letting all boil a moment. Grate young America 
cheese and measure. When macaroni is done, drain and mix well 
with cheese and white sauce. Pour in buttered baking dish, cover 
with buttered bread crumbs and bake until golden brown. 

M. R. 



CHAFING DISH RECEIPTS. 79 

OYSTER WELSH. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Cheese, y 2 pound. 

Made mustard, y 2 saltspoon. Oysters, 1 cup. 

Melt the butter and stir in flour until smooth, add the season- 
ing and cheese and melt. Meanwhile cook oysters in their own liquor 
until plump (about 2 minutes). Strain liquor through fine strainer 
into other mixture, add oysters, heat all and serve. 

Bay State. 

OYSTERS A LA NEWBURG. 

Oysters, 1 pint. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Oyster liquor, % cup. Lemon juice, y 2 teaspoon. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Cayenne, a few grains. 

Chopped mushrooms, 2 table- Egg yolk, 1. 

spoons. 
Flour, 2 tablespoons. Sherry, 1 tablespoon. 

Pick over oysters, heat to boiling point and drain. Strain liquor 
through cheese cloth and measure. Cook mushrooms in butter for 
5 minutes, stir in flour till well blended and add oyster liquor slowly, 
stirring constantly. Cook for 3 minutes. Add seasoning and 
lemon juice, then oysters, yolk of egg and sherry. Cook all together 
for a few minutes and serve on crackers or toast. 

Dotty Dimple. 

LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG. 

Boiled lobster, 1. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Hardboiled egg yolks, 2. Cream, 1 cup. 

Cream, 1 tablespoon. Soda, a pinch. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Salt, cayenne and mace. 

Sherry, 1 wineglass. 

Cut the meat of the lobster into 2-inch pieces. Rub the eg? 
yolk to a paste with the tablespoon of cream. In the chafing dish 
pan melt the butter, stir in flour and when well blended add eg" 
paste and little by little the cup of cream. Add a tiny pinch of 
soda and seasoning to taste. Whrn cronmy and very hot stir in 
lobster meat and heat through. Just before serving add sherry. 



80 CHAFING DISH RECEIPTS. 



WELSH RABBIT. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. American cheese, y 2 pound. 

Salt, 14 teaspoon. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Cayenne, a few grains. Egg yolks, 2. 

Melt the butter in chafing dish, stir in seasoning and cheese 
ground or grated fine. When cheese is almost melted stir in slowly 
the milk and egg yolks, well beaten. Serve immediately on crackers 
or toast. For extra flavor y 2 teaspoon of Worcestershire sauce and 
a dash of dry mustard may be added, or a pinch of paprika and 
a few drops of onion juice. 

TOMATO RABBIT. 

Cheese, 1 pound. Pepper, a dash. 

Tomato, 1/2 pint. Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 

Salt, 1 saltspoon. Garlic. 

Rub the chafing dish pan with a bit of garlic, melt the cheese, 
add tomato strained, salt, pepper and bread crumbs. Cook until 
smooth and serve at once on large crackers. 

RICE AND NUT RABBIT. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Cheese, y 2 cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Cooked rice, y 2 cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. Pecan nuts, 1-3 cup. 

Salt and paprika. 

Melt butter, stir in flour and when blended pour in gradually 
the milk, stirring all the time. When smooth and creamy add 
cheese cut fine and stir till well blended then add rice and chopped 
nut meats. Season and serve immediately on toast. Enough for 5 
people. 

SCOTTISH WOODCOCK. 

Tomatoes. 1 can. Soft cheese, V- 2 pound. 

Eggs, 6. Salt and pepper. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Heat tomatoes to boiling point and stir in the well beaten eggs. 
When thoroughly mixed add the cheese, butter and seasoning. Serve 
on crackers or toast. 



CHAFING DISH RECEIPTS. 81 

CALF'S LIVER A LA TERRAPIN. 

Calf's liver, 1. Milk, i/ 2 pint. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Egg, 1. 

Madeira, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash liver, dry and saute slightly, then cut in dice. Melt the 
butter in a frying pan, stir in the flour till smooth, add milk and 
stir till it boils. Add liver and seasoning and heat well. Remove 
from fire and stir in well beaten egg and madeira. Serve piping hot. 

R. E. L. 

CREAMED LOBSTER. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Milk. 2 cups. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Large lobster, 1. 

Salt, pepper and paprika. 

Melt butter, stir in flour till blended, add milk and stir till 
thick, add the finely cut meat of the lobster, previously boiled, heat 
well, season and serve. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Milk, 1 pint. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Oysters, 12. Salt and pepper. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Put the milk in the chafing dish and let it come to a boil, add 
the oysters, butter and pepper and salt to taste. Moisten the flour 
with a little cold milk, taking care to get out all the lumps. Stir 
this into the milk and oysters and keep stirring till it thickens. Pour 
over hot toast. 

TUNA FISH TOAST. 

Tuna fish, 1 can. Butter, 3 tablespoons. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. Sherry, 1 tablespoon. 

Onion juice, a few drops. Tomato sauce, y 4 cup. 

Salt and pepper. 

Flake the fish and marinate in vinegar, onion juice, salt and 
pepper for one hour. Put butter in the chafing dish, add the sherry 
and tomato sauce, put in the fish and stir till thoroughly heated. 
Serve on hot toast. 



82 CHAFING DISH RECEIPTS. 

CHEESE DREAMS. 

Stale bread. Mild American cheese. 

Butter. 

Cut the bread in 14 inch slices, remove crusts and cut in halves 
lengthwise. Cut cheese in slices the same size as slices of bread and 
sprinkle with salt and cayenne. Put a slice of cheese between each 
two slices of bread and saute in butter first on one side, then the 
other, till golden brown. Serve piping hot. 

PANNED SHRIMPS. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Boiled rice, !/2 cup. 

Tomato catsup, 1 tablespoon. Cream, y 2 cup. 

Onion, 1. Shrimps, 1 pint. 

Melt butter in chafing dish, stir in catsup, the juice of the 
onion, the rice, cream and shrimps which may be canned or fresh. 
Stir well till it begins to boil, then cook slowly for 5 minutes. 

SHRIMP WIGGLE. 

Beef extract, ^ teaspoon. Milk, 1^ cups. 

Salt, y% teaspoon. Paprika, 2 teaspoons. 

Butter, 4 tablespoons. Shrimps, 1 cup. 

Peas, 1 cup. 

If canned shrimps and peas are used, drain well, and let stand 
for an hour before using. In the chafing dish mix and heat the 
extract, butter, milk, salt and paprika. When well heated turn in 
shrimps and peas, heat and serve at once. Ruth. 

TORQUE MADA. 

Chopped onion, 1 tablespoon. Tomatoes, 1 can. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Eggs, 2 or 3. 

Salt and cayenne. Toast. 

Fry onion in butter, and add seasoning. (Curry may be used 
if desired.) Drain tomatoes, remove any hard portions and chop 
fine. Strain butter and onion over tomatoes and cook all together 
for 5 minutes. Beat eggs slightly, add, and cook till eggs are some- 
what set, Serve on rounds of toast. Bay State. 



CHAFING DISH KKCKIPTS. 8:? 

OYSTER PAN ROAST. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Oyster juice, 1 cup. 

Oysters, iy 2 dozen. Salt and pepper. 

Put the butter in the chafing dish pan. As it melts add the 
oysters and their juice. Season, put on the cover and let cook 2 
minutes. Serve oysters on hot toast and pour juice over all. 

CHICKEN A LA KING. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Chicken, 1. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Chopped green pepper, 2 table- 

spoons. 

Milk. VL* pint. Mushrooms, 12. 

Sherry, 2 tablespoons. 

Melt butter in blazer, mix in flour and blend well. Add milk 
and stir until smooth and creamy. Add the meat of the chicken 
diced, with peppers and sliced mushrooms. When hot put blazer in 
water pan half filled with boiling: water, add sherry, stir well and 
serve. E. 0. B., Boston. 

CREAMED SHRIMPS. 

Shrimps, 2 cans. Red pepper, 2 shakes. 

Onion, 1. Flour. 2-3 tablespoon. 

Boiled rice, 1 cup. Milk. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Melt butter, stir in flour till well blended, then gradually add 
milk enough to make smooth and slightly thick. Add onion chopped 
fine, rice and shrimps. Season and heat all well. 

CREAMED CHIPPED BEEF. 

Dried beef, 14 pound. Milk V 2 pint- 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Pepper, a dash. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Kitchen bouquet, 1 teaspoon. 

Cover beef with boiling water, let stand "> minutes, drain. Pick 
beef into small pieces and place in bowl. When ready to use put 
butter in blazer, add beef and stir until thoroughly heated. Sprinkle 
with the flour, add milk and stir until boiling. Add seasoning and 
serve on toast. 



84 CHAFING DISH RECEIPTS. 

CRAB FLAKES. 

Crab meat, 2 cups. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Cayenne, a few grains. Cream, 1/2 eu p. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Milk, 2-3 cup. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Egg yolks, 2. 

Melt butter in chafing dish, mix in flour, add cream and milk 
and stir until smooth and creamy. Hard boil the eggs and rub the 
yolks to a paste. Add 1 tablespoon of the sauce to the yolks, then add 
to the rest of sauce. Add flakes and seasoning and stir till very hot. 
Serve on buttered toast. 

POACHED EGGS IN WHITE SAUCE. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Milk, 11/2 pints. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Eggs, 6. 

Melt butter in chafing dish, mix in flour thoroughly, add milk 
and stir until thick and smooth, then add seasoning. Into this break 
the eggs, cook until firm and serve at once. 

BARBECUED HAM. 

Butter, 2 teaspoons. French mustard, 1 tablespoon. 

Tomato catsup, 5 tablespoons. Sherry, 3 tablespoons. 

Boiled ham. 

Make a sauce by stirring together in the chafing dish the butter, 
catsup, mustard and wine. When this is hot lay in thin slices of 
boiled ham and let them heat well before serving. 

HOT PINEAPPLE CANAPES. 

Butter, 1 teaspoon. Pineapple, 1 can. 

Sponge cake. Arrowroot, 1 teaspoon. 

Put the butter in chafing dish pan. When it is hot put in slices 
of sponge cake and brown slightly on both sides. Lay the slices 
on a plate and spread each with drained canned pineapple chopped 
fine. Heat one cup of pineapple juice in the pan. Moisten the arrow- 
root with cold water, stir it slowly into the hot juice and stir till it 
thickens and becomes clear. Pour over cake. If there is more juice 
increase amount of arrowroot in proportion. 



CHAFING DISH RECEIPTS. 85 

FISH HOLLANDAISE. 

Flaked cooked fish, 1 pint. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Chopped parsley. 1 tablespoon. Water, y 2 pint. 

Onion juice, 1 teaspoon. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon. Pepper, a shake. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Egg yolks, 2. 

Sprinkle fish with parsley, onion juice and lemon juice. When 
ready to use put butter and flour in chafing dish, mix well, add 
water and stir until boiling, then add seasoning and fish. Cover till 
fish is well heated then stir in carefully the beaten egg yolks. Serve 
at once. 



COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 87 

DROPPED NUT COOKIES. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Egg, 1. Walnuts, % cup. 

Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1-3 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten egg, dry ingredients 
mixed and sifted together, milk, and nuts chopped coarsely. Drop 
by spoonfuls on a greased tin and bake in a quick oven. 

Miss A. E. B., Jamaica Plain. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Eggs, 4. Salt, 1/2 saltspoon. 

Powdered sugar, l / 2 cup. Flavoring, 1 teaspoon. 

Pastry flour, % cup. 

Mix as for sponge cake, drop into lady finger tins or press 
through a pastry tube into right shape, sprinkle over with powdered 
sugar and bake 12 to 15 minutes in a very slow oven. 

English Cook, Newtonville. 

HERMITS. 

Sugar, 11/2 cups. Spices of all kinds, l / 2 teaspoon 

each. 

Molasses, y cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Shortening, y 2 cup. Water, 1 tablespoon. 

Eggs, 3. Chopped raisins, 1 cup. 

Flour. 

Mix with flour as soft as can be handled, roll out or spread out 
thin in a large pan. Bake in a moderate oven. F'llet Crank. 

BOILED MOLASSES CHIPS. 

Molasses, 1 pint. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Flour. 

Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Boil molasses and butter together 5 minutes, take from stove and 
add soda and ginger sifted with enough flour to roll out. Eoll as thin 
as note paper and cut in strips about 4 inches long and l 1 /^ inches 
wide. Bake in a quick oven. 



88 COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 

OLD-FASHIONED CARAWAY COOKIES. 

Butter, 1 cup. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

.Milk, % cup. Caraway seeds, 2 heaping tea- 

spoons. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, 5 cups. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Hub butter and sugar to a cream, add milk, beaten eggs, flour 
sifted with baking powder and salt, caraway seeds and vanilla. Roll 
out very thin and cut in fancy shapes. Bake quickly in a very hot 
oven. 

MONKEYS. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. Flour, 2 cups. 

Egg, 1. Lemon extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Sour milk, 2-3 cup. Raisins. 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg and remaining in- 
gredients in order given. Drop from spoon onto buttered floured 
pan, press three raisins into each (2 for eyes and one for mouth) 
and bake till lightly browned. M. D., Fitchburg. 

PEANUT BUTTER DAINTIES. 

Peanut butter, 2 tablespoons. Flour, 1 cup. 
Sugar, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Baking powder, y 2 teaspoon. 

Rub peanut butter to a cream. Mix with sugar and flour until 
smooth, then add well beaten eggs and baking powder. Drop from 
spoon on buttered paper l /. 2 i n h apart and bake in moderate oven 
till golden brown. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

Egg whites, 4. Powdered sugar, 1 cup. 

Grated cocoanut, 11/2 cups. 

Beat the egg whites till very stiff and dry, then gradually beat 
in the sugar. Cut and fold in the cocoanut and drop on oiled paper 
from a tablespoon. Bake in a moderate oven about 15 minutes. 



COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 89 

OATMEAL MACAROONS. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Butter, 1 large tablespoon. Rolled oats, 2y 2 cups. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Cream butter and sugar, add other ingredients and drop into 
nicely buttered tins by teaspoonfuls, leaving a good space between 
as mixture spreads. Bake a golden brown. Clinging Vine. 

PECAN MACAROONS. 

Egg, 1. Pecan nut meats, 1 cup. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Salt, 14 teaspoon. 

Beat the white of the egg until stiff and dry. Add gradually 
the brown sugar, beating all the time. Cut and fold in the finely 
chopped nut meats which have been sprinkled with the salt. Drop 
fpom tip of spoon 1 inch apart on a buttered cookie sheet or the 
bottom of a dripping pan turned upside down. Bake 8 minutes in 
a moderate oven. Makes 2 dozen. 

PEANUT BUTTER MACAROONS. 

Peanut butter, 4 tablespoons. Egg whites, 3. 
Powdered sugar, 4 tablespoons. Corn meal, a pinch. 

Beat egg whites till stiff and dry and mix all thoroughly in a 
bowl, let stand an hour and beat into a flaky paste. Drop in tea- 
spoonfuls on a buttered paper and bake in moderate oven till golden 
brown. 

INDIANS. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 2 Flour, y 2 cup. 

squares. 
Eggs, 2. Chopped walnuts, 1 cup. 

Melt butter and chocolate together in a saucepan. Beat the 
eggs till light and add suyar. Gradually stir into this the flour, add 
the chocolate mixture and the nuts, and drop by spoonfuls on a 
cookie sheet or dripping pan turned upside down and well greased. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 



90 COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 

BRAN COOKIES. 

Butter, 1/2 CU P- Bran, 2y 2 cups. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, 2 tablespoons. Chopped raisins, y 2 cup. 

Flour. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, milk and bran 
with salt and baking powder. Beat thoroughly, add raisins and 
flour to make stiff enough to roll out. Cut out, sprinkle with sugar 
and nutmeg and bake in a quick oven. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Shortening, 1 cup. Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Ginger, 2 heaping teaspoons. 

Soda, 2 teaspoons. Flour. 

Melt the shortening, add the sugar and molasses. Pour the boil- 
ing water slowly onto the soda and when dissolved add it to the 
first mixture. Add salt, ginger and enough flour to make stiff. 
Roll out, cut in circles and bake in a quick oven. 

CRISP PEANUT COOKIES. 

Butter, 1-3 cup. Soda, 1-3 teaspoon. 

Lard, 1-3 cup. Salt, y 2 saltspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Chopped peanuts, y 2 cup. 

Warm water, y cup. Flour. 

Cream the lard, butter and sugar and add the warm water in 
which is dissolved the soda and salt. Add peanuts, finely chopped, 
and flour and roll very thin. Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

NUT COOKIES. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Egg, 1. 

Fine brown sugar, 1 cup. Flour, iy 2 heaping tablespoons. 

Nut meats, 1 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg, flour and chopped nut 
meats. Pecans, walnuts or peanuts may be used. Drop from a tea- 
spoon onto a buttered cookie sheet and bake in a hot oven. 



COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 91 

SOUTHERN SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

Butter, !/2 cup. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Sour milk, 1-3 cup. Lemon extract, y teaspoon. 

Sour cream, 14 cup. Vanilla extract, 14 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Flour. 

Cream butter and sugar and add other ingredients in order 
given, beating egg well and stirring in enough flour to roll out, not 
too thin. Cut into rounds, sprinkle with sugar and bake. 

Egleston Square. 

OATMEAL FRUIT BARS. 

Oatmeal, 3 cups. Melted butter, 1 cup. 

Whole wheat flour, 4 cups. Seeded raisins, 1 cup. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups. Salt, iy 2 teaspoons. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix ingredients well, dissolving soda in a little water before 
adding. Mix to a stiff dough with cold water and roll out as thin 
as possible. Cut in long bars. Lay on greased tins and bake in 
hot oven. 

FIG BARS. 

Milk, 1 cup. Cream of tartar, a pinch. 

Maple sugar, 1 pound. Lemon extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Chopped figs, l 1 /^ cups. 

Boil milk, sugar and cream of tartar slowly for 20 minutes, add 
extract and figs. Bring again to boil and pour into buttered pan. 
When cool cut into bars 2 inches long and 1 inch wide. 

HONEY CAKES. 

Flour, 1% pounds. Butter, y 4 pound. 

Honey, % pound. Sugar, y 4 pound. 

Nutmeg, y 2 . Ginger, 1 tablespoon. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar, add honey and flour mixed and sifted 
with spices and soda. Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. Cover 
in a cookie jar and let stand until moist before eating. 



92 COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 



CHINESE COOKIES. 

Pastry flour, 2 cups. Soda, 14 teaspoon. 

Butter, *4 cup. Lard, 14 cup. 

Brown sugar, 2 cups. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Cold water, 2 tablespoons. 

Mix well and form into little balls the size of a nutmeg. Place 
4 inches apart in an unbuttered pan and bake in a moderate oven 
for 20 minutes. When done let stand in pan 5 minutes, then re- 
move carefully. Will keep for weeks. Don't Worry. 

CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 2. Unsweetened chocolate, 2 

squares. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Milk, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, chocolate 
melted and flour sifted with baking powder. Roll out 1 inch thick, 
cut out with a doughnut cutter, dust with powdered sugar and bake 
10 minutes. 

PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES. 

Peanut butter, y 2 CU P- Whole wheat flour, 1 cup. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. Brown sugar, *4 cup. 

Water, ~y z cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Dissolve soda in water and mix with nut butter, add flour sifted 
with salt and sugar. Mix well, roll very thin, cut in strips and bake 
in quick oven until brown. 

ORANGE COOKIES. 

Butter, 14 cup. Orange juice, 14 CU P- 

Sugar, % cup. Flour, 3 cups. 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Grated rind of 1 orange. 

Cream butter and sugar and stir in well beaten egg. Add orange 
juice and flour sifted with baking powder. Add grated yellow rind 
of the orange and mix all well together. Roll out very thin, cut with 
a cookie cutter and bake in a moderate oven. 



COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 93 

COCOANUT JUMBLES. 

Butter, i/o cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1/2 CU P- Eggs, 2. 

Flour, 2 cups. Coeoanut, 1 cup. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar, add flavoring, well beaten eggs and 
flour sifted with the baking powder. Stir in cocoanut last of all. 
Roll out thin, adding a little more flour if needed. Cut into rings 
with a jumble cutter. Brush the tops with milk, sprinkle with a 
mixture of granulated sugar and cocoanut and bake a dalicate brown 
in a rather hot oven. 

HARD GINGERBREAD COOKIES. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Lard, 2-3 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 quart. 

Warm lard and mix well with molasses and sugar, then add salt 
and spices. Stir soda into milk and add. Sift flour before measur- 
ing and stir in lightly. Turn onto molding board and roll out to 
1-3-inch thickness. Sift sugar over it and roll in lightly. Cut in 
squares and oblongs and bake in moderate oven. 

SPICED TEA CAKES. 

Eggs, 2. Soda, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. Allspice, ^ teaspoon. 

Milk. Clove, % teaspoon. 

Sucrar, 1 cup. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon. 

Flour, 2 cups. Nutmeg, a dash. 

Cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon. "Raisins, 1 cup. 

Break eggs into a cup, melt butter and add to eggs, fill up cup 
with milk and turn into a mixing bowl. Add suerar, sift flour 3 
times with remaining dry ingredients and add. Lastly stir in 
floured raisins. Bake in gem pans and frost with white frosting. 

H. E. G., Roxbun/. 



94 COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 

CINNAMON CRISPS. 

Butter, 1-3 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2-3 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. Flour, iy 2 cups. 

Milk, 14 cup. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the cinnamon sifted with the 
baking powder, salt and flour. Add the milk and roll very thin, 
cut in rounds, and sprinkle the top with cinnamon and sugar. Bake 
10 minutes in a very hot oven. 

CHOCOLATE SQUARES. 

Butter, 1-3 cup. Egg, 1. 

Brown sugar, y 2 cup. Chocolate, 2 squares. 

White sugar, i/ 2 cup. Flour, i/ 2 cup. 

Salt, a pinch. Nut meats, % cup. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Soften butter and cream it with sugar and salt, melt chocolate 
and add with beaten egg, sifted flour and chopped nut meats (pecans 
or walnuts). Spread mixture evenly in pan lined with paraffin 
paper and bake in a slow oven. When done cut in squares and re- 
move from pan at once. 

MARGUERITES. 

Walnut meats, y 2 cup. Egg white, 1. 

Sugar, 1/9 cup. Saltine crackers. 

Beat egg white stiff and add sugar and walnut meats. Spread 
a teaspoonful of the mixture on each cracker, place all on a cookie 
sheet and bake for a minute or two on the top grate of a hot oven. 

ANGEL CAKELETS. 

Egg whites, 5. Baking powder, % teaspoon. 

Sugar, 34 cup . Flour, % cup. 

Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat egg whites till stiff and dry, and add gradually the sugar, 
beating after each addition. Mix and sift flour and baking powder 
and cut and fold in till well mixed. Fill buttered gem pans 2-3 
full, sprinkle Math powdered sugar and bake in a moderate oven. 



COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 95 

RAISIN DROP COOKIES. 

Butter, 1 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Xutmeg, 14 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, y 2 cup. Cream of tartar, 2 teaspoons. 

Flour, 3 cups. Chopped raisins, 1 cup. 

Mix ingredients in order given, sifting dry ingredients together. 
Drop by spoonfuls onto a well greased pan, leaving room for cookies 
to spread. 

MAPLE RAISIN CRACKERS. 

Maple sugar, 1 cup. Chopped raisins, 1/2 cup. 

Egg whites, 2. Saltine crackers. 

Pulverize maple sugar and measure, add stiffly beaten egs; 
whites and raisins and mix well. Spread saltines with mixture and 
place in the oven to brown. Any other cracker may be used as 
desired. 

BRAMBLES. 

Raisins, 1 cup. Milk, 1 cup. 

Lemon, 1. Lard, 1 scant cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour. 

Chop raisins and lemon very fine, removing seeds from lemon 
but not peel. Add the sugar. Make a crust of the milk, lard, soda 
and flour, roll thin and cut in rounds with a biscuit cutter. On 
half the rounds put a teaspoon of the fillmsr and cover with another 
round. Bake until delicate brown. Mother, South Weymouth. 

DEVILLED CHEESE CRACKERS. 

Grated cheese, iy 2 cups. Olive oil, 2 tablespoons. 

Dry mustard, 1 teaspoon. Vinegar, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt and pepper. "Worcestershire sauce, 1 tea- 

spoon. 

Mix cheese, mustard and a little salt and pepper, add oil and 
beat until creamy, then add vim-gar and Worcestershire sauce. 
Spread on toast or crackers and heat for a few minutes in a hot oven. 



96 COOKIES AND CRACKERS. 

CHEESE FINGERS. 

Grated cheese, 1 cup. Cayenne, a pinch. 

Flour, 1 cup. Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon 

Salt, i/o teaspoon. Cold water. 

Mix ingredients in order given and add enough cold water 

to make a paste. Roll out thin, cut into strips and bake in a hot 
oven 5 or 10 minutes. 

DEVILLED CRACKERS. 

Spread saltines or butter thins with butter, dust lightly with 
cayenne and set in oven till they are a delicate brown. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Flour, 1 pound. Egg, 1. 

Butter, 1 pound. Cayenne pepper. 

Grated cheese, 1 pound. Water, y 2 cup. 

Mustard, 1 teaspoon. 

Cut butter into flour, add cheese, beaten egg, cayenne and mus- 
tard. Roll thin, cut into strips % inch wide and bake till light 
brown. 

PUFFED CRACKERS. 

Use Boston crackers halved. Let the cracker halves lie in cold 
water for 5 minutes. Handle with care to avoid breaking. Remove 
from water with cake turner. Invert a baking tin, grease, and 
arrange the crackers on it, Put a bit of butter on each and place 
in an extremely hot oven till crisp and puffy. If they are to be 
served with soup sprinkle with paprika, if with afternoon tea use 
a mixture of sugar and cinnamon, or brush with white of egg and 
add finely chopped nuts. 

OATMEAL CRACKERS. 

Fine oatmeal, 3 cups. Sugar, 14 cup. 

Flour, 2 cups. Hot water, y 2 cup. 

Melted butter, y 2 cup. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Mix ingredients well, dissolving soda in a little hot water. Roll 
very thin, sprinkle with sugar, cut in rounds and bake. 












^t^-^^x 







>"< . < 






y-**-j*M. 



>- I 



$ 



\ 






DESSEKTS. 97 



ENGLISH PI.UM PUDDING. 

Chopped suet, 1 cup. Flour, 3 cups. 

Seeded raisins, 1 cup. Soda. 1 teaspoon. 

Currants, 1 cup. Salt. V^ teaspoon. 

Sliced citron, 1 cup. Allspice, 1 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Cinnamon. 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. Lemon, 1. 

Mix molasses and milk, add soda, spice and salt, Next add 
tlour, then suet, well-floured fruit and the juice of the lemon. 
Steam for 3 hours. Mrs. P., Framingham. 

LEMON RICE PUDDING. 

Milk, 1 pint. Sugar, ly., cups. 

Boiled rice, 1 cup. Eggs, 3. 

Lemon. 1. 

To the milk add the rice, V^ '-up of sugar, the ego- yolks, well 
beaten, and the grated rind of the lemon. Bake i/ 2 hour or until 
the custard is set. Frost with a meringue made from the stiffly 
beaten egg whites, the remaining cup of sugar and the juice of 
the lemon. Spread over puddinsr, and return to the oven to brown 
lightly. Serve hot or cold. 3/r.s. fl. D., 



FRUITED APPLE PUDDING. 

Tart apples. Lemon peel. 

Seedless raisins. Sugar. 

Citron. Bread crumbs. 

Peel and core enough apples to fill a deep baking dish. Pit 
them in snugly and fill in the holes with raisins, shredded citron 
and lemon peel. Dredge with sugar and pour OVPI- them half a 
cup of hot water. Bake in a slow oven until perfectly tender. 
Remove from oven and sprinkle lightly with bread crumbs, dust 
with sugar, dot with butter and bake 1<~> minutes longer. Serve 
with the following sauce: Thoroughly mix in a saucepan 1 table- 
spoon of flour and Vo cup of sugar. Pour over this ;i cup of boil- 
ins- water and bring to a boil. Remove from the fire and pour thi< 
slowly, while stirring constantly, over one egir well beaten. Flavor 
with lemon juice or extract and serve piping hot with the pudding. 



98 DESSERTS. 



BATTER PUDDING WITH STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Flour, 11/2 cups. Salt, 14 teaspoon. 

Baking- powder, 2 teaspoons. Eggs, 4. 

Milk, 1 pint 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder and add egg yolks, well 
beaten, and the milk. Lastly fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Bake in a hot oven and serve with strawberry sauce : 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Egg yolk, 1. Fresh strawberries. 1 cup. 

Mix and beat all well together and serve ice cold on the hot 
pudding. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Make a rich biscuit dough, roll thin and cut in squares. In the 
centre of each square place a medium sized apple, peeled and cored ; 
fill cavity with sugar, cinnamon and a few raisins, bring dough 
up around apple to cover, making a round ball, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven 30 to 45 minutes or until apples are soft. Serve with 
nutmeg sauce or cream and sugar. D. C., Salem, 

RUSSIAN PUDDING. 

Prunes, 1 pound. Egg whites, 3. 

Sugar, 1 small cup. Cracker crumbs, y 2 cup. 

Soak the prunes for 12 hours. Then boil till very tender with 
just enough water to cover, pour off water and put prunes through 
a coarse sieve, add sugar, cracker crumbs and egg whites, beaten 
stiff. Turn into buttered baking dish and bake for 20 minutes 
in quick oven. Serve hot or cold with plain or whipped cream. 

ROLLED OATS PUDDING. 

Rolled oats, 1 cup. Egg, 1. 

Sugar, 1/2 CU P- Milk ' * quart. 

Molasses. % cup Cinnamon, V 2 teaspoon. 

Salt. 

Mix all thoroughly, beating the egg, pour into buttered baking 
dish and bake iy 2 hours in a slow oven. Serve with whipped 
cream. M. L. P., Framingham. 



DESSERTS. 99 



NEW ENGLAND CRACKER PUDDING. 

(An Old Recipe) 

Milk, 2 quarts. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Soda Crackers, 8. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Clove, 14 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1/2 cup. Nutmeg, *4 teaspoon. 

Raisins, !/2 pound. 

Scald the milk, with the crackers rolled fine. When cool add 
the eggs, well beaten, and the other ingredients in the order given, 
chopping the raisins before adding. Bake five hours in a slow 
oven. C. E. L., Newburyport. 

STEAMED STRAWBERRIES. 

Butter, 4 ounces. Flour. 2 ounces. 

Sugar, 1 ounce. Strawberries, !/> cup. 

Soda, 1/0 teaspoon. 

Cream butter and sugar and gradually work in flour till very 
smooth. Stir in the strawberries, which should be cooked with su<_rar 
till thick, and lastly add soda. Steam in a buttered mold for 4 
hours. Serve with foamy or strawberry sauce. 

DATE PUDDING. 

Sour milk, 1 cup. Chopped suet, 1 cup. 

Soda. 1 teaspoon. Dates, 1 pound. 

Salt, "% teaspoon. English walnut meats, 1 pound 

Sugar, 2-3 cup. Flour. 

Mix ingredients in order given, chopping suet, dates and nul 
meats. Add flour enough to make a stiff batter. Steam 2 or 3 
hours. May be kept well and re-steamed at any time. Serve with 
whipped cream or the following sauce: 

Sugar, 1 cup. Butter. 2-3 cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Water. 

Lemon extract. 

Mix sugar and flour with melted butter ;md ;idd ;i little water. 
Bring to a boil and add more water till of riirht consistency. Flavor 
and serve hot. 



100 DESSERTS. 



WHITE SUET PUDDING. 

Suet, V/2 cups. Baking- powder, i/> teaspoon. 

Flour, 2 cups. Egg, 1. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Milk. 

Chop suet, and add remaining ingredients in order given, with 
milk enough to make a stiff batter. Butter the top part of a 2 
quart double boiler and steam pudding over hot water for 2 hours. 
Or tie in a pudding cloth and boil for 2 hours. Serve piping hot 
with butter and brown sugar. Mrs. R. H. U., Brookline. 

STEAMED CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

^ 

Eggs, 2. Flour, 2 cups. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 2 Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 

squares. 
Milk, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Melt the chocolate and add it to the well beaten eggs and sugar. 
Add milk and flour sifted with the baking powder and salt. Last 
of all beat in melted butter. Steam for 2 hours. Serve with the 
following sauce: 

Egg, 1. Milk, 14 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Heavy cream, y 2 pint. 

Flavoring. 

Beat egg very light, add sugar and stir in milk. Whip the 
cream and beat into first mixture, then flavor to taste. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

Cooked cranberries, 1 quart. Orange juice, y 2 cup. 

Dry bread crumbs, 1 quart. Grated orange rind. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter a pudding dish and put into it a layer of crumbs, then 
one of berries and one of sugar, continuing until the dish is full 
and having a layer of crumbs on top ; pour over the pudding the 
orange juice and sprinkle with bits of orange peel and small pieces 
of butter; cover the pudding and bake for 30 minutes, then re- 
move the cover and let the pudding brown ; serve with either hard 
or liquid sauce. 



DESSERTS. 1U1 



APPLE BATTER PUDDING. 

Apples. 6. Milk, 1 pint. 

Sugar. Eggs, 3. 

Butter. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Cinnamon. Salt, y z teaspoon. 

Lemon, 1. Flour, 2 cups. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Peel and core apples and arrange in a buttered baking dish. 
Fill cavities with butter, sugar, cinnamon, and the grated rind of 
the lemon. Make a stiff batter of the remaining ingredients and 
pour over apples.' Bake for 1 hour and serve with nutmeg sauce 
or cream. 

PUMPKIN PUDDING. 

Pumpkin, 1 pint. Lemon extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream, 1 pint. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 14 cup. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Nutmeg, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Eggs, 6. 

Steam pumpkin till tender, pass through sieve and measure. 
Add remaining ingredients in order given, beating eggs well before 
adding. Mix thoroughly and bake in a buttered baking dish for 
40 or 45 minutes. Serve hot or cold with whipped cream or cream 
and sugar. 

COCOANUT CRUMB PUDDING. 

Shredded cocoanut, y 2 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Sugar, 1-3 cup. 

Soft bread crumbs, 1 cup. Salt. 

Milk, 2 cups. Lemon juice or extract, 1 tea- 

spoon. 

Add cocoanut and butter, melted, to bread crumbs. Pour over 
this one cup of the milk and let stand for 1 hour. Add the well 
beaten yolks of the eggs, the sugar, the second cup of milk, pinch 
of salt and lemon juice. Bake in a buttered pudding dish about % 
of an hour or until firm. Cover with ;i meringue, made of the 
whites of the e^gs Havored with lemon, and brown. May be served 
hot or cold. 



102 DESSERTS. 



BROWN BETTY. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Chopped sour apples, 2 cups. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Raisins, 1 cup. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter well a deep pudding dish and put into it a layer of the 
apple, and raisins, a sprinkle of sugar, a layer of bread crumbs and 
a few bits of butter. Proceed in the same order till all materials 
are used, having the last layer one of bread crumbs. Cover closely 
and bake 45 minutes in a moderate oven, then uncover and brown. 
Serve hot or cold with hard sauce. 

QUINCE PUDDING. 

Quinces, 2 cups. Egg, 1. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Cracker crumbs, 2 cups. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Water, 1 cup. 

Peel quinces and cut fine, then measure. Add sugar, crumbs, 
seasoning and well beaten egg. Dot over with butter and pour 
water over all. Bake 1 hour. /. B. Content. 

ORANGE ROLYPOLY. 

Biscuit dough. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Large oranges, 4. Sugar. 

Make an ordinary light biscuit dough, roll out l / 2 inch thick 
and spread with the pulp of the oranges cut fine. Sprinkle the 
fruit well with sugar, 1he grated rind of one orange and the butter 
cut in bits. Roll up, tie in cloth dredged with Hour and boil li/o 
hours. Serve with the following pudding sauce: 

ORANGE PUDDING SAUCE. 

Cornstarch, 1 tablespoon. Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Grapefruit juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Orange juice, y 2 pint. 

Blend cornstarch into butter which is melted but not hot. Add 
gradually the sugar and fruit juice. Stir over fire till all is hot. 
Let simmer 5 minutes and serve at once. 



DESSERTS. 103 



EAST INDIAN PUDDING. 

Bread crumbs, 3 cups. Eggs, 5. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Honey, 4 tablespoons. 

Salt, r 4 teaspoon. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon. 

Raisins, y 2 cup. 

Soak bread crumbs in i-old water for 15 minutes. Drain off 
water and squeeze crumbs dry, mix well with softened butter, season 
and add well beaten egg yolks, honey, spice and raisins. Mix well 
and bake in buttered baking dish for 25 minutes. Spread with 
meringue made from egg whites and a little sugar and lemon juice 
and brown slightly. 

POMPADOUR PUDDING. 

Bread crumbs, 2 ounces. Candied peel or preserved 

cherries, 2 ounces. 

Cream, 1-3 pint. Lemon sugar. 

Suet, 5 ounces. Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Flour, 1 ounce. Egg yolks, 4. 

Macaroons, 2 ounces. Seeded raisins, 2 ounces. 

Brandy, 1 glass. 

Bring the cream to a boil and pour it over the bread crumbs. 
Let cool and beat in the remaining ingredients in the order given. 
Pour into a mold and steam. Serve with a rich custard sauce 
flavored with orange juice. 

BANANA PUFF PUDDING. 

Flour, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, 1/2 cup. Bananas, 3. 

Brown sugar, 2-3 cup. Lemon, i/ 2 . 

Sift flour, salt and baking powder, beat and add eggs, and milk 
to form a light batter. Peel, scrape and slice the bananas, squeeze 
the juice of the lemon over them and let stand 10 minutes. Pour 
the batter into a buttered baking dish then put in the fruit and 
sprinkle over the brown sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for V 2 
hour and serve plain or with sugar sauce, as desired. 



104 DESSERTS. 



PRUNE AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Prunes, 1 pound. Nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon. 

Sliced apples, 1 pound. Clove, i/ teaspoon. 

Sugar, 4 tablespoons. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Lemon, 1. Biscuit dough. 

Soak the prunes over night, then stew until tender and remove 
the stones. Mix with the thinly sliced apples and put all in a buttered 
baking dish. Sprinkle over with the sugar, spices, and the grated 
rind of the lemon, cover with a rich biscuit crust and bake. Serve 
hot with whipped cream. 

ALMOND PUDDING. 

Almonds, y 2 pound. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 6. Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Cake crumbs, 1 cup. 

Pound the almonds fine in a mortar, add yolks of eggs beaten 
till thick and lemon colored, add sugar, lemon juice, cake crumbs 
and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a slow oven for 
30 minutes. 

CORNMEAL AND FIG PUDDING. 

Cornmeal, 1 cup. Molasses, 1 cup. 

Milk, 6 cups. Figs, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cook cornmeal with 4 cups of milk, add finely chopped figs and 
salt. When mixture is cool add molasses, and eggs well beaten. 
Pour in baking dish and add without stirring the remaining milk. 
Bake in moderate oven for 3 hours. 

SUNSHINE PUDDING. 

Indian meal, 2 cups. Seeded raisins, l / 2 cup. 

Flour, 1 cup. Chopped nuts, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemon, 1. 

Soda, 1 scant teaspoon. Boiling water. 

Mix all together in a double boiler with boiling water enough 
to allow meal to swell, and boiling water in lower part. Boil 2 hours. 
Eat with any favorite sauce. G., Boston. 



DESSERTS. 105 



ENGLISH ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING. 

Bread crumbs, 2 cups. Orange marmalade, 1 cup. 

Sugar, y 2 cup. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Suet, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 2. Milk. 

Chop suet and beat eggs. Add milk to moisten all. Steam in 
a buttered mold for 2 hours. Serve with plain or hard sauce. 

Mrs. H. J. K., Plymouth. 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 

Sugar, 1/2 CU P- Milk, y 2 cup. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Butter, i/ 2 cup. 

Flour, iy 2 cups. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 4. 

Beat together the sugar, molasses and flour. Heat the milk and 
butter and add the soda. Combine the mixtures and beat thoroughly. 
Add the eggs, well beaten, and beat again. Steam in buttered pud- 
ding mold 3 hours or bake iy 2 hours. Serve with vanilla sauce. 

EVE'S PUDDING. 

Bread crumbs, 12 ounces. Currants, 12 ounces. 

Suet, 12 ounces. Eggs 4,. 

Chopped apples, 12 ounces. Nutmeg, 1 teaspoon. 

Lemon juice, y 2 teaspoon. 

Mix all well, beating eggs, and boil for 3 hours. Serve with a 
lemon pudding sauce. 

SQUASH PUDDING. 

Winter squash, 1. Grated nutmeg, 1 teaspoon. 

Apples, 6. Salt, a pinch. 

Bread crumbs, 7 tablespoons. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Eggs, 6. 

Cut squash in pieces and steam until tender, drain and mash 
through a sieve, add apples stewed with sugar until soft and rubbed 
through a sieve. Mix well and add remaining ingredients, beating 
eggs well before adding. Bake 4."> minutes. More sugar may be 
used is desired. 



106 DESSERTS. 



ENGLISH CARROT PUDDING. 

Bread crumbs, y 2 pound. Currants, % pound. 

Suet, 4 ounces. Sugar, 3 ounces. 

Seeded raisins, 14 pound. Eggs, 2. 

Carrots, % pound. Milk. 

Nutmeg. 

Boil the carrots until tender enough to mash to a pulp, add 
the remaining ingredients and moisten with enough milk to make a 
thick batter. Turn into a buttered dish and bake for 50 minutes. 
If it is desired to boil it, tie in a pudding cloth and boil for 2y 2 hours. 
Turn it out of the dish and dredge with powdered sugar. 

A. W., Medford. 

ENGLISH ARROWROOT PUDDING. 

Milk, 1 quart. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Arrowroot, 3y 2 tablespoons. Nutmeg, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 4. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Boil the milk, add the arrowroot dissolved in a little cold water, 
and the sugar. Let reboil and remove from fire. Beat eggs slightly 
and add with the spices. Pour into a buttered baking dish and 
bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Sift 2 tablespoons of sugar 
over it and set back in oven to glaze. Eat cold. 

Mme. X., Roxbury. 

STRAWBERRY MERINGUE PUDDING. 

Dry bread crumbs, 3 cups. Sugar, % cup. 

Milk, 1 quart. Lemon, y 2 . 

Eggs, 4. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. Powdered sugar, y 2 cup. 

Crushed strawberries, 1 cup. 

Soak bread crumbs in milk. When soft add sugar, salt, beaten 
egg yolks, grated rind of the lemon, and butter. Mix and pour 
into a shallow baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven till set, about 
30 minutes. When done cover the top with the crushed strawberries 
sweetened and heap with meringue made of the egg whites and 
powdered sugar. Brown in moderate oven. 



DESSERTS. 107 



STEAMED BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Pastry flour, 2 cups. Butter, 2,y 2 tablespoons. 

Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. Blackberries, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. Salt, y 2 tablespoon. 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter with the finger 
tips, then add milk, mixing quickly. Dredge blackberries with flour 
and stir in lightly. Fill a buttered mold 2-3 full, cover tightly and 
let steam iy> hours, adding more boiling water if necessary. Serve 
very hot with foamy sauce. 

PRUNE PUFF. 

Prunes, 2 cups. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Flour, 3 cups. Melted butter, 2 teaspoons. 

Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. Milk, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 2. 

Place the stewed, stoned and sweetened prunes in a buttered 
baking dish, pour over them a batter made from the remaining in- 
gredients. Bake till crust is light and well done. Eat with hard 
sauce or whipped cream. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Eggs, 2. Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. Flour, 2 cups. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Cherries, 1 pint. 

Separate eggs and to the beaten yolks add milk, salt, butter and 
Hour, sifted with baking powder. Beat all together until smooth. 
Lastly fold in the beaten egg whites and 1 pint of stoned cherries 
cut in halves. Pour into a mold and boil for iy 2 hours. Serve 
hot with cherry sauce. 

PRUNE SNOWBALLS. 

Prepare enough boiled rice to allow 2-3 of a cup to each person. 
Spread the rice slightly sweetened y 2 inch thick over the bottom 
of small well greased molds ov custard cups. Put 3 cooked and 
stoned prunes on the rice and fill up and cover with more rice. 
Steam for 10 minutes and serve hot with the thickened juice of 
the prunes. 



108 DESSERTS. 



PEACH PUDDING. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Peaches. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Butter. 

Water, 1 cup. Biscuit dough. 

Mix flour and sugar. Pare and halve peaches and put a layer 
in a deep pudding dish, cover with half the sugar and flour, add 
a second layer of peaches, cover with remainder of sugar. Dot with 
bits of butter and pour the water over all. Cover with a rich 
biscuit dough, make 3 or 4 slits in crust, and bake in a fairly hot 
oven. Canned peaches may be used instead of fresh fruit if desired. 

DATE SOUFFLE. 

Egg whites, 4. Lemon juice, 3 teaspoons. 

Sugar, 14 CU P- Dates, y 2 pound. 

Salt, a pinch. Water, y 2 cup. 

Simmer the dates in water till very soft, then rub through 
a sieve. Beat egg whites till very stiff, beat in sugar and salt and 
add lemon juice and date puree. Mix lightly and bake in a buttered 
baking dish for y 2 hour. Serve hot or cold with whipped cream. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Mashed carrot, 1 large cup. Butter, 2 ounces. 

Eggs, 5. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2 ounces. Rose water, y 2 teaspoon. 

Boil carrots soft, then mash through a sieve, measure, add well 
beaten eggs, butter, cinnamon and rose water. Bake in a deep dish 
for 1 hour. 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

Large sweet potatoes, 2. Hot water, 1/2 cup. 

Brown sugar. Cinnamon, 1 pinch. 

Butter. Meringue. 

Boil potatoes in their skins, peel and cut in lengthwise slices 
and arrange in a dish in layers with a generous sprinkle of brown 
sugar and a bit of butter between each one. Pour over hot water, 
add cinnamon and bake i/o hour. Cover with a rich meringue and 
brown delicately in the oven. Serve hot or cold. 



DESSERTS. 109 



PRUNE BROWN BETTY. 

Entire wheat bread crumbs, 2 Cinnamon and nutmeg. 

cups. 

Prunes, 1 pound. Butter, 3 tablespoons. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Hot milk, 1 cup. 

Grease baking dish and sprinkle it thickly with crumbs, add a 
layer of stoned prunes which have soaked over night in warm water. 
Add a little sugar, butter and spices. Proceed till all ingredients 
are used with bread crumbs as top layer. Pour over milk, dot with 
butter, set aside for an hour, then bake till top is crisp and brown. 

BLACKBERRY SLUMP. 

Flour, 1 quart. Blackberries, 2 quarts. 

Baking powder. 2 teaspoons. Sugar, iy 2 cups. 

Eggs, 2. Water, 2 cups. 

Milk. 

Sift flour and baking powder 2 or 3 times. Stir in the well 
beaten eggs and add enough milk to make a stiff batter. Stew the 
blackberries with the sugar and water and when slightly soft drop 
in the batter molded into dumplings. Boil 20 minutes with tho 
cover tightly fastened on. Serve with cream and sugar or plain 
sugar. 

BERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Flour, 1 quart. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Milk, 1 pint. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Berries. 

Strawberries, raspberries or blackberries may be used. Sift 
dry ingredients together, rub in butter and add milk enough to 
make a dough which is soft but yet can be handled. Divide in half 
and shape each into a round, thin loaf pie-pan size. Put the 2 
loaves together with bits of butter and a light sprinkle of flour be- 
tween them. Bake on a buttered tin. Pick over berries, mash half 
of them and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Let stand 1/2 hour be- 
fore needed. "When cake is done divide it without breaking the 
disks and put berries between and on top. Dot over with spoonfuls 
of whipped cream and serve hot. 



110 DESSERTS. 



APPLE SLUMP. 

Apples, 1 quart. Water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, !/2 cup. Cinnamon, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Nutmeg, 1/2 teaspoon 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Biscuit dough. 

Peel, core and quarter apples, add sugar, molasses, butter, wa- 
ter and spices and bring to a boil. Cover with a good biscuit dough 
with a hole in the centre to let out steam, cover closely and boil till 
dough is cooked. Peggy Bluenose. 

BAKED GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. 

Gooseberry pulp, 1 pint. Butter, iy 2 ounces. 

Eggs, 3. Bread crumbs, i/2 pint. 

Sugar. 

Remove tops and tails of 2 baskets of gooseberries. Wash well 
and place in a double boiler. Cook until soft and pulpy, then put 
through a coarse sieve and measure pulp. Beat eggs and add with 
butter, bread crumbs and sugar to taste. Beat all well, pour into 
a buttered baking dish and bake about 40 minutes. Make a good 
meringue, spread over pudding and brown lightly. 

A. M. 0., Watertown. 

APPLE DESSERT CROQUETTES. 

Sweet apple sauce, 2 cups. Egg. 

Soft bread crumbs, % cup. Cracker crumbs. 

Mix well sweetened apple sauce and crumbs to make a paste 
that can be molded. More crumbs may be necessary. Form into 
croquettes, roll in crumbs, then in beaten egg, again in crumbs and 
fry to a golden brown in deep hot fat. Drain and roll in powdered 
sugar. Serve with a sweet sauce. 

STUFFED BAKED APPLES. 

Peel large sweet apples and remove cores. Fill with a mixture 
of finely chopped raisins, nuts, cinnamon and sugar and bake in 
oven until tender with a little water in the baking pan. Baste 
frequently. When cold put a spoonful of whipped cream on each 
apple and serve. 



DESSERTS. Ill 



GRAPE SOUFFLE. 

Grapes, 1 pint. Milk, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 4. Flour, 2 cups. 

Butter, !/4 pound. 

Pick over and wash the grapes and dredge with flour. For the 
batter beat eggs separately until light. Mix with the yolks the milk 
and flour sifted twice, add butter beaten to a cream and fold in 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Stir in grapes and immediately turn into 
buttered baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven. Or turn into 
pudding cloth and boil for 3 hours. Serve with wine or grape 
juice sauce. 

QUINCE SOUFFLE. 

Quinces, 7. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Eggs, 4. Cinnamon, !/4 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 pint. Ginger, 14 teaspoon. 

Pare, core and quarter the quinces, boil until soft, then drain 
and rub through a sieve. Add the well beaten yolks of the eggs, 
the milk, sugar and spices. Bake in a buttered baking dish. When 
almost done spread over with a meringue made from the egg whites 
sweetened with 4 tablespoons of sugar and brown in the oven. Eat 
hot or cold. 

STEAMED CHERRY CUPS. 

Flour, 2 cups. Cold water. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Canned cherries. 

Salt, % teaspoon. Sweetened cream. 

Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together several times 
and mix to a soft dough with cold water. Butter some custard cups, 
drop in a little of the dough then add a tablespoon of the cherries, 
cover with more dough and place in a steamer. Cover and steam 
in the oven for 30 minutes. Serve with sweetened cream or a sauce 
of the cherry juice thickened with cornstarch. 

BAKED QUINCES. 

Wash and core fine quinces and arrange in shallow baking pan, 
filling centres with sugar and cinnamon. Add an inch of water and 
tightly cover with a second pan. Bake until tender, remove cover 
and brown slightly. 



112 DESSERTS. 



LEMON DUMPLINGS. 

Bread crumbs, i/ 2 pound. Eggs, 2. 

Suet, y 2 pound. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, y 2 pound. Lemon, 1. 

Mix all together, beating eggs thoroughly and using the grated 
rind and juice of the lemon. Make into six dumplings, boil from 
15 to 20 minutes and serve with wine or lemon sauce. 

Mme. X., Eoxbury. 

SPICED PEARS. 

Large pears, 2. Stick cinnamon, 1 small piece. 

Water, y 2 CU P- Cloves, 2. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. Allspice, 2. 

Brown sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Pare and slice fruit and add remaining ingredients. Boil 30 
minutes. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

HOMINY PUFFS. 

Cooked hominy, 1 cup. Eggs, 4. 

Flour, 1 cup. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 1-3 cups. Custard or fruit filling. 

Mix flour and salt with hominy. Beat very light and add 
milk. Add this to hominy mixture. Beat until light and bake in 
greased gem tins in a moderate oven about 40 minutes or until a 
golden brown. They will be hollow and should be filled with a cus- 
tard or fruit filling. Serve with whipped cream. 

FIG ROLL. 

Whole wheat flour, 1 quart. Egg, 1. 

Baking powder, y 2 teaspoon. Figs, 10. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Milk, li/ 2 cups. 

Sift flour and baking powder together, rub in butter and 1 egg 
beaten light. Make a soft dough with the milk. Roll out quickly 
1/2 inch thick and cut in oval pieces. Brush with melted butter. 
Chop figs and spread on half of each piece. Fold over other half 
and seal with white of egg. Bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 



DESSERTS. 113 



PEACH SOUFFLE. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Bread crumbs, 2 cups. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Peaches, 1 can. Eggs, 3. 

Melt the butter and stir in the flour until smooth. Add the 
syrup from the can of peaches with enough water to make 1 pint 
of liquid. Neat and stir in the bread crumbs. Cook for 3 minutes. 
Add sugar and 1 cup of the peaches, chopped. Remove mixture 
from fire and stir in well beaten egg yolks, then fold in carefully 
the whites, beaten very stiff. Pour all into a buttered baking dish 
and bake 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 

STEAMED APPLES. 

Prepare apples as for baking. Put in top of double boiler with 
1 cup of water. Fill lower part with boiling water and steam for 
25 minutes. Serve with cream and sugar. 

Mother, South Weynumlh. 

LEMON SHORTCAKE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemon, 1. 

Butter, !/2 CU P- Xutmeg, 1 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Boiling water, 3 tablespoons. 

Make a good shortcake and pour over the layers the following 
sauce. Cream butter and sugar and stir in eggs beaten light, the 
juice and half the grated rind of the lemon, and the nutmeg. Beat 
hard for 10 minutes and add boiling water, a few drops at a time, 
stirring constantly. Cook in double boiler till hot and slightly 
thickened. 

RHUBARB SHORTCAKE. 

Diced rhubarb, 1 pint. Sugar. 

Oranges, 2. Shortcake. 

Whipped cream. 

Place the rhubarb in a saucepan with the juice of the orangefe 
and a teaspoon of the grated rind. Simmer gently till tender, add 
sugar to taste and cook till quite thick. Remove from fire, cool and 
spread half the fruit between the layers of a shortcake that has 
been split open and buttered. Pour the rest over the top and pile 
on whipped cream. Serve at once. 



114 DESSERTS. 



MAPLE SHORTCAKE. 

Flour, 2 cups. Butter or lard, 3 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Milk. 

Baking- powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Sift together flour, salt and baking powder, rub in shortening 
and mix with enough milk to make a soft dough. Knead very 
lightly and cut in two portions. Bake in layer cake pans, spread- 
ing the mixture evenly and brushing over with melted butter. Put 
the two layers together with the following filling: 

Maple syrup, 3 / cup. Egg whites, 2. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Whipped cream, i/ 2 cup. 

Vanilla, 14 teaspoon. 

Boil the syrup and butter until it will spin a thread, pour it on 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, slowly beating all the time. 
When smooth add the whipped cream and flavoring. 



GRANDMOTHER'S CUP CUSTARDS. 

Egg, 1. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Milk, 1 pint. 

Molasses, 1 tablespoon. Nutmeg. 

Beat the egg and stir into it the sugar, molasses and salt, add- 
ing the milk and nutmeg last. Place in pan of water and bake in 
slow oven until creamy. Do not let them boil. Enough for 4 cus- 
tards. A. D. B., Brookline. 



ORANGE NUT CUSTARD. 

Orange juice, 1 cup. Cornstarch, 1 teaspoon. 

Grated rind, 2 oranges. Water, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

Nut meats, 1 cup. 

Scald the orange juice with the grated rind, add the sugar and 
cornstarch which have been blended in the water. Stir well and add 
beaten yolks of eggs. Remove from fire and fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites and nut meats. Chill and serve. 



DESSERTS. 115 



BOILED CUSTARD. 

Milk, 1 pint. Eggs, 3. 

Salt, a pinch. Flavoring, l / 2 teaspoon. 

Bring the milk with the salt to the scalding point in a double 
boiler, then take from fire and pour it onto the yolks of the eggs 
and the sugar which have been beaten together until creamy. Stir 
all the time. Replace on the fire and stir till the custard coats 
the spoon and is of the consistency of thick cream. Strain im- 
mediately into a cold dish and stir in flavoring. Vanilla, coffee, 
almond, rose or maraschino may be used. When entirely cold and 
about to be served fold in very lightly the stiffly beaten whites of 
the eggs, using a fork. Serve at once. 

Care must be used in the cooking. Too much cooking will 
cause it to curdle and too little cooking will leave it thin and watery. 

CARAMEL CUSTARD. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Cream, 1 pint. 

Egg yolks, 4. 

Melt the sugar on the top of the stove till it browns and begins 
to smoke. Then add it gradually, while stirring constantly, to the 
cream, which should be heated but not boiling. When cool add 
the well beaten yolks of the eggs, strain into custard cups or baking 
dish and steam for 10 minutes. 

SOUFFLE CUSTARD. 

Flour, y 2 cup. Milk, 1 pint. 

Salt, tiny pinch. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Eggs. 5. 

Mix the flour, sugar and salt to a paste with a bit of cold 
milk. Turn this quickly into a pint of scalding milk on the fire 
and stir rapidly till thick and smooth. Cover and let cook for 10 
minutes. Add the butter, cut in bits, and the beaten egg yolks. 
Stir for a moment longer, then cover and set aside for 10 minutes. 
Whip the egg whites until stiff and beat them lightly into the cus- 
tard, turn into a pudding dish set in a pan of water and bake. Have 
the oven very hot and serve immediately when done as it soon falls. 



116 DESSERTS. 



CHOCOLATE RICE CUSTARD. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 1 Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

square. 

Milk, 2 cups. Eggs, 3. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Boiled rice, IVs cups. 

Vanilla extract, 3 drops. 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add milk, sugar and salt, and 
heat all together well. Pour this custard over the rice in a baking 
dish, add the eggs, beaten light, and vanilla and stir all well. Bake 
till it puffs up nicely and serve at once with sweetened or whipped 
cream. Grandmother Nell. 

ORANGE CREAM CUSTARD. 

Cornstarch, 2 tablespoons. Lemon, 1. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Egg yolk, 1. 

Oranges, 4. Boiling water, 2 cups. 

Butter, size of a walnut. 

Mix cornstarch and sugar, add juice of 2 oranges and the lemon 
and grated rind of one orange. Stir till smooth, add well beaten 
egg yolk and water. Cook in double boiler. Pour onto the pulp of 
the other 2 oranges which have been cut fine and allowed to stand 
covered with powdered sugar for y 2 hour. Chill thoroughly and 
serve with whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Bread, 2 slices. Milk, 2 cups. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Sugar, % CU p. 

Cocoa, 2 heaping tablespoons. Eggs, 2. 

Salt, a pinch. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Crumble the bread, add boiling water and mash with a potato 
masher. Into this stir the cocoa. Make a custard of the milk, 
warmed, sugar, beaten eggs and salt, and pour over first mixture. 
Flavor with vanilla and pour into a baking dish or custard cups. 
Set in a pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven from 1^ to 2 
hours. Test with a silver knife as for any custard. Serve cold with 
plain or whipped cream. 

Crank on Cooking, Arlington Heights. 



DESSERTS. 117 



BAKED CUSTARD. 

Use the same proportions as for Boiled Custard. When the 
scalded milk has been poured into the sugar and eggs, beaten to 
a cream, turn into a pudding dish or custard cups, grate nutmeg 
over the top and stand in a pan of water. Bake in a slow oven until 
firm or until a silver knife run into it comes out clean. It must 
be watched, as too much cooking will cause it to separate. 

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. 

I'nsweetened chocolate, 1/2 Butter, 1 cup. 

cake. 

Milk, 1 quart. Sugar, 2 cups. 

Bread crumbs, 1 pint. Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Eggs, 4. Seeded raisins, 1 cup. 

Blanched almonds, 1 cup. 

Boil the chocolate in the milk till dissolved, then pour over 
the bread crumbs and let stand 1 hour. Mash through a sieve till 
perfectly smooth and add the well beaten eggs, butter, sugar, spice 
and fruit, slightly chopped. Steam 1 hour and serve with whipped 
cream. Cookie, Brighton. 

RASPBERRY WHIP. 

Egg whites, 3. Powdered sugar, 1 cup. 

Mashed raspberries, l 1 /^ cups. Whole raspberries, 1 cup. 

Granulated sugar. 

Beat the egg whites till very stiff, then beat in the mashed 
raspberries and powdered sugar. Cover the whole raspberries with 
granulated sugar. Let them stand for y 2 hour and then put some 
into each dessert glass. Pile it full of the whip and serve ice cold. 

BAKED BANANAS. 

Bananas, 6. Sugar, 1-3 cup. 

Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Remove skins from bananas, scrape, cut in halves lengthwise 
and arrange in a shallow pan. Mix butter, sugar and lemon juice, 
and baste bananas with half this mixture. Bake 20 minutes in a 
slow oven, basting during the baking with remaining mixture. 



118 DESSERTS. 



ORANGE FOOL. 

Oranges, 6. Cream, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 3. Sugar. 

Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Whip cream and beat eggs. Mix and beat in juice of the 
oranges, add sugar to taste and nutmeg. Cook in double boiler 
till thick, stirring constantly. Then remove, cool and chill before 
serving. 

COFFEE WHIP. 

Flour, 3 tablespoons. Clear coffee, 2 cups. 

Sugar, 4 tablespoons. Egg whites, 2. 

.Mix flour and sugar and dissolve with a little of the coffee. 
When well blended add rest of coffee and cook in double boiler 
until thick. When partly cool fold in stiffly beaten egg whites 
and chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. C. W., Jamaica Plain. 

CREAM RICE PUDDING. 

Rice, y 2 cup. Sugar, % cup. 

Salt, a pinch. Flavoring. 

Milk, 1 quart. Whipped cream. 

Maraschino cherries. 

Wash rice thoroughly and put in double boiler with milk and 
salt. Cook until tender, then add the sugar. Cool and add flavor- 
ing, either vanilla or orange extract. Chill and serve with whipped 
cream into which have been beaten chopped maraschino cherries 
with a little of their juice. 

CHOCOLATE RICE PUDDING. 

Milk, 1 pint. Hot water, 1 pint. 

Rice, % cup. Butter, 1 dessertspoon. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Cocoa. 2 tablespoons. 

Vanilla. 2 teaspoons. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Mix milk, water, rice, salt and cocoa, and cook slowly in double 
boiler for 2 hours. Add remaining ingredients and cook 1/2 hour 
longer. Serve hot with whipped cream. 

P. H. G., Wollaston. 



DESSERTS. 119 



SCALLOPED BANANAS. 

Bananas, 6. Brown sugar, y 2 CU P- 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Water, i/ 2 CU P- 

Skin, scrape and slice the bananas. Butter a baking dish, put 
in half the bananas and sprinkle with half the salt, sugar and bread 
crumbs. Add the remaining bananas and sprinkle with the rest of 
the salt, sugar and bread crumbs. Divide the butter in bits and put 
over the top. Pour over all the water, cover and put in a moderate 
oven for 20 minutes. Uncover and bake for 20 minutes more or 
until nicely browned. 

BANANA WHIP. 

Large bananas, 3. Grated lemon rind, 1 teaspoon. 

Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. Granulated gelatine, 2 table- 

Sugar, 1 cup. spoons. 

Boiling water, 2 cups. 

Soak gelatine in ^4 cup of cold water for 15 minutes. Dissolve 
in boiling water, add sugar, lemon juice and rind. Set in pan of 
ice water. The bananas should be very ripe, skin them, scrape and 
put through a coarse sieve. When jelly is cold beaj it till light, 
add banana pulp and beat again. Pile into a glass dish and serve 
with whipped cream or cold cocoa sauce. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Pineapple, 1. Lady fingers. 

Lemon juice, 2 teaspoons. Sugar. 

Peel and chop pineapple and cover with sugar. Let stand on 
ice for an hour, then drain off the juice and add to it the lemon 
juice. In the bottom of a buttered baking dish spread a layer of 
split lady fingers and over them pour ;\ little of the prepared juice. 
Spread lady fingers with a layer of the pineapple. Repeat layers 
till dish is filled, having soaked lady fingers on top. Set dish in 
a pan of hot water and bake, covered, in a steady oven for 1 hour. 
Uncover and brown lightly. 



120 DESSERTS. 



PINEAPPLE RICE PUDDING. 

Rice, 1 cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Boiling water, 3 quarts. Grated pineapple, l 1 /^ cups. 

Cream, 1 cup. 

Wash rice and boil in water about 20 minutes. Drain in a 
colander and let cold water run through it to separate each grain. 
Add sugar, pineapple and cream whipped stiff. Chill thoroughly 
before serving. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

Pineapple, 1 small can. Cream, y 2 pint. 

Marshmallows, y 2 pound. Chopped nuts, l /<> cup. 

Soak marshmallows in pineapple juice for several hours, then 
mix with cream whipped stiff, add fruit diced and sprinkle nuts 
over all. Commuter's Wife, Lawrence. 

MARSHMALLOW WHIP. 

Marshmallows, % pound. English walnut meats, i/2 CU P- 

Heavy cream, 1 cup. Powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Candied cherries, 14 cup. Almond extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Soak cherries in the almond and vanilla extracts for 1 hour, 
stirring occasionally, then cut in pieces. Chop nut meats and cut 
marshmallows in small pieces. Whip cream, add sugar and fold in 
the remaining ingredients. Chill and serve. 

CHESTNUT CREAM. 

Shelled French chestnuts, 1 Cream. 

pound. 

Sugar. Vanilla. 

Whipped Cream. 

Boil the chestnuts till soft, changing the water twice. Drain 
and rub through a sieve when very tender. Moisten with cream to 
make smooth and soft. Add sugar to taste, a few drops of vanilla 
and serve in long stemmed glasses with a big spoonful of whipped 
cream on each. 



DESSERTS. 121 



DATE FLUFF. 

Dates, 1 package. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Eggs, 2. 

Cover the dates with water, cook until soft and put through 
a colander. Add the sugar and the yolks of the eggs beaten. Cook 
for 3 minutes, stirring constantly. When cool stir in the whites 
of the eggs beaten stiff. Chill and serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. 0. B. C., Cambridge. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

Prunes. Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Egg whites, 2. Orange juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Remove stones from stewed prunes and press through a fine 
sieve. Beat the egg whites stiff and add sugar, orange juice and 
4 tablespoons of the prune pulp. Beat well together and pile in- 
long stemmed glasses. 

GRAPE JUICE PUDDING. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Water, 2 cups. 

Sugar, !/2 CU P- Grape juice, y 2 pi nt - 

Egg, 1. 

Mix the Hour and sugar, add water and boil 5 minutes. Re- 
move from fire and add grape juice. Beat the egg, and pour over it 
the hot grape juice mixture, b^r well, chill and serve with sweet- 
ened whipped cream. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

.Milk, 1 quart. Salt, 1*4 teaspoons. 

Cornstarch, 3 tablespoons. Cocoanut, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 4. Vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Bring iy 2 pints of the milk to the boiling point and add corn- 
st;irch moistened with the remainder of the milk. Beat yolks of eggs 
with 1/2 cup of sugar and salt. Add to the boiling milk with the cocoa- 
nut and vanilla extract. Pour into a buttered pudding dish. Beat 
the whites of the eggs stiff and dry and bc;it in the remaining 
l /2 CU P f suyar. Spread over top of pudding and brown lightly 
in the oven. 



122 DESSERTS. 



GRAPE AND FIG PUDDING. 

Figs, 1 pound. Cornstarch, 1 tablespoon. 

White grapes, 1 pound. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Water, 1 quart. Walnut meats, 1 cup. 

Egg whites, 3. 

Chop figs very fine, halve and seed the grapes and bring to a 
boil with water, sugar and chopped nut meats. Blend cornstarch 
in a little cold water and add, stirring constantly. Remove from 
fire and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into mold and 
chill. Serve with whipped cream. I. B. Content. 

NORWEGIAN PRUNE PUDDING. 

Prunes, 1/2 pound. Stick cinnamon, 1 inch. 

Cold water, 2 cups. Boiling water, 1 1-3 cups. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Cornstarch, 1-3 cup. 

Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash prunes, soak one hour in cold water, then boil till soft 
and remove stones. Crack stones, remove meats and add to prunes 
with sugar, cinnamon and boiling water. Simmer all together for 
10 minutes. Blend cornstarch with a little cold water and add 
slowly to prune mixture, stirring all the time. Remove cinnamon, 
add lemon juice and pour into a mold. Chill and serve with whipped 
cream. Miss A. E. B., Jamaica Plain. 

LORD MAYOR'S TRIFLE. 

Eggs, 4. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Macaroons. 

Cornstarch, 1 tablespoon. Fresh or canned fruit. 

Milk, 1 pint. Jelly. 

Whipped cream. 

In the bottom of a glass dish arrange a layer of macaroons. 
Over these pour the juice from canned or fresh stewed fruit. When 
this is well soaked up spread over it a layer of the fruit. Over 
this pour a custard made by cooking milk, egg yolks, sugar and 
cornstarch in a double boiler till it thickens. Then fold in the egg 
whites beaten to a stiff froth. On this custard spread a layer of 
jelly, then pile high with a pint of whipped cream. 



DESSERTS. 123 



CANNED FRUIT CHARLOTTE. 

Stale sponge cake. Egg whites, 3. 

Fruit, 1 quart can. Powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons. 

Line a glass dish with strips of cake. Drain the juice from 
the fruit and pour over as much as the cake will soak up. Place 
the fruit evenly over the cake. Beat the egg whites till stiff and 
dry, add gradually the sugar, beating all the time, and add enough 
of the fruit juice to flavor and color. Heap on the fruit and serve 
at once. 

PRUNE SOUFFLE. 

Prunes, l / 2 pound. Eggs, 4. 

Powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Beat egg yolks and sugar to a light cream, add vanilla and mix 
with prunes w r hich have been stewed, drained, stoned and quartered. 
Fold in lightly the stiffly beaten whites to which has been added 
the salt. Turn into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven. Serve with whipped cream. 

GRAPE JUICE JELLY. 

Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Cold water, 14 cup. Grape juice, 1 cup. 

Boiling water, y 2 cup. Sugar, ^ cup. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water and when it is soft dis- 
solve it with the boiling water. Add the strained lemon juice, grape 
juice and sugar. Less than 14 of a cup of sugar may be used if the 
grape juice is very sweet. Pour in a mold, chill and serve with 
whipped cream. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Strawberries, 1 pint. Whipped cream, 1 pint. 

Sugar, 4 tablespoons. Gelatine, V 2 ounce. 

Water, 1 gill. 

Hull and mash the strawberries with the sugar. Rub through 
a sieve and mix well with the whipped cream. Dissolve the gela- 
tine in the water, stir into the cream and pour into a mold that has 
been oiled lightly with oil of sweet almonds. Chill and serve with 
or without whipped cream. 



124 DESSERTS. 



WINE JELLY. 

Egg white, 1. Lemon juice, 3 tablespoons. 

Granulated gelatine, 1 table- Cinnamon. 1 small stick. 

spoon. 

Water, 1 cup. Lemon rind, y 2 . 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Sherry, 1-3 cup. 

Put all the ingredients except the sherry into a saucepan, place 
on the stove and beat the mixture with an egg beater till it reaches 
the boiling point. Pull to one side, cover and leave for 10 minutes. 
Strain through cheese cloth, add the sherry and pour into mold, 
previously wet with cold water, to harden. Chill and serve with 
whipped cream. 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE. 

Gelatine, y 2 box. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Water, y 2 cup. Strawberry juice, 2 cups. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Egg whites, 4. 

Strawberries, 1 cup. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for y 2 hour. Pour on the 
boiling water, add sugar and stir till dissolved. Add the straw- 
berry juice and strain. Put on ice, stirring occasionally till it be- 
comes thick. Then beat well with an egg beater, add the stiffly 
beaten egg whites, and beat all till smooth. Lastly turn in straw- 
berries, which have been cut in quarters and sweetened. Pour into 
mold and chill. Serve with a custard sauce made with the yolks 
of the eggs. 

ORANGE SUNSHINE. 

Gelatine, iy 2 tablespoons. Orange juice, 114 cups. 

Cold water, y 2 cup. Egg, 1. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Lime, 1. 

Soften gelatine in cold water. Place in saucepan with boiling 
water, orange juice, shell and white of egg, sugar, and juice of the 
lime. Beat till mixture boils, remove at once, cover and set on back 
of stove for 10 minutes, then strain through cheese cloth, and 
pour into mold. Chill and serve. 



DESSERTS. 125 



ORANGE AND GRAPEFRUIT CHARLOTTE. 

Gelatine, !/4 box. Orange juice, y 2 pint. 

Cold water, 14 CU P- Grapefruit juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Boiling water, 14 cup. Whipped cream, % pint. 

Lady fingers. 

Soak gelatine in cold water for five minutes, pour on boiling 
water and stir till thoroughly dissolved. Add fruit juices, strained, 
and set aside to harden. When partly set fold and beat in whipped 
cream. Line a mold with lady fingers, pour in gelatine and set on 
ice to harden. 

ORANGE AND APRICOT JELLY. 

Gelatine, y 2 box. Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Apricot juice, 1 cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Cold water, y 2 cup. Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon. 

Orange juice, 1 cup. Sliced apricots. 

Soak gelatine in cold water and dissolve in boiling water. 
Add sugar and stir till dissolved, then add fruit juice, strained. 
Pour into a wet mold lined with slices of apricot. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

COFFEE FLUMMERY. 

Strong coffee, 1% cups. Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. Eggs, 3. 

Sugar, 2-3 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Vanilla. 

Strain the cold coffee through muslin, stir in gelatine and let 
soak for i/o hour. Then add milk, sugar, salt and beaten egg yolks 
and cook till it thickens a litte. Remove from fire, add flavoring 
and fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into a mold and chill. 

JELLIED ICED TEA. 

Granulated gelatine, U/a Strong, hot tea, 1 pint. 

ounces. 

Cold water, i/ 2 CU P- Sugar, 1 cup. 

Lemons, 2. 

Soak gelatine in cold water for 1 hour, then dissolve in hot 
tea, add sugar and juice of the lemons, strain and place on ice to 
chill. Serve with whipped cream. Dixie. 



126 DESSERTS. 



EGYPTIAN JELLY. 

Gelatine, y 2 box. Preserved ginger, 3 pieces. 

Cold water, 1 cup. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Rice, y 2 cup. Orange juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Figs, 2. Ginger juice, 1 dessertspoon. 

Dates, 4. Cream. 

Powdered sugar, 2-3 cup. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for 1/2 hour. Boil the 
rice in plenty of salted water for 25 minutes, and drain. Cut up 
the fruit, add the fruit juices and let stand V 2 hour. Whip the 
cream stiff, add the sugar and gelatine which has been dissolved 
over hot water. Add fruit and rice and stir from the bottom up 
till it begins to stiffen. Turn into mold and chill. 

CARAMEL SPONGE. 

Sugar, % cup. Cold water, 1 cup. 

Water, % cup . Lemon, 1. 

Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. Egg whites, 2. 

Boiled custard. 

Cook the sugar, stirring all the time, till it melts and caramels. 
Add the water and stir till well incorporated with the sugar. Soften 
the gelatine in the cold water and turn it into the hot sugar. Cool 
and add the strained juice of the lemon. Beat the egg whites till 
stiff and dry and gradually beat into the jelly with an egg beater. 
Beat occasionally till it will hold its shape, then turn into a mold. 
Serve with cold boiled custard. 

RUSSIAN JELLY. 

Gelatine, i/ 2 box. Sugar, 2-3 cup. 

Cold water, y cup. Orange juice, !/4 cup. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Sauterne, i/ 2 cup. 

Lemon juice, iy 2 tablespoons. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for half an hour, then 
dissolve in the boiling water, add sugar, sauterne and fruit juices. 
Cool slightly then set bowl in pan of ice water and beat with an 
egg beater till frothy and firm enough to mold. Turn into a mold 
and chill. 



DESSERTS. 127 



JELLIED APPLES. 

Gelatine, 1 envelope. Lemon, 1. 

Water, 1 quart. Sugar, 2 cups. 

Apples, 2 quarts. 

Soak the gelatine in 1 cup of the cold water for V 2 hour. Boil 
the remaining iy 2 pints of water, juice of the lemon and the sugar 
rapidly for 5 minutes, then add the apples previously peeled, quar- 
tered, and cored, a few at a time. Cook a few moments until tender. 
Drain and place in mold wet with cold water. Dissolve gelatine 
in hot liquid, pour over apples and set aside to chill. Serve with 
whipped cream. Mother, South Weymouth. 

JELLIED BAKED APPLES. 

Medium-sized apples, 6. Lemon juice. 

Gelatine, V box. Sugar. 

Cloves. 

Pare, core and bake the apples, sprinkling them with lemon 
juice and sugar, sticking each with one or two cloves and adding a 
little hot water before putting them in to bake. Bake slowly till 
they are perfectly soft, being careful that they do not lose their 
shape. When they are tender put each carefully in a mold a little 
larger than the apple. Add the gelatine softened with y 2 cup cold 
water to the liquor in which the apples were baked, adding water 
and lemon juice to make a pint. Heat it, strain and pour over 
apples. Chill, unmold and serve with whipped cream. 

PRUNES IN JELLY. 

Prunes, V 2 pound. Oranges, 2. 

Granulated gelatine, 1 table- Lemon juice, y 2 cup. 
spoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Remove stones and stems from stewed prunes and put in 
round mold. Dissolve the gelatine in the orange juice, add 1% 
flips of the water in which the prunes were stewed, which should 
be boiling hot, the lemon juice and sugar. Pour over the prunes 
and when cool place on the ice tdfcchill. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



128 DESSERTS. 



JELLIED PEACHES. 

Large peaches, 12. Sugar, l 1 /^ cups. 

Gelatine, y 2 box. Water, iy 2 pints. 

Soak gelatine in i/o cup of cold water 1 hour. Let sugar and 
water boil for 5 minutes. Pare peaches and cut in halves or quar- 
ters. Cook in syrup about 10 minutes or until tender. Remove 
from syrup and add gelatine, strain into a bowl and set in a pan 
of ice. When it begins to thicken dip peaches in gelatine and place 
them in a mold. When gelatine is thick pour over peaches and 
set away to chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

KUMQUAT JELLY. 

Kumquats. Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

Orange juice. Sherry, 2 tablespoons. 

Granulated gelatine, 1 tablespoon. 

Wipe fruit, cut in very thin slices, remove seeds and cover with 
cold water. Let simmer for half an hour, strain and to the result- 
ing liquid add orange juice to make 1% cups. Add the sugar, the 
sherry (sauterne may be used) and the gelatine which has first 
been soaked in 14 cup of cold water. Dissolve sugar and gelatine 
thoroughly in hot liquid, then strain and pour into a wet mold to 
the depth of half an inch. When almost set arrange on it slices 
of kumquat cooked until soft in syrup. Add another layer of 
gelatine and so on till the mold is full. Chill, unmold and serve 
with whipped cream. 

JELLIED STRAWBERRIES. 

Strawberry juice and pulp, Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

1 cup. 

Halved strawberries, 1 cup. Gelatine, 2 tablespoons. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Cold water, 4 tablespoons. 

Sugar, % cup. 

Soak gelatine in cold water for 1/2 hour, dissolve with boiling 
water. Add sugar and lemon juice, then the strawberry juice and 
mashed pulp. Set aside to cool and when beginning to set stir 
in the halved berries. Turn into a mold to chill. Serve with 
whipped cream. 



DESSERTS. 129 



JELLIED FIGS. 

Figs, 1 cup. Gelatine, 1 envelope. 

Cold water, iy 2 cups. Water, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, !/ 2 cup. Nut meats, iy 2 cups. 

Bring figs, cold water and sugar to a boil in a double boiler and 
cook for 10 minutes. Pour off the syrup. Soften the gelatine in 
the water and dissolve in the hot syrup. Chop figs fine, mix with 
meats chopped very fine and add both to syrup. Pour into a mold 
and chill. Serve with whipped cream. 

CHOCOLATE PLUM PUDDING 

Granulated gelatine, 1 en- Salt. 

velope. 

Cold water, % cup. Vanilla, V- teaspoon. 

.Milk, 1 pint. Seeded raisins, 1 cup. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 2 Nut meats, 14 cup. 

squares. 
Sugar, 1 cup. Currants, Vs cup. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water for half an hour. Put the 
milk in a double boiler, add the chocolate melted, the sugar, and 
a pinch of salt. Scald and remove from fire. Add gelatine and 
when it begins to set add vanilla, raisins, halved, nut meats, broken 
in small pieces, and currants. Chill thoroughly, turn out and 
garnish with whole nut meats. Serve with whipped cream. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE 

<Jranulated gelatine, 1 en- Egg whites, 2. 

velope. 
Water. i/ 2 cup. Heavy cream, \\ cup. 

Pineapple, 1 can. 

Soften gelatine in water for i/ 2 h ur - Measure liquid from 
pineapple and add enough water to make 2 cups of liquid. Heat 
to the boiling point and pour over gelatine. Stir till dissolved, 
then set away to cool. When slightly stiff add beaten i-iru 
whites and cream, whipped stiff, and beat all hard with an egL: 
beater. Add 1 cup of the pineapple diced and drained, place in 
a mold and chill thoroughly. Serve plain or with whipped cream. 

Grandmother Nell. 



130 DESSERTS. 



PRINCESS PUDDING. 

Eggs, 3. Gelatine, % tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1-3 cup. Boiling water, 3 tablespoons. 

Lemon, 1. 

Separate eggs. To the beaten yolks add sugar, 2 tablespoons 
of lemon juice and the grated rind of half the lemon. Soften 
the gelatine in a little cold water and dissolve it in the boiling 
water and add to first mixture. Beat constantly and when it 
begins to thicken fold in the stiffly beaten whites. Chill in a mold 
and serve with whipped cream. 

GRAPE TAPIOCA. 

Water, 2 cups. Salt, a pinch. 

Minute tapioca, 2 tablespoons. Grape juice, 2 tablespoons. 
Sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Bring water to a boil and add tapioca and salt. Boil until 
clear, then add concentrated grape juice and sugar. Mix well and 
boil 2 minutes more. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

RASPBERRY TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Tapioca, 1 cup. Raspberries, 1 quart. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Water. 

Soak tapioca in cold water to cover over night. Put half of 
it with 1/2 cup of sugar in a buttered baking dish and add the 
raspberries. Then add the other half of the tapioca with the re- 
maining sugar. Cover with water i/o inch over top of pudding 
and bake slowly till clear. 

CARAMEL TAPIOCA. 

Milk, 21/2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

Minute tapioca, 2 tablespoons. Salt, i/ 2 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 11,4 cups. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Put milk in double boiler, heat, stir in tapioca until thick. 
Melt, dry, 2-3 cup of sugar until light brown, pour into milk care- 
fully; beat yolks of eggs with remainder of sugar; pour milk on 
eggs and return to double boiler; cook 1 minute; remove from 
fire, add salt and vanilla. Make a meringue of whites of eggs 
and 1 tablespoon sugar, and put on custard. 



DESSERTS. 131 



INDIAN TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Milk, 1 quart. Indian meal, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, y 2 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1/2 cup. Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Minute tapioca, 3 tablespoons. 

Scald the milk in a double boiler and stir into it the tapioca 
and meal mixed. Cook 10 minutes or until thickened. Remove 
from fire, add sugar, molasses, salt and ginger. Bake 1 hour and 
serve with whipped cream. 

COFFEE TAPIOCA. 

Cold coffee, 2 cups. Minute tapioca, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Cornstarch, 1 tablespoon. 

Vanilla. 

Soak tapioca in cold water for a few minutes then add to 
coffee and sugar. Put over fire and when it boils stir in corn- 
starch mixed with a little cold coffee. Add vanilla and turn int<> 
mold. Chill and serve with whipped cream. 

MAPLE TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Tapioca, 1/2 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, 1 pint. Maple sugar or syrup, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Soak tapioca in 1 cup of water over night. Tn the morning 
pour off water, add milk, sugar, egg yolks, well beaten, and salt. 
Heat and add maple sugar and let all rook in double boiler for 
1 hour. Beat the egg whites stiff and fold in when mixture is 
cool. Serve with whipped cream. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Milk, 1 quart. Vanilla or lemon extract, 1 

Eggs, 2. teaspoon. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Minute tapioca, 3 tablespoons. 

Meat milk in double boiler, add tapioca and salt and cok 
1"i minutes. Add sugar and beaten egg volks. Cook till it 
thickens, then remove from fire, add egg whites, beaten stiff, 
and flavoring. Serve ice cold with whipped cream. 



132 DESSERTS. 



CREAMED APPLE TAPIOCA. 

Minute tapioca, 2 tablespoons. Sugar, i/ 2 cup. 
Milk, iy 2 pints. Salt, a pinch. 

Eggs, 2. Apples, 6. 

Nutmeg. 

Cook tapioca in the milk for 15 minutes, add the well beaten 
eggs, the sugar and salt. Remove from fire at once. Meanwhile 
pare and core the apples and slice thinly into a good sized baking 
dish. Sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg, pour over the tapioca 
custard and bake till apples are soft. 



DATE TAPIOCA. 

Granulated tapioca, iy 2 table- Milk, 1 cup. 

spoons. Dates, % cup. 

Sugar, 2 teaspoons. Egg, 1. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Cook tapioca, sugar and salt with milk in a double boiler for 
20 minutes. Stone dates, chop fine, then measure and stir into 
tapioca with the well beaten egg yolk. Cook for a minute or two, 
then pour into baking dish. Make a meringue of the egg white 
with sugar, spread over top and brown delicately in moderate oven. 

Dot, Cambridge. 



HONEY TAPIOCA. 

Minute tapioca, 2 tablespoons. Honey, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

E^s 2. Vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Cook tapioca with milk in a double boiler till transparent, 
stirring constantly. Add salt and well beaten egg yolks, sweetened 
with honey. Stir till mixture has thickened then add stiffly beaten 
egg whites and continue to stir for 3 minutes. Remove from fire 
and when cool stir in the flavoring. Serve cold with whipped 
cream. 



DESSERTS. 133 



RHUBARB TAPIOCA. 

K'hnbarb, 1 quart. Boiling water. 

Sugar, 1 pint. Pearl tapioca, 2-3 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash rhubarb and cut in small pieces, cook with sugar in 
double boiler till tender without stirring. Skim out the rhubarb and 
place in baking dish. To the remaining syrup add enough boiling 
water to make 1 quart. When boiling add tapioca. Let boil 1 hour, 
then pour over rhubarb, add butter and bake y 2 hour. Serve with 
whipped cream or foamy sauce. 

SWEDISH SAGO PUDDING. 

Currants, 3 boxes. Cinnamon, 1 stick. 

Water. Sugar, 1 pound. 

Sugar, 1 pound. Lemon, 1. 

Sago, y 2 pound. 

Mash and strain the currants and add water to make 2 quarts 
of liquid. Stir in sugar, cinnamon and grated rind of lemon. Boil 
together till scum arises. Remove this, add sago and when melted 
and clear pour into molds. Set on ice and serve with whipped 
cream. A. S., Worcester. 

FOAM SAUCE. 

Sugar, 4 tablespoons. Eggs, 2. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Sherry, 2 tablespoons. 

Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten egg yolks and steam 
in double boiler till Avell mixed and hot. Just before serving fold 
in the stiffly beaten egg whites and the sherry. Beat thoroughly. 
One tablespoon of brandy may be used in place of the sherry if 
desired. 

CIDER PUDDING SAUCE. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Brown sugar, 1 cup. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Cider, 2-3 cup. 

Rub flour and butter together till smooth, add sugar and cider 
boiling hot. Simmer till smooth and iTcamy, stirring constantly. 
Serve at once. 



134 DESSERTS. 



BRANDY SAUCE. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Cornstarch, i/ 2 tablespoon. Brandy, 2 tablespoons. 

Mix sugar, salt and cornstarch and blend until smooth with 
lemon juice and a few drops of cold water. Add slowly to boiling- 
water, stirring constantly. Boil 5 minutes, add brandy and serve. 
May be colored with red vegetable coloring if desired. 

MARSHMALLOW SAUCE. 

Water, 1 cup. Marshmallows, 1 large cup. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Boil sugar and water for 20 minutes, add marshmallows cut 
fine and beat to a cream. When slightly cool add vanilla. May 
be served hot or cold. Mrs. A. K. J., South Boston. 

COCOA SAUCE. 

Milk, 1 cup. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Cocoa, 1 tablespoon. Salt, a pinch. 

Cornstarch, 1 teaspoon. 

Heat milk to a boil. Mix dry ingredients and blend to a paste 
with a little cold milk, then slowly pour into boiling milk, stirring 
all the time. Cook till thickened. May be served hot or cold. 

RAISIN SAUCE. 

Raisins, 1 cup. Sugar, i/ 2 cup. 

Cold water, iy 2 cups. Lemon, i/ 2 . 

Cut raisins in quarters and stew in water till soft, add sugar 
and boil gently for 15 minutes. Add juice of the lemon, heat 
and serve. 

ORANGE SAUCE 

i 

Butter, 1/4 pound. Powdered sugar, 1 cup. 

Egg yolks, 3. Orange, 1. 

Cream butter till soft, add beaten egg yolks, sugar and grated 
rind and juice of the orange. Cook over hot water, stirring con- 
stantly, till thick and creamy. 



DESSERTS. 135 



MOLASSES SAUCE. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Water, i o cup. Vinegar, 3 tablespoons. 

Butter. 1 tablespoon. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon. 

Poil all together for 5 minutes, stirring constantly. 

GOLDEN SAUCE. 

Butter, 1/2 CU P- Powdered sugar, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 3. 

Cream butter, beat in sugar gradually and add egg yolks. Beat 
all till very light. Then add the stiffly beaten egg whites and beat 
for 5 minutes. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Egg, 1. Cream, % cup. 

Powdered sugar, % cup. Salt. 

Flavoring. 

Beat the egg white stiff and fold in the sugar, add the yolk 
beaten very light, then the cream whipped till stiff, a pinch of salt 
and flavoring to taste. 

FRUITED PUDDING SAUCE. 

Butter, 1/2 cup. Nut meats, 2 tablespoons. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Chopped figs or dates, 2 table- 

Cream, 4 tablespoons. spoons. 

Lemon extract, % teaspoon. 

Cream butter and gradually beat in the sugar. When soft 
and creamy add the cream drop by drop. When well mixed add 
the fruit, nuts and flavoring. Serve with a steamed pudding. 

SHERRY SAUCE. 

Butter, 14 cup. Egg whites, 2. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. P>oiling water, i/> cup. 

Sherry, i/ 2 cup. 

Cream butler and mix in sugar, add 1 unbeaten egg white 
and beat all well. Add second egg white and beat till very light, 
Add sherry and boiling water, stand bowl in a saiieepaii of boiling 
water on stove and beat till foamy. 



136 DESSERTS. 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Egg, 1. Whipped cream, i/ 2 cup. 

Powdered sugar, i/ 2 cup. Chocolate, 1 square. 

Add sugar to well beaten egg yolk, then chocolate melted over 
hot water. Beat egg white till stiff and add with whipped cream. 

CHERRY SAUCE. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Egg, 1. 

Sugar, 1/2 cup. Cherry juice, i/ 2 cup. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Chopped cherries, y 2 cup. 

Mix flour and sugar and pour on boiling water. Stir and 
let boil a moment, then pour slowly over the beaten egg. Beat a 
moment then add cherry juice and cherries chopped fine. 




f 

0T^<- ltU^*f 

* ' 



/K y ; 






Jl^*'*^.^ 





...' 



*+- 
, 



* *' 



w 



* 



A 






EGG AND CHEESE DISHES. 137 

BAKED OMELET. 

Milk, 1 pint. Flour, "2 tablespoons. 

Eggs, 4. Salt and pepper. 

Heat milk and stir in flour blended with a little cold water, 
seasoning, yolks of eggs, beaten till thick, and lastly stiffly beaten 
whites. Bake about 15 minutes and serve innnediately. 

COATED EGGS. 

Cook as many eggs as desired until hard. Shell and coat 
each thickly with sausage meat. Roll in beaten egg, then in cracker 
crumbs and fry in deep hot fat till golden brown. Drain carefully 
and cut each one in half. Arrange on a platter with broiled bacon 
and parsley. 

SCALLOPED EGGS. 

Eggs, 6. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Bread crumbs. 

Boil the eggs for 20 minutes, shell and cut in slices crosswise. 
Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, milk, parsley and season- 
ing. In a buttered baking dish place a layer of bread crumbs, 
cover with a layer of the egg, and moisten with some of the white 
sauce. Continue till all the egg is used. Cover with crumbs, dot 
with bits of butter and bake in a hot oven for 20 minutes. 

EGGS IN POTATO CASES. 

Large potatoes, 3. Pepper and salt. 

Cream, 1 tablespoon. Chopped meat. 

Butter. Eggs, 6. 

Buttered bread crumbs. 

Wash potatoes, dry and bake until mealy, then cut each in 
half and scoop out the inside. Mash and mix well with the cream, 
add little butter, and seasoning. Line each potato case with a little 
chopped meat or sausage, drop in a poached egg, then cover and fill 
with mashed potato. Smooth over with a knife blade, sprinkle with 
buttered crumbs and put in oven till tops are browned. Chopped 
spinach may be used instead of the meat if desired. 



138 EGG AND CHEESE DISHES. 

JELLY OMELET. 

Eggs, 3. Milk, 2 tablespoons. 

Cold cooked rice, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Currant jelly, 4 tablespoons. 

Beat eggs separately till stiff, then fold whites into yolks, add 
the rice, milk and salt, Cook and when ready to fold spread with 
the jelly. Serve at once. 

VERMICELLIED EGGS. 

Eggs, 3. Milk, 1 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Buttered toast. 

Cook the eggs for half an hour, shell and separate whites and 
yolks. Make a white sauce with the butter, Hour, milk and season- 
ing. Cut the whites of the eggs in medium sized pieces and add 
to the sauce. Pour over triangles of buttered toast. Rub the egg 
yolks through a sieve over the top and place in the oven for a 
moment to heat through. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

Tomatoes, 2. Eggs, 4. 

Salt and pepper. 

Skin the tomatoes, cut in slices or cubes, fry in butter and 
drain on unglazed paper. Beat the eggs, season with salt and 
pepper and turn into a buttered omelet pan. When set put the 
fried tomatoes in the center and fold. 

SWEDISH OMELET. 

Eggs, 4. Pepper, a shake. 

Milk, 1 cup. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Grated cheese, y 2 cup. 

Blend together Hour, milk and seasonings. Beat eggs very 
light and combine mixtures. Melt butter in a frying pan and w r hen 
very hot turn in the mixture. Place in the lower part of a hot 
oven and when puffed up and browned on the bottom, set on upper 
grate of oven to brown slightly. Spread cheese over top and when 
it has melted fold over omelet, turn onto a hot platter and serve 
at once. 



EGG AND CHEESE DISHES. 139 

POTATO OMELET. 

Cold mashed potato, 2 cups. Melted butter, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt and pepper. Milk, 1-3 cup. 

Mix ingredients and beat with an egg beater till light and free 
from lumps, then turn into a hot, greased omelet pan, brown and 
fold. Serve very hot. 

CUP EGGS. 

Butter six egg cups and dust into them some fine toasted bread 
crumbs. Drop a raw egg into each one and set the cups in a pan 
of boiling water till the whites are solid. Dust with hot crumbs, 
add a piece of butter the size of a pea to each and serve at once. 

BAKED EGGS AND BACON. 

Into a buttered baking dish break the desired number of eggs. 
Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with coarse bread crumbs. 
Cut slices of bacon into little squares and sprinkle over the crumbs, 
add more crumbs and more bacon and bake for 10 minutes or until 
eggs are set. 

BAKED CREAM OMELET. 

Eggs, 6. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Separate eggs and beat till yolks are very light and lemon- 
colored and whites are stiff and dry. Have ready a white sauce 
made from the butter, llour, milk and seasoning, simmered together, 
then allowed to cool. Fold in the egg yolks and then the whites 
and turn all into a buttered baking dish. Bake 20 minutes in a 
medium oven. Serve at once garnished with parsley. 

SPANISH EGGS. 

Tomatoes, 1 can. Onion, 1. 

Bread crumbs. Butter and salt. 

< i reen peppers, 2. Eggs. 

Heat tomatoes in a frying pan, thicken with bread crumbs 
and add chopped peppers and onion. Season to taste and let 
simmer gently for a few minutes. Carefully break on this the 
number of eggs desired. As the eggs cook baste them with the 
simmering tomato mixture until they are firm. 



140 EGG AND CHEESE DISHES. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

American fairy cheese, iy 2 Parmesan cheese, 1 tablespoon. 

cups. Salt and pepper. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Egg whites, 3. 

Mix cheeses, flour and seasoning thoroughly and fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Roll in crumbs and fry in deep hot fat. Serve 
at once. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 
Milk, 1/2 pint. Eggs, 2. 

Bread crumbs, i/ 2 cup. Grated cheese, 14 pound. 

Flour, 3 tablespoons. Salt. i/ 2 teaspoon. 

Pepper, 1 shake. 

Put milk in double boiler, add bread crumbs and flour mois- 
tened with a little cold milk. Stir and cook till it becomes a smooth 
paste, take from fire and add egg yolks, beaten, cheese, salt and 
pepper. Mix and fold in well-beaten egg whites. Bake in a quick 
oven 20 minutes. 

BAKED WELSH RABBIT. 

Mild cheese, 1 pound. Paprika. 

Bread crumbs. Butter. 

Salt. Milk, iy 2 cups. 

Eggs, 3. 

Slice cheese and put 1-3 of it over a layer of bread crumbs in 
the bottom of a buttered baking dish. Season and cover with 
crumbs. Put in another third of cheese, season and sprinkle with 
crumbs. Put in remaining cheese, sprinkle top with bits of butter 
and over all pour milk beaten with the eggs. Bake for 25 minutes. 

CHEESE ROAST. 

Grated cheese, 11/4 pints. Onion, 1. 

Bread crumbs, 2 cups. Water, li/o cups. 

Batter, 1/2 cup. Lemons, 4. 

Nut meats, 1 cup. 

Slice onion and cook in butter and water until tender. Mix 
cheese, crumbs, chopped nut meats and juice of the lemons, add 
onion water and pour into a deep buttered bread tin. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



EGG AND CHEESE DISHES. 141 

BAKED CHEESE CUSTARD. 

i i rated cheese. Egg, 1. 

Bread. Milk, li/ 2 cups. 

Pepper and salt. 

Fill a buttered baking dish with alternate layers of buttered 
bread cubes and grated cheese. Beat the egg, add milk and season- 
ing and pour over bread and cheese. Bake until firm. 

PENNSYLVANIA COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Pour thick sour milk or clabber into a large bowl and pour over 
it about half as much boiling water as there is milk, stirring quickly 
all the time. Let stand 5 minutes, then pour into a cheese bag and 
let drain for several hours. Then mix until soft with a little sweet 
cream, salt to taste and sprinkle over a little cayenne pepper. 

S. G. M., Newton. 

PLUM FONDU. 

Damson plums, 2 cups. Melted butter; y 2 cup. 

Sugar, Vi cup. Pepper and salt. 

Boiled rice, 2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

Grated cheese, y 2 CU P- 

Stone the plums and stew until tender with the sugar. Cool and 
add remaining ingredients. The rice should be freshly boiled and 
the eggs well beaten. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 
until a delicate brown. Serve with roast duck or leg of lamb. 



, 







PISH. 143 

OYSTERS ROASTED IN SHELL. 

Wash and \vipe shells of large oysters and place directly over 
blaze with deeper shell downwards to catch the liquor when the 
oyster opens up with the heat. Serve hot after carefully removing 
the top shell, leaving the oyster in its juice in the deeper shell. 
Serve with a sauce made of melted butter, lemon juice and a dash of 
Worcestershire sauce. 

DEVILLED OYSTERS. 

Oysters, 12. Salt and pepper. 

Mustard, y z teaspoon. Egg yolks, 2. 

Crumbs. 



Drain, clean and dry the oysters. Mix egg yolks, mustard and 
seasoning to a paste. Roll oysters in this, then in bread crumbs 
and broil over a clear fire. L. E. B., Roslindale. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Cold boiled lobster, 2 cups. Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt and pepper. Sifted flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Minced parsley, 1 tablespoon. Egg, 1. 

Cream. 1 cup. Cracker dust. 

Mince the lobster fine, add the salt, pepper and parsley. Stir 
into the cream, the butter and flour. Mix thoroughly and let boil 
up once, then cool. When cold mix with the lobster and form into 
chops, roll in egg and cracker dust and fry in hot lard. Drain, stick 
a claw in each and serve on a napkin garnished with cress and lemon 
quarters. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Oysters, 1 quart. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, 1 pint. Pepper and Salt, 

Butter, 1 scant cup. Crackers, 20. 

Stir tii-other milk, beaten eggs, butter, seasoning and crackers 
rolled fine. Add oysters and then liquor and mix all well together. 
Bake in buttered baking dish % of an hour or until light brown. 

Don't Worry. 



144 FISH. 

SCALLOPED SCALLOPS. 

Scallops, 1 pint. Melted butter, V 2 cup. 

Cracker crumbs, 1 cup. Salt and pepper. 

Bread crumbs, y 2 CU P- Cream, 6 tablespoons. 

Wash and pick over the scallops. Mix the crumbs well with 
the butter and put a layer of them in a buttered baking- dish, cover 
with a layer of scallops, season and add half the cream. Repeat, 
cover with crumbs and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. 

DEVILLED SCALLOPS. 

Scallops, 1 pint. Flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt and cayenne. Cream, % cup. 

Egg yolks, 2. Buttered crumbs. 

Pour boiling water over the scallops and let stand 3 minutes, 
drain and cut in quarters. Melt the butter and blend with it the 
flour, salt and cayenne till smooth. Add the lemon juice and 
cream and stir until it boils. Let it boil 3 minutes. Remove from 
fire and add egg yolks, beaten smooth, and prepared scallops. Put 
into buttered shells or ramekins, cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake until brown. 

SALMON CUTLETS. 

Salmon cutlets. Vinegar. 

Salt. Parsley. 

Cut the cutlets into slices 3 /4 of an inch thick. Then drop 
into cold water to which a teaspoon of salt and a tablespoon of 
vinegar for every quart has been added. When the water is boiling 
hard the cutlets are done. Serve garnished with parsley. 

FRIED SCALLOPS. 

Scallops. Cracker crumbs. 

Oil and Vinegar. Yellow corn meal. 

Rinse the scallops thoroughly and dry them on a clean cloth. 
Dip them in a little oil and vinegar, then roll in fine cracker crumbs, 
again in oil and vinegar and then in the corn meal. Fry in deep, 
hot fat until a golden brown. 



FISH. 145 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Cut-up potatoes, 1 quart. Butter size of a large egg. 

Flaked codfish, 1 pint. Egg, 1. 

Pare potatoes and cut in thick slices, strip dry salt cod from 
the bone into thin pieces, cover both with water and leave to soak 
over night. In the morning pour off water, put potatoes to boil 
until soft but not mushy. Pick over codfish and reject any hard 
bits. "When potatoes are done drain them and with a large silver 
fork beat potatoes and fish together. Beat in the butter and when 
the mixture is a little cool add the well beaten egg and season- 
ins. When smooth and light mold into round or oval shape, fry in 
deep, hot lard. Do not dip in egg and crumbs. Bay State. 

SALMON SOUFFLE. 

Milk, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Bread crumbs, 6 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Butter. 1 tablespoon. Salmon, i/, large can. 

Heat milk with bread crumbs to the scalding point, remove from 
fire and add butter, salt, pepper and the two eggs slightly beaten. 
Return to the fire a moment till butter is melted, then add the fish 
flaked fine, pour all in buttered baking dish and bake till liyht 
and slightly browned. Serves four persons. May be made equally 
well with tuna fish. Mrs. E. M. F.. Rrvcre. 

BOILED FRESH CODFISH. 

Sew up the fish in cheese cloth and place in a kettle of rapidly 
boiling salted water For a 2^-pound fish allow about 20 minutes 
for boiling. When done remove cheese eloth carefully, place on a 
hot platter and serve with egg sauce. 

BAKED CANNED SALMON. 

Remove skin from a canned salmon steak, lay in a small baking 
pan and sprinkle with a little salt, pepper and chopped parsley. 
Spread with an inch thick layer of light, \vell seasoned mashed 
potato and sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs. Bake VL> hour 
in a hot oven, bastinir occasionally with a little melted butter and 
cream. Place on a platter and pour around ii ei-eam gravy. 



146 FISH. 

FILLET OF WHITEFISH. 

Whitefish. Egg. 

Salt. Pepper. 

Bread crumbs. Parsley. 

Scale and split the fish and separate into fillets. Season the fillets 
with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten egg, in bread crumbs and again 
in beaten egg. Put lard in the bottom of the baking dish. Then 
lay the fillets in it and bake 20 minutes. Draw off the grease and 
serve with parsley. 

DEVILLED FISH. 

Fish. Salt. 

Bread crumbs. Paprika. 

Egg yolks, 2. Onion juice. 

Oyster liquor or Chopped parsley. 

Hot water. Butter. 

Shred cold, cooked fish and mix it with half its quantity of 
bread crumbs. Blend these with the egg yolks and a little oyster 
liquor, if it can be had. If not use hot water. Season to taste with 
salt, paprika, onion juice and parsley. Put into buttered ramekins, 
or baking dish. Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs, dot with butter 
and bake in a quick oven until a light brown. 

STEAMED SALMON. 

Salmon, 1 large can. Whipped cream, 1 cup. 

Salt and cayenne. 

With a silver fork pick the salmon into very fine flakes. Season 
'well and beat into the whipped cream. Mix well and pour into one 
large mold or individual molds. Steam until firm and serve garn- 
ished with potato balls, slices of lemon and parsley. White sauce 
may be used instead of the whipped cream if desired. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE 

Put fish into a baking pan, meat side down, cover with cold 
water and bring very slowly to the boiling point. Remove from 
fire and let stand until cold. Drain and separate into flakes. To 
iy 2 cups f fish a dd 1 cup of good white sauce, heat well, season 
with pepper and add y 2 teaspoon of chopped parsley. 



FISH. 147 

BAKED BLUEFISH. 

Bluefish. Thyme. 

Bread crumbs. Minced raw beef, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. Egg, 1. 

Pepper. Onion. 

Chopped parsley. 

Wipe, clean and dry fish. Then stuff with bread crumbs, salt, 
pepper, thyme, beef, beaten egg and enough lukewarm water to make 
a stiff mass. Sew up the fish and rub a little butter on the out- 
side, put in a dripping pan, pour in a cup of clear broth, add a 
little grated onion and bake until tender. Remove the fish to a 
hot platter. To the stock add salt, and pepper, heat thoroughly, 
strain over the fish and garnish with parsley. 

BAKED SHAD. 

Shad. Pepper. 

Bread crumbs. Salt. 

Butter. Egg, 1. 

Potatoes. 

The shad should be cleaned, washed and dried in the usual 
manner and then stuffed with bread crumbs, butter, pepper, salt 
and beaten egg mixed together. Put in a baking dish and over it 
lay slices of raw potatoes. Put in water to a depth of 1/2 i n h i' 1 
the bottom of the pan. Cover with a buttered paper and bake 
until well done. Strain the stock, thicken it and pour it over the 
fish and potatoes to serve. 

BAKED HALIBUT. 

Halibut. Pepper. 

Salt. Milk. 

Bread crumbs. 

Clean fish. Rub with salt and pepper and put in a bakinsr 
dish. Pour over it milk to a depth of 1 inch in the pan. Bake in a 
moderate oven for about an hour. Then remove the fish from the 
milk and take out bones and serve with drnuu butter sauce to 
which chopped eggs have been added. Sprinkle over with browned 
buttered bread crumbs. 



148 FISH. 

BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK. 

Haddock, 4 pound. Salt, y teaspoon. 

Cracker crumbs, y_> cup. Pepper, i/ s teaspoon. 

Bread crumbs, y 2 cup. Hot water, 1-3 cup. 

Melted butter, 14 cup. Salt pork. 

Chopped onion, 1 teaspoon. Egg sauce. 

Grease a roaster well, wipe off fish and lay on side in pan, 
stuff and sew up. Rub all over with melted butter, dredge with 
flour. Cut five gashes in top side of fish and insert a strip of salt 
pork in each, lay more slices of salt pork about it in the pan, also 
slices of onion. Bake 1 hour and serve with an egg sauce. 

For the stuffing, add melted butter to bread and cracker crumbs, 
onion, salt and pepper and lastly hot water. Mix to a paste. 

TARTAR SAUCE. 

Mayonnaise, 1 cup. Gherkins, 2. 

Capers, 1 tablespoon. Parsley. 

Olives, 3. 

Add 1/4 teaspoon of mustard in making the mayonnaise for 
tartar sauce. To this add the remaining ingredients, all chopped 
fine, using just enough parsley to give color. Any one of the 
ingredients may be omitted or more may be added, such as chopped 
green peppers, chopped water-cress or chopped onion. 

TYROLIENNE SAUCE. 

Tomato soup, 1 can. Whipped cream, 1/2 CU P- 

Mayonnaise dressing, 1 cup. Salt and paprika. 

Boil soup without diluting for 5 minutes. Remove from fire, 
add mayonnaise dressing and cool. Fold in whipped cream and 
seasoning and chill. Serve with salad, cold meat or fish. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE. 

Salt, 1 saltspoon. Olive oil, 3 tablespoons. 

Water, 1 teaspoon. Onion juice, y 2 teaspoon. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. Cayenne pepper, a dash. 

Mix all together with an egg beater, chill, and serve with cold 
fish. 



FISH 149 

EGG SAUCE. 

Butter, 1-3 cup. Hot water, 1 cup. 

Flour. 12 tablespoons. Eggs, 2. 

Salt and pepper. 

Melt tlu- butter in a saucepan, add flour and blend well. Then 
pour on gradually, stirring constantly, the hot water. Hard boil 
the eggs and chop fine. Add to sauce, season and serve. 



FROZEN DISHES 151 



VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Milk, 1 pint. Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Vanilla extract, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, 1 large tablespoon. Cream, 1 quart. 

Heat milk in double boiler till smoking hot and add well beaten 
. dour and 1 cup of sugar blended together. Cook 20 minutes, 
stirring often. Remove from fire, cool, chill and add remaining 
sugar, vanilla and cream, well beaten. Freeze as usual. Makes 
2 quarts. 

CHOCOLATE FIG CREAM. 

Milk, 2 cups. Egg white, 1. 

Chocolate, 2 squares. Cream, % pint. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Cinnamon, a pinch. Vanilla. 

Figs, 1 cup. 

Scald milk, add melted chocolate, sugar and cinnamon. Cook 
till well mixed, remove from fire and when cold fold in egg white, 
beaten stiff, the cream whipped solid with powdered sugar. Flavor 
with vanilla and turn into a 2-quart freezer. Freeze slightly, then 
add figs and continue freezing until smooth. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

Chocolate, 3 squares. Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Salt, a pinch. Milk, 1 quart. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Vanilla, 2 teaspoons. 

Melt chocolate in double boiler, add salt and sugar and stir 
till sugar is melted. Add boiling water gradually, then remove from 
fire, stir in scalding hot milk and vanilla. Cool and freeze as usual. 

MARSHMALLOW ICE CREAM. 

Marshmallows, 1 box. Sugar, 3 tablespoons. 

Cream, 1 pint. Orange flower water, 1 table- 

spoon. 

Get a 10 cent box of rriarshmallows, shake as much powder 
as possible off them, wash quickly and cut up with fine scissors 
into 14-inch bits. Soak them in the cream until thoroughly dis- 
solved, add the sugar and flavoring and freeze. 



152 FROZEN DISHES 



PRUNE ICE CREAM. 

Milk, 1 pint, Brown sugar, !/ 2 cup. 

Eggs, 2. Prunes, 1 cup. 

Cream, i/> CU P- Sherry, 2 tablespoons. 

Make custard of milk and eggs, add sugar, whip cream and add 
to custard when cold. Stew, drain, stone and chop prunes, stir 
into custard, add sherry and freeze. 

FIG CREAM. 

Figs, I/* pound. Cream, 1 quart. 

Warm water, 1 cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Chop figs very fine, cover with warm water and let stand for 
an hour. Scald the cream and sugar, add figs and water, press all 
through a coarse sieve, cool and freeze. 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Milk, iy 2 cups. Egg yolks, 3. 

Powdered coffee, 1-3 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 114 cups. Cream, 4 cups. 

Scald milk with coffee and add 1 cup of the sugar. Beat egg 
yolks, add remainder of sugar and salt. Combine mixtures and cook 
in a double boiler till mixture thickens. Cool and add cream, 
strain and freeze. Delicious served in halves of canteloupes. 

Mrs. 8. L., Dover. 

QUICK STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Strawberries, 1 quart. Sugar, 1 pint, 

Thin cream, 1 quart. 

Mash the strawberries with the sugar and let stand for an 
hour. Press through a sieve, add cream and freeze. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Raspberries, 1 quart. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1/0 pound. Cream, 1 pint. 

Press the raspberries through a sieve and add to the cream, 
with the sugar and cinnamon. Put in freezer and turn till thick 
and smooth, then pack for 2 hours. 



FROZEN DISHES 153 



GINGER ICE CREAM. 

Egg yolks, 8. Orange extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups. Preserved ginger, 1 cup. 

Boiling milk. 2 cups. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Ginger syrup, 1 tablespoon. 

Beat egg yolks to a thick cream and add sugar and remaining 
ingredients in order given. Chop ginger fine before -adding. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Peaches, 12. Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Cream, 1 quart. 

Pare the peaches and chop fine, then mash thoroughly. Beat 
the eggs, add sugar and cream and heat together in a double boiler 
till it begins to thicken. Eemove from fire, cool and freeze. When 
partly frozen add peach pulp and finish freezing. Pack and leave 
to ripen for 2 hours before serving. 

CURRANT ICE CREAM. 

Milk, 1 quart. Vanilla, 2 teaspoons. 

Sugar, % cup. Cream, 1 pint. 

Egg, 1. Currants, 1 pint. 

Cook milk, sugar and well beaten egg in double boiler for 25 
minutes. Cool, add vanilla and cream. Wash and stem the cur- 
rants, sprinkle well with sugar and let stand 1 hour. Mash, and 
press through a fine sieve to remove seeds. Freeze cream mixture 
slightly, add currant juice and finish freezing. 

FROZEN CUSTARD. 

Egg yolks, 6. Sugar, % cup. 

Egg whites, 4. Heavy cream, 1 pint. 

Milk, 1 quart. Powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons. 

Salt, a pinch. Vanilla flavoring, 3 tablespoons. 

Make a custard of the egg yolks, milk, salt and sugar and boil 
in a double boiler till of the right consistency. Let cool, then add 
the cream, egg whites, beaten stiff, with the powdered sugar, and 
vanilla. Stir all together and freeze. Clara W., Boston. 



154 FROZEN DISHES 



PINEAPPLE CREAM. 

Canned pineapple, 1 cup. Sugar, 2 cups. 

Banana, 1. Milk, 2-3 quart. 

Lemons, 3. Thick cream, y 2 pint. 

Chop pineapple and measure, mash banana fine, and extract 
the juice of the lemons. Mix ingredients in order given and freeze 
as for any ice cream. C. W. B., Wollaston. 

FROZEN STRAWBERRIES. 

Ripe strawberries, 3 quarts. Heavy cream, 2 pints. 

Sugar, 2 pints. Egg whites, 2. 

Wash berries, hull and place in a deep bowl. Add sugar and 
set in a warm place till they melt together, stirring carefully once 
in a while. Then add the cream and the stiffly beaten egg whites 
and freeze. Serve in glasses with a spoonful of whipped cream on 
top. Garnish with whole strawberries. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

Peaches, 1 quart. Water, 4 cups. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Lemon, 1. 

Egg whites, 2, or cream, y 2 pint. 

Rub very ripe peaches through a sieve, add sugar, water and 
juice of the lemon. When sugar is dissolved freeze. When partly 
frozen stir in the stiffly beaten egg whites or the cream whipped. 

CHOCOLATE MOUSSE. 

Chocolate, 1 ounce. Boiling water, iy 2 tablespoons. 

Powdered sugar, !/4 cup. Sugar, % cup. 

Thin cream, y 2 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Granulated gelatine, y 2 table- Whipped cream, 1 cup. 

spoon. 

Melt chocolate, add powdered sugar and gradually the thin 
cream. Stir over the fire until the boiling point is reached, then 
add gelatine dissolved in boiling water, sugar and vanilla. Strain 
into bowl, set in cold water, stirring constantly until it thickens, 
then fold in stiffly whipped cream. Mold, pack in salt and let stand 
4 hours or more. This recipe serves 4 people generously. 



FROZEN DISHES 155 



COFFEE MOUSSE. 

Black coffee, y 2 cup. Egg yolks, 4. 

Powdered sugar, i/ 2 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Heavy cream, 1 pint. 

Add sugar, beaten egg yolks and flavoring to the coffee. Stir 
well together and add the cream whipped stiff. Put in mold and 
pack in salt and ice for 5 hours. A. D. B., Brookline. 

HONEY MOUSSE. 

Eggs, 4. Strained honey, 1 cup. 

Whipped cream, 1 pint. 

Beat yolks of eggs till thick and stir in gradually the honey. 
Heat slowly until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from fire and 
when cool add egg whites, stiffly beaten, and the cream. Mix 
well and pack in a freezer. Freeze without stirring for 5 hours. 

STRAWBERRY MOUSSE. 

Strawberries, 1 quart. Cold water, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Hot water, 3 tablespoons. 

Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. Whipped cream, 1 quart. 

^'ash, hull and halve the berries, sprinkle with the sugar and 
let stand 1 hour. Soften gelatine in cold water for 15 minutes, 
then dissolve in hot water. Mash berries and put through a fine 
sieve, add gelatine and set in a pan of ice w^ater. Stir till it thickens, 
then fold in the whipped cream. Pack in ice and salt for 5 hours. 

BANANA MOUSSE. 

Bananas, 3. Cream, 1 pint. 

Sugar, % cup. Candied fruit, y 2 CU P- 

Lemon, 1. Rum. 

Peel and scrape bananas and put through a coarse sieve. Scald 
bananas, sugar and juice of the lemon, let cool and fold into the 
cream whipped stiff. Soak the candied fruit for several hours or 
over night in rum to cover, then fold into cream and pack in chilled 
mold. Freeze without turning, using 3 parts of ice to 1 of salt. 

Dotty Dimple. 



] 56 FROZEN DISHES 



PINEAPPLE MOUSSE. 

Gelatine, ^ box. Sugar, 1 pound. 

Cold water, 1 gill. Lemon, 1. 

Eggs, 4. Grated pineapple, 1 can. 

Boiling water, 1 gill. Whipped cream, 1 pint. 

Soften gelatine in cold water. Beat eggs separately till very 
light. Put gelatine in double boiler, add boiling water and sugar 
and stir till all is thoroughly dissolved, then add juice of the lemon 
and take from the fire. Drain the grated pineapple carefully and 
beat it gradually into the egg yolks, add also the gelatine mix- 
ture, stirring constantly. Set bowl into a pan of ice water and 
gradually fold in the egg whites. When mixture begins to stiffen 
add the whipped cream and continue beating for a few minutes. 
Turn into freezer and pack in salt and ice for 4 hours. 



G 



RAPE MOUSSE. 



Thick cream, 2 cups. Vanilla extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 3 tablespoons. Grape juice, 1 cup. 

Whip cream and sugar together till quite stiff, add flavoring 
and grape juice. Pack in covered mold in salt and ice for 3 hours. 

COCOA PARFAIT. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Eggs, 3. 

Cocoa, 4 heaping tablespoons. Heavy cream, 1 cup. 

Hot water, % C up. Milk, % cup. 

Cook sugar and cocoa in hot water until well blended. Let cool 
and add well beaten eggs. Whip cream stiff, add milk and beat again 
until stiff. Stir into first mixture. Pack in 2 parts 01 ice (or snow) 
and one part of salt for 3 hours. Only One. 

MAPLE PARFAIT. 

Egg yolks, 8. Cream, 3 cups. 

Maple syrup, 1 cup. 

Beat egg yolks till thick and very light and pour over them the 
hot maple syrup, beating constantly. Cool by standing in ice 
water, beating all the time. Fold in cream, whipped stiff, and pack 
in a freezer. Stand without turning for 2 hours. 



FROZEN DISHES 157 



GRAPE JUICE PARFAIT. 

Heavy cream, 1 cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Grape juice, 1 gill. Water, 3 tablespoons. 

Lemon, 1. Egg whites, 2. 

Whip cream and beat in grape juice and juice of the lemon. 
Cook sugar and water together till it will spin a thread and pour 
very slowly over the stiffly beaten egg whites, beating constantly. 
Beat until cold and light, then fold in the cream mixture and turn 
into mold, pack in salt and ice or snow and leave for 2 hours. 

RASPBERRY ICE (1). 

Red raspberries, 1 quart. Water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Lemon, 1. 

Press the juice from the raspberries and strain it through 
cheesecloth. Dissolve the sugar in it, then add water and the juice 
of the lemon and freeze. 

For sherbet add the beaten white of an egg when partly frozen. 

RASPBERRY ICE (2). 

Raspberry juice, 2-3 cup. Water, 1 quart. 

Currant juice, 1 1-3 cups. Sugar, 1 1-3 cups. 

Measure fruit juices after straining. Mix and add to a syrup 
made by boiling the sugar and water together for 20 minutes. 
Freeze. 

STRAWBERRY MACAROON ICE. 

Strawberries, 1 quart. Heavy cream, y 2 pint. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Milk, 1-3 cup. 

Lemon, 1. Powdered sugar, 1-3 cup. 

Salt. Macaroon crumbs, 2-3 cup. 

Cold water. Vanilla, i/o tablespoon. 

Sprinkle hulled strawberries with sugar and let stand 2 hours, 
mash, squeeze through cheese cloth and add juice of the lemon and 
a bit of salt. Pour into a quart brick mold, adding enough cold 
water ti> half fill mold. Beat cream and milk together until stiff, 
add sugar, crumbs, vanilla and a pinch of salt, and pour on straw- 
berry juice to overflow. Mold, cover with buttered paper and tin 
cover. Pack in equal parts of ice and salt, and let stand 3 hours. 



158 FROZEN DISHES 

APRICOT ICE. 

Dried apricots, 1 pound. Sugar, 1% cups. 

Warm water, iy 2 quarts. Lemons, 3. 

Orange, 1. 

Soak the apricots in the water as usual, then cook until tender. 
There should be 1 quart of liquid remaining. Strain off the juice, 
chill and add sugar and juice of the lemons and orange. Freeze 
with 3 parts of ice to 1 of salt. 

CHERRY ICE. 

Cherries, 2 quarts. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Water, 1 pint. Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Boil the cherries in the water for 10 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Press through a colander, add sugar and lemon juice and 
stand aside to cool. When cold freeze, turning the freezer slowly 
and steadily. 

ORANGE WATER ICE. 

Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. Powdered sugar, 4 ounces. 

Cold water, 14 pint. Oranges, 6. 

Boiling water, y 2 pint. Egg whites, 2. 

Soften the gelatine in the cold water for 20 minutes, then dis- 
solve in the boiling water and add sugar, juice of the oranges and 
enough cold water to make a full quart of liquid. Stir till sugar 
is dissolved, then pour into freezer. When partly frozen fold in 
the stiffly beaten egg whites and finish freezing. 

GINGER WATER ICE. 

Water, 1 quart. Lemons, 4. 

Sugar, 11/4 pounds. Orange, 1. 

Preserved ginger, 6 ounces. 

Boil sugar and water with yellow rinds of lemons and orange 
for 5 minutes. Cool and add the juice of the lemons and orange 
and freeze. Pound 4 ounces of preserved ginger to a paste and 
cut 2 ounces into shreds. When ice is partly frozen add ginger, 
finish freezing and let ripen for 2 hours. 



FROZEN DISHES 159 



STRAWBERRY ICE. 

Strawberries, 1 quart. Water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemon juice. 

Wash and hull strawberries and sprinkle with the sugar. Cover 
and let stand on ice for 2 hours. Mash, squeeze through cheese- 
cloth, add water and lemon juice to taste and freeze 

LEMON MILK SHERBET. 

Lemons, 3. Milk, 1 quart. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups. 

Squeeze the juice of the lemons over the sugar, then slowly 
add the ice cold milk, stirring constantly. Freeze as usual. 

APPLE SHERBET. 

Apple pulp, 1 pint. Lemons, 3. 

Powdered sugar, 1 cup. Water, 3 cups. 

Egg whites, 3. 

Pare and stew apples, press through a sieve and then measure. 
Add sugar, juice of the lemons and water. Beat well and partly 
freeze, add well beaten egg whites and freeze hard. Serve in glasses 
with a little cinnamon sifted over the top. 

BLACKBERRY SHERBET. 

Blackberries. 1 quart. Sugar, 1 pint. 

Water. 1 quart. Lemon, 1. 

Crush berries, add to water with sugar and lemon sliced 
thin. Let stand for 10 hours, then strain and freeze. Serve with 
fresh berries. 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Crated pineapple, 1 large can. Egg whites, 2. 
Lemons, 4. Water, 2 quarts. 

Siiuar, 5 cups. Oranges, 2. 

Boil sugar and water for 5 minutes. Allow to cool and add 

pineapple and fruit juices strained. When partly frozen add the 

stiffly beaten egg whites. Finish freezing and let stand to ripen 
for 2 hours. 



160 FROZEN DISHES 



GRAPE SHERBET. 

Grape juice, 1 pint. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 quart. 

Warm the grape juice and in it dissolve the sugar, add rich 
cold milk and freeze. 

WATERMELON SHERBET. 

Watermelon juice and pulp, Sugar, 1 cup. 
1 quart. Lemon, 1. 

Egg whites, 2. 

To watermelon and sugar add juice of the lemon. Put in 
freezer and when half frozen add egg whites beaten very stiff. 
Continue freezing. 

SHERBET FIZZ. 

Hot water, 1 quart. Oranges, 4. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Egg white, I. 

Lemons, 4. Ginger ale. 

Chopped mint leaves. 

Boil water and sugar for 10 minutes. Cool, add juice of 
the lemons and oranges and freeze, using 3 parts of ice to 1 of 
salt. When half frozen add egg white, well beaten. Pack in ice 
and salt 2 or 3 hours to ripen. Half fill glass with the sherbet 
and pour over the ginger ale, which should be ice cold and freshly 
opened. Sprinkle with chopped mint leaves and serve. 

RHUBARB SHERBET. 

Rhubarb pulp, 1 quart. Gelatine, 2 teaspoons. 

Sugar. Egg whites, 2. 

Powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Stew the rhubarb until very tender and press through a sieve. 
Then measure the pulp. Add sugar to taste and put over the fire. 
Dissolve the gelatine in a little cold water then add to the fruit. 
When sugar is dissolved remove from fire and when cold turn into 
chilled freezer. Freeze slowly for 5 or 6 minutes, then fold in the 
stiffly beaten egg whites with the powdered sugar. Continue 
freezing till smooth and firm and serve in sherbet glasses, garnished 
with chopped candied cherries. 



FROZEN DISHES 161 



STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

Sugar, 1 pint. Granulated gelatine, 1 teaspoon. 

Water, 1 quart. Cold water, 3 tablespoons. 

Strawberries, 1 pint. Lemons, 2. 

Boil sugar and water 10 minutes, add gelatine which has been 
soaking in cold water for i/ 2 hour. Strain through cheese cloth and 
cool. Mash strawberries, press through a sieve, then measure. Add 
to the syrup with the juice of the lemons and freeze. 

ORANGE SHERBET. 

Oranges, 6. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Lemon, 1. Milk, 1 quart. 

Strain juice of lemon and oranges, add sugar and stir well 
together. Put in freezer, pack with salt and ice and when ready 
to turn add milk. A. D. B. y Brookline. 

PLUM SHERBET. 

Plums, 1 pint. Water, 1 cup. 

Lemon, 1. Egg whites, 4. 

Sugar. 

Wash and stone the plums and mash with lemon juice and 
water. Sweeten to taste and heat in a double boiler for a few min- 
utes. Put through a sieve and cool, add stiffly beaten egg whites 
and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY FRAPPE. 

Gelatine, 1/4 box. Egg white, 1. 

Cold water, % cup. Strawberries, 1 on p. 

Susrar, i/ 2 cup. Milk, % pint, 

Cream, 1/2 pint. Chopped nuts, 1 cup. 

Soak gelatine in the cold water for 5 minutes and dissolve 
over hot water. Mix cream and sugar and stir in gelatine and 
beaten egg white. When cold add milk and strawberries, chopped 
in small pieces, also nuts. Freeze and serve garnished with whole 
strawberries. 



162 FROZEN DISHES 



CRANBERRY FRAPPE. 

Cranberries, 1 quart. Lemon, 1. 

Sugar, 2 pounds. Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. 

Water, 1 quart. Boiling water, i/ 2 cup. 

Cook fruit until soft and put through a fine sieve, add lemon 
juice, a little of the grated rind and the sugar. Soften the gelatine 
in a little cold water and dissolve in the boiling water. Add to 
fruit juice and pack in freezer with ice and salt. Let stand 2 
hours or till frozen to a mush. 

PINEAPPLE FRAPPE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemons, 3. 

Water, 2 cups. G-rated pineapple, 1 can. 

Ice water, 1 pint. 

Boil the sugar and water for 15 minutes, then add the strained 
juice of the lemons and the pineapple. Cool, strain (squeezing 
all juice from the pineapple), add the ice water and freeze until 
mushy, using equal parts of ice and salt in the freezer. 

GRAPE FRAPPE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Grape juice, 1 cup. 

Water, 2 cups. Oranges, 4. 

Lemon juice, 4 tablespoons. 

Boil sugar and water 5 minutes, add grape juice, pulp and 
juice of the oranges and lemon juice. Freeze to a mush. 

TEA FRAPPE. 

Water, 1 quart. Oranges, 3. 

Tea, 4 teaspoons. Lemons, 2. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Grated pineapple, 1 can. 

Boil 1 pint of the water, pour over tea and let stand for 5 
minutes. Strain and add the sugar and remaining water and boil 
for 5 minutes. Add grated rind and juice of the oranges, the 
juice of the lemons and the pineapple. Freeze and let stand for 
3 hours to ripen. 



FROZEN DISHES 163 



FROZEN PUDDING. 

Candied cherries, 14 pound. Sugar, 3 cups. 

Candied pineapple, y pound. Salt, a pinch. 
Medford rum, 1-3 cup. Eggs, 3. 

Flour, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 3 cups. 

Cream, 1 pint, 

Chop fruit fine and soak over night in the rum. Mix flour, 
sugar, salt and eggs, well beaten. Pour over this the milk, which 
should be scalding hot. Cook in double boiler till it begins to 
thicken. Remove from fire and cool. When cold add cream, pour 
into freezer, and when partly frozen add soaked fruit and finish 
freezing. Let stand at least an hour to ripen. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

NESSELRODE PUDDING. 

Vanilla, 1 tablespoon. Milk, 2 cups. 

Walnuts, y 2 cup. Egg yolks, 6. 

Candied cherries, 14 cup. Cream, 3 cups. 

Candied mixed fruits, 1/2 cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Heat milk in a double boiler. Beat egg yolks slightly, add 
sugar and pour slowly over them the hot milk. Return to double 
boiler and cook for 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Cool and add 
cream and flavoring, then cover and freeze. When partly frozen 
stir in chopped nuts and chopped fruits which have soaked in a 
little boiling water until soft, then drain. Finish freezing. 

FROZEN BANANA WHIP. 

Ripe bananas, 6. Granulated gelatine, V* table- 

Powdered sugar, 1/2 cup. spoon. 

Orange juice, 1/2 CU P- Boiling water, i/ 2 CU P- 

Whipped cream, 2 cups. 

Peel the bananas and rub them through a puree sieve, stir 
in the sugar and orange juice. "Dissolve the gelatine in the 
boiling water and strain it into the banana mixture. When it 
.ins to stiffen add the whipped cream and turn it into a wet 
mold. Lay over it two thicknesses of waxed paper before putting 
on the cover. Prepare 2 parts of ice to 1 part of salt in the freezer, 
burv the mold in it and let stand for 4 hours. 



64 FROZEN DISHES 



FROZEN RICE. 

Whipped cream, 1 pint. Cooked rice, 1 cup. 

Powdered sugar, 4 tablespoons. Salt. 

Orange extract. 

Add sugar to cream and fold cream into the rice, which has been 
seasoned with a pinch of salt. Flavor to taste and pack in salt 
and ice for 4 hours. 

TUTTI FRUTTI. 

Milk, 1 pint. Candied cherries, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Grated pineapple, y 2 cup. 

Eggs, 2. Seeded raisins, 14 cup. 

Sifted flour, 1 tablespoon. Figs, 6. 

Granulated gelatine, 2 table- Pistachio nuts, y 2 cup. 

spoons. Angelica, 2 tablespoons. 

Cream, 1 quart. Apricot cordial, 1 wineglass. 

Boil sugar, eggs and flour in milk for 15 minutes or until 
thick and add gelatine, previously softened with a little cold water. 
When smooth and cool add cream, put in freezer and freeze for 
10 minutes. Uncover and add fruits, chopped fine, and cordial. 
Finish freezing. 

ORANGE AND BANANA MERINGUE GLACE. 

Oranges, 5. Large bananas, 5. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Cold water, 1 pint. 

Egg whites, 5. 

Peel, seed and chop fine the oranges. Cover with the sugar 
and set aside. Peel and slice the bananas and stir them into the 
oranges. Add the cold water and the unbeaten egg whites. Turn 
the mixture into a freezer and turn until the result is a frozen 
fruit froth. Pile into sherbet glasses and serve. 

ICE CREAM PUFFS. 

Buy or make cream puff shells. Remove the tops and fill the 
lower section with vanilla ice cream, piling it high. Put on top 
section lightly and over all pour a hot chocolate sauce. 



FKOZEX D!-: 165 



MERINGUED ICE CREAM. 

Vanilla ice cream, 1 quart. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

M-ir \\hi1es. 4. Powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons. 

Beat eug whites till very stiff and beat in sugar and flavoring. 
Turn out the ice cnam frozen, very, very hard, cover quickly with 
a thick layer of the meringue and set in a very, very hot oven till 
meringue is liuhtly browned, which should be but a few seconds. 
Kemo\r and serve at once. 

CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Unsweetened chocolate, 2 Sugar, 1/2 cup. 

squares. Boiling water. 1 cup. 

Vanilla, y> teaspoon. 

Melt chocolate and sugar over hot water. Gradually stir in 
the boiling water and continue stirring till it is smooth and thick. 
Add liavnring and serve hot. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Strawberries, 1 quart. Sugar, iy 2 cups. 

Boiling water, y 2 CU P- 

Wash, hull and halve the berries. Pour boiling water over 
sugar, let dissolve and heat for a moment over the fire. Then 
pour over the berries, let stand in the sun or in a warm place^ 
stirring every few minutes, for 2 hours, then set away to chill until 
needed. 

FILBERT SAUCE. 

Maple syrup, 1 pint. Butter, y 2 tablespoon. 

Filberts, 1 cup. 

Cook tin' syrup till thick, add butter and chopped, blanched 
nuts and serve hoi with vanilla ice cream. 

HONEY SAUCE. 

Strained honey, 1 pint. lira'.il mils, 12. 

Chopped .M;iraseliino cherries. 1 tablespoon. 

Blanch th>- nuts and chop line, add \\ith chopped cherries to 
honey ;md serve hot or cold with vanilla ice cream. 



166 FROZEN DISHES 



NUT FUDGE SAUCE. 

White sugar, 1 cup. Milk, % cup. 

Brown sugar, ~y 2 CU P- Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Chocolate, iy 2 squares. Vanilla, y 2 teaspoon. 

Nut meats, 1 cup. 

Add melted chocolate to sugar and pour in milk slowly. Add 
butter and cook until the mixture granulates around the edge of 
the saucepan. Remove from fire, add vanilla and chopped nuts 
and serve at once with vanilla or chocolate ice cream. 

BROWN SUGAR SAUCE. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Water, 1 cup. 

Lemon, 1. Egg, 1. 

Boil sugar and water till they spin a thread, then pour very 
slowly over the stiffly beaten egg white, beating hard all the time. 
Put in a double boiler and cook over hot water for a moment. Add 
juice of the lemon, pouring it in very slowly and beating all the 
time. Serve at once. 

RASPBERRY SAUCE. 

Sugar, % cup. Water, y 2 cup. 

Raspberries, 1 quart. 

Boil sugar and water for 10 minutes. Let cool and add rasp- 
berries, slightly mashed. Put all through a vegetable ricer and 
serve cold with vanilla ice cream. 

PINEAPPLE SAUCE. 

Pineapple, 1. Preserved ginger, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Ginger syrup, 2 tablespoons. 

Grate the fresh ripe pineapple very fine, add sugar and let 
stand a half hour, then add chopped ginger and ginger syrup. Mix 
well and serve cold. 



(iKIDDLE C-VKl-> AND FRIED CAKES 167 

BREAD CRUMB GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stale bread, '2 slices. Flour, 1 cup. 

Hot milk, 2 cups. Salt, % teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Melted butter'. '2 tablespoons. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Crumble the bread and add the hot milk and let stand till 
soft. When cold add the eggs, well beaten, the butter, and the flour 
sifted with the salt, sugar, and baking powder. Beat all together 
and cook on a hissing hot griddle. 

RYE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Rye flour, 1 pint. Salt, % teaspoon. 

Graham flour, 1/2 pint. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Flour, 1/2 pint. Egg, 1. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Milk, 1 pint. 

Sift together the rye flour, graham flour, flour, sugar, salt and 
baking powder; add beaten egg and milk, mix into smooth batter 
Bake deep brown color on hot griddle. 

RAISED BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Buckwheat, 2 cups. Molasses, 2 tablespoons. 

Graham flour, 1 cup. Compressed yeast, y 2 cake. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Soda, a. pinch. 

Mix the buckwheat, graham flour and salt and stir in warm 
water to make a thick batter. Add the molasses and yeast dissolved 
in water and let rise over night. In morning, add soda, and warm 
water if necessary. Let rise again and bake on greased griddle 
as wanted. Peggy. 

CEREAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Eggs, 2. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, 2 cups. Flour. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Cooked cereal. 

Beat the eggs and add milk. Sift salt and baking powder 
with a tablespoon of Hour. Then add equal parts of flour and any 
cold cooked cereal to make a ihin batter. Fry on a well greased 
griddle. 



168 GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRIED CAKES. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Canned corn, 1 cup. Egg, 1. 

Milk, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. Flour. 

Drain the corn and put it through the grinder. Add the 
milk, salt, egg, beaten, baking powder, and enough flour to make 
a thin batter. Bake on a hot, greased griddle. 

BRAN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Bran, 2 tablespoons. Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, y 2 pint. Buttermilk, iy 2 cups. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Egg, 1. 

Shortening, % cup. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Hot water, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix the dry ingredients and stir in gradually the buttermilk, 
beaten egg, shortening, melted, and soda dissolved in the hot water. 
Makes 12 cakes. 

CORNMEAL FLAPJACKS. 

Sour milk, 1 quart. Hot water, 4 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, y 2 cup. 

Soda, 1 teaspoon. Molasses, 2 tablespoons. 

Cornmeal. 

Mix ingredients in order given, beating eggs, dissolving soda 
in hot water and stirring in enough cornmeal to make a thin batter. 
Bake on hot, greased griddle. 

CORNMEAL FLANNEL CAKES. 

White corn meal, 1 cup. Yeast cake, i/o. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 quart. Flour. 

Soda, a pinch. 

Scald the corn meal in the boiling water, add the milk, yeast, 
salt and enough flour to make a thin batter. Let rise all night 
and in the morning add soda dissolved in warm water. Bake on a 
hot griddle. 



GRJDDLE CAKES AND FRIED CAKES 169 

PINEAPPLE PANCAKES. 

Grate pineapple, add sugar and let stand overnight. In the 
morning drain and add a cup of the pineapple to each cup of pan- 
cake batter. Cook as for ordinary pancakes and serve with the 
pineapple juice. 

BANANA PANCAKES. 

Bananas, 6. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, iy 2 cups. 

Salt, a pinch. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Milk. 

Rub bananas through a sieve, add well beaten eggs and remain- 
ing ingredients Avith enough milk to make a thin batter. Cook on 
a griddle as usual. 

CURRANT PANCAKES. 

Butter, 1/4 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Flour. 

Eggs, 4. Currants, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk, y 2 pint. Lemon rind, y 2 . 

Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, well beaten, milk, salt, 
and sufficient flour to make a thin batter. Roll dried currants in 
flour and add to batter with grated lemon rind. Bake in 6-inch 
cakes, spread with fruit or syrup and pile several together when 
serving. P. D., Newtonville. 

BERLIN PANCAKES. 

Flour, 214 cups. Eggs, 6. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1 quart. 

Butter or lard. 

Stir together sifted flour and salt, add the yolks of the eggs, 
well beaten, to the milk and mix gradually with the flour to a 
smooth batter. In another large bowl beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, then add to them the batter, beat it all well. Melt 
butter or lard in a large frying pan ; when hot, pour in sufficient 
batter to cover the bottom. Cook to a golden brown, turn and cook 
the other side in the same manner. In serving spread with marma- 
lade or butter and sugar. 



170 GRIDDLE CAKES \ND FRIED CAKES. 

RICE CAKES. 

Boiled rice, y 2 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Milk, 4 cups. Flour, y 2 pound. 

Eggs, 4. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix beaten egg yolks, rice, milk and salt, then add alternately 
the flour and baking powder sifted together and the stiffly beaten 
egg whites. Fry on a greased griddle. 

HOLLAND FLENSJES. 

Milk, 1 cup. Sugar, 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 2. Salt, a pinch. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Beat the eggs and add milk. Sift together dry ingredients 
and stir in slowly the egg and milk. Beat for 5 minutes. Fry in 
a greased frying pan, making cakes large enough to cover bot- 
tom of pan. Fry till light brown on each side, remove to a plate, 
sprinkle with sugar and roll up with a fork. This will make 10 
flensjes. M. 0. P., Boston. 

OATMEAL WAFFLES. 

Graham flour, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Milk, 1 cup. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Cooked oatmeal, 1 cup. 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt. Add the yolks 
of the eggs, well beaten, the milk and the oatmeal. Beat until no 
lumps of oatmeal remain, fold in the whites of the eggs, well beaten. 
Grease waffle irons thoroughly, heat them and pour in the waffle 
mixture. 

SOUR CREAM WAFFLES. 

Eggs, 2. Baking soda, 1 tablespoon. 

Sour cream, 2 cups. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour. 

Beat the eggs light, add the sour cream in which the soda is 
dissolved, add the salt and flour to make a thin batter. Pour on 
hot, well greased waffle iron, shut the iron when filled, turn it and 
in a few minutes turn it again. When the waffles are brown on both 
sides, place in layers. Serve very hot with butter or honey. 



GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRIED CAKES 171 

WONDERS. 

Eggs, 3. Sugar, 3 tablespoons. 

Melted shortening, 3 table- Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

spoons. Flour. 

Beat the eggs, add shortening, sugar and 1 cup of flour sifted 
with the baking powder. Add more flour to make stiff dough and 
roll very thin. Cut in 3-inch squares and in each cut several slits. 
Fry in deep, hot fat and roll in powdered sugar. 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Corn, 1 can. Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Salt, 2 teaspoons. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, 2 cups 

To the corn (fresh corn cut from the cob may be used) add 
sugar, seasoning, beaten eggs, milk, butter, melted, and flour, sifted 
before measuring. Drop by spoonfuls into deep, hot fat and brown 
for 2 or 3 minutes. Drain and serve with butter and sugar or 
maple syrup. 

BALLOONS. 

Water, 1 cup. Flour, 1 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Eggs, 3. 

Bring the water to the boiling point and add the butter. When 
butter is melted add the flour and beat with a fork or wire whip 
until it is smooth and leaves the sides of the pan. Remove from 
the fire and add three eggs, one at a time, beating vigorously each 
one before adding the next. Let stand until cold. When ready to 
serve drop a spoonful at a time into deep, moderately hot fat and 
fry about 15 minutes. Remove and drain on unglazed paper. They 
will puff into round hollow balls. Fry only a few at a time and 
keep well separated. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve with 
lemon sauce made as follows: 

Lemons, l 1 /^. Powdered sugar, 1 cup. 

Boiling water, i/ 2 cup. 

Strain the juice of the lemons, add the sugar, then the boiling 
water. Serve at once. 



172 GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRIED CAKES 

VENETIAN FRITTERS. 

Rice, 2-3 cup. Large apple, 1. 

Milk, % pint. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Baking powder, y 2 teaspoon. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Egg yolks, 4. 

Currants, 1/2 cup. 

Boil rice in milk till tender and milk is absorbed. Remove from 
fire and add butter, sugar, flour and egg yolks. Return to fire till 
hot then add the apples, peeled, cored and minced, and the currants, 
well washed. Drop by tablespoons in deep, hot lard and fry a golden 
brown. Serve with sugar. Mme. X., Eoxbury. 

FILLED FRITTERS. 

Use a good raised biscuit dough. When it has risen once, turn 
out on a floured board and let rise until light. Roll to %-inch 
thickness and cut into circles with a fluted cookie cutter. Put a 
teaspoonful of jam in the centre of the circle. Wet the edges and 
cover with a second circle. Press the edges lightly together and 
fry in deep, hot fat. 

OLD FASHIONED FRIED CAKES. 

Sour milk, 1 coffee cup. Egg, 1. 

Flour, 11/2 tea cups. Soda, 1 heaping teaspoon. 

Rye meal, iy 2 tea cups. Salt. 

Molasses, 1 scant cup. Mixed spices. 

Mix well and drop from spoon into deep, hot fat. Fry till 
golden brown. Serve hot with maple syrup. 

Miss E. M. F., Southborough. 

FRIED RYE CAKES. 

Rye meal, % cup. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, % cup. Baking powder 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Egg, 1. 

Mix the meal, flour, salt, sugar and baking pow r der. Stir in 
the milk and the egg, beaten light. Beat thoroughly and drop by 
teaspoons into deep, hot fat. Cook till they turn over and brown 
and do not stick to the fork. 



GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRIED CAKES 173 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Eggs, 2. Flour, 2 cups. 

Milk, 1 cup. Baking powder, 3 teaspoons. 

Ginger, a pinch. Salt. 

Beat eggs thoroughly and add sugar and remaining ingredients 
in order given. Add flour till dough is just stiff enough to handle. 
Fry as usual in deep fat. Mrs. C. W., Jamaica Plain. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Scalded milk, 1 pint. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Yeast cake, V 2 . Butter, i/ 2 cup. 

Cold milk, 6 tablespoons. Eggs, 2. 

Flour. Mace, a pinch. 

Salt, a pinch. 

In the morning scald the milk and when somewhat cooled, 
add yeast cake dissolved in cold milk. Thicken with flour to make 
a light sponge and set in a warm place to rise. At night beat butter 
and sugar to a cream, add well beaten eggs and the sponge, mace 
and salt. Knead with flour to make a soft dough. Let rise until 
morning. Knead again without adding flour, then roll out and cut 
as for biscuits. Fat should not be as hot as for doughnuts that 
are not raised. V. F., Quincy. 

SOUR CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

Thick sour cream, 2 heaping Salt, 1 teaspoon, 
tablespoons. Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, U/2 cups. Cinnamon extraM, T/> teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. Sour milk, 1 cup. 

Flour. 

Mix ingredients in order given, dissolving soda in a little hot 
water and beating eggs until light. Add flour enough to make a 
very soft dough. Eoll out a little of the dough at a. time, cut and 
leave on the board for 10 minutes, then fry to a irnldon brown in 

deep, hot lard. Butter mav bf used in place of the sour milk. 



Mrs. A. G. L., Atlantic. 



174 GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRIED CAKES. 

CREAM DOUGHNUTS. 

Flour, 1 quart. Eggs, 2. 

Cream, 1 cup. Nutmeg, 14 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Baking powder, 2y 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, i/> teaspoon. 

Sift flour and sift again with dry ingredients, add eggs, well 
beaten, and cream, and beat all together. Add more flour, if neces- 
sary, to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut and fry as usual. 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS. 

MM shed potato, 2 cups. Butter. 1 tablespoon. 

Egg, 1. Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups. Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Milk, % cup . Flour. 

Beat warm, mashed potato light and add ingredients in order 
given, beating egg and adding enough flour to make a soft dough. 
about &1/2 cups. New Tear Girl. 



CHOCOLATE CRULLERS. 

Eggs, 2. Grated chocolate, 1 square. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Shortening, 1 tablespoon. Flour, 3 cups. 
Milk, 2-3 cup. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Baking powder, I'/o teaspoons. 

To the beaten eggs add the sugar, shortening, chocolate, cinna- 
mon and milk. Measure the flour after sifting and sift again with 
the salt and baking powder. Add to first mixture and roll out to 
1-3-inch thickness. Cut with a doughnut cutter, or in strips and 
braid. Fry in deep, hot fat as for ordinary doughnuts. 



HORS D'OEUVRES. 175 



FRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Shredded pineapple, 1-3 cup. Diced grapefruit pulp, 1 cup. 

Sliced bananas, 14 cup. Currant jelly, 1-3 glass. 

Diced orange pulp, 14 cup. Sugar, i/ 2 cup. 

Lemon juice, 3 tablespoons. 

Mix fruits. Melt jelly, add sugar and lemon juice. Heat till 
sugar is melted. Chill and pour over fruit. 

GRAPEFRUIT COCKTAIL. 

Cut grapefruit in half, remove pulp in sections with a sharp 
knife and a spoon, being careful to save all the juice. Sprinkle 
well with sugar and let stand on ice for half an hour. When ready 
to serve fill cocktail glasses with the mixture, pour over each a table- 
spoon of iced grape juice and serve at once. 

APPLE COCKTAIL. 

Apples, 5. Cherries, 1 cup. 

Oranges, 3. Sugar. 

Pare, core and chop apples and place in cocktail glasses. Squeeze 
over them the juice of the oranges, add a generous spoonful of 
sugar and a few cherries. Serve ice cold. /. B. Content. 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

Oysters, 18. Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Mushroom catsup, 1 tablespoon. Tabasco sauce, 5 drops. 
Tomato catsup, 1 tablespoon. Salt, a pinch. 

Have oysters ice cold. Put 6 in each glass and cover with a 
dressing made of the remaining ingredients mixed well. 

SAUCE FOR RAW OYSTERS. 

Tarragon vinegar. 1 dessert- Lemon, y 2 - 

spoon. Olive oil, 1 tablespoon. 

Worcestershire sauce, y 2 tea- Tabasco sauce, V 2 teaspoon, 
spoon. Salt. 

Onion, 1. 

Mix vinegar slowly into oil, beating constantly, add juice of 
the lemon and remaining ingredients, grating onion fine. 



176 HORS D'OEUVRES. 



STRAWBERRY COCKTAIL. 

Select large ripe berries and pile 4 or 5 in each cocktail glass. 
Pour over them orange and lemon juice, sweetened to taste. Serve 
very cold. 

LOBSTER COCKTAIL. 

Lobsters, 2. Tomato catsup. 

Tarragon vinegar. Lemon, 1. 

Salt and pepper. 

Cut cold boiled lobsters in small pieces. Into each cocktail glass 
put 3 tablespoons of the meat, add 3 tablespoons of the catsup, 
1 tablespoon of tarragon vinegar, dash of cayenne and salt to taste. 
If not tart enough add a few drops of lemon juice. 

CLAM COCKTAIL. 

Small green peppers, 6. Tomato catsup, y 2 teaspoon. 

Clams, 3 dozen. Vinegar, y 2 teaspoon. 

Horseradish, y 2 teaspoon. Lemon juice, 5 teaspoons. 

Tabasco sauce, % teaspoon. 

Cut tops off peppers, remove seeds and membranes and parboil. 
Mix sauce well and pour over clams, then serve 6 clams in each 
pepper case. 

TOMATO COCKTAILS. 

Tomatoes, 4. Peppers, 2. 

Onion, 1. French dressing. 

Parsley. 

Remove seeds from tomatoes and cut remaining pulp in dice. 
Chop onion fine and soak it in cold water for 15 minutes, drain and 
add to tomato. Add chopped peppers, mix all well, fill cocktail 
glasses and pour French dressing over each. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and serve very cold. 

WATERMELON COCKTAIL. 

Cut watermelon in dice, add a little shredded pineapple, diced 
oranges and peaches, and a dash of sugar. Serve ice cold. 



HORS D'OKUVRES. 177 



GREEN PEPPERS HORS D'OEUVRES. 

Cut raw green peppers into strips lengthwise, spread with 
cream cheese, sprinkle with salt and paprika, and arrange on plates 
like petals of a flower. M. W. E., Boston. 

SARDINE CANAPE. 

Sardines, 4. Paprika. 

Eggs, 4. Butter, y 4 cup. 

Fried bread. 

Skin and bone sardines. Hard boil the eggs and mince the 
yolks, add them with a dash of paprika and the butter to the fish. 
Pound ingredients together with a potato masher. Cut slices of 
bread V inch thick and fry golden brown in deep fat, Drain and 
spread with sardine paste. Garnish with olives. 

TOMATO CANAPE. 

Toast. Tomato. 

Mayonnaise. 

Cut toast in rounds to fit slices of tomato. On each piece lay 
a thick slice, and in the centre put a spoonful of mayonnaise. 

CRABMEAT CANAPE. 

Crabmeat, 1 cup. Butter. 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, i/o teaspoon. Lemon juice, 2 teaspoons. 

Cayenne, a few grains. Grated cheese, 2 tablespoons. 

Hot toast, 8 slices. 

Cream butter, add flaked crabmeat, lemon juice and season- 
ing. When well blended spread on toast, sprinkle with cheese 
and put in oven to brown. Serve hot. 

CUCUMBER CANAPE. 

Cucumbers, 2. Onion, 1. 

French dressing. Chutney syrup, 2 tablespoons. 

Olives. 

Slice the cucumbers fine and marinate for 20 minutes in Krench 
Ip'ssing, to which the juice of the onion hns been added. Drain ;i<l 
add the Chutney syrup. Spread on slices of toast and garnish with 
olive rings. 



178 HORS D'OEUVRES. 



TUNA FISH CANAPE. 

Tuna fish, 3 tablespoons. Sour cream. 

Horseradish, 2 tablespoons. Bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons. 

Pepper and salt. Toast. 

Hard boiled egg. 

Mix fish flakes and horseradish to a soft paste with sour cream, 
add crumbs previously fried in butter and drained. Beat all to- 
gether, spread on rounds of toast and garnish with chopped hard 
boiled egg. 

MUSHROOM CANAPE. 

Onion, l / 2 tablespoon. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter, 3 tablespoons. Cream, 2-3 cup. 

Chopped mushrooms, 1-3 cup Salt. 

Toast. 

Fry the onion, chopped, in the butter, add mushrooms and 
cook 5 minutes. Add flour and stir till well blended. Pour on the 
cream, stirring all the time, season with salt and serve on squares 
of toast. 

HOT CHEESE CANAPE. 

Cut thin slices from a loaf of Vienna bread, spread lightly 
with butter, grate a little cheese over them, sprinkle with cayenne 
and salt, and put in oven for 5 minutes. 

CAVIAR CANAPE. 

Spread small slices of bread with butter, and toast. Pile on 
each a tablespoon of canned caviar and grate a little onion over 
the top. 

ORANGE SOUP. 

Thicken orange juice with arrowroot, using 1 heaping teaspoon 
to 2 cups of orange juice. Serve very cold with a dab of unsweet- 
ened whipped cream in each glass. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES. I'ICKLES. 170 

SPICED APPLE JELLY. 

Duchess apples. y 2 peck. Water, 1 pint. 

Vinegar, 3 pints. Cinnamon, 1 ounce. 

Sugar. Cloves, y 2 ounce. 

Cut apples in quarters and boil with water, vinegar and spices, 
tied in a bag, until soft and mushy. Drain through a jelly bag. 
Boil the juice 20 minutes, add % of a cup of sugar for each cup 
of juice and let boil till it jellies. L. T., Weston. 

GREEN GRAPE JELLY. 

Select grapes which are full grown but not turned in color. 
Remove stems, wash, add a very little water and cook till skins 
and seeds are separated. Strain through a jelly bag. Measure 
juice and allow an equal measure of sugar. Boil juice y 2 hour, 
then add heated sugar and boil for about 5 minutes. Pour into 
sterilized glasses and cover when cold. 

W. G. D., East Mansfield. 

QUINCE JELLY. 

Quinces, 2 quarts. Cranberries, 1 quart. 

Tart apples, i/o peck. Water. 

Sugar. 

Wash and wipe quinces, quarter, core and cut fine. Add apples 
also quartered, cored and cut fine, and cranberries. Add water to 
come nearly to surface of fruit, cover and simmer until very soft. 
Turn into jelly bag and drain. Boil juice 20 minutes, measure and 
add a pint of sugar to each pint of juice. When sugar is dissolved 
boil from 5 to 8 minutes or until it jellies. Pour into sterilized 
srl asses. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Apple juice, 2-3 cup. Wild cherry juice, 1-3 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Cook soft and strain apples and cherries, and measure. Boil 
hard for a few minutes, then add heated sugar. As soon as sugar 
is dissolved boil briskly for 20 minutes and pour into sterilized 
glasses. 



180 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

DRIED APPLE JELLY. 

Place dried or evaporated apples in a saucepan and cover 
with water. Stew slowly for 2 hours, drain off juice through a 
jelly bag and boil it down one half. Add an equal amount of heated 
sugar and boil 5 minutes, or until it jellies. Pour into sterilized 
glasses. 

ECONOMICAL APPLE JELLY. 

Use cores and skins of apples for this jelly. Break up fine, 
put in preserving kettle with just enough water to cover and cook 
slowly until tender. Drain through a jelly bag over night, then 
measure and to every pint of juice allow a pound of sugar. Bring 
juice to the boiling point, heat sugar and add to juice. Stir till 
sugar is dissolved and boil till it jellies. Pour into sterilized glasses. 

VENISON JELLY. 

Vinegar, 1 quart. Whole cloves, 1 ounce. 

Grapes, 1 peck. Stick cinnamon, 14 ounce. 

Sugar, 6 pounds. 

Boil vinegar, grapes and spices till grapes are soft. Drain 
off juice and boil from 20 to 30 minutes longer. Add sugar which 
has been heated and boil 5 minutes, or until jellied. Grapes should 
be slightly under ripe. 

RASPBERRY JELLY. 

Raspberries. Currants. 

Sugar. 

Use equal quantities of raspberries and currants. Put in kettle 
and mash, then bring slowly to a boil, stirring frequently. When 
all the juice is cooked out strain through a jelly bag, allowing it 
to drip over night. In the morning put the drips to one side and 
press the fruit into another bowl which will give a less clear jelly. 
To each cup of fruit juice allow a cup of sugar. Stir till sugar is 
dissolved, then place over fire. When it boils draw back and 
skim, put over fire and boil again, draw back and skim, boil and 
skim a third time. Pour into sterilized glasses. When cool place 
in a sunny window and cover with paraffin when firm. 

Dolly A., Roslindale. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 181 



SPICED CRABAPPLE JELLY. 

Cover crab apples with equal parts of vinegar and water, cutting 
apples in halves and discarding any decayed portions. Add a 
bag of whole cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Boil till apples are 
tender and strain over night in a jelly bag. Use a pint of sugar 
to each pint of juice. Put the juice on the fire to boil and the sugar 
in the oven to heat. Boil juice for 10 minutes, add sugar, stir 
well and let boil about 3 minutes, or until it jellies. Pour in 
glasses to harden over night. Jellymaker, Somerville. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Pick over currants but do not remove stems. Wash and drain. 
Mash a few at a time in preserving kettle, using a wooden potato 
masher, until all are mashed. Bring slowly to a boil and let simmer 
till currants look white. Strain through coarse strainer, then 
through a jelly bag. Measure, bring to the boiling point and let 
boil 5 minutes. Add an equal measure of heated sugar and bring 
to boiling point again. Boil 3 minutes, skim and pour into glasses. 
Let stand in sunny window for 24 hours, before covering. 

ELDERBERRY JELLY. 

Gather wild elderberries while still slightly under ripe. Boil 
in a little water, mashing and stirring occasionally, till berries are 
all burst. Strain over night in jelly bag. Boil same bulk of apples 
as of elderberries and drip juice at same time. Take equal parts of 
the juices and measure a pound of sugar for each pint of juice. 
Heat juices to boiling point and stir in heated sugar. Boil 20 to 
30 minutes till it jellies. 

CRABAPPLE JELLY. 

Wash the fruit and cut in halves or quarters. Put in granite 
or porcelain preserve kettle with 1 pint of water to every 3 pounds 
of apples. Cover and cook slowly till apples are mushy, allow 
juice to drip through a flannel jelly bag. Measure juice, boil 20 
minutes then add an equal quantity of heated sugar and boil ."> 
minutes. Skim and pour into sterilized glasses. 

W. G. D., East Mansfield. 



182 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

MINT JELLY. 

Gravenstein apples, 1 peck. Fresh mint, 1 large bunch. 

Cold water, 2 quarts. Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar. Green vegetable coloring. 

Wash and wipe apples and cut in eighths. Add water, cover 
and bring to the boiling point. Let simmer till apples are soft. 
Mash well and strain through a coarse sieve. Let juice drip through 
a jelly bag all night, then put over the fire and let boil 20 minutes. 
Add an equal measure of heated sugar and boil 5 minutes. Press 
mint leaves with fingers till well bruised and pass through the 
syrup till desired flavor is reached. This should be done during 
the 5 minutes' cooking. 

CHERRY AND CURRANT JELLY. 

Use 2-3 of cherries and 1-3 of currants. Clean fruit, add a little 
water and put over a slow fire. Boil until soft, then pour into a 
jelly bag and let drip over night. For every pint of juice allow 
a pound of sugar. Place juice over a slow, steady fire to boil. Heat 
sugar in shallow baking pans but do not allow it to color. Add it 
to juice and stir till dissolved. Allow to boil for a few minutes, 
then remove from fire and fill sterilized jelly glasses. 

Jelly maker, Somerville. 

STRAWBERRY AND CURRANT JELLY. 

Strawberries, 10 quarts. Currants, 2 quarts. 

Sugar. 

Proceed as for raspberry jelly, but allow 15 minutes to boil. 

Dolly A., Roslindale. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Large quince, 1. Water, 1 pint. 

Sugar, 2 pounds. 

Pare the quince and put peel and seeds on stove to boil with 
a little of the water. Grate quince fine. Strain peel and seeds, 
add remaining water, sugar and quince pulp. Boil slowly 40 min- 
utes. Will fill 4 jelly glasses. D. 8. H., Greenwood. 



JELLJES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 183 

PRESERVED PEACHES. 

Dip peaches for a moment in boiling water, remove skins and 
cut in halves. Weigh the fruit and allow an equal weight of sugar, 
or for a less rich preserve % as much. Take *4 f the sugar and 
twice as much boiling water and let boil 5 minutes, draw to one side 
and skim. In this syrup cook peaches, a few at a time, until all are 
tender. Remove peaches with skimmer and then place in jars set in 
hot water. Add rest of sugar to the syrup, let boil until sufficiently 
thick, then pour over peaches in jars. Fill to overflowing and seal 
at once. In each jar place 2 or 3 peach stones for added flavor. 

Pears may be preserved in the same way. 

P. G. P., Lowell. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 

Bartlett pears, 12. Water, 1 cup. 

Sugar, iy 2 cups. Lemon, 1. 

Cut pears in halves lengthwise, leaving stems on one half. 
Remove cores. Make a syrup of the sugar, water and lemon juice. 
Skim, put in the pears and cook until tender. Remove pears and 
pack in sterilized jars. Fill to overflowing with the syrup and 
seal. Grandmother, Cambridge. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLE. 

Peel fruit and remove eyes, cut in whole slices, quarter slices, 
shred or dice as preferred, then weigh. To each pound of fruit 
allow % of a pound of sugar. Pour sugar over pineapple and allow 
to stand till it forms a thick syrup. Then cook slowly till pine- 
apple becomes transparent. Fill sterilized jars to overflowing and 
seal at once. Dolly A., Roslindale. 

PRESERVED GOOSEBERRIES. 

Use gooseberries that are slightly under ripe, stone them and 
put in kettle with water to cover. Boil slowly till they are tender, 
then remove from water and peel off the outer skins. Weigh the 
fruit and allow an equal quantity of sugar. Add sugar and fruit 
to water in which they were cooked, boil till fruit is clear, then 
pour into sterilized glasses and when cold cover with paraffin. 



184 JELLJES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

Cherries, 2 quarts. Sugar, 3 pints. 

Kemove pits from the cherries and place them with the sugar 
in a large gruniteware kettle. Place the kettle over a very slow 
fire till the sugar is dissolved in the cherry juice. Then increase 
the heat till it boils and continue a slow, steady boiling for 20 
minutes. Fill sterilized jars to overflowing and seal at once. 

CHERRY AND CURRANT PRESERVE. 

Cherries, 4 quarts. Currants, 1 quart. 

Sugar, 5 quarts. 

Remove pits from cherries and stems from currants. Pour 
over the sugar and let stand till sugar dissolves. Cook the mixture 
slowly for ^ hour. Pour into sterilized jelly glasses and cover when 
cold with paraffin. 

PRESERVED WATERMELON RIND. 

Watermelon rind, 10 pounds. Lemons, 2. 

Sugar, 7 pounds. Ginger root, a small piece. 

Pare the green rind, using only the solid parts. Cut into small 
pieces and weigh. Add sugar, lemons, sliced, and seeds discarded, 
and a small piece of ginger root (this may be omitted if flavor is 
not liked). Boil all together till melon is clear and juice is thick. 

PRESERVED CRABAPPLES. 

Crabapples. Sugar, 1 pound. 

Water, 1 pint. 

Boil sugar and water. Wash apples and prick to prevent 
bursting. Boil in syrup till skins begin to crack. Remove apples 
and drain. Boil down the syrup, pour over fruit in jars and seal 
while hot. 

CANTALOUPE PRESERVES. 

Cantaloupe, 3 pounds. Sugar, 2 pounds. 

Use half-ripe cantaloupes. Peel and remove seeds and cut in 
small pieces. Add sugar and let stand in preserving kettle a few 
hours to draw the juice. Boil till fruit is tender and syrup is 
thick. Pack in sterilized jars while hot. 



JELLJES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 185 

INDIA TOMATO PRESERVE. 

Select firm, round tomatoes which are hardly ripe. Cut in half 
from stem to blossom end, remove all seeds and drop into weak 
alum water. Make a strong ginger tea, using 1 ounce of ginger root 
to 1 pint of water. Allow 1 pound of sugar to each pint of ginger. 
Pour this syrup over tomatoes and let boil till tender and clear. 
Skim out and place on large platters in the sun covered with a sheet 
of glass. Boil syrup until very thick, then reheat tomatoes in syrup, 
place in glass jars and fill with syrup. Seal while hot. 

J. A. C. 

PRESERVED CITRON MELON. 

Citron melon, 6 pounds. Lemons, 4. 

Sugar, 3 pounds. Green ginger root. 

Water, 3 pints. 

Peel melons, remove seeds and cut into i/^-inch slices. Boil 
melon in a little water about 1/2 hour or until it looks clear and can 
be pierced with a straw T . Then drain, cover with cold water and 
let stand over night. Next morning boil the ginger in the water 
until water is highly flavored, remove, add sugar and when sugar 
is dissolved add the thin yellow peel of the lemons and boil and 
skim till no more scum rises. Remove lemon peel and add lemon 
juice and the citron, well drained. Boil all together till citron is 
clear and soft. Pack in sterilized jars while hot. 

GINGER PEAR. 

Candied ginger root, l 1 /^ Pears, 8 pounds, 
pounds. Sugar, 8 pounds. 

Lemons, 4. 

Pare fruit and cut in small pieces. Slice ginger and place 
it with pears and sugar on the fire. Boil slowly for 1 hour. Do 
not add water unless pears are very dry. Put lemons in cold water, 
bring to a boil and cook until tender, then drain, cut up fine and 
remove seeds. When pears have cooked an hour, add lemons and 
cook together for another hour. Store in jelly glasses. 

M. R., Marsh field. 



186 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

MOLASSES PEAR PRESERVES. 

Use hard green pears, wash well, peel but do not remove stems. 
Drop in cold water and heat gradually. Stew until tender, then 
drain and place in a dish where they can be kept warm. To each 
pint of liquid remaining add a pint of molasses. Return to fire, 
add a teaspoon of ginger and boil for l /2 hour, skimming occasional- 
ly. Put in pears, cook for 20 minutes and pack in sterilized jars. 
Seal while hot. P. L., Templeton. 

PRESERVED BLUEBERRIES. 

Fill sterilized jars full to overflowing with washed blueberries. 
Shake down well and fill as full as possible. Make a syrup in the 
proportion of 1 cup of sugar to i/ 2 cup of water. Set jars on a 
rack so that they will stand 3 inches deep in water. Heat water 
slowly and \vhen hot fill jars with syrup and let cook about 15 
minutes. Then add syrup to overflow and seal hot. 

CANNED CURRANTS. 

Currants, 12 quarts. Sugar, 2 quarts. 

Put 2 quarts of fruit in preserving kettle and heat slowly, 
crush with a wooden vegetable masher. Press and squeeze juice 
through a piece of cheese cloth. Return to fire, add sugar and stir 
till dissolved. When syrup begins to boil add remaining berries, 
let heat slowly, then boil 10 minutes. Skim and fill sterile jars to 
overflowing. 

CANNED CHERRIES. 

"Wash fruit thoroughly and discard any cherries that show 
spots of decay. Drop fruit at once into jars that have been steril- 
ized by boiling 20 minutes. Pack fruit in closely and fill to over- 
flowing with a heavy, boiling hot syrup. Seal at once. 

COLD CANNED RHUBARB. 

Pare rhubarb and cut into inch lengths, pack it into a deep 
glass jar and let cold water run on it for 20 minutes. Screw on the 
top. It will keep for months. When wanted stew as usual and 
sweeten to taste. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES. PICKLBR. 187 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Select firm, slightly under-ripe berries, reject absolutely all 
over-ripe and soft fruit. Wash berries by gently lifting them in 
and out of water. Do not allow them to stand in water even for a 
few minutes as this quickly causes softening. Steam the berries 
and drop them at once into jars that have been sterilized by boiling 
for 20 minutes. Fill the jars as full as possible without crushing 
the fruit; gentle shaking causes sufficient settling. Put new rub- 
ber on a jar, stand it in a clean plate to catch the overflow, fill 
the jar to overflowing with a heavy syrup made by boiling together 
for 20 minutes equal parts of sugar and water, and seal the jar 
at once without first wiping off the overflow syrup. Proceed like- 
wise with the other jars. When all are sealed they may be wiped 
off with a damp cloth. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Peel and halve the fruit and pack in sterilized jars, add % 
cup of sugar to each pint jar, or less if desired. Fill up with cold 
water. Put on sterilized rubber rings and cover without clamping 
down. Place jars in boiler with cloth or board under them, fill 
boiler with cold water to necks of jars, let come to a boil and boil 
10 minutes. Remove jars and clamp down quickly. 

Pears may be done by the same method. 

Newtonville Newlywed. 

CANNED BLUEBERRIES. 

Put blueberries over the fire with just enough water to cover. 
Bring slowly to the boiling point and bottle while hot in pint bottles. 
Add sugar at time of using. Mrs. L. J . G., Maiden. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Currants, 7 pounds. Vinegar, 2 cups. 

Brown sugar, 5 pounds. Cloves, 3 tablespoons. 

Stick cinnamon, 3 tablespoons. 

Pick over currants, wash, drain and remove steins. Put in pre- 
M-rving kettle and add sugar, vinegar and spices tied in a muslin 
bag. Boil very slowly iy 2 hours. 



188 JELLJES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

Select sound cherries with an inch of stem attached. Place 
them in jars with alternate layers of powdered sugar till jars are 
% full. Fill jars to overflowing with cold spiced vinegar, made by 
boiling a bag of whole spices in vinegar for 15 minutes. 

SPICED SECKEL PEARS. 

Pears, 7 pounds. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 4 pounds. Allspice, 2 teaspoons. 

Vinegar, 1 pint. Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons. 

Ginger root, y 2 ounce. Mace, y 2 teaspoon. 

Divide spices into 4 parts and tie each part in a square of 
muslin, add to sugar and vinegar and bring all to a boil. Pears may 
be peeled or not, as desired, but should be left whole. Put fruit in 
syrup and cook till it can be pierced with a straw. Skim out the 
fruit and pack in a crock. Bring syrup again to a boil and pour 
over fruit. Keep jar covered. Larger pears should be cut in halves 
lengthwise for spicing. Remove cores but leave stem on one half 
of pear. W. G. D., Mansfield. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Peaches, 7 pounds. Whole cloves, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 4 pounds. Whole allspice, 1 tablespoon. 

Vinegar, 1 quart. Whole cinnamon, 1 tablespoon. 

Peel peaches and stick each one with a few cloves. Boil with 
vinegar and spices until soft but not broken. Place in fruit jars and 
strain syrup over them. M. R., Marskfield. 

CITRUS MARMALADE. 

Grapefruit, 1. Lemon, 1. 

Orange, 1. Water. 

Sugar. 

Slice and chop fine all fruit, measure, add 3 cups of water for 
each cup of fruit and let stand over night. In the morning cook 
15 minutes, measure again and add an equal quantity of sugar. 
Let cook half an hour or until jellied. Will make 15 glasses. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 189 

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE. 

Grapefruit, 5. Sugar, 5 pounds. 

Cold water, 5 pints. 

Select fine, smooth skinned grapefruit, peel in quarters and 
cover peel with slightly salted cold water. Free the pulp from pith 
and seeds and cut fine with sharp scissors. Place in an earthen- 
ware crock and cover with the cold water. Let both peel and pulp 
stand for 24 hours or even 48. Drain and rinse the peel in fresh 
cold water, cook in plenty of water slowly until it looks clear and 
can be pierced easily with a hat pin. Boil the pulp in the water 
in which it has been standing, add the sugar and stir thoroughly. 
Drain peel and. when cool enough to handle, cut with scissors in 
very thin strips. Add to the boiling pulp and cook until nearly 
jellied. Mrs. C. F. C. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Large seedless oranges, 3. Lemon, 1. 

Sugar, 4 pounds. 

Slice oranges and lemon very thin. Pour over 11 tumblers of 
water, and let stand covered for about 24 hours. Boil slowly for 1 
hour. After boiling add the sugar, let stand another 24 hours. 
Then boil 1 hour <and 25 minutes. Pour into jelly glasses and seal 
when cold. Aunty. 

ORANGE AND RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Oranges, 6. Rhubarb, 1 quart. 

Sugar, l!/2 pounds. 

Peel the oransres, remove white rind and pits, and slice pulp and 
pool very fine into a preserving kettle. Add the rhubarb, cut small, 
and the sugar. Boil all together till of the proper consistency. 

Egleston Square. 

WILD FOX GRAPE MARMALADE. 

Gather fruit when full sized but not quite ripe. Wash grapes 
and put. on stove in a little water. Boil gently till pulp and seeds 
are separated, then mash through a sieve to remove skins and seeds. 
For each pound of pulp add % pound of sugar and boil till of 
proper consistency. 



190 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

Sour apples, 4 pounds. Lemons, 4. 

Sugar, 4 pounds. Preserved ginger, 1 ounce. 

Water, 2 cups. 

Pare, core and chop fine the apples. Boil together for 5 min- 
utes the sugar, water, grated rind and juice of lemons, and chopped, 
preserved ginger. Add apples and cook slowly for 2 hours, or until 
fruit is clear. Fill sterilized jars while hot. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Rhubarb, 6 pounds. Figs, 1 pound. 

Sugar, 5 pounds. Lemons, 2. 

Cut up rhubarb and let stand over night with sugar. In morn- 
ing add figs and lemons, chopped fine. Cook slowly 3 hours. 

A. B. C., Newton Upper Falls. 

RHUBARB AND PINEAPPLE MARMALADE. 

Rhubarb, 5 pounds. Pineapple, 1. 

Sugar, 5 pounds. 

Chop the rhubarb into fine pieces without peeling, add the 
pineapple, diced. Cover with the sugar and let stand over night; 
then cook very slowly, stirring frequently, till it is of the consistency 
of marmalade. P. D., Scitiiate. 

MOCK ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Pickle limes, 12. Large green tomatoes, 8. 

Sugar, 4 pounds. 

Cook limes till they can be pierced with a straw, drain and 
remove seeds. Chop them with tomatoes, add sugar and cook to- 
gether till thick. Mrs. C. E. E., Portland, Me. 

RIPE TOMATO MARMALADE. 

Ripe tomatoes, 4 pounds. Oranges, 2. 

Lemon, 1. Sugar, 4 pounds. 

Boil tomatoes till very tender, strain and add lemon and oranges, 
chopped very fine, with peels, but without seeds Add sugar and 
boil all together until thick. Pour into sterilized glasses and when 
cold cover with paraffin. Mrs. A. G. L., Atlantic. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 191 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Wash raspberries thoroughly, but quickly, then drain well. Do 
not allow them to stand in water. To each pound of fruit add 1 
pound of suirar. Mash the fruit in the kettle and bring slowly to 
a boil. Boil 15 minutes very steadily, then add sugar and boil 5 
minutes. Pour into sterilized jelly glasses and when cold cover with 
paraffin. If it is desired to remove seeds bring the fruit to a boil, 
pass it through a very fine sieve, then proceed with the juice as 
above. Dolly A., Roslindale. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

To every pound of berries allow % of a pound of loaf sugar 
and to every 6 pounds of fruit allow 1/2 pint of currant juice. Boil 
berries with currant juice for 1 hour, then add sugar and boil from 
!/2 to % of an hour from time of simmering. 

. t 

RHUBARB AND STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Rhubarb, 2 pounds. Strawberries, 2 quarts. 

Sugar, 3 pounds. 

Cut rhubarb into very short pieces. Mash the strawberries and 
add the sugar. Pour over rhubarb and let stand overnight. Next 
morning simmer gently in an enamel kettle for 1 hour. Let cool 
somewhat and fill jelly glasses. 

ORANGE JAM. 

Sugar, 1 pound to every pound of fruit, weighed before cuttinsr. 

Pare half the oranges and cut rind into shreds. Boil until 
tender and set aside. Grate rind of remaining oranges, discarding 
every bit of the white inner skin. Remove seeds and cut all fruit 
into small pieces. Drain off the juice, add the sugar and, unless 
the oranges are very juicy, add a little water. Boil 6 minutes, add 
chopped fruit and grated peel and boil 20 minutes longer. 

ORANGE CONSERVE. 

Prepare as in preceding recipe, but do not add water to juice. 
Add nuts and raisins when the pulp is added and cook a little 
longer, about half an hour. 



192 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

QUINCE AND APPLE JAM. 

Use 2-3 quinces to 1-3 sweet juicy apples. Pare, core, slice 
and weigh fruits. To every pound of fruit allow ^4 pound of sugar. 
Steam fruit until tender. Make a syrup of the sugar and just 
enough water to dissolve, then add fruit and simmer till it looks 
clear. Remove fruit to sterilized jars, boil down syrup if necessary 
and pour over fruit. 

SUNSHINE JAM. 

Strawberries, 2 quarts. Large pineapple, 1. 

Sugar, 3 pounds. 

Wash the berries, drain and hull. Peel the pineapple and cut 
in small pieces. Bring the fruit slowly to a boil with a little water. 
Add heated sugar and cook till it jellies. Pour into marmalade jars. 

'CARROT JAM. 

Carrot pulp, 1 pint. Lemon, 1. 

Sugar, 1 pint. 

Boil carrots until very soft, peel, press through a colander, and 
measure. Add sugar and juice of the lemon and boil for 20 minutes, 
or until mixture jellies. Mrs. D. P., Chelsea. 

APRICOT JAM. 

Dried apricots, 2 pounds. Water, 4 pints. 

Sugar, 6 pounds. 

Soak fruit for 2 days in water. Boil gently until soft and 
pulpy, which will require from i/ 2 to % o f an hour. Add susrar 
and boil 25 minutes or until of the consistency of jam. 

GREEN TOMATO JAM. 

Green tomatoes, 8 pounds. Green ginger, 2 ounces. 

Lemons, 4. Sugar, 7 pounds. 

Slice tomatoes, add juice, thin rinds of the lemons, and the 
ginger. Boil until tender, add sugar and continue boiling till of the 
consistency of jam. Remove ginger and store jam in sterilized 
jars. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 193 

CURRANT CONSERVE. 

Currants, 10 pounds. Seeded raisins, 3 pounds. 

Sugar, 10 pounds. Oranges, 8. 

Wash and stew currants, add sugar, chopped raisins and oranges 
chopped, skin and all. Cook all together for 20 minutes and pack 
in sterilized jars. 

PLUM CONSERVE. 

Plums, 3 quarts. English walnuts, 1 pound. 

Sugar, 3 pounds. Raisins, y 2 pound. 

Orange, 1. 

Cut up plums and chop nuts coarsely, use yellow rind and juice 
of the orange. Mix and cook 30 minutes or until thick. 

CRANBERRY CONSERVE. 

Cranberries, 1 quart. Seeded raisins, 1-3 cup. 

Orange, 1. Nut meats, 1 heaping cup. 

Sugar, 4 1 /*? cups. 

Chop cranberries fine, also the orange, using all but the bitter 
white skin. Add raisins and nut meats, pecans or walnuts are 
best. Add sugar and start to cook very slowly, to keep from burn- 
ing. Simmer slowly till it thickens to the consistency of a marma- 
lade. 

APPLE GINGER CONSERVE. 

Apples, 1 quart. Lemon rind, 1. 

Brown sugar. Preserved ginger, 1 small cup. 

Vinegar. 

Peel and cut apples in eighths, place in kettle, arranging in 
Livers with brown sugar sprinkled generously between each layer. 
Add grated lemon rind, the chopped ginger and vinegar to barely 
cover fruit. Let apples stand over night, then place over a moder- 
ate fire and brin^ very slowly to the boiling point. Simmer till 
f ini it is tender but not broken, then skim out apples and boil down 
syrup till quite thick. Fill jars with apples, pour over syrup and 
seal while hot. 



194 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

RHUBARB AND FIG CONSERVE. 

Rhubarb, 2 quarts. Oranges, 2. 

Sugar, 5 pounds. Walnut meats, 1 ounce. 

Lemon, 1. Figs, y 2 pound. 

Chop rhubarb fine, add sugar, juice of the lemon and 1 orange 
and the walnut meats chopped fine. Boil for 15 minutes. Then add 
remaining orange chopped fine, skin and all, figs also chopped 
fine. Cook all together slowly till of the consistency of marmalade. 
Stir frequently. M. Y. J., Pittsford Mills, Vt. 

RHUBARB CONSERVE. 

Rhubarb, 2 quarts. Orange, 1. 

Walnut meats, y pound. Sugar, 2 heaping cups. 

Seeded raisins, y 2 pound. 

Cut the rhubarb into small pieces and measure after cutting. 
Break walnuts into small pieces. Remove pulp from orange and 
grate yellow rind. Mix all ingredients and bring very slowly to 
the boiling point. Simmer very slowly for y 2 hour, stirring fre- 
quently to prevent scorching. When cooked to the consistency of 
marmalade pour into jelly glasses. 

GOOSEBERRY CONSERVE. 

Green gooseberries, 5 pounds. Sugar, 4 pounds. 

Seeded raisins, iy 2 pounds. Oranges, 4. 

Cook berries slowly in just enough water to keep them from 
burning. When soft, mash well, add chopped yellow rind of the 
oranges, raisins, chopped, and juice of oranges. Boil 40 minutes, 
stirring constantly. Pour in sterilized glass jars while hot. 

GRAPE SWEETMEAT. 

Grapes, 8 pounds. Raisins, iy 2 pounds. 

Sugar, 4 pounds. Oranges, 2. 

Pulp grapes, cook until seeds rise to the surface, skim them off 
and add skins, Cook 15 minutes, then add sugar, orange and raisins. 
Boil % of an hour, or until as thick as marmalade. 

A. B. C., Newton Upper Falls. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 19-~> 

PEACH BUTTER. 

Peel peaches and remove stones, place in preserving kettle with 
a very little water and stew until tender. Drain off liquid and put 
fruit in clean preserving kettle, mash and sweeten to taste. Boil 
until very thick and of a rich color, stirring constantly to prevent 
burning. Seal w r hile hot in sterilized jars. 

PEAR BUTTER. 

Wash pears and without peeling boil until soft and mushy. 
Rub through colander to remove cores, seeds and skins. Put pulp 
into kettle with half as much sugar, add cinnamon, nutmeg and 
cloves to taste and cook mixture slowly till smooth and thick, stirring 
constantly to prevent burning. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Apples. Cloves. 

Sweet cider. Allspice. 

Cinnamon. 

Fill a preserving kettle with apples that have been peeled, 
quartered, and cored. Add the spices, cover with cider and boil 
slowly, stirring every little while with a wooden spoon until the 
whole becomes a dark brown jam with only juice enough to keep 
it soft and buttery. Pour into jars and cover. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

GRAPE BUTTER. 

Pick over grapes, wash and drain well. Separate skins from 
pulp, heat the latter to boiling point in a preserving kettle and sim- 
mer slowly till seeds drop out. Put pulp through colander to re- 
move seeds. Add skins to pulp in the preserving kettle, cook mix- 
ture slowly for 30 minutes and seal in sterilized jars. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Cranberries, 1 quart. Sugar, 1 pint- 

Water, iy 2 cups. 

Boil together, closely covered, for 10 minutes from time it begins 
to bubble. Do not stir. Skim, cool and chill. 



196 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

RUBY SAUCE. 

Cranberries, 1 quart. Cold water, 2 quarts. 

Sugar. Apples. 

Boil cranberries in water in closely covered kettle for 20 min- 
utes over a hot fire. Remove from stove and add sugar to taste, 
and all the peeled, cored, and quartered apples that the juice will 
cover. Stew together slowly till apples are tender, but not broken, 
and have absorbed the juice until they are ruby colored. 

W. L. E., Cambridge. 

PICCALILLI. 

Green tomatoes, 1 peck. Whole allspice, 1 ounce. 

Salt, 1 cup. Whole cloves, 1 ounce. 

Onions, 6. Cinnamon. 

Green peppers, 4. Cider vinegar. 

White mustard seed, 1 ounce. Brown sugar. 

Celery seed, 1 ounce. Horseradish. 

Chop tomatoes and let stand over night with salt sprinkled 
throughout. In the morning drain well, add onions and peppers 
chopped, spices tied in a bag, sugar to taste, a little horseradish and 
vinegar to cover. Scald slowly and simmer for 4 hours. 

Mrs. Bridgewater. 

UNCOOKED PICCALILLI. 

Green tomatoes, y 2 peck. Cinnamon, li/ 2 teaspoons. 

Green peppers, 6 cups. Allspice, % teaspoon. 

Cabbage, 6 cups. Clove, % teaspoon. 

Onions, 6. Mustard seed, 6 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1 cup. Celery seed, 6 tablespoons. 

Brown sugar, 2 pounds. Vinegar. 

Chop green peppers after removing seeds, and shred cabbage 
fine, then measure. Also chop tomatoes and onions, add salt and 
place all in a crock. Pour over boiling water to cover and let stand 
24 hours. Pour in a bag to drain until dry. Return to crock and 
add remaining ingredients. Mix all well and pour over enough 
vinegar to cover. Let ripen 1 month before using. 

W. G. D., East Mansfield. 



.II.I.UES, PREM:::YI.,-, PICKLES. 197 

GERMAN STYLE SAUER-KRAUT. 

Cut firm small heads of cabbage in halves. Wash well and 
shred fine with a cabbage cutter. Reject all hard, tough pieces. Use 
a 3-gallon stone crock. Line bottom with whole cabbage leaves, then 
put in a layer of shredded cabbage 5 inches deep, a tablespoon of 
salt, and 5 or 6 whole peppercorns. Then with a wooden potato 
masher pound and pound the cabbage down till liquid forms all 
over it. Then put in another layer of cabbage, salt and peppercorns 
and pound again. V\'hen crock is full cover with whole cabbage 
leaves, then with a clean white cloth and a plate Put a weight 
in the plate to keep all pressed down. The cabbage water must cover 
the plate. Leave in a warm place for 2 weeks, when it will be 
ready for use. Jane H., Medway. 

TOMATO PICKLE. 

Tomatoes, 1 peck. Allspice, 1 tablespoon. 

Onions, y 2 peck. Clove, 1 tablespoon. 

Cabbage, 1 large head. Mustard, 1 tablespoon. 

Peppers, 12. Celery seed, 1 ounce. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Tumeric, 1 ounce. 

Salt, 1 cup. 

Chop all vegetables fine, sprinkle with the salt and let stand 
over night. Drain and place in kettle with spices and seasoning, 
pour over vinegar and boil for 1 hour or more. 

SWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Cucumbers, 7 pounds. Vinegar, 11/2 pints. 

Sugar, 3 pounds. Cloves, cinnamon and allspice, 

1 ounce each. 

Soak cucumbers in strong brine for 3 days. Pour off brine 
and freshen for 3 days, changing water each day. Then slice in 
thick chunks. Bring cucumbers to a boil in weak vinegar in which 
is a small piece of alum. Remove and drain. Then bring to a 
boil in the spiced vinegar on each of 3 successive days. Store in 
stone crock. W. G. D., East Mansfield. 



198 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

MUSTARD PICKLE. 

Red peppers, 3. Vinegar, 2 quarts. 

Tiny onions, 2 quarts. Flour, 1 cup. 

Cauliflowers, 2. Mustard, 1 scant cup. 

Small cucumbers, 2 quarts. Turaeric powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Green tomatoes, 2 quarts. Sugar, 2y 2 cups. 

Salt, 1^/2 cups. 

Cut peppers fine and remove part of the seeds, halve the onions 
after peeling, chop cauliflowers and tomatoes and cut cucumbers in 
halves lengthwise. Cover all with salt and let stand over night. 
Drain thoroughly, add cold water and heat through but do not boil. 
Heat \y< quarts of the vinegar, make a paste of the flour, mustard 
and tumeric powder blended smooth with the remaining pint of 
vinegar. Add sugar to hot vinegar, then thicken with the paste 
and cook well. Drain vegetables and mix thoroughly in the vine- 
gar. May be stored in bottles or in a stone jar. 

Mrs. A. K. J ., South- Boston. 

GOOSEBERRY RELISH. 

Gooseberries, 5 cups. Mustard, 3 tablespoons. 

Seeded raisins, y 2 cup. Ginger, 3 tablespoons. 

Onion, 1. Salt, 3 tablespoons. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Tumeric, 1 teaspoon. 

Cayenne, 14 teaspoon. Vinegar, 1 quart. 

Pick over, wash and drain the gooseberries. Add raisins and 
onion, peeled and diced. Chop all or put through a meat grinder, 
add sugar, spice and seasoning. Pour over all the vinegar, bring 
slowly to the boiling point and simmer 45 minutes. Fill sterilized 
bottles and seal. 

CRANBERRY RELISH. 



Cranberries, 2 quarts. Vinegar, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 31/2 pounds. Ginger, 1 teaspoon. 

Seeded raisins, 1 pound. Clove, 1 teaspoon. 

Oranges, 2. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Cook all to a marmalade, using grated rind and juice of oranges. 

Mrs. W. S., Brookline. 



JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 199 

PEPPER RELISH. 

K<-d peppers, 6. Sugar, 1 cup. 

< i reen peppers, 6. Salt, 2 tablespoons. 

Onions, 6. Vinegar, iy 2 cups. 

Wipe peppers and cut in halves lengthwise. Remove seeds, 
pith and stern ends. Peel the onions and put peppers and onions 
through the food chopper, cover with boiling water and let stand 5 
minutes, then drain, add sugar, salt and vinegar and simmer for 20 
minutes. Store in sterilized glass jars. 

WINTER CHILLI SAUCE. 

Tomatoes, 1 can. Vinegar, y 2 cup. 

Onions, 2. Cinnamon, y 2 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. Nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon. 

Pepper, 1 teaspoon. Clove, y 2 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Allspice, y 2 teaspoon. 

Boil all ingredients together for 10 minutes and bottle. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

OLIVE OIL PICKLES. 

Cucumbers, 25. Brown mustard seed, y 2 cup. 

Salt, 1/2 cup. Olive oil, 2-3 cup. 

White mustard seed, y 2 cup. Vinegar, 1 quart. 

The cucumbers should be medium sized. Wash and slice with- 
out peeling. Mix all ingredients cold. Let stand 2 hours or more, 
stirring occasionally. This quantity will fill 2 quart jars. 

M. Y. J., Pittsford Mills, Vt. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

Select sound small onions of equal size, peel with a silver knife 
and scald in salted water till they are tender. Drain and pack in 
sterilized glass jars. Heat to the boiling point sufficient vinegar 
to cover them with a tablespoon each of whole cloves and mace. Pour 
vinegar over onions to overflowing, distributing spices among them, 
add a tiny red pepper and a little white mustard seed to each jar 
and seal at once. 



200 JELLIES, PRESERVES, PICKLES. 

CHILLI SAUCE. 

Ripe tomatoes, 12. Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Onions, 2. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Green peppers, 4. Vinegar, 2 cups. 

Onions, tomatoes and peppers should be large. Chop peeled 
tomatoes, onions and peppers fine and place all on stove to simmer 
for 4 hours. Mrs. 0. T., Dorchester. 

MANGOES. 

Young, small canteloupes or musk melons, large green peppers 
or ripe cucumbers may be mangoed. Cut a section out of one side, 
remove seeds and pith and place in strong salted water for 3 days. 
Drain and stuff with a mixture of \vhite cabbage, green tomatoes 
and small white onions, all chopped fine, with spices to taste. Tie up 
mangoes. Boil a few minutes in vinegar to cover with 1 tablespoon 
of alum to each 3 gallons of vinegar. Remove mangoes to large 
crock and pour over hot vinegar. J. A. C. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Ripe tomatoes, 1 peck. Mustard, 14 pound. 

Clove, 1 tablespoon. Red pepper, 1 teaspoon. 

Allspice, 1 tablespoon. White vinegar, 1 pint. 

Cinnamon, 1 tablespoon. Salt, 14 pound. 

Boil tomatoes until soft and mushy, then strain. Add spices, 
dissolving mustard in a little of the tomato pulp, salt and vinegar. 
Boil all together gently for 3 hours, bottle and seal while hot. 

Mrs. A. G. L., Atlantic. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Grapes, 5 pounds. Black pepper, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 3 pounds. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Vinegar, 2 cups. Allspice, 1 teaspoon. 

Wash and stem grapes, heat very slowly. When soft put 
through sieve, return to kettle and add remaining ingredients. Boil 
for 1 hour and bottle while hot. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 201 

SOUTHERN BOILED HAM. 

A ham. Brown sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Sweet cider. Molasses, 2 tablespoons. 

Bread crumbs, 1 pint. AVhite vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Mustard, 2 tablespoons. Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Cloves and pepper. 

Wash the ham thoroughly, put in kettle with enough new 
sweet cider to almost cover. Cover the kettle tightly, put on a 
slow fire and leave for two hours. It should not boil. At the end 
of the 2 hours let it boil very slowly, allowing 15 minutes to a pound. 
Remove from fire and allow to remain in the cider till quite cold. 
Then skin the ham, removing the rind but none of the fat. Mix 
the bread crumbs with mustard, brown sugar, molasses, vinegar 
and butter. Spread the paste all over the ham, stick in cloves 
here and there, shake over a little pepper, dot with bits of butter 
and put in a hot oven. Baste with a cup of the cider. If it is im- 
possible to use cider, boil the ham in water, using 1 cup of vinegar 
and 2 cups of sugar to each quart of water. 

MILK BAKED HAM. 

Raw ham, 1 thick slice. Mustard, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Mix thoroughly the sugar and mustard and rub well into the 
ham, lay in a deep granite ware or crockery pie dish, cover with 
milk and bake 1 hour. A. M., Bndgewater. 

BEEF A LA MODE. 

Beef, 3 pounds. Potatoes. 

Onions, 6. Salt. 

White turnips. Flour. 

Cold water. 

Use a cheap cut of beef, wash, put in roasting pan and sprinkle 
well with salt. Pare the onions and slice turnips thin, lay around 
the meat and pour the water over all. l'.;ike 3 hours. Pare as many 
potatoes as desired and put in iy 2 hours before serving. As the 
water cooks away add more. Thicken gravy with a little flour 
blended smooth in cold water. E. A. T., Boston. 



202 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

PLANKED STEAK. 

Heat plank very hot before using. Broil steak lightly on one 
side, then place broiled side down on plank, brush over with melted 
butter or olive oil, sprinkle with pepper and salt and lay plank 
on broiler of gas stove. Have low flame and broil slowly for about 
15 minutes. Have ready freshly boiled potatoes, press through a 
ricer, season with salt, pepper and butter and moisten with cream. 
Beat with a fork until light. . Also have ready onions boiled in 
milk, spinach finely chopped and well seasoned, asparagus tips or 
cauliflower, baked stuffed tomatoes or peppers, peas and a good 
mushroom sauce. When steak is nearly done remove plank from 
oven, press potato through a pastry tube to form a border around 
edge of plank. Between this and the steak place the other vegetables 
neatly and over steak pour the mushroom sauce. Return to oven to 
heat through, allowing potatoes to brown slightly. Garnish with 
parsley or watercress and send to table on a large tray or platter. 

BEEFSTEAK SMOTHERED IN ONIONS. 

Broil or pan-broil the steak as usual. In the mean time peel and 
slice the onions and separate into rings. Melt a generous lump of 
butter in a frying pan and when hot put in the onions. Cook very 
slowly, uncovered. When well browned, sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and a tiny bit of sugar. Place steak on a hot platter and smother 
with onions, pouring on butter as well. 

ROAST BEEF. 

Wipe and trim meat, sear lean surface in hot dripping pan. 
Dredge with flour and salt and bake in a hot oven, allowing 12 
minutes to a pound. Decrease the heat after 10 minutes. Baste 
frequently while cooking. Serve with Yorkshire pudding. 

LOIN OF VEAL. 

Put a loin of veal in a dripping pan and sprinkle with pepper 
and salt. Add half a cup of white stock, cover and cook until veal 
is so tender that the bones can be removed. Remove them and press 
veal carefully together. Let it cool and serve sliced thin, or brush 
over with beaten egg, dip in fine crumbs and brown. Serve hot with 
mushroom sauce. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 203 

ROAST LEG OF PORK. 

Leg of pork. Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 

Onions, 2 pounds. Salt and pepper. 

Sage, 1 tablespoon. 

Cut onions into quarters and parboil in salted water for 15 
minutes, drain and chop. Add sage, seasoning and crumbs. Stuff 
the pork with this forcemeat, then rub meat all over with salt and 
roast, allowing 20 minutes for each pound of meat. Serve hot with 
apple sauce. 

BREAD FILLING. 

Stale white bread, 3 cups. Salt, 1 teaspoon, 

('hopped onion, 2 tablespoons. Pepper, % teaspoon. 

Drippings, 1 tablespoon. Paprika, a dash. 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. 

Put drippings in a saucepan, add onion and bread which has 
been soaked in water and pressed dry between the hands, then add 
seasoning and parsley, mix w r ell and keep stirring until it has 
cooked dry. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Veal steak, 2 pounds. Anchovies, 6. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Lemon, 1. 

Lard, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Capers. Egg, 1. 

Bread crumbs. 

Cut veal in slices ^ inch thick and 3 inches square, pare the 
corners round and beat lightly to flatten. Season with salt and 
pepper and dust with flour. Dip each cutlet in egg and cover with 
fine crumbs. Fifteen minutes before serving place a frying pan 
on fire with the butter and lard ; as soon as hot fry the cutlets to a 
golden brown. Arrange on a warm dish and lay in the center of each 
y 2 teaspoon of capers. Soak the anchovies in cold water, remove the 
skin and bones and divide into halves. Roll them up and place one 
of these rolls on each veal cutlet with i/4 of a lemon. Garnish with 
parsley and serve. If preferred, the veal cutlets may be served 
without anchovies, capers and lemon, but with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 



204 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL. 

Breast of veal. Flour, salt and pepper. 

Bread stuffing. Cold water, 1 cup. 

Drippings, 1 tablespoon. 

Cut a pocket in the veal, wipe, fill and sew up. Place in a 
roasting pan, rub over with the drippings, dust with flour, salt and 
pepper and put into a hot oven. Roast for 20 minutes, then add 
1 cup of cold water, reduce the heat of the oven and roast for 1 
hour, adding water as needed. Remove meat from pan and add 1 
tablespoon of flour stirred into 1 tablespoon of melted butter. Boil 
3 minutes and strain. 

PORK AND APPLE PIE. 

Fresh lean pork, 2 pounds. Stock, 1 cup. 

Apples, 3. Drippings, 2 tablespoons. 

Onions, 2. Powdered sage, 1 teaspoon. 

Potatoes, 2 pounds. Salt and pepper. 

Cayenne. 

Wipe pork and cut into small pieces, removing all skin, bone 
and superfluous fat. Add seasonings and mix well. Scald onions, 
then slice, also slice potatoes and apples. Grease a deep baking dish 
and put in the ingredients in alternating layers, making the top 
layer a thick one of potatoes. Pour over the stock and dot with 
drippings. Set pie in tin of hot water and bake 3 hours, closelv 
covered the first 2y 2 hours, and uncovered the last half hour. 

SWEDISH STEW. 

Undercut round of beef, 2 Small white turnip, 1. 
pounds. Tapioca, 2 tablespoons. 

Carrot, 1. Salt and paprika. 

Small onions, 6. Tomato, 1 cup. 

Vinegar, y 2 cup. 

Cut meat in iy 2 -mch cubes, slice carrot and turnip and quarter 
onions. Pack in layers in an earthen ware casserole or bean pot, 
sprinkling in the tapioca and seasoning to taste. Stew and strain 
tomatoes, then measure and add with the vinegar. Cover and seal 
with a thick flour and water paste. Cook about 3 hours and serve 
with baked potatoes. Mrs. C. F. C. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 205 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Xeck mutton, 2 pounds. Barley, V> cup. 

Onion, carrot, celery, turnip, Flour, 1 tablespoon. 
1 cup. Pepper, 14 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Wipe and cut the meat from the neck mutton in dice. Do not 
use skin and fat. Cover the bones with a pint of cold water and 
simmer for 3 hours. Put 3 pints of cold water over the meat, heat 
slowly, skim until the scum is white, add the barley, soaked, and 
simmer 2 hours. Then add the mixed vegetables, diced, and sim- 
mer another hour or until the meat and bai'ley are tender. Thicken 
the strained bone water with the butter and flour cooked together 
and stir into the broth. Add the salt, pepper and parsley. Serve 
without straining. 

BEEF STEAK ROLL. 

Flank or round steak, 11/2 Salt and pepper. 

pounds. Powdered thyme, sage and 
Lamb kidneys, 2. savory. 

Cracker crumbs, y 2 CU P- Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Minced onion, 1 tablespoon. Water, 3 cups. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Butter, 14 cup. 

Trim kidneys of all fat, cords and veins. Cut into small pieces 
and spread thinly over 1 si do of the steak with crumbs, onion and 
M'.-isoning. Roll up and tie with a cord. Brown the roll in butter, 
then remove and make a gravy by stirring in the flour and adding 
water and sugar. Put the roll in the gravy and cook slowly until 
fonder in a covered baking dish. 

RAGOUT OF MUTTON. 

Boiled mutton. 2 cups. Butter. 2 tablespoons. 

Onion, 1. Peas, V 2 can - 

Stook, 1 oup. Salt and popper. 

Cut meat into inch square bits, slice onion and put all in- 
gredients in a saucepan together, cover closely and simmer very 
slowly for 1 hour. Stir occasionally. 



206 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

SHIN OF BEEF. 

Shin of beef, 4 pounds. Carrot, 1. 

Clove, 1. Butter, iy 2 tablespoons. 

Bay leaf, 1. Onion, 1. 

Sprig of parsley, 1. Flour, 1% tablespoons. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Boiling water, 2 quarts. 

Have the meat cut into several pieces, add all ingredients, 
except flour and butter and bring slowly to a boil. Skim and cook 
slowly for 5 hours. With the butter, flour and 1 cup of the liquid 
make a brown sauce and serve with the meat. The remaining liquid 
may be used for soups. 

SCALLOPED MEAT. 

Left-over meat. Chopped parsley. 

Bread crumbs. Pepper and salt. 

Onion. White sauce or stock. 

Spread in a buttered baking dish alternate layers of crumbs 
and meat, chopped fine, a sprinkling of the parsley, onion, pepper 
and salt. When dish is nearly full moisten all with white sauce, 
stock or tomatoes. Set in oven till thoroughly heated and brown. 

EAST INDIAN CURRY. 

Hot boiled rice. Green peppers, 2. 

Finely cut meat, 1 pint. Curry powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Milk or stock, 1 gill. 

Place the meat in a stew pan with the milk or stock, add the 
green peppers parboiled, seeded and chopped, and the curry pow- 
der. Let simmer for 10 to 15 minutes. Serve rice and curry 
sauce in separate dishes, both piping hot. For the meat, chicken, 
lamb, mutton or lobster may be used. 

LAMB CUTLETS. 

Lamb. Bread crumbs. 

Egg, 1. Salt and pepper. 

Cut and trim some rare slices from a leg of lamb. Dip them in 
beaten egg, and then in the bread crumbs seasoned with the salt 
and pepper. Dip again in egg, in crumbs and fry brown in deep 
fat. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 207 

BEAN POT ROAST. 

Mutton, 3 pounds. Onion, 14 cup. 

Potatoes, 1 cup. Carrot, 1 cup. 

Salt, 2 teaspoons. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Cut mutton into medium pieces and place in a bean pot or 
casserole, cover with boiling water, and let cook in moderate oven 
for 2 hours. Cut up potatoes and measure, slice onion and chop 
carrots and measure. Add vegetables and salt and cook till vege- 
tables are tender, which will require about 1 hour. Serve with a 
gravy made from the liquid in which the meat was cooked, thick- 
ened with the flour. 

LAMB CHOPS EN CASSEROLE. 

Lamb chops, 6. Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Flour. Worcestershire sauce, 1 tea- 

Salt and pepper. spoon. 

Tomato catsup, 3 teaspoons. 

Use lamb chops cut from the forequarter. Brown chops on 
all sides in hot, unbuttered frying pan. Lay them in a casserole, 
season and dredge with flour. Pour boiling water into frying pan, 
add Worcestershire sauce and catsup, stir well and pour over chops. 
Cover and cook in moderate oven for 2 hours. 

C. T. B., Framingham. 

BREADED TONGUE. 

Cut cold boiled tongue into slices 1-3 to i/ 2 inch thick. Dip 
in beaten egg, then in crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper. Saute 
in hot butter till well browned and serve with tomato sauce. 

BREADED PORK CHOPS. 

Have pork chops cut thicker than usual. Cut flank and tender- 
loin from bone and skewer into round shape. Arrange in shallow 
baking pan, with boiling water to half the depth of the chops. Sprinkle 
wi>ll with bread crumbs to which have been added salt, pepper and 
chopped onion, cover closely and bake in a slow oven for 1V 2 hours. 
Remove cover, place on each chop 1/2 teaspoon of butter and bake 
until crumbs are brown. 



208 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

BROILED SWEETBREAD. 

Scald sweetbreads in salted water, blanch in cold water and re- 
move stringy parts. Dry on a towel, dip in beaten egg, roll in fine 
bread crumbs and broil. Serve with crisp bacon. 

ROAST SWEETBREADS. 

Sweetbreads, 2 pairs. Beef extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Bay leaf, 1. 

Minced carrot, 1 teaspoon. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Minced onion, 2 teaspoons. Boiling water, 1 pint. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Cook sweetbreads in usual manner, add butter, carrot, onion, 
extract, bay leaf and lemon juice and simmer slowly for 15 minutes. 
Turn into buttered baking dish, add water and flour blended with 
a little cold water. Cook in oven 1 hour and serve with mushroom 
sauce. 

CALF'S LIVER. 

Calf's liver, 1. Salt and pepper. 

Salt pork, 5 strips. Minced onion, 1 tablespoon. 

Brown sauce, 3 cups. 

Make 5 short slits in the rounded side of a calf's liver and insert 
strips of salt pork (bacon may be used). Lay liver in a casserole, 
add onion and seasoning and pour over sauce which should be rather 
thin. Cover and cook for 2 hours in a medium oven. 



CHICKEN LIVERS ON TOAST. 

Chicken livers. Madeira, y 2 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Brown sauce, 1 cup. 

Flour. Salt and pepper. 

Hot toast. 

Wipe the livers with damp cloth, dry and cut each in quarters. 
Brown them in the butter for 5 minutes. Dredge with flour and 
add Madeira and brown sauce. Season and simmer for 10 minutes. 
Serve on slices of hot buttered toast. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 209 

HAMBURG LOAF. 

Hamburg steak, 2 pounds. Egg, 1. 

Bread crumbs, 2 1/2 cups. Onion, 1. 

Salt and pepper. 

To the Hamburg steak add two cups of the bread crumbs, nil 
but a few drops of the egg, beaten, the onion chopped fine, re- 
serving a few whole slices, pepper and salt. Knead together 
thoroughly and form into a nicely shaped loaf. Rub over with the 
remaining egg, brush with the half-cup of crumbs and lay tho 
slices of onion on top. Bake for 114 to iy 2 hours. Serve with or 
without tomato sauce. Onion may be omitted if not desired. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Melted butter, y 2 cup. 

Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Lean veal, 3 1 /? pounds. Pepper, a shake. 

Egg, 1. 

Mix all together and pack solidly in a buttered bread pan. 
Bake l 1 /^ hours in a hot oven. Cool, remove from pan and cut in 
thin slices. 

JELLIED BEEF LOAF. 

Shank of beef, 4 pounds. Salt and paprika. 

Water. Mace. 

Boil the beef, which should contain both meat and bone, in 
enough water to cover, till it is very tender. Pour off liquid and 
let cool. Remove bone and gristle from meat, cut into small pieces 
and season. Tf liquid forms a firm jelly when cold, melt it and 
ponr over meat. If it does not form a firm jelly boil it down till 
it will. Stir as it begins to set, then place on ice to chill. Serve 
sliced, with a garnish of parsley. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

Boil a knuckle of veal until tender. Pour off the water and 
ohop veal fine. Boil down the liquid to 1 pint. Line a loaf-shaped 
mold with slices of hard boiled egg, put in meat lightly and ponr 
over all the liquid. Set away to harden and chill. 



210 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

LAMB AND KIDNEY PIE. 

Breast of lamb, l 1 /^ pounds. Celery salt. 

Lamb kidneys, 12. Nutmeg. 

Black pepper. Onion, 1. 

Lemon, 1. Crust. 

Stew the lamb and kidneys, split and cleansed, in boiling salted 
water to cover, until tender. When done cut the lamb in pieces the 
size of the kidney halves. Season the broth well. Fill a pie dish 
with the meat and kidneys, sprinkle over the finely grated onion 
and the juice and rind of a large lemon, and pour over broth, which 
should be thickened as for gravy. Cover pie with a good shortcake 
crust, cut hole in centre and fill up with more broth. Bake in a 
quick oven till well browned. Mrs. C. F. C. 

BEEF POT PIE. 

Lean beef, 2 pounds. Turnip, 1. 

Fat salt pork, ^ pound. Water or stock. 

Onion, 1. Salt and pepper. 

Carrot, 1. Short crust. 

Cut beef and pork in pieces and put in kettle with chopped 
vegetables and water or stock to cover. Stew until tender, then sea- 
son and turn all into a deep baking dish. Roll out a good baking 
powder crust, quite thin, cover baking dish and make 2 or 3 holes 
in crust. Bake 30 minutes in hot oven. 

LONDON KIDNEY PIE. 

Steak, 1 pound. Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. 

Kidney, 14 pound. Milk, 1 cup. 

Flour, 2 cups. Butter, 6 tablespoons. 

Pepper and salt. 

Cut steak and kidney in thin slices, sprinkle with flour, pepper 
and salt. Put in deep pie dish with a little hot water. In another 
dish mix and sift the flour, baking powder and salt, rub in butter 
and add milk. Turn on a floured board and roll out ^ inch thick. 
Wet the edges of the dish and line them with strips of pastry, 
then cover, brush over with egg, make a hole in the, centre and bake 
li/2 hours in a moderate oven. Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 



MEAT. POULTRY AND KXTREES. 211 

CHESHIRE PORK PIE. 

Loin of pork, 2 pounds. Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Tart apples. White wine, V 2 pint. 

Pepper and salt. Butter. 

Nutmeg. Pastry. 

Free pork from skin and fat and cut into thin steaks. Season 
with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Line a deep pie dish with good 
pastry, put in a layer of pork, then a layer of thinly sliced apples 
and the sugar. Place another layer of pork over this. Pour over 
all the wine, season again, dot with butter and cover with paste, 
cutting a hole for the steam to escape. Brush over with beaten egg 
and bake in a slow oven 1 hour. May be eaten hot or cold. 

Mrs. C. F. C. 

VEAL PIE. 

Veal, 1 leg. Paprika. 

Chopped parsley. Bay leaf, 1. 

Salt. Eggs, 4. 

Boil the veal till tender. Season the broth with the parsley, 
bay leaf, salt and pepper. Let veal cool. Cover sides of a deep 
baking dish with a rich paste. Put an inverted cup in the centre of 
dish and put in veal cut in good sized pieces. Hard eook the eggs, 
cut them across in halves and put into the dish with veal. Pour 
over gravy and cover all with a rich crust. Bake till well 
browned. A Boston Girl. 

BEEF FRITTERS. 

Finely chopped roast beef, 1 Onion juice, 

cup. Milk, 1 cup. 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. Flour. 1 cup. 

Salt. Egg, 1. 

Pepper. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix the beef and parsley and season with salt, pepper and 
onion juice. To make a batter beat the egg, add the milk and tho 
flour sifted with the baking powder. Add batter to the minced 
beef and drop by spoonfuls into hot fat. Fry brown, drain and 
serve with currant jelly. 



212 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

VEAL AND HAM PIE. 

Veal cutlets, 2 pounds. Mace, 14 teaspoon. 

Boiled ham, y 2 pound. Pepper and salt. 

Savory herbs, 2 tablespoons. Lemon peel. 

Nutmeg, 14 teaspoon. Egg yolks, 2. 

Water, 1 pint. 

Cut the cutlets into small pieces, lay them on the bottom of a 
deep pie dish, sprinkle over seasoning, grated lemon peel and yolks 
of hard boiled eggs cut in slices. Cut the ham very thin and put 
in a layer. Proceed till dish is full, with the ham on top. Lay 
an edge of puff paste on rim of dish and pour in the water, cover 
with crust of puff paste, ornament with leaves of pastry, brush 
with yolk of egg and bake l 1 /^ hours. 

Mrs. W. F. B., East Boston. 

CANADIAN MEAT PIE. 

Chopped meat, 2 cups. Pepper, 2 dashes. 

Onion, 1. Gravy or stock, 1 cup. 

Salt, !/4 teaspoon. Mashed potatoes, 2 cups. 

Cold cooked vegetables, 1 cup. 

Any kind of left over meat may be used. It should be chopped 
fine with the large onion and any cooked vegetables that happen to 
be on hand. Add seasoning and arrange in baking dish with mashed 
potatoes forming crust. Bake 1 hour in a good oven. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Sliced pot roast. Pepper. 

Bread crumbs. Parsley. 

Grated onion. Butter. 

Salt. Gravy, or bouillon cube. 

Cut thin slices of beef from a pot roast and spread each with 
a little dressing made from soft bread crumbs, seasoned with a 
little grated onion, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley moistened 
with melted butter. Roll up, fasten with a wooden toothpick and put 
in casserole or baking dish. Cover with a sauce made from left over 
gravy, stock or a bouillon cube dissolved in hot water and slightly 
thickened. Let simmer slowly on top of stove or in a moderate oven 
for 34 of an hour. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 213 

SAUSAGE TARTS. 

Country sausages, 8. Onion, 1. 

Green pepper, 1. Mixed spice. 

Salt and pepper. 

Make a good puff paste, roll out and cut into strips 4 inches wide 
arid 8 inches long. Remove skins from the sausages, season and add 
finely chopped pepper, juice of the onion and a pinch of mixed 
spices. Mash and mix all well together. Spread the mixture on 
each piece of pastry, roll up and press edges together. Bake in a 
shallow greased pan from 20 to 30 minutes. 

HAM CAKES. 

Mashed potatoes, 2 cups. Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 

Chopped ham, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Salt and pepper. 

Mix all ingredients thoroughly and shape into cakes. Dip in 
beaten egg, roll in crumbs and fry brown in deep fat. 

LEFT-OVER MEAT PIE. 

Cold roast beef. Salt and pepper. 

Bread crumbs. Melted butter. 

Stock, 1 cup. 

Chop the beef and put it in alternate layers with fine bread 
crumbs in a medium sized baking dish. Season with salt, pepper 
and melted butter, and pour over it the stock, top with a layer of 
buttered bread crumbs and bake for 30 minutes. 

PORK CHEESE. 

Cold roast pork, 2 pounds. Mace, 14 teaspoon. 

Pork fat, 1/2 paund. Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Salt and pepper. Sage, V z teaspoon. 

Grated lemon peel, i/ teaspoon. TCed pepper, a few grains. 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. Stock. 

Chop pork and fat fine and add remaining ingredients. Put in 
a buttered mold, fill up with good thick stock and bake for iy 2 hours. 
When cold turn out of mold and garnish with parsley. 



214 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 



MARROW BALLS. 

Marrow, 1 tablespoon. Pepper, salt and nutmeg. 

Egg, 1. Soft bread. 

Melt the marrow and strain through coarse cheese cloth. Beat 
till creamy then add the egg and beat again. Season and add as 
much bread as it will moisten. Roll into small balls, poach them 
in water and place in soup before serving. 

MARROW BONES. 

Marrow bones. Dough. Toast. 

Have the bones cut into 3-inch pieces. Scrape and wash 
thoroughly, spread a little dough on each end to keep the marrow 
in, tie each bone in a piece of cheese cloth and boil for 1 hour. Re- 
move cloth and paste and place each bone on a square of toast. 
Sprinkle with paprika and serve very hot. 

Or the bones may be boiled without being cut, the marrow then 
removed with a spoon and placed on hot toast. 

OXFORD SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Lean veal, 1 pound. Nutmeg, 1. 

Fresh pork, 1 pound. Pepper, 1 teaspoon. 

Beef suet, 1 pound. Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Bread crumbs, y 2 pound. Sage leaves. 

Lemon, y 2 . Thyme, marjoram and savory. 

Chop the veal, pork and suet separately as fine as possible, then 
mix in the crumbs, the peel of the half lemon, shredded fine, the 
nutmeg grated, seasoning and herbs to taste, all chopped as fine 
as possible. Mix all thoroughly with the hands and press tight 
into an earthen ware crock. When wanted, make into flat cakes and 
fry in good drippings. A poultry dressing may be substituted for 
the herbs if they are not easy to get. Mrs. C. F. C. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Salad oil, 3 tablespoons. 

Vinegar, 2 tablespoons. Mixed mustard, 1 teaspoon. 

Pepper and salt. 

Beat all well together, adding ingredients in order given. Re- 
quires no cooking. 



MKAT, POULTRY AXD ENTREES. 215 

SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN. 

Chicken, 1. Bread crumbs, 14 cup. 

Cream, 1 cup. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

I'arsley, 1 tablespoon. Flour. 1 tablespoon. 

Bacon, 2 slices. Egg, 1. 

Joint a tender chicken, dip each piece in beaten egg, then in 
bread crumbs and fry in bacon fat till well done and light brown. 
Take up chicken and keep warm in the oven. Strain the fat, add 
to it the butter rubbed smooth with the flour and stir till well 
blended. Pour in the cream and stir till smooth and thick. Add 
the minced parsley and pour over chicken. 

MAMMY'S CHICKEN GUMBO. 

Fowl, 1. Sliced okra, 2 quarts. 

Salt pork, 6 slices. Tomatoes, y 2 can. 

Onion, 1. Red pepper, 1 small pod. 

Water, 4 quarts. Salt and pepper. 

Boiled ham, 2 slices. Sassafras, 1 teaspoon. 

Cut the fowl into pieces as for a fricassee and roll each piece 
in flour. Try out the salt pork in a deep kettle, fry the onion, sliced, 
in it, then saute the fowl until golden brown. Add the water 
and boil slowly till the chicken is almost cooked. Add the ham, 
the okra, the tomatoes and the pepper pod. Cook until all are 
very tender. Season with salt and pepper and just before serving 
stir in the sassafras powder. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

Finely chopped chicken, 2 cups. Hard boiled eggs, 2. 
Oyster liquor, 1 cup. Cream, 2 tablespoons. 

Mushrooms, 6. Toasted bread crumbs. 

Butter. 

Season chicken well and mix with oyster liquor, stir in the 
mushrooms, chopped, the pounded yolks of the eggs and the cream, 
add bread crumbs and more cream if needed to m;il<c a soft paste. 
Pack into buttered shells or individual ramekins. Put bits of 
butter on top ;md cook covered for 1"> minutes, then uncover and 
brown lightly. 



216 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

WHOLE CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE. 

Chicken, 1. Chopped mushrooms, y 2 cup. 

Sausage meat, y 2 pound. Bacon, 6 slices. 

Stock. 

Prepare bird as usual for stuffing. Pack full of mixture of 
sausage meat and mushrooms. Lay strips of bacon on outside of 
bird and bake slowly in a deep casserole with an inch of stock. 
Baste frequently until tender. 

CHICKEN POT ROAST. 

Small chickens, 2. Butter, % cup. 

Carrots, 2. Water, 1 small cup. 

Parsley. Carrot greens. 

Cut up carrots and chop a little parsley. Put in a deep pot with 
the butter, cook together until hot, then put in chickens and turn 
and baste until brown. Add the w r ater and cook very slowly, turn- 
ing the chicken often. When nearly done add some of the green 
carrot tops chopped fine. G., Boston. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Chicken, 1. Pepper and salt. 

Chicken stock, 1 cup. 

Boil chicken gently till meat falls from bones, chop fine, season 
and place in a bread pan. Boil the liquor down to one cup and 
pour over the meat. Place another bread pan in this and in it 
place a weight. Set in ice chest over night. In the morning it 
can be sliced. Only One. 

MEAT GLAZE. 

Granulated gelatine, 1/2 ounce. Hot water, 1 cup. 

Salt and pepper. Meat extract, 1 teaspoon. 

Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add extract and seasoning. 
Cook for about 10 minutes or till it will coat a spoon. Pour into 
a jar and keep tightly covered in a cold place. When wanted for 
use, set jar in hot water to inelt slightly, coat the meat lightly with 
the glaze and set in a cool place. Red coloring may be added if de- 
sired. Especially good for cold tongue, ham, pressed meats or game. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 217 



ENGLISH YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Milk, iy 2 pints. Eggs, 3. 

Flour, 6 tablespoons. Salt, % teaspoon. 

Sift flour and salt together and add enough milk to make a 
stiff batter. When this is smooth, add the remainder of the milk 
and the well beaten eggs. Rub a shallow tin with beef drippings 
and pour in the mixture which has been thoroughly beaten. Bake 
from 1/0 to 1 hour, then place it for a while under the meat, which 
should be raised on a 3 cornered rack, to catch a little of the juice. 
Serve very hot and fresh cut in squares, with the beef gravy. 

A. W., Medford. 

HOT SPICE. 

Ginger, 3 drams. Mace, y 2 ounce. 

Black pepper, 3 drams. Cayenne pepper, 14 ounce. 

Cinnamon, 3 drams. Grated nutmeg, 1 ounce. 

Cloves, 7. White pepper, iy 2 ounces. 

Pound ingredients together and mix thoroughly. Pack in clean 
dry bottle and cork tightly. Excellent for sauces and gravies. 

CHICKEN CUSTARDS. 

Rich chicken stock, 1 pint. Salt and pepper. 

Onion juice, 1 teaspoon. Eggs, 3. 

Mix all together, beating eggs well. Pour into buttered custard 
cups, place in a pan of hot water and bake. Only One. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Mushrooms, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Mushroom liquor, 1 cup. Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon. 

Egg yolk, 1. 

Melt 1 tablespoon of the butter, add the flour and cook until 
smooth and brown. Add the liquor in which mushrooms were 
cooked, simmer for 5 minutes and add cooked mushrooms, seasoning 
and lemon juice. Simmer again, then add the beaten egg yolk and 
the second tablespoon of butter. Beat till smooth and creamy and 
serve. 



218 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

MUSTARD. 

Dry mustard, 2 tablespoons. Boiling water. 

Sugar, y 2 teaspoon. Olive oil, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix sugar and mustard and pour over it enough bubbling boil- 
ing water to make a smooth paste. When smooth add the olive 
oil and stir well. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Mustard, 2 tablespoons. Vinegar, 2-3 cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Water. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix mustard and flour. Measure vinegar and fill up cup with 
water. Cook together like a custard, then add sugar and cool. 

B. R. S., South Weymouth. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Tomatoes, 1/2 can. Butter, 3 tablespoons. 

Onion, 1 slice. Flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Pepper, y 8 teaspoon. Salt, 14 teaspoon. 

Cook onion with tomato for 15 minutes and rub through 
strainer. Melt butter, stir in flour, salt and pepper. Cook for 2 
minutes and add tomato. Cook for 1 minute and serve. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Stock, 1 cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Capers, 2 tablespoons. 

Melt butter and brown slightly. Add flour and cook for 3 
minutes, stirring constantly. Add the stock and seasoning, and 
when it is boiling add capers. Serve piping hot. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

Egg yolks, 2. Salt, 1 saltspoon. 

Butter, y 2 cup. Cayenne pepper, a few grains. 

Lemon, y 2 - Boiling water, y 2 cup. 

Beat the yolks till very light, add butter thoroughly creamed, 
lemon juice, seasoning and boiling water. Heat whole mixture over 
hot water till it is thick and creamy. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 219 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Bread crumbs, 4 tablespoons. Vinegar, 2 tablespoons. 

Horseradish, 4 tablespoons. Paprika, y 2 teaspoon. 

Powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon. Thick white sauce, 1 cup. 

French mustard, l /2 teaspoon. Salt and pepper. 

Mix ingredients in order given, stirring in each one before add- 
ing next. Heat over hot water and serve very hot. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Chopped mint leaves, 14 cup. Powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Vinegar, 14 cup. Boiling water, y^ cup. 

Chop mint leaves very fine before measuring. Put in earthen 
ware bowl and add vinegar in which sugar has been dissolved. 
Over all pour the boiling water, cover instantly and set in a pan of 
hot water to diffuse. The sauce will be ready to use in half an hour. 
May or may not be strained. 

GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick over a pint of green young gooseberries. Boil for 10 
minutes on a good fire. Drain and rub through a sieve. Season with 
salt and serve with plain boiled mackerel. 

SAUSAGE MEAT STUFFING. 

'Sausage meat, 1 cup. Grated lemon rind, 1 teaspoon. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Minced lamb, y cup. 

Chopped onion, 2 teaspoons. Salt and pepper. 

Egg yolk, 1. 

.Mix all together with slightly beaten egg to bind. May be used 
as stuffing for mutton or game. 

CELERY STUFFING. 

Celery, 3 large stalks. Salt and pepper. 

.Mrltcd butter, 2 tablespoons. Chopped parsley, 2 teaspoons. 

Bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons. Onion juice. 

Paprika. Egg, 1. 

Powdered herbs, 1 teaspoon. 

Wash celery and cook till tender. Chop tine and mix with re- 
maining ingredients. Mix \vrll and use for poultry stuffing. 



220 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING (1). 

Chestnuts, 40. Chopped olives, 1 teaspoon. 

Suet, 4 ounces. Onion, 1. 

Bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons. Mushrooms, 4. 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 
Nutmeg. Stock. 

Slit, bake, peel and chop chestnuts, add finely chopped suet, 
crumbs, seasoning, parsley, olives, chopped onion and mushrooms 
and moisten all with a little stock. 

CHESTNUT STUFFING (2). 

Chestnuts, 30. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Stock. Brown sauce, 3 tablespoons. 

Bacon or ham, 3 ounces. Salt and pepper. 

Slit and blanch chestnuts and boil till tender in a little stock, 
drain, chop fine and mix with bacon or ham, chopped fine. Add 
butter and brown sauce and pound all till smooth. Season to taste. 

APPLE STUFFING. 

Tart apples, 3. Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Onion, 1. Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Celery, 1 stalk. Pepper and salt. 

Parsley, 1 teaspoon. Sage, 1 teaspoon. 

Bread crumbs, 1% cups. Cream, 1 gill. 

Pare and core apples and put through meat grinder with onion, 
celery and parsley. Mix all together with bread crumbs, add butter 
and seasoning. Moisten all with cream. Use for stuffing for goose 
and turkey. 

ONION STUFFING. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Spanish onions, 2. 

Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. Egg yolk, 1. 

Sage, a pinch. Pepper and salt. 

Paprika. 

Parboil onions for 10 minutes in boiling salted water, drain and 
chop. Add to crumbs wdth butter, sage and seasoning. Bind to- 
gether with beaten yolk. Use for roast pork stuffing. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 221 

OYSTER STUFFING. 

Bread crumbs, l l / 2 cups. Salt and pepper. 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. Chopped celery, 1 tablespoon. 
Butter, 3 tablespoons. Egg, 1. 

Onion, 1. Oysters, 3 dozen. 

Milk. 

Mix all well together, chopping onion and oysters coarsely and 
beating egg before adding. Use milk enough to moisten well. 

PRUNE STUFFING. 

Prunes, y pound. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Rice, 1 cup. Chestnuts, 12. 

Soak prunes over night in cold water, drain, cover with boiliny 
water and simmer till tender. "Wash rice, add prune juice and 
enough water to make 3 cups of liquid in all, season with salt and 
cook about 20 minutes, or until rice is tender. Add prunes, stoned 
and cut in pieces, and chestnuts blanched and cut in pieces. Use 
as stuffing for goose. 

MUSHROOM STUFFING. 

Mushrooms, 14 pound. Lemon juice. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Bread crumbs, 14 pound. 

Onion, 1. Egg yolks, 2. 

Bacon, 2 ounces. Salt and pepper. 

Peel, trim, and drop fresh mushrooms into cold water. Put 
into saucepan with tiny bit of water, add butter, lemon juice, onion, 
and bacon, chopped. Cook very gently until tender, strain, chop 
fine and add to bread crumbs, add yolks of eggs, and mushroom 
liquor to moisten, not too wet. Season well. 

SQUASH CROQUETTES. 

Squash, 1 pint. Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Bread crumbs, y 2 cup. Salt and pepper. 

Sift the squash through a sieve, add other ingredients with 
salt and pepper to taste. Mix well and when cool form into cro- 
quettes and fry brown. Serve hot. 



222 MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 

NUT AND POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Egg, 1. Chopped walnut meats, ^ cup. 

Mashed potatoes, 2 cups. Bread crumbs. 

Cream. 

Add the beaten yolk of the egg to the hot mashed potato, stir 
in the nut meats, then mix to right consistency to mold by adding 
bread crumbs and cream. Form into croquettes, dip in crumbs, 
beaten egg, again in crumbs and brown in deep hot fat. Drain and 
serve. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Boiled rice, 2 cups. Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, a pinch. Eggs, 2. 

Cracker crumbs. 

Mix all ingredients with enough cracker crumbs to take up the 
moisture. Form into croquettes and fry brown in deep fat. 

BEAN CROQUETTES. 

Baked beans, 2 cups. Egg, 1. 

Bread crumbs, y 2 cup. Tomato catsup, 2 tablespoons. 

Cayenne pepper. 

Put the beans through a colander and add the bread crumbs, 
egg, beaten, catsup and a dash of cayenne. Shape into small cro- 
quettes and roll in crumbs, beaten egg and again in crumbs. Fry in 
hot, deep fat. 

EGG CROQUETTES. 

Eggs, 6. Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 1 pint. Onion juice, 10 drops. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Pepper, 1 teaspoon. 

Boil the eggs hard, remove shells and put through a potato 
ricer. Scald the milk in a double boiler, add flour and butter which 
have been melted together, then add the remaining ingredients. 
Mix well, turn out onto a platter to cool and let stand 3 hours. 
Shape like eggs, roll in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in 
deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce well seasoned with Worcester- 
shire sauce. 



MEAT, POULTRY AND ENTREES. 223 

CARROT CROQUETTES. 

Sifted carrot, 1 pint Egg, 1. 

Melted butter, 1 tablespoon. Pepper and salt. 

Peel carrots and cook until tender. Mash through a sieve, then 
measure. Add the beaten yolk of the egg, the melted butter and 
seasoning. Chill thoroughly. Shape into croquettes, dip in egg, 
then into crumbs and fry in deep, hot fat. Drain and serve very 
hot. 



K 



PIES. 225 



PLAIN PIE CRUST. 

Flour, 1 quart Lard, 3 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. Cold water. 

Sift dry ingredients, cut in lard until well mixed, then add cold 
water, a little at a time, stirring and cutting with a knife till all is 
wet but not soft. Set on ice for 1 hour, then roll out with as few 
quick strokes as possible, dot over with the butter cut in tiny pieces, 
fold up and roll out again. Makes top and bottom crust for 2 pies. 

HOT WATER PIE CRUST. 

Flour, 3 cups. Boiling water, y 2 CU P- 

Shortening, 1 cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Baking powder, % teaspoon. 

Put shortening (any kind may be used) into a bowl and over 
it pour the boiling water. Beat with a fork until creamy. Then 
sift in the flour, salt and baking powder. Stir well together and 
roll out. This amount makes 2 pies. 

OLD-FASHIONED PUMPKIN PIE. 

Milk, 1 quart. Eggs, 4. 

Sifted pumpkin, 1 pint. Molasses, y 2 cup. 

Ginger and allspice. 
Bake in one crust. 



ENGLISH PUMPKIN PIE. 

Sifted pumpkin, 1 quart. Milk, 1/2 pint. 

Eggs, 6. Sugar, % pound. 

Butter, 14 pound. French brandy. 1 tablespoon. 

Madeira or sherry, 1 gill. 

Cut the pumpkin into large pieces, peel and put into cold water 
over a slow fire. Simmer without boiling till tender, then drain, 
put through a colander and afterwards through coarse muslin, 
squeezing out every drop of water. Then measure and add in- 
gredients in order given, beating eggs till light and thick and cream- 
in <r butter and sugar till soft before adding. When .well mixed, bake 
in puff paste. A. W., Medford. 



226 PIES. 

MINCE PIE. 

Boiled chopped beef, 2 quarts. White sugar, 2 quarts. 
Chopped apples, 6 quarts. Meat liquor, 2 quarts. 

Chopped citron, 1 pound. Salt, 10 teaspoons. 

Chopped raisins, 4 pounds. Cinnamon, 9 teaspoons. 

Whole seedless raisins, 2 Clove, 3 teaspoons. 

pounds. Lemons, 8. 

Currants, 2 pounds. Boiled cider, 1 cup. 

Brown sugar, 3 quarts. Apple jelly, 3 glasses. 

Grape jelly, 3 glasses. 

Mix all well together using juice of the lemons and grated rind 
of two. Let boil very slowly till whole raisins are cooked. Makes 
12 quart jars. When pies are filled, dot with bits of butter, sprinkle 
over with sugar and a bit of nutmeg and put on top crust. 

H. M. H., Allston. 

SIMPLE MINCEMEAT. 

Chopped beef, 2 quarts. Sugar. 

Chopped suet, 1 cup. Lemon juice. 

Chopped apple, 4^/ 2 quarts. Lemon peel. 

Boiled cider. Clove. 

Raisins. Cinnamon. 

Currants. Nutmeg. 

Salt. Mace. 

Get beef from lower part of the round, boil until soft and chop 
fine, add suet and apples. Add remaining ingredients to suit your 
own taste, and mix quite soft with boiled cider, as boiling and keep- 
ing tend to diy it up. Vinegar and water may be used inste; 
the boiled cider. Boil all together till raisins an 
away in sealed jars. Mrs, G. E. 

DATE PIE. 

Dates, 1-3 pound. Milk. 

Egg, 1. Salt, a pinch. 

Stone dates and cook until soft in a little water. Press through 
colander and to the pulp add milk, beaten egg and salt. Bake like 
an ordinary custard pie. 

An Old New England Cook, Somerville. 



PIES. 227 

APPLE PIE. 

Sugar, 4 tablespoons. Nutmeg, 14 teaspoon. 

Apples. Butter. 

Salt, a pinch. Lemon juice, y*> teaspoon. 

Seedless raisins. 

Line pie plate with crust and put in sugar. More sugar may be 
used if apples are very tart. Peel and slice the apples and fill 
the plate, add salt, nutmeg, a little butter, lemon juice and a few 
seedless raisins. Put on top crust, brush over with cold water and 
bake. The sugar will catch fruit juice and keep it from running out. 

Egleston Square. 
MARLBORO PIE. 

Large apples, 6. Sugar, 6 tablespoons. 

Butter, 6 tablespoons. Lemon, 1. 

Eggs, 2. 

Peel and core the apples and stew till tender. Stir into the 
hot apple the butter, sugar and the grated rind and juice of the 
lemon. When mixture is cold add the eggs, well beaten. Line a 
pie plate with a rich crust, pour in the apple and bake slowly for % 
of an hour till golden brown. Eat cold. A Boston Girl. 

APPLE PIE DE LUXE. 

Large apples, 5. Cinnamon. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Butter. 

Into a deep pie plate without an under crust slice the apples, 
add the sugar, a sprinkling of cinnamon and dot with bits of butter, 
l-i.-ike with a rich top crust. In serving turn each piece upside down 
and pile on top whipped cream, sweetened and flavored. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

GRATED APPLE TART. 

Large apples, 2. Egg, 1. 

Lemon, 1. Melted butter, 3 teaspoons. 

Orate the applos. which should be juicy ;md t;irt. Mix with 
the juice and grated rind of the lemon, the beaten c^ir and melted 
butter. Bake in a lower crust with strips of crust crossed over 
the top. 



228 PIES. 

OLD-FASHIONED APPLE PIE. 

Apples. Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Brown sugar, ^4 CU P- Cinnamon, a pinch. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Grated lemon peel, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, 14 teaspoon. Butter. 

Line a pie plate with pastry. Slice apples and lay them in 2 
rows around the outer edge of the plate, then fill high in the middle. 
Mix sugar, flour, salt, and spices and sprinkle over apples. Add 
lemon peel and a few dabs of butter. Cover and pinch edges to- 
gether. Tansy, East Mansfield. 

RICH OLD-FASHIONED PIE CRUST. 

Lard, % cup. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Pastry flour, 2 cups. Salt, % teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Cold water. 

Sift flour and salt in a mixing bowl. Flour the blade of a 
knife and chop the lard into the flour, being careful to keep flour 
between the knife and the shortening. When the mixture looks like 
meal add the egg and lemon juice, which have been thoroughly 
beaten together. Add enough cold water to mix. Roll the pastry 
into a ball with the knife. Stand on ice for an hour if possible 
Then roll out once and handle lightly. Makes 2 pies. 

Tansy, East Mansfield. 

BANBURY APPLE PIE. 

Juicy apples. Ginger. 

Candied orange peel. Butter. 

Currants. Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Cinnamon. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Pastry. 

Butter a deep pie dish, peel and core apples, put a layer in 
the bottom of the dish with a thick layer of candied peel, currants 
and spices. Pour over this a little melted butter, then fill the dish 
with more layers of apple, candied peel, currants and spices. Pour 
over all the boiling water and sugar. Cover with a nice short paste 
and bake about 3 /4 of an hour. Mrs. W. L. 



PIES. 229 

APPLE AND APRICOT PIE. 

Dried apricots. Tart apples. 

Sugar. Water, 2 tablespoons. 

Lemon juice, */4 teaspoon. Maple sugar. 

Butter. 

Soak apricots over night, stew until tender and put through a 
sieve. Sweeten to taste and add lemon juice. Line a deep pie plate 
with crust, cover with a layer of tart apples, thinly sliced, and the 
water. Sprinkle with maple sugar and dot with bits of butter. 
Put stewed apricots over this and bake with a top crust. 

PANDOWDY PIE. 

Tart apples. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Brown sugar, 4 tablespoons. Clove, a pinch. 

Molasses, 3 tablespoons. Allspice, a pinch. 

Butter. 

Line a deep pie plate with crust. Fill with the apples, which 
have been pared, cored and quartered. Sprinkle over the top the 
sugar, molasses and spices. Dot over generously with bits of but- 
ter, cover with a rich top crust, brush over with milk and bake about 
% of an hour. Mrs. II. B. C., East Boston. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Red berries, 1 quart. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Pastry. 

Egg. 

Stone cherries and cover with sugar and flour mixed. Line 2 
deep pie tins with a good plain pastry, brush over with egg white 
and fill in with cherries. Put on top crust in which cut a hole, 
brush rim of lower crust with egg and press crusts together. Loosen 
edge of pie from pan. Bake half an hour. 

SOUR MILK PIE. 

Sour milk, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch, 

('love, 1 teaspoon. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Egg, 1. Raisins. i/ 2 cup. 

Bake with 2 crusts. A. M., Bridgeicater. 



230 PIES. 

SQUASH PIE (1). 

Squash, 1 eup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Milk, 1 pint. 

Steam the squash in the shell until soft. Scoop out with a 
spoon and strain, then measure. To the squash add other ingredients 
in order given, beating the egg. Line a deep pie plate with crust, 
making a rim of crust around the edge. Pour in the squash mix- 
ture and bake in medium hot oven. A. D. B., Brookline. 

SQUASH PIE (2). 

Squash, 1 quart. Ginger, y 2 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 quart. Mace, y teaspoon. 

Eggs, 4. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 4 tablespoons. 

Steam squash, drain thoroughly and mash through a strainer, 
add remaining ingredients in order given, beating eggs well. Line 
pie plates with a good paste and fill. Bake in a slow oven. Enough 
for 2 pies. 

Use same recipe for pumpkin pies, substituting pumpkin for 
squash. 

RAISIN PIE. 

Cream (or rich milk), 1 cup. Flour, 1 teaspoon. 
Sugar, 1 cup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Seeded raisins, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Mix all ingredients, simmering raisins in a little water till ten- 
der, before adding. Mrs. T. A., Medford. 

CRANBERRY-RAISIN PIE. 

Chopped cranberries, 1 cup. Chopped raisins, y% cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Water, y 2 cup. 

Mix all together, put in pie plate lined with crust, sprinkle 
over a little flour and bake. May be used either with or without 
meringue. 



PIES. 231 

BOILED CIDER PIE (1). 

Cider, 4 cups. Egg, 1. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemon, 1. 

Cornstiiivh. -'5 tablespoons. Cold water, 2 teaspoons. 

Bring cider and sugar to a boil. Stir in cornstarch dissolved 
in well-beaten egg and cold water. Cook until thick, flavor with 
the juice of the lemon. Fill a pie plate lined with pastry and bake. 
When almost done, cover with meringue and brown quickly. 

BOILED CIDER PIE (2). 

Large crackers, 2. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons. 

Eggs, 2. Nutmeg, 1 teaspoon. 

Boiled cider, 1 cup. Mace, 1 teaspoon. 

Chopped raisins, 1 cup. Clove, y 2 teaspoon. 

Koll the crackers fine, add molasses, eggs, well beaten, and rest 
of ingredients as mentioned, and pour into pie plate lined with 
pastry. Bake 40 minutes. Will make 2 pies. 

H. M. H., Allston. 

PRIZE ORANGE PIE. 

Oranges, 3. Fine sugar, 1 cup. 

Eggs, 4. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, well beaten, grated 
rind and juice of the oranges, which should be large, the egg whites, 
beaten stiff, and a pinch of salt. 

ORANGE CUSTARD PIE. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemon, 1. 

Flour 2, tablespoons. Orange, 1. 

Salt, a tiny pinch. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Stir together sugar, flour and salt, add grated rind and juice 
of the orange and the juice of the lemon, also the beaten yolks of the 
eggs and the milk. Last of all fold in the whites of the two eggs 
which have been beaten stiff and dry. Use one crust and bake in 
a slow oven for 30 or 35 minutes. Mrs. II . B. C., East Boston. 



232 PIES. 

OLD-FASHIONED GREEN TOMATO PIE. 

Green tomatoes, 2 quarts. Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Water, y 2 pint. Flour. 

Brown sugar, iy 2 pints. Extract of lemon. 

Butter. 

Cut tomatoes in pieces the size of a nutmeg before measuring. 
Add water, sugar and salt and cook slowly all day. Next day drain 
off all juice, heat it and thicken with flour till of the consistency of 
gravy. Flavor quite strongly with the extract of lemon. Add fruit 
and set away to cool. It is better if not made into pies till the next 
day. Make pies with 2 crusts, dotting all over with bits of butter 
before putting on top crust. This makes 3 pies. It may be kept 
for months put up in glass jars like mince meat. 

Mrs. C. G. K., Concord. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

Milk, iy 2 cups. Grated chocolate, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 2-3 cup. Cornstarch, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 3. 

Dissolve chocolate in milk in double boiler. Beat yolks of eggs 
and add sugar. Stir into hot milk. Blend cornstarch in a little cold 
milk and add. Use egg whites with powdered sugar for a frosting 
meringue. An Old New England Cook, Somerville. 

LEMON PIE. 

Bread, 1 slice. Butter, 1 teaspoon. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. Lemon, 1. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Ice water, 1 tablespoon. 

The bread should be 1 inch thick and have the crusts removed. 
It should be broken into a bowl and the boiling water poured over it. 
When softened, reduce to a pulp and add the sugar, butter, juice 
and grated rind of the lemon, and the beaten yolks of the eggs. 
Cover plate with pastry, fill and bake. When done let it cool. 
Make meringue of the egg whites, the ice water, and enough granu- 
lated sugar to stiffen. Spread over top and return to oven to 
brown. A. D. B., Brookhne. 



Pms. 233 

LEMON SPONGE PIE. 

Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. Lemon, 1. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Salt, a pinch. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Eggs, 2. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Cream butter and sugar, add flour, salt, juice and grated rind 
of the lemon and the well beaten yolks of the eggs. Beat all 
thoroughly and add milk and the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. 
Bake slowly in 1 crust for % of an hour. Egleston Square. 

LEMON APPLE PIE. 

Large apples, 4. Water, 1 cup. 

Lemons, 2. Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Butter. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Grate the apples, add the juice of the lemons and the grated 
rind of 1, the sugar, water, well beaten eggs, butter the size of a 
walnut and salt. Bake between 2 crusts. This makes 3 pies. 

A. M., Bridgewater. 

SWEET POTATO CUSTARD PIE. 

Mashed sweet potatoes, 3 cups. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Molasses, 1 tablespoon. 

Melted butter, y 2 cup. Eggs, 3. 

Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Mix potato, sugar, baking powder, butter, spice, molasses, eggs, 
well beaten, and milk. The mixture should be thin enough to pour 
easily. Have deep pie tins lined with pastry, pour in custard mix- 
ture till pan is nearly full. Cook from 10 to 20 minutes in a 
medium oven. Can be kept several days before using. 

BERRY PIE. 

Berries, l l / 2 cups. Flour, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 2-3 cup. Butter. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Blueberries, blackberries, huckleberries, or raspberries may be 
used successfully. Bake in 2 crusts. 

An Old New England Cook, Somervttle. 



234 PIES. 

BUTTER PIE. 

Milk, iy 2 cups. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Eggs, 2. 

Salt. 

Cream butter, work in sugar and flour, add vanilla, well beaten 
eggs (saving 1 white for frosting), salt and pour over scalded milk. 
Bake as for custard pie. Frost with meringue. 

A. M., Bridgewater. 

GOOSEBERRY TART. 

Gooseberries, iy 2 pints. Sugar, y 2 pound. 

Powdered sugar. 

With a pair of scissors cut off the tops and tails of the berries. 
Pile them up high in a deep pie dish and pour over them the sugar. 
More sugar may be used if desired. Line the edge of the dish with 
a short crust, then put on cover and bake in good oven for y 2 hour. 
Sift over powdered sugar and serve with cream or boiled custard. 

Mrs. W. F. B., East Boston. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Currants, 1 cup. Cracker, 1. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Butter. 

Salt, a pinch. 

Mash currants with sugar, add the cracker, rolled fine, butter 
size of a walnut, in bits, and salt. Bake y 2 hour. 

An Old New England Cook, Somerville. 

CURRANT AND RASPBERRY PIE. 

Red currants, iy 2 pints. Raspberries, y 2 pint. 

Sugar, 3 large tablespoons. 

Line a deep pie plate with a good crust. Mix the currants, 
freed from stems, raspberries and sugar, put in crust and cover 
with rich crust. Brush the top with milk and bake until brown. 
Sift sugar over top and serve with cream. Should be eaten cold. 

Mrs. W. F. B., East Boston. 



PIES. 235 

FRESH STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Make a rich pie crust and fit it over the top of an inverted pie 
plate. Prick it with a fork in 3 or 4 places and bake till light 
brown. Turn onto a plate and when ready to serve fill with 1 quart 
of fresh strawberries, halved and sweetened. Spread over the top 
1/2 cup of cream, which has been whipped, sweetened, and flavored 
with vanilla. Mrs. II. B. C., East Boston. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Crackers, 4. Chopped raisins, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Butter, 2-3 cup. 

Molasses, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Water, 1 cup. Mixed spices. 

Cider, 1 cup. Citron, 1 cup. 

Mix all ingredients, stirring in well beaten eggs last. Bake in 
2 crusts. C. B. A., Newton. 

APRICOT PIE. 

Dried apricots, 1 cup. Flour. 

Water, 2 cups. Butter. 

Sugar, % cup. Nutmeg. 

Wash apricots and soak over night in water. In the morning 
put on stove w r ith same water in which they were soaked. Cook 
slowly till soft, then add sugar and cook a few minutes more. Set 
away to cool. Line a deep plate with crust, lay in the apricots 
regularly, pour on the juice with a sprinkling of flour, dots of but- 
ter and a pinch of nutmeg if the flavor is desired. Cover with a 
rich top crust, brush over with milk and bake about % of an hour. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

DRIED PEACH PIE. 

Dried peaches, 2 cups. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Water, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Soak peaches over night, then cook until soft without sugar 
and with very little water. Fill pie with peaches cut in pieces, pour 
over sugar, salt and water, dot with bits of butter and put on top 
crust or bars of pastry. Egleston Square. 



236 PIES. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Rhubarb, 1 pint. Flour, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Egg, 1. 

Wash and dry the rhubarb stalks. Pare and cut into small 
pieces. Mix sugar with flour and add to rhubarb with the egg. 
beaten. Bake thoroughly between 2 crusts. 

RHUBARB AND STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Strawberries. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Rhubarb. Cornstarch, 2 teaspoons. 

Butter. 

Line a crust with rhubarb, cut small, then put in a layer of 
berries, more rhubarb and berries on top. Pour over all the sugar 
mixed with the cornstarch, dot over with bits of butter and cover 
with top crust or bars of pastry. Egleston Square. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE. 

Milk, 1 large cup. Unsweetened chocolate, ^ 
Cornstarch, 1 dessertspoon. square. 

Sugar, 2 dessertspoons. Whipped cream. 

Egg, 1. Pastry. 

Line a small pie plate with pastry and bake. Heat the milk, 
blend the cornstarch and sugar in the beaten egg and add to the 
milk. Cook until thick, then stir in the chocolate previously melted, 
pour into crust and let cool. Just before serving cover with whipped 
cream. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Orange, 1. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Milk, 1 large cup. 

Eggs, 3. Pastry. 

Extract the juice of the orange, which should be a large one, 
and grate the rind. To this add the sugar, the beaten yolks of the 
eggs, the flour blended with a little of the cold milk and lastly the 
rest of the milk. Bake in one crust. Frost with a meringue made 
of the egg whites, sugar and orange flavoring, and return to the 
oven to brown. 



PIES. 237 

CRANBERRY PIE 

Cranberries, 2 cups. Water, y 2 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. 

Stew all together for 10 minutes and bake in 2 rich crusts in 
rather a quick oven. 

PRUNE PIE. 

Prunes, % pound. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1/2 small cup. Butter, 1% teaspoons. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash prunes and soak in cold water to cover over nisrht, cook 
in same water till soft, remove stones and cut prunes in quarters. 
Mix with sugar, lemon juice and liquor in which prunes were 
cooked, which should be reduced to iy 2 tablespoons. Line pie plate 
with crust, cover with prune mixture, dot over with butter and 
dredge with flour. Put on upper crust and bake in moderate oven. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

Cranberries, 1 cup. Water, 1 cup. 

Raisins, y 2 CU P- Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Cook altogether for a few minutes, then add vanilla and bake 
with 2 crusts. Mrs. 8. K., of the W. R. C., Eoxbury. 

MIRROR PIE. 

Fill a baked shell with wine jelly made with gelatine. Let 
harden. Serve with whipped cream. May be made in tarts, also. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Pineapple, 1 can. Salt, a pinch. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lemon juice. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Eggs, 2. 

Chop the pineapple fine, drain and measure juice. To tho 
pineapple add the sugar, eggs, beaten well, and flour and salt. Pour 
over 1 cup of the juice (adding water if necessary to mnke a cup) 
and lemon juice to flavor. Dot over with the butter cut in bits and 
bake in 1 crust with bars of pastry on top. Ec/leston Square. 



238 PIES. 

RHUBARB CUSTARD PIE. 

Fresh rhubarb, 10 stalks. Milk, 2-3 cup. 

Egg yolks, 2. Butter, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 1 large cup. Nutmeg, a pinch. 

Slice the rhubarb, cut into small pieces. Stew until tender, 
then mash fine and press through a colander. Add the remaining 
ingredients, beating eggs well. Mix and bake with one crust only as 
for ordinary custard pie. 

CARROT COCOANUT PIE. 

Carrot pulp, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Shredded cocoanut, 2-3 cup. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 pint. Sugar. 

Vanilla, */ teaspoon. 

Clean, dice and stew carrots in as little water as possible. Rub 
through a colander, then measure. To the cocoanut and carrot add 
milk, well beaten eggs, salt and sugar to taste. Flavor and pour into 
1 crust. Bake same as for squash pie. Cover with meringue if 
desired. Old Bach. 

COCOANUT TARTS. 

Butter, 2 ounces. Baking powder, 14 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Cocoanut, 1 cup. 

Sugar, y 2 cup. Currants. 

Jam. 

Cream butter, add beaten egg, sugar, cocoanut and baking pow- 
der. Mix in a few currants and stir all well together. Line tart 
tins with a good pastry, spread with a thin layer of any kind of 
jam, add mixture and bake. 

ENGLISH LEMON CHEESE TARTS. 

Eggs, 2. Butter, 4 ounces. 

Sugar. Lemon, 1. 

Pastry. 

Line patty tins with rich pastry and bake for 5 minutes in hot 
oven. For the filling melt the butter, beat eggs, add to them their 
weight in sugar, and stir into the butter. Add the grated rind and 
juice of about % of the lemon. Cook until thick and fill the tart 
shells. T. M. B., Boston. 



PIES. 239 

BANBURY TARTS. 

Raisins, 1 cup. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Lemon, 1. Small crackers, 2. 

Egg, 1. 

Chop raisins and crackers fine, add juice of the lemon, sugar 
and egg, beaten. Mix thoroughly, spread on crust in small pie 
plate and lay across strips of pie crust. Or it may be used as 
filling for tiny turnovers. , 

TART FILLINGS. 

One cup of cranberries, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of figs, 1 cup 
of sugar. Chop all together. 

One cup of raisins, 1 cup of chopped dates, juice of 2 oranges, 
or 1 lemon and 1 orange. /. B. Content. 

RICH TART SHELLS. 

Flour, 2 cups. Butter, % cup. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Eggs, 2. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Ice water. 

Sift dry ingredients and cut in the butter. Add the yolks of 
the egg, well beaten, and just enough water to make a medium 
soft dough. Chill on ice for an hour. Then roll thin and make 
into small tart shells. May be filled with preserves. 

TURKISH CREAM PASTRY. 

Flour, 21/2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Lukewarm water. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Hot butter. 

Cream filling. 

Sift flour and sutrar, rub in butter, add beaten eggs and 
hike-warm water to make a rather stiff paste. Put on ice 
for !/> hour. Then cut in squares and triangles, or roll into 
cones. Pour hot butter over them and bake, watching closely. 
When they begin to brown pour over more hot butter. ' When 
well browned remove, drain off superfluous butter and put in 
oven a moment to dry. Fill between squares or in cones with a 
thin cream filling such as is used in ordinary cream cakes. 

Bay State. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 241 



LETTUCE SALAD. 

1. Use only tender heart of lettuce leaves for a lettuce salad. 
Wash thoroughly, then soak in cold water for y 2 hour. This will 
make lettuce leaves very crisp and fresh. Shake off as much water 
as possible and wipe each piece dry with a piece of cheese cloth, 
being careful not to bruise or tear the leaves. Rub the inside of a 
salad bowl with a piece of onion, arrange leaves in a nest in it and 
just before serving pour over all French dressing. Garnish with 
chopped green peppers or pepper rings. 

2. Roll each cr^ep lettuce leaf and cut with sharp scissors into 
fine shreds. Let stand a few moments in French dressing, then 
drain and serve at once. v v 

3. Remove tough outer leaves from a head of lettuce and soak 
head in cold water. Shake out as much water as possible and dry 
without breaking leaves apart. "With a very sharp knife cut the 
whole head in half from top to bottom, then cut again from top 
to bottom at right angles, dividing the head into quarters. Pour 
over French dressing and serve at once. 

GERMAN POTATO SALAD. 

Potatoes. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Onions, 2. Celery seed, a pinch. 

Parsley, 2 tablespoons. Salt. ? 

Vinegar, y> cup. Sugar. 

Hot water, y 2 CU P- Egg, 1. 

Boil potatoes until tender but not too soft. Chop onions 
fine, mix in chopped parsley. Make dressing as follows : 

Add butter to vinegar and hot water mixed, add celery seed and 
salt and sugar to taste. When just lukewarm stir in very slowly 
the beaten egg. Beat until very smooth. Slice potatoes or cut in 
cubes while very hot. Put in a dish alternate layers of potatoes, 
onion and parsley, pour over all the dressing and set away to cool. 

BIRD'S NEST SALAD. 

Chop cold cooked spinach, mix with French dressing and 
form into little individual nests on lettuce leaves. Soften cream 
cheese with a little mayonnaise dressing, and form into tiny egi;s. 
Roll in minced parsley and place 4 or 5 in each nest, 



242 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Carrots, 1 cup. Sweet potatoes, y 2 cup. 

Potatoes, y 2 cup. Turnips, 1/2 cup. 

String beans, 1 cup. French dressing, i/ 2 cup. 

Cook vegetables separately, adding salt toward the last of the 
cooking. When cool cut into y 2 inch cubes. Cut beans into y 2 inch 
lengths. Mix all together with French dressing and garnish with 
lettuce leaves. Other vegetables may be used such as cauliflower, 
peas, beets, celery and asparagus. 

CORN SALAD. 

Fresh corn, 2 cups. Cold boiled rice, 2 cups. 

Tartar sauce. 

The corn should be freshly cut from the ear. Mix with the rice 
and season well. Moisten with as much tartar sauce as desired and 
serve in a nest of lettuce leaves. 

PEA SALAD. 

Peas, 1 pint. Minced onion, y 2 teaspoon. 

Hard boiled eggs, 2. Grated cheese, 2 tablespoons. 

Salad dressing. 
* 
Cook peas in as little boiling water as possible, drain. When 

cold add finely chopped yolks of the eggs, minced onion, cheese and 
salad dressing to moisten. Sprinkle over all the finely chopped egg 
whites. 

JELLIED SALAD. 

Granulated gelatine, 1 envelope. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cold water, y 2 cup. Shredded cabbage, 1 cup. 

Mild vinegar, y 2 cup. Sugar, y 2 cup. 

Lemon, 1. Celery, 2 cups. 

Boiling water, 1 pint. Sweet red peppers, 14 can. 

Soak gelatine in cold water y 2 hour, add vinegar, lemon juice, 
boiling water, sugar and salt. Strain and when beginning to set 
add remaining ingredients. Turn into a mold and chill. Serve on 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 243 

SPRING SALAD. 

Tomatoes, 4. Spring onions, 2. 

Green pepper, 1. Radishes, 5. 

Cucumber, 1. 

Slice tomatoes, onions, radishes and cucumbers, mix well and 
spread on lettuce leaves. Sprinkle with the green pepper, chopped 
fine, and serve with French dressing. 

CORNED BEEF SALAD. 

Cut cold corned beef into dice, mix with diced celery, a few 
diced boiled potatoes and diced beets. Line a salad bowl with crisp 
lettuce and fill w r ith this mixture. Cover with French dressing to 
which has been added 2 teaspoons of grated horseradish. 

STUFFED EGG SALAD. 

Cook eggs for y 2 hour. Let cool, then shell, cut in halves with 
a sharp knife and remove yolk from white. Rub yolks to a paste 
with a little melted butter, some chopped ham or tongue, and salt, 
pepper and mustard to taste. Make paste into balls and put 1 in 
each half of white. Serve on a bed of lettuce leaves with mayon- 
naise dressing. 

FISH FLAKE SALAD. 

Any fish may be used for this, salmon, tuna fish, shrimp, shad 
and crabmeat being most suitable. Flake the fish fine and mix with 
chopped celery, chopped green pepper, chopped cucumber, peas or 
chopped olives. Mix lightly in French dressing and serve on white 
lettuce leaves with a tablespoon of mayonnaise on top. Garnish 
with tiny radishes. 

CREOLE SALAD. 

Oranges, 2. Olives, 2 teaspoons. 

Green pepper, 1. Olive oil. 

Lemon juice. 

Line a salad bowl with young, delicate lettuce leaves, well 
washed and dried. Break the oranges into sections, skin each sec- 
tion and cut in halves. Shred the green pepper, sprinkle mvr tli<> 
orange and add chopped olives. Season with olive oil, salt and 
lemon 



244 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

CHEESE SALAD. 

Hard-boiled egg yolk, 1. Cayenne pepper, few grains. 

Olive oil, 1 tablespoon. Grated cheese, l / 2 pound. 

Mustard, 1 teaspoon. Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. Onion, 1 slice. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Lettuce. 

Rub the hard-boiled egg yolk smooth with the oil, then add 
one at a time and mixing thoroughly the mustard, sugar, salt and 
cayenne. Add cheese and vinegar in which the onion has been stand- 
ing for l /2 an hour and serve on lettuce leaves. 

POTATO SAVORY. 

Boiled potatoes, 3. Beet, 1. 

Hard boiled eggs, 2. Onion, 1. 

Water-cress, 1 cup. French dressing. 

Slice potatoes, mix with eggs, watercress, beet and onion, 
all chopped fine. Pour over a good French dressing and serve ice 
cold on lettuce leaves. 

MOLDED DANDELION SALAD. 

Chopped dandelion greens, 4 Eggs, 4. 
cups. Salt. 

Mayonnaise, 3 tablespoons. 

Wash dandelion greens and cook in boiling salted water till very 
tender, changing the water once. Drain and put through a potato 
ricer. Hard cook the eggs, shell and chop fine, add salt to taste and 
the salad dressing. Mix well and pack in small molds. When 
ready to serve unmold on individual nests of lettuce leaves and serve 
with more dressing. 

ROAST PORK SALAD. 

Cold roast pork, 1 cup. Eggs, 2. 

Celery, 2 cups. Salad dressing. 

Chop pork, using only soft white pieces. Cut celery into y 2 -inch 
lengths and add to pork. Hard boil the eggs and use whites only, 
chopping them fine. Use enough salad dressing to moisten. 

B. R. S., South Weymouth. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 245 

TONGUE SALAD. 

Cold boiled tongue, 1 pound. String beans, 1 cup. 

Olives, 12. Tomato, 1. 

Lettuce, 1 head. Mayonnaise, 1 cup. 

Dice the tongue, chop olives and tomato fine, shred the lettuce 
and slice string beans. Mix all lightly together with the mayon- 
naise. R. A., Hingham. 

TUNA FISH SALAD. 

Tuna fish, 3 cups. Green pepper, 1. 

Chopped celery, 1 cup. French dressing, y 2 cup. 

Egg, 1. Chopped olives, 14 cup. 

Mayonnaise dressing. 

Flake fish, add chopped celery, egg, hard boiled and chopped, 
and finely shredded pepper. Mix with French dressing. Let stand 
several hours before serving, then add the olives and serve with 
mayonnaise. 

CUCUMBER JELLY SALAD. 

Cucumbers. Cold water, 1 tablespoon. 

Gelatine, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Peel and slice cucumbers, then stew until tender in just enough 
water to cover, and season with salt and pepper. Strain and meas- 
ure liquid. There should be 1 pint. Soften gelatine in cold water 
for 15 minutes, then add to hot cucumber liquid, pour into mold 
and set on ice to chill. Turn out, cut in cubes and serve with 
mayonnaise dressing on lettuce leaves. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD. 

Tomatoes. Mayonnaise. 

Cabbage. Chopped nuts. 

Heart of lettuce leaves. 

Cut a slice off the top of as many large tomatoes as required. 
Scoop out the insides. Shred the tender leaves of the cabbage very 
fine and mix with the tomato. Add mayonnaise as desired and fill 
the tomato cups. Chill thoroughly and serve on lettuce leaves witli 
chopped nuts sprinkled over all. 



246 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

FROZEN CHEESE SALAD. 

Cream cheese, 1 cake. Paprika and salt. 

Cream. Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. 

Moisten cheese with a little cream and rub all ingredients to- 
gether. Pack into individual molds, put in a covered tin dish and 
pack in ice and salt for 3 hours. Serve each mold on a white lettuce 
leaf with French dressing. 

ALMOND CELERY SALAD. 

Celery, 2 cups. Blanched almonds, 1 cup. 

Apples, 2 cups. Pimento. 

Use the hearts of the celery and cut in tiny pieces, cut apples 
same size and chop almonds fine. Mix all and garnish with pimento. 
Serve with a dressing made by beating together equal parts of 
mayonnaise and whipped cream. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD. 

Tomato soup, 1 can. Cold water, i/ 2 cup. 

Hot water, 1 can. Salt and pepper. 

Gelatine, 2 tablespoons. Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Salad cream. 

To the tomato soup add an equal quantity of water and bring 
to a boil with the seasoning and sugar. Soak the gelatine in the 
cold water for i/ 2 hour, then stir it into the soup. Pour into small in- 
dividual molds which have been wet with cold water. Unmold on 
nests of lettuce leaves and serve with salad cream or mayonnaise. 

Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

PINEAPPLE AND GRAPEFRUIT SALAD. 

Pineapple, 1. Celery, y 2 cup. 

Grapefruit, 2. French dressing. 

Cream mayonnaise. 

Dice the pineapple. Halve the grapefruit and remove the seg- 
ments from the white skin. Mix fruit, drain and cool. Add celery 
cut fine. Put a portion of the mixture on each lettuce leaf with a 
teaspoon of French dressing made with fruit juice in place of vine- 
gar. On top of each place a tablespoon of cream mayonnaise. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 247 

GINGER ALE SALAD. 

(iranulated gelatine, 2 table- Salt, a pinch. 

spoons. Celery, 2-3 cup. 

Cold \\ak-i-, '2 tablespoons. Apple, 1-3 cup. 

Boiling water, 1-3 cup. Shredded pineapple, 4 table- 

Ginger ale, 1 cup. spoons. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Preserved ginger, 2 tablespoons. 

Lemon juice, !/4 cup. Cream mayonnaise. 

Soak gelatine in cold water for 5 minutes and dissolve in boil- 
ing water. Add ginger ale, lemon juice, sugar and salt. Let stand 
till it begins to thicken, then fold in remaining ingredients, chopped 
fine. Turn into mold which has been wet with cold water and chill 
thoroughly. Garnish with parsley and serve with cream mayonnaise. 

MINT JELLY SALAD. 

Mint, 1 bunch. Granulated gelatine, 1 table- 

Water, 1 cup. spoon. 

Lemons, 2. Mayonnaise. 

Chop the mint fine and simmer in the water for 30 minutes, 
strain. Add the juice of the lemons, and the gelatine, softened in a 
little cold water. Heat through and pour into a pan to harden 
and become thoroughly chilled. Cut in cubes and serve with mayon- 
naise on lettuce leaves. 

PRUNE AND NUT SALAD. 

Soak prunes and bring them to the boiling point, then cool 
and carefully remove the stones. Fill the cavities with nut meats 
of any sort walnuts, blanched almonds, or pecans are best. Serve 
4 or 5 prunes to each person in a nest of lettuce leaves with French 
dressing. 

FRUIT SALAD WITH PRUNES. 

Prunes, V pound. Pineapple, 1 cup. 

Orange, 1. Banana, 1 cup. 

Lettuce. 

Stew prunes till tender and remove stones. Add diced pine- 
apple (either canned or fresh), shredded orange and banana, sliced. 
Mix well and pile in bowl of crisp lettuce. Serve with dressing. 



248 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

BANANA AND NUT SALAD. 

Bananas, 6. Boiled salad dressing, 1 cup. 

Peanuts, 1 pint. Whipped cream, 1 cup. 

Cut bananas in halves crosswise, then slice in halves lengthwise. 
Roll in the peanuts, ground very fine. Mix salad dressing with 
whipped cream and pour over bananas. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

E. M. P., Manchester, N. H. 

FRUIT SALAD IN PINEAPPLE. 

Pineapple, 1. Apple, 1. 

Orange, 1. Cream mayonnaise, 2-3 cup. 

Strawberries, 12. 

Cut the pineapple in half lengthwise, carefully. With a sharp 
knife remove the pineapple, discarding the core, and cut small. Add 
the pulp of the orange and the apple, both chopped, and the mayon- 
naise. Mix carefully and refill pineapple shells. Place pineapple 
on a nest of lettuce leaves and place around it the strawberries. 
Serve very cold. Nuts may be added if desired, and candied cherries 
used in place of the strawberries. 

GRAPEFRUIT SALAD. 

Grapefruit, 1. Neufchatel cheese. 

Chopped nuts. French dressing. 

Peel a ripe grapefruit and remove all white skin. Chill and 
arrange sections on lettuce leaves, cover with a layer of chopped 
walnuts or pecans and then a layer of cheese put through a ricer. 
Pour over all a good French dressing. L. S. E., Brookline. 

ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD. 

Cut a large alligator pear around in rings, and slip these 
from the seed. Lay each ring in a nest of lettuce leaves and on 
each ring lay a slice of tomato. Place a spoonful of mayonnaise on 
the tomato and top with a tiny raw or pickled onion. 

Mrs. G. H., Allerton. 



SALADS AND SALAD DKI.SMNG. 249 

MAYONNAISE. 

Egg yolks, 2. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Dry mustard, 1 teaspoon. Paprika, 4 or 5 dashes. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. Olive oil. 

Vinegar, 1 pint. 

Place in a quart bowl, which is set in a pan of cracked ice, 
the dry egg yolks, mustard, sugar and seasoning. Mix we 11 with a 
silver spoon. Then begin to add the olive oil very slowly, drop by 
drop, stirring rapidly all the time. When about 1 tablespoon of oil 
has been added, add a teaspoon of vinegar. Continue to stir, adding 
oil and vinegar alternately, a few drops at a time, until the pint of 
vinegar has been used and the mixture is of the consistency of 
creamed butter. Chill all ingredients before mixing and stir con- 
stantly. Takes y 2 hour to make and should not be hurried. When 
using mayonnaise with a fruit salad, add an equal quantity of 
whipped cream. Sister Anne. 

MAYONNAISE WITHOUT OIL. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Dry mustard, l / 2 teaspoon. 

Vinegar, 3 tablespoons. Eggs, 2. 

Salt and pepper. 

Put all ingredients in a double boiler, beating eggs light and 
adding salt and pepper to taste. Stir till it begins to thicken, but 
not to boil. Remove from fire, cool and chill. 

Mrs. F. T. V., BrooUine. 

BOILED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Eggs, 2. Olive oil, 3 tablespoons. 

Salt, y 2 tablespoon. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Mustard, y 2 tablespoon. Vinegar, y 2 cup. 

Sugar, 1 scant tablespoon. Cayenne, a few grains. 

Mix and sift salt, sugar and mustard and stir thoroughly into 
the well beat. -n rugs. Beat oil in with an egg beater, also milk 
;nid vinegar, and add cayenne. Cook in a double boiler Vi; hour, 
beating frequently with tlir egg beater. Cool and chill. 

.17. E. E., ftrookline. 



250 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

SALAD CREAM. 

Eggs, 2. Salt, 1 saltspoon. 

Mustard, 1 teaspoon. Paprika, a shake. 

Flour, 1 teaspoon. Vinegar, y 2 cup. 

Sugar, 3 teaspoons. Cream, y 2 cup. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix together dry ingredients, add eggs, slightly beaten, then the 
vinegar, cream and butter. Cook in double boiler till the consistency 
of cream. Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 



RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING. 

Mayonnaise, 1 pint. Chopped peppers, % cup. 

Chilli sauce, y 2 cup Chopped capers, 1 pound. 

Minced chives, y% tablespoon. 

Season mayonnaise with tarragon vinegar and a little mustard, 
add remaining ingredients and mix well. Carrie. 

BOILED DRESSING. 

Milk, y 2 pint. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Flour, 1 heaping tablespoon. English mustard, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, a pinch. Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Heat milk to boiling point, add flour blended in a little cold 
milk, salt and butter and boil till thick, stirring constantly to avoid 
burning. Set aside till entirely cold. Just before serving blend 
mustard and vinegar and add to white sauce. 

FRENCH DRESSING. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Oil, 3 tablespoons. Pepper, 14 teaspoon. 

Cayenne or paprika, a dash. 

Mix salt, pepper and oil, then stir in very slowly the vinegar, 
beating all the time with a fork till it becomes light and a little 
thickened. Then add a dash of paprika or cayenne. Half tarragon 
vinegar may be used if desired. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 251 

CALIFORNIA FRENCH DRESSING. 

Olive oil, 4 tablespoons. Powdered sugar, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Grapefruit juice, 2 tablespoons. Salt, y 2 teaspoon. 

Paprika, y teaspoon. 

Mix ingredients in order given, put in a glass jar, chill and 
shake thoroughly before using. Serve with a fruit salad. 

COLESLAW DRESSING. 

Egg, 1. Pepper, a dash. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. Vinegar, y 2 cup. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Butter, 1 dessertspoon. 

Beat egg well, add sugar, salt, pepper and vinegar and bring 
all to boiling point. Remove from fire and add butter. Pour hot 
over finely shredded cabbage. 

SOUR MILK SALAD DRESSING. 

Eggs, 3. Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Mustard, 1 teaspoon. Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, 2 teaspoons. Sour milk, 1 cup. 

Cayenne, a dash. Vinegar, y 2 cup. 

Beat the eggs separately. To the yolks add the mustard, salt, 
cayenne and sugar. To the whites add the melted butter and sour 
milk. Pour all into a double boiler and cook and stir till creamy. 
Add vinegar and beat well. If mixture begins to curdle, remove 
from fire at once and beat violently. 

PINEAPPLE DRESSING. 

Egg yolks, 2. Pineapple juice, y 2 cup. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. Lemon, y 2 . 

Flour, y 2 tablespoon. Cream. 

Mix yolks, sugar, flour and pineapple juice in double boiler and 
cook until thick. When cool add the juice of the lemon and thin 
slightly with cream. Whipped cream may be used instead of plain 
if desired. Drip the cream in slowly, beating constantly. Will 
serve four persons. 



252 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 

PEANUT BUTTER SALAD DRESSING. 

Peanut butter, 4 tablespoons. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 3 tablespoons Lemon, 1. 

Eggs, 3. Salt and pepper. 

Dissolve peanut butter in milk, add yolks of the eggs, hard 
boiled, and rubbed smooth, sugar, juice of the lemon and seasoning. 
Beat all together to a light paste, chill and serve. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS. 253 

CLUB SANDWICH. 

Toast. ( 'hicken, 2 slices. 

Lettuce, 2 leaves. Bacon, 2 slices. 

Mayonnaise. Tomato, 1 slice. 

Toast, bacon and lettuce should be crisp toast and bacon hot 
and lettuce very cold. On a golden brown slice of toast place a let- 
tuce leaf with a spoonful of mayonnaise. On this lay a slice of 
chicken, then a slice of bacon, then the other slice of chicken, bacon, 
lettuce leaf and toast. On top lay the slice of ripe tomato with a 
spoonful of mayonnaise. Sister Anne. 

CLUB CHEESE SANDWICH. 

On a piece of hot toast lay a crisp lettuce leaf, spread with a thick 
layer of cream cheese moistened with mayonnaise. Sprinkle with 
paprika and salt and on the cheese lay a slice of crisp bacon. A 
second slice of hot toast completes the sandwich. 

BAKED BEAN SANDWICHES. 

Baked beans, 1 cup. Brown bread. 

Horseradish, 1 tablespoon. French mustard. 

Slice bread very thin. Mash beans with a fork and add horse- 
radish and a bit of the mustard. B. R. 8., South Weymoutli. 

WALNUT AND OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Stuffed olives, 1 cup. Walnuts, 1 cup. 

Mayonnaise. 

Put olives and walnuts through the meat grinder, using a fine 
attachment. Mix with enough mayonnaise to hold together well and 
spread between buttered slices of white bread. 

MOSAIC SANDWICHES. 

Use white and brown bread, putting the slices to^tlicr with 
green butter. The butter is made as follows: Boil spinnrli, put 
through a sieve, drain as dry as possible and season with finely 
chopped parsley and capers, making perfectly smooth by beating 
in creamed butter. Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 



254 SANDWICHES AND TOASTS. 

OYSTER SANDWICHES. 

Oysters, 12. Bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon. 

Cream, 2 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Butter. 1 heaping teaspoon. Egg yolk, %. 

Chop oysters and add cream, butter, crumbs and seasoning. Let 
all simmer in double boiler for 10 minutes then add half a beaten 
egg yolk and pack in a small mold. Chill and turn out. Slice very 
thin and place slices between slices of buttered bread. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES. 

Cream cheese, 1 package. Green pepper. 1 slice. 

Egg,' 1. Onion juice, 1 teaspoon. 

Stuffed olives, 15. Mayonnaise dressing. 

Hard cook the egg and chop it with other ingredients, very 
fine. Add onion juice and mix with mayonnaise. Spread between 
triangles of fresh white bread. Commuter's Wife, Lawrence. 

FIG SANDWICHES. 

Stew figs in a very little water till they are soft, then stir to a 
paste. Cut slices of white and brown bread. Spread paste on 
brown slices, cover with white slices and press together. 

TUNA FISH SANDWICHES. 

Tuna fish, 1 cup. Tarragon, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 2 teaspoons. Chopped gherkins, 1 teaspoon. 

Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon. Salt and paprika. 

Chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon. Nutmeg. 

Chop fish, add to the butter which has been creamed, and add 
other ingredients. Blend lightly and spread on very thin white 
bread. 

SAVORY MUTTON SANDWICHES. 
Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. Chopped mint, 1 teaspoon. 

Pepper, a shake. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Capers, 1 tablespoon. Chopped mutton, 1 pint. 

Mix all together and spread between buttered slices of whole 
wheat bread. Only One. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS. 255 

PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES. 

Spread peanut butter on thin slices of toasted bread. Add a thin 
slice of hard boiled egg and a few drops of lemon juice, squeeze 
halves of sandwich together and seWe garnished with watercress. 

PEANUT AND FIG SANDWICHES. 

Cook chopped figs with a little water in a double boiler till a 
paste is formed, add a few drops of lemon juice and spread on but- 
tered slices of white bread. Sprinkle with finely chopped peanuts 
and cover with second slice. Only One. 

FRUIT SANDWICHES. 

Cut whole wheat bread into thin slices, spread with peanut 
butter and sprinkle with finely chopped dates, figs and raisins and 
place slices together. 

BROWN SUGAR SANDWICHES. 

Brown sugar, 1 cup. Peanuts or almonds, 1/2 CU P- 

Blanch nuts and chop very fine, add to sugar and spread be- 
tween well buttered slices of white bread. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Chopped chicken, 1 cup. Cucumber, y 2 . 

White bread. 

Chop chicken and cucumber together, season well and spread 
betweeen well buttered slices of bread. 

B. R. S., South Weymoufli. 

TOMATO AND EGG SANDWICHES. 

Tomatoes, 1 can. Egg, 1. 

Butter, 1 teaspoon. Bread crumbs. 

Drain tomatoes. Bring juice to a boil and add butter and 
well beaten egff. Remove from stove and thicken with bread crumbs 
till of right consistency to spread. 

A High School Girl, Cambridge. 



256 SANDWICHES AND TOASTS. 

MASHED POTATO SANDWICHES. 

Mash hot potatoes and season well with butter, cream, salt, 
pepper, chopped onion and chopped parsley. Spread on well but- 
tered slices of bread. A. D. B., Brookline. 

SAVORY SANDWICHES. 

Deviled chicken, 1 can. Lemon, y 2 - 

Heavy cream. 

Mix chopped chicken and lemon juice with heavy cream till of 
the right consistency to spread. Mrs. H. B. C., East Boston. 

JAPANESE SANDWICHES. 

Sardines, 12. Minced pickles and celery. 

Mashed hard boiled egg, 1 cup. Dry mustard, 1/2 teaspoon. 

Lemon juice. 

Skin and bone sardines and mash. Mix with remaining in- 
gredients, using enough lemon juice to moisten. Cut bread in long 
thin strips, spread and roll up. Fasten with toothpicks or tie with 
ribbon. 

BERMUDA SANDWICHES. 

Cut Bermuda onions in thin slices, place in sweetened salted 
ice water for y 2 hour. Drain and lay each slice on a buttered round 
of bread. Spread with mayonnaise and cover with another round. 

Only One. 
RUSSIAN SANDWICHES. 

Spread round crackers with thin slices of Neufchatel cheese, 
cover with finely chopped olives, moistened with dressing. Place 
another cracker over each and press together. 

Mrs. F. C., Beverly. 

SMEARCASE SANDWICHES. 

Cream cheese, 1 package. Eggs, 2. 

Stuffed olives, 1 small bottle. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter thins. 

Cream together butter and cheese. Hard cook the eggs and 
rub yolks into butter and cheese. Chop olives and egg whites fine 
and add. Spread on butter thins. Sister Anne. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS. 



LEMON TOAST. 

Water, 2 cups. Salt, a shake. 

Cornstarch, 2 teaspoons. Egg, 1. 

Lemon, 1. Whole wheat toast. 

Blend cornstarch smooth with the juice of the lemon, add salt 
and well beaten egg and mix well. Bring water to a boil and add 
mixture slowly, stirring constantly. Boil 3 minutes. Pour over 
toast while hot and set aside to cool slightly. 



SANDWICHES AND TOASTS. 259 

LEMON TOAST. 

Water, 2 cups. Salt, a shake. 

Cornstarch, 2 teaspoons. Egg, 1. 

Lemon, 1. Whole wheat toast. 

Blend cornstarch smooth with the juice of the lemon, add salt 
and well beaten egg and mix well. Bring water to a boil and add 
mixture slowly, stirring constantly. Boil 3 minutes. Pour over 
toast while hot and set aside to cool slightly. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 261 

POTATO SOUP. 

Medium-sized potatoes, 3. Salt, iy 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, 1 quart. Pepper, y s teaspoon. 

Onion, y 2 . Celery salt, !/4 teaspoon. 

Butter, 3 tablespoons. Cayenne, few grains. 

Flour 2, tablespoons. Chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon. 

Cook potatoes in boiling salted water, drain and rub through 
a strainer. Scald milk with the onion sliced in it, remove onion 
and add milk to potato. Melt butter, stir in flour and seasoning 
and add it to boiling soup. Cook 1 minute. Strain and sprinkle 
in parsley. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP. 

Dried peas, 1 cup. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk. Salt and pepper. 

Soak peas over night in plenty of water. In morning drain 
and let simmer 4 or 5 hours. Strain and add enough milk to make 
of the consistency of cream. Melt the butter and add to the puree 
with salt and pepper. Cook 4 minutes more and serve. 

ARIZONA SOUP. 

Rice, 1/2 pound. Salt and pepper. 

Cooked tomatoes, 1 quart. Water, 1 quart. 

Cold baked beans, 1 cup. Soda, y 2 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 dessertspoon. Milk, 1 quart. 

Onion, 1. 

Cook rice, tomatoes, beans, sliced onion and seasoning in the 
water till rice is done. Add soda and milk. Heat well and serve. 

7. B. Content. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Asparagus pulp, 1 pint. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Chicken stock, iy 2 pints. Salt and pepper. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Cream, 1 cup. 

After asparagus is boiled till very soft, press through a sieve, 
then measure. Dilute with the stock. Melt the butter, blend in 
flour and seasoning and add to soup. Place on fire and add the 
cream. Beat with an egg beater and serve very hot. 



262 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 



CARROT SOUP. 

Carrots, 6. Sugar, a pinch. 

Onions, 2. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Celery, a few stalks. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 1 quart. Cream, 1 gill. 

Salt and pepper. 

Clean and slice carrots and onions, chop outside stalks of 1 
bunch of celery and place all in kettle with milk, add seasoning and 
sugar. Simmer till vegetables are very soft, then put through a 
sieve. Add flour and butter blended till very smooth. Cook a few 
moments, then add cream and serve. 

CREAM OF CHESTNUT SOUP. 

Chestnuts, 1 pint. Salt and pepper. 

Cream, 1 pint. Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Egg, 1. 

Shell chestnuts, cover with boiling water and parboil 5 min- 
utes. Drain and throw into cold water, when the skins can easily 
be removed. Cook until tender in boiling salted water to cover. 
Mash with a wooden potato masher in the water in which they have 
been cooked, then rub all through a sieve into the cream. Season 
with butter, salt and pepper and sugar and bring to the boiling 
point. Cook 5 minutes, remove from fire and stir in the well beaten 
egg. Serve at once. 

BISQUE OF CLAMS. 

Clams, 2 dozen. Mace, 1 blade. 

Onion, 1. Milk, 1 quart. 

Cloves, 2. Cornstarch, 2 tablespoons. 

Parsley, 1 sprig. Whipped cream. 

Salt. 

Chop clams and add to their strained liquor, add also sliced 
onion, cloves, parsley and mace. Cook 20 minutes. Thicken the milk 
with the cornstarch blended in a little cold water, cook in double 
boiler for 10 minutes, then strain clam mixture into this. Season 
with salt and serve in cups with unsweetened whipped cream. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 263 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Tomato juice, 1 pint. Butter, 1 dessertspoon. 

.Milk, 1 quart. Salt and cayenne. 

Soda, 14 teaspoon. Whipped cream. 

Stew tomatoes in a little water till soft and mushy, strain and 
measure juice. Bring to a boil and add soda, then add gradually 
while stirring constantly the scalded milk. Add seasoning and beat 
in butter. Just before serving add a spoonful of unsweetened 
whipped cream to each dish of soup. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Fowl. Chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Nutmeg, y 2 teaspoon. 

Egg, 1. Cold water, 2 quarts. 

Use wings, back bone, neck, gizzard and heart of 1 fowl. Cover 
with cold water, bring slowly to a boil and simmer for 2 hours or 
until meat and bone fall apart. Strain stock. Beat the egg in a 
cup and add enough of the stock to fill cup, then pour slowly into 
rest of stock, stirring rapidly, add salt, parsley and nutmeg. 

CREAM OF RICE SOUP. 

Rice, % cup. Salt, l 1 /^ teaspoons. 

I .oiling water, 2 cups. Milk, 3 cups. 

Onion, 2 slices. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Almond extract, y teaspoon. 

Add rice and onion to boiling water. Cook till tender, then 
rub through colander, add butter and milk, which should be scald- 
ing. Reheat, season and flavor with almond. 

OYSTER CELERY SOUP. 

Diced celery, 1 cup. Milk. 

( )ysters, 1 pint. Butter and flour. 

Salt and paprika. 

Stew the celery in water to cover until tender. Stew oysters, 
chopped, in 1 quart of milk (or more if needed) in a double boiler. 
Thicken slightly with butter and Hour blended, then strain. Add 
the stewed celery and seasoning. 



264 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 



ONION SOUP. 

Large onions, 4. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Cold water, 1 cup. Hot water, 3 pints. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Beef extract, 1 ounce. 

Boil onions and water for 10 minutes. Drain and saute in the 
butter for 4 or 5 minutes. Stir in the flour and brown. Add 
the hot water, seasoning and extract and cook slowly for 20 minutes. 
Strain and serve with a garnish of grated cheese. 

CREAM OF CELERY. 

Celery leaves and stalks. Boiled rice, 3 teaspoons. 

Water, 3 pints. Salt and pepper. 

Cornstarch, 1 teaspoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Diced celery, y 2 cup. 

Wash leaves of 1 bunch of celery and scrape tough outer stalks. 
Simmer in the water till all flavor is extracted. Strain and thicken 
with cornstarch blended in a little water. Add seasoning, rice and the 
diced celery, which should be cut from tender inner stalks. Last of 
all add milk, heat thoroughly and serve. 

CREOLE SOUP. 

Chopped green pepper, 3 table- Tomatoes, 1 pint. 

spoons. Salt, pepper and cayenne. 

Chopped onion, 2 tablespoons. Boiled macaroni, 14 cup. 

Butter, 14 cup. Grated horseradish, 2 table- 
Flour, 1-3 cup. spoons. 

Brown soup stock, 1 quart. Vinegar, 1 teaspoon. 

Cook pepper and onion in butter 5 minutes, add flour, soup 
stock and tomato, and simmer 15 minutes. Rub through a sieve and 
season highly. Just before serving add cooked macaroni cut fine, 
horseradish and vinegar. 

LEMON SOUP. 

Make a strong hot lemonade. Thicken it slightly with corn- 
starch or arrowroot and serve cold with a bit of preserved ginger 
or a cherry in each glass. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 265 

TURKISH SOUP. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. I vice, l / 2 cup. 

Canned tomatoes, 1 cup. Hot water, 1% pints. 

Salt and pepper. 

Brown the butter in a frying pan and add tomatoes. Coolt 
for 10 minutes and add raw rice. Fry this for 6 minutes then pour 
in very gradually, a few drops at a time, the water. Cook until rice 
is soft. Season to taste. 

From a Turkish restaurant in New York. Bay State. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 

Corn, 1 can. Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, 1 quart. Flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Butter, 3 tablespoons. 

Turn corn into a saucepan, add a little water and cook gently 
for a few minutes. Prepare a white sauce of the butter, flour, milk 
and salt, and add corn to this. Cook together for a few minutes 
and serve at once. 

ONION PUREE. 

Onion pulp, 2 cups. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Butter, 2% tablespoons. Milk, y 2 cup. 

Salt and cayenne. 

Peel onions and boil in 2 waters till very soft. Drain well and 
put through a puree sieve, then measure. Melt butter and stir in 
flour till well blended. Pour on the milk gradually while stirring 
constantly. Bring to a boil and add onion puree. Bring to a boil, 
season and serve. 

CREAM OF BANANA SOUP. 

Milk, 2 cups. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Kice stock, 2 cups. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Nutmeg, !/4 teaspoon. 

Bananas, 3. 

Bring milk and rice stock to a boil, add the butter and flour, 
which have been rubbed together till smooth. Boil f> minutes, add 
the salt, nutmeg and the bananas, which have been skinned, scraped 
and mashed through a sieve. Boil "> minutes and serve with croutons. 



266 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 



CREAM OF LETTUCE SOUP. 

Lettuce, 1 large head. Pepper, 1 shake. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Egg yolks, 2. 

Tarragon vinegar, y 2 teaspoon. Cream, y 2 cup. 

Sugar, y 2 teaspoon. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Stock, 5 cups. 

Chop lettuce and saute in the butter with the sugar and vinegar, 
add flour and when blended add stock gradually. When lettuce is 
tender add egg yolks diluted with cream. Let thicken while boiling. 

B. C., Braintree. 

PEANUT CREAM SOUP. 

Water, 1 pint. Chopped celery, y 2 cup. 

Milk, 1 pint. Barley or rice, y 2 cup. 

Peanut butter, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Warm water, 2 tablespoons. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Boil milk and water together, add peanut butter dissolved in 
the warm water, then add celery, rice and seasoning. Thicken with 
the flour and butter mixed together, and serve piping hot with 
croutons. 

CHINESE ALMOND SOUP. 

Soup stock, 3y 2 pints. Raw rice, 3 ounces. 

Onion, 1. Butter, y 2 tablespoon. 

Chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon. Almonds, 3 ounces. 

Salt and pepper. Milk, 2 cups. 

To the soup stock add the onion, chopped, parsley and season- 
ing. Bring to a boil and add rice, well washed, and butter. Boil 
for 35 minutes. Scald the almonds in boiling water, drain, peel 
and chop almost to a powder. Place in a saucepan with milk and 
boil for 10 minutes, stirring well. Strain through a cheese cloth 
into the soup. Mix well, boil for 10 minutes and serve piping hot. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 267 

BEAN SOUP. 

White beans, 1 cup. Salt. iy 2 teaspoons. 

Water, 1 quart. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Onion salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Soak beans in cold water over night, cook slowly for 4 or 5 
hours or until beans are tender. Put through a colander. Rub but- 
ter, flour and salt together, pour a little of the hot liquid over this 
and turn it into the remainder of the bean liquid. Add seasoning 
and sufficient water to make 1 quart. Cook 10 minutes. 

ORANGE SOUP. 

Oranges, 8. Soda, a pinch. 

Water, 1 quart. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt and cayenne. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Cream, y 2 pint. 

Pare the oranges and cut in pieces. Boil for 1 hour in the 
water, then strain. To the juice, add salt and pepper, bring to a 
boil and as it boils up add soda and thicken with butter and flour 
rubbed together to a cream. Remove from fire and add hot cream. 
Serve with croutons. 

LOBSTER CHOWDER. 

Salt pork, 3 slices. Pilot crackers. 

Fresh cod, 1 inch slice. Cold boiled lobster, 1. 

Sliced potato. Milk, 1 pint. 

< rated onion, 1. Water. 

Salt and pepper. Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter. Chopped red pepper, 1. 

Hot cream, y 2 pint. 

Put a rack into a deep kettle and on it place the salt pork, 
then the cod, then a layer of the potato, salt, pepper, and little lumps 
of butter; a layer of pilot crackers, then the lobster, cut into small 
pieces; another layer of pilot crackers, layer of cod, etc., making 
lobster the last layer, with plenty of butter and a dusting of pepper 
and salt over the top. Pour over a pint of milk, adding just enough 
water to cover all, and boil for 40 minutes, slowly but steadily. 
Just before serving add the hot cream. Sprinkle chopped parsley 
and pepper over each portion as served. 



268 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 



GLOUCESTER CLAM CHOWDER. 

Clams, 1 quart. Fat salt pork. 

Milk, 1 quart. Sliced potato, 1 pint. 

Onion, 1. Salt and pepper. 

Pilot crackers, 3. 

Separate bodies of clams from necks. Chop necks slightly and 
cover with a little hot water. Add all the clam liquor and the onion, 
sliced. Cover the bottom of a frying pan with bits of salt pork and 
brown well, then add to chowder. Cook slowly for 2 hours and add 
1 pint of the milk and the bodies of the clams. Cook 1 hour, then 
add potatoes. When these are soft add the remaining pint of 
milk, seasoning and crackers. S. J . M., Gloucester. 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

Salt pork, !/4 pound. Onions, 3. 

Potatoes, 5. Milk, li/ 2 pints. 

Boiling water, 1 quart. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt and pepper. 

Try out the sliced salt pork in a deep kettle and when thorough- 
ly cooked add onions, sliced, and boiling water. Let cook for 20 
minutes, then add potatoes, sliced, and seasoning. Let all cook to- 
gether till potatoes and onions are soft. Add cold milk in which 
flour has been blended, stir gently and bring to a boil. Just before 
serving add whole pilot crackers or soda biscuits, one for each per- 
son to be served. 

HADDOCK CHOWDER. 

Salt pork, 3 slices. Water, 3 cups. 

Onion, 1. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Haddock, 2 pounds. Milk, 2y 2 cups. 

Raw sliced potatoes, 2 cups. Salt and pepper. 

Cracker crumbs, 3 tablespoons. 

Fry salt pork brown in a saucepan with the onion, sliced. Add 
haddock, cut into small pieces, and the potatoes. Add the water 
and simmer for % hour, then add butter, milk, salt and pepper to 
taste and cracker crumbs. Serve very hot. 



SOUPS AND ClIOWDI.i;-. 2f>9 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER. 

Salt pork. l-'3 cup. Boiling water, '2 cups. 

Onion, 1. Milk, 1 quart. 

Chopped potatoes, 2 cups. Butter, 4 tablespoons. 

Parsnips, 11/4 cups. Cracker crumbs, i/o cup. 

Salt and pepper. Chopped parsley, '2 teaspoons. 

Chop fat salt pork coarsely, then measure. Try out in a deep 
kettle, then add onion, sliced. Fry brown and add potatoes and 
parsnips, both coarsely chopped. Sprinkle with pepper and salt and 
add boiling water gradually. Let boil till vegetables are soft, then 
add milk, butter, a little at a time, cracker crumbs and parsley. 
Whole crackers may be used if preferred. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

Salt pork, 14 pound. Corn, 1 can. 

Onion, 1. Milk, 2 cups. 

Water, 1 pint. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Potatoes. 1 quart. Pepper and salt. 

Soda crackers, 6. 

Fry together the salt pork and onion, both sliced. Add the 
water, the potatoes, which should be parboiled, the corn and enough 
additional water to cover. Simmer till the potatoes are done, then 
add the milk, which should be boiling hot, the butter, pepper and 
salt to taste, and at the very last the soda crackers, split in halves. 
Serve immediately. 

BEEFSTEAK CHOWDER. 

I '.i ( fsteak, ll'o pounds. Salt and pepper. 

Sliced potatoes, 1 quart. Flour, 1 tablespoon. 

Onions, 2. Cold water, 3 pints. 

Butter or fat salt pork. 1 tablespoon. 

Have steak cut from bottom of the round, cut in 2-ineh pie, -MS. 
add cold water and seasoning and cook slowly until tender. Slice, 
onions, fry in butter or salt pork fat and add with potatoes to meat. 
Cook till potatoes are tender, then thicken with flour blended smooth 
in a bit of cold water. As the water boils away add more. 

A. P. N.. \Vnlla*ton. 



270 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 



OLD-FASHIONED OYSTER STEW. 

Oysters, 1 quart. Butter, 14 cup. 

Cold water, % C up. Salt and pepper. 

Milk, 1 quart. 

Put oysters in a colander and pour over them into a bowl the 
cold water. Pick over oysters, remove tough muscles from 1 pint 
of them, add muscles to the other pint and chop fine. Add chopped 
oysters to water drained through colander, and simmer for 3 min- 
utes. Strain through cheese cloth, add reserved soft part of oysters 
and cook till they are plump and edges are curled. Remove oysters 
with a skimmer to a hot tureen with butter and seasoning. Add 
milk to liquor and heat to scalding point in double boiler, then pour 
over oysters in tureen and serve with oyster crackers. 

D. P., Newtonville. 

OYSTER CHOWDER. 

Potatoes, 3. Salt and pepper. 

Onion, 1. Celery salt. 

Boiling water, 1 quart. Milk, 1 cup. 

Oysters, 1 pint. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Dice the potatoes and slice onion, add boiling water and cook 
15 minutes. Add oysters and seasoning and boil 15 minutes more, 
add milk and butter, heat well and serve. Mrs. D. P., Chelsea. 

BEAN CHOWDER. 

Red beans, 1 cup. Potatoes. 

Cold water, 1 quart. Tomatoes, i/ 2 pint. 

Onion, 1. Macaroni, i/ 2 cup. 

Salt and pepper. Bacon, 3 slices. 

Bacon fat, 1 tablespoon. 

Wash beans and soak over night in the cold water. In the morn- 
ing stew until tender with the onion, adding more water as it cooks 
away. When beans are tender, add as many diced potatoes as 
desired, the tomatoes, strained, and the macaroni, broken in small 
pieces. Boil for 1 hour. Season and add chopped fried bacon and 
fat. Serve very hot. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 271 

KITCHEN BOUQUET. 

Parsley stalks, 4. Bay leaf, 1. 

Celery, 1 branch. Thyme, 1 sprig. 

Cloves, 2. 

Wrap parsley about the other herbs and tie tightly with a 
string. Used in various recipes. Cookie, Brighton. 

ESSENCE OF CELERY. 

Celery seed, ^ ounce. Brandy, !/4 pint. 

Soak the celery seed in the brandy for 2 weeks. A few drops 
of this will flavor a soup or broth as delicionsly as fresh celery. 

A. W., Medford. 



VEGETABLES. 273 



BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Beans, 1 quart. Molasses, 2 tablespoons. 

Fat salt pork, 1 pound. Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons. 

Soak beans over night in cold water to cover. In the morning 
drain and put over the fire in fresh cold water to cover. Add pork, 
scored through the rind at i^-inch intervals, and bring to a boil. 
Turn into bean pot on the bottom of which is 2 tablespoons of 
chopped salt pork. Mix salt, sugar and molasses, add a little boil- 
ing water and pour over beans. Bake in a slow oven at least 8 hours, 
adding boiling water as necessary to keep beans moist. 

SPANISH POTATOES. 

Diced potatoes, 1 quart. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Onion, 1. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Spanish peppers, y 2 can - Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Pepper, y 2 teaspoon. Milk, 1 pint. 

Cheese, y 2 pound. 

Cook potato cubes and onion, minced, in salted water till pota- 
toes are tender, add peppers, chopped fine, and cook 5 minutes. 
Drain and fill a baking dish. Make a white sauce of the butter, 
flour, salt and pepper, and milk, add cheese, grated, and pour over 
potatoes. Bake until golden brown. 

HASHED BROWN POTATOES. 

Boiled potatoes, 4. Salt and pepper. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Chop potatoes coarsely, or slice in medium thick slices and season 
well. Melt butter in a frying pan and when hot pour in potatoes. 
Spread evenly in frying pan, set over a low flame on back of the 
range and let brown. Fold over like an omelet and serve. 

WHIPPED POTATO. 

Mashed potato, 2 cups. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, 4 tablespoons. 

Mash potatoes and put in double boiler with butter and milk. 
Leave cover off and cook for 10 minutes, then beat with a fork until 
and fluffy. 



274 VEGETABLES. 



POTATOES AU GRATIN. 

Grated cheese, 1 cup. Salt and pepper. 

Milk, 1 pint. Butter. 

Boiled potatoes, 5. Cracker crumbs. 

Chop potatoes fine and fill buttered baking dish. Dissolve cheese 
in the boiling hot milk and pour over potatoes, season and cover 
with buttered crumbs. Bake 15 to 20 minutes. 

POTATO TURNOVERS. 

Potatoes, 6. Eggs, 2. 

Butter, ~y 2 tablespoon. Flour. 

Minced meat. 

Mash potatoes while hot, add butter and eggs, well beaten. 
Dredge board with flour, spread potato over it and when cool cut 
in round cakes 5 inches across. Put on each round a large table- 
spoon of minced cold meat, turn over half the cake to cover, coat 
with egg and crumbs and bake a delicate brown in a hot oven. 

POTATO BALLS. 

Mash boiled potatoes fine, stir into them the yolk of an egg 
and shape them into balls. Dip in beaten egg, roll in cracker crumbs 
and fry quickly in deep fat or bake in a hot oven. 

SAUSAGE STUFFED POTATOES. 

Wash and dry large potatoes and bake till well done. Cut 
in halves and scoop out insides, being careful not to break the skins. 
Mix the potato thoroughly with well seasoned sausage meat, a little 
cream and butter. Stuff the skins with this filling, lay in a buttered 
pan and bake for !/o hour or until nicely browned. Serve piping 
hot. 

POTATO STRAWS. 

Wash, peel and drain potatoes and cut in %-inch slices. Then 
cut across in %-inch strips. Let soak in cold salted water for 10 
minutes. Drain carefully and wipe straws as dry as possible with 
a clean cloth. Drop potatoes a few at a time into deep, hot fat or 
boiling oil and let cook about 8 minutes, or until delicately browned. 
Remove with a skimmer, drain on unglazed paper and sprinkle 
lightlv with salt. Serve at once. 



VEGETABLES. 275 



SARATOGA POTATO CHIPS. 

Cut the potatoes with a plane into slices as thin as paper if 
possible. Let them soak in cold water for a short time to wash 
out the starch, then put them into fresh water with a piece of ice, 
to chill them thoroughly. Drain a few slices at a time, dry them on 
a napkin, put them in a frying basket and immerse them in smok- 
ing hot fat. Keep them well separated and remove as soon as they 
are slightly colored. Turn them on to a paper plate to drain and 
sprinkle with salt. Keep in the oven till all are done. They should 
be perfectly crisp and dry before serving. May be eaten hot or cold. 



CREAMED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cubed sweet potatoes, 2 cups. Paprika, a pinch. 
Butter, 2y 2 tablespoons. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt, y 2 teaspoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Pepper, a pinch. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into i/^-inch slices and slices into cubes 
to make the 2 cups. Put on saucepan with butter and cook for 3 
minutes but do not brown. Add salt, pepper and paprika. Sprinkle 
with flour, then pour on milk and cook very slowly for 25 minutes. 

SWEET POTATOES IN STOCK. 

Sweet potatoes, 6. Allspice. 

Salt and pepper. Soup stock, 1 cup. 

Celery salt. 

Parboil sweet potatoes for 20 minutes, peel carefully and cut 
in halves, place slices in a shallow baking dish and sprinkle with 
spice and seasoning. Pour over soup stock and bake in a quick 
oven, basting frequently until tender and slightly brown. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil sweet potatoes, peel and slice lengthwise. But tor a deep 
baking dish and in it put alternate layers of potatoes, brown sugar 
and bits of butter. Pour over all a little water and bake in a 
slow oven for 1 hour or until a thick syrup has formed. 



276 VEGETABLES. 



HONEYED SWEET POTATOES. 

Cut boiled sweet potatoes in thick slices, dip in honey and 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. Place in oven on a well buttered 
baking pan and bake until brown. 

CELERY AU GRATIN. 

Wash celery stalks, scrape and cut into i/2-inch lengths. Boil 
in salted water till tender. Make a white sauce, using half milk 
and half water in which celery was cooked. Put half the cooked 
celery into a butter baking dish, cover with half the sauce and 
sprinkle with grated cheese, add the remainder of the celery, cover 
again with sauce and cheese. Sprinkle with buttered crumbs and 
bake until brown. 

FRIED CELERY AND TOMATO SAUCE. 

Wash celery and cut in 3-inch pieces, dip in batter, fry in 
deep fat, drain and serve with tomato sauce. 

BATTER : 

Bread flour, y 2 cup. Pepper, a shake. 

Salt, 1/2 teaspoon. Milk, 1-3 cup. 

Egg, 1. 

TOMATO SAUCE: 

Tomatoes, % can, or Butter, 3 tablespoons. 

Stewed tomatoes, 1 1-3 cups. Flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Onion, 1 slice. Salt and pepper. 

Cook onion with tomato 15 minutes, rub through strainer, add 
butter blended with flour, and seasoning. Mrs. F. C., Beverly. 

BOILED ONIONS. 

To do away with any disagreeable odor peel onions under 
water. Put into boiling water and boil for 3 or 4 minutes, 
then drain. Pour over milk to cover in which a small pinch of 
soda has been dissolved, add a tablespoon of butter, and salt and 
pepper to taste. Cook in double boiler until tender, then prepare 
with white or butter sauce. 



VEGETABLES. 277 



STUFFED BERMUDA ONIONS. 

Large Bermuda onions, 6. Soft bread crumbs, 1 cup. 

Minced chicken, 1 cup. Melted butter. 

Salt and pepper. 

Peel onions and scoop out the centre. Parboil for 5 minutes, 
then turn upside down to drain. Mix chicken (meat may be used) 
and bread crumbs, moisten with butter and add seasoning. Fill 
onions heaping full and sprinkle the top with buttered bread crumbs. 
Place in a pan with an inch of water, cover and bake for 1 hour or 
until they are tender. Remove cover last 5 minutes to brown slightly. 

FRIED ONIONS. 

Spanish onions, 2. White pepper, a pinch. 

Salt, i/ 2 teaspoon. Flour. 

Peel onions and slice into thin equal slices. Separate rings, 
season, roll gently in flour and plunge into deep, hot fat. Fry to 
a golden brown or about 5 minutes. Drain, season and serve piping 
hot. 

SCALLOPED ONIONS. 

Boil onions in 2 waters, or once in water and then in milk, 
until tender. Sprinkle the bottom of a buttered baking dish with 
bread crumbs, put over this a layer of onions and repeat till dish 
is full, having crumbs on top. Moisten with some of the milk or 
water in which the onions were cooked. Dot over with bits of butter 
and bake about 30 minutes. 

BAKED ONION. 

Onions. Bread crumbs, 5 tablespoons. 

Butter, 2 large tablespoons. Eggs, 3. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Parsley, 2 tablespoons. 

Stock or milk, l 1 /^ cups. Pepper and salt. 

Peel onions, cook in boiling salted water till tender, drain and 
chop. Melt the butter, add the flour and stir until smooth, then 
add salt and pepper to taste. Gradually add stock or milk, stir 
until boiling, then add chopped parsley and bread crumbs. I'.oil 
for 8 minutes, add the egg, beaten, and the chopped onion. Cool 
and add the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. Bal in ;i buttered 
dish for 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 



278 VEGETABLES. 



GERMAN STUFFED ONIONS. 

Large onions, 6. Capers, 4 tablespoons. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Gherkins, 1 tablespoon. 

Mushrooms, 6. Parsley. 

Sausage meat, 2 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Stewed tomatoes, y 2 cup. 

Parboil the onions. Drain and cut out centres. Chop them 
with the mushrooms, sausage meat, capers, pickles and parsley, add 
bread crumbs, seasoning and tomatoes. Place in a pan with an 
inch of water. Fill onion shells and bake 20 minutes. Serve with 
a white sauce. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Wash a Ilubbard squash, cut in halves and remove seeds and 
pith. Bake in a moderate oven until tender. When done scoop 
out pulp from the shell, mash, season with salt, pepper and butter 
and replace in shell. Return to oven to brown. 

SQUASH SOUFFLE. 

TTot steamed squash, 2 cups. Pepper, y s teaspoon. 

Brown sugar, 1 tablespoon. Milk, I~y 2 cups. 

Lard, 1 teaspoon. Eggs, 2. 

Force the hot squash through a sieve before measuring. To 
it add the brown sugar, lard, pepper, milk, and the yolks of the 
eggs, beaten until thick and lemon colored. Lastly cut and fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, turn into a buttered baking 
dish and bake until firm. 

CABBAGE AND APPLES. 

Cabbage, 1 quart. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Sour apples, 2. Salt and pepper. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Brown sugar, 4 tablespoons. 

Vinegar, 2 tablespoons. 

Shred cabbage fine and measure. Add the apples, peeled, cored 
and sliced. Put the butter in a saucepan and when hot add cabbage 
and apple. Add boiling water to cover and cook until tender. 
Sprinkle with flour and seasoning, add brown sugar and vinegar. 
Serve hot. 



VEGETABLES. 279 



SPANISH RED CABBAGE. 

Red cabbage, 1. Pepper and salt, 

Bacon, 5 slices. Hot water, 1 cup. 

Tomatoes, 1 can. 

Shred cabbage fine. Fry bacon till crisp in a large frying pan, 
add cabbage, seasoned, and water. Cover closely and cook for 1 
hour. Just before serving add tomatoes and heat all thoroughly. 

/. B. Content. 

SWEDISH CABBAGE ROLLS. 

Hamburg steak, iy 2 pounds. Cold boiled rice. 

Fat salt pork, 14 pound. Salt and pepper. 

Onion, 1. Small cabbage, 1. 

Chop pork and onion, mix with hamburg steak. Add half as 
much rice and the seasoning. Mix all well. Parboil the tender 
leaves of the cabbage. Roll some of the mixture in each leaf, tie 
with a string and put in baking pan. Spread butter over top of 
all and bake covered for almost an hour. Egleston Square. 

TURKISH CABBAGE ROLLS. 

Mince cold cooked lamb and season with salt and pepper. 
Moisten with a little strained tomato juice thickened slightly with 
flour. Take small, tender cabbage leaves, roll the mince in indi- 
vidual rolls, fasten with string or small toothpicks and put in a 
saucepan of boiling salted water. Cook gently till cabbage leaves 
are done. Make a sauce of thickened strained tomato juice. 

Bay State. 

BOILED ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

To boil asparagus to serve in the usual way with melted butter 
on toast, trim the stalks to equal length, tie in bundles and stand in 
a deep saucepan with water 1 inch below the tops, so that when 
the stalks are cooked the tops will be done also, without being over- 
done. Boil from 20 to 30 minutes. 

The stalks that are cut off may be trimmed and boiled unti\ 
tender, mashed through a sieve and used in a soup, or cut in inch 
bits, marinated and used in a salad. 



280 VEGETABLES. 



ASPARAGUS AU GRATIN. 

Asparagus, 2 bunches. Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Bread crumbs, % cup. Salt and pepper. 

Cream, a gill. Grated cheese, 2 tablespoons. 

Egg white, 1. 

Boil asparagus until tender, drain and add remaining in- 
gredients. Mix all together lightly and fill buttered shells or indi- 
vidual ramekins. Bake a delicate brown. 

ASPARAGUS SOUFFLE. 

Asparagus, 2 bunches. Pepper and salt. 

Eggs, 4. Cream, 1 gill. 

Boil asparagus until tender, drain and rub through a sieve, 
add the eggs, well beaten, the cream and seasoning. Beat all well, 
put in buttered baking dish and bake in a hot oven until light and 
a delicate brown. Serve at once. 

ASPARAGUS PUDDING. 

Asparagus tips, 2 bunches. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Eggs, 4. Pepper and salt. 

Minced ham, 1 tablespoon. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Milk. 

Cut the asparagus tips into i/o-inch lengths and boil until tender 
but not quite done. Remove and drain. When cool add the ham, 
butter, seasoning and flour. Mix well and moisten with enough 
milk to make a thick batter, turn into a buttered mold, tie down 
lightly with a floured cloth, place in a kettle of boiling water and 
boil 2 hours. Turn out of the mold and pour melted butter over 
the pudding. Serve at once. 

CARROT SAUTE. 

Peel carrots, cut in dice, and boil in salted water for 30 min- 
utes. Drain and cover with one cup of beef stock. Cook till stock 
is nearly evaporated, add a small piece of butter, brown slightly 
and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 281 



FRIED CARROTS. 

Wash and boil carrots till tender. Cut into lengthwise slices, 
roll in beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat until a 
golden brown. Drain and serve hot. 

CARROTS AND PEAS. 

Diced carrots, 2 cups. Sugar, y 2 teaspoon. 

Green peas, 2 cups. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Water, 1 cup. 

Salt and pepper. Chopped parsley. 

Boil diced carrots in salted water till tender and mix with 
the cooked peas. Sprinkle with flour, seasoning, sugar and butter. 
Add 1 cup of the water in which the carrots were cooked and 
simmer till thick. Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve hot. 

SOUTHERN CARROTS. 

Carrots. Chicken stock, 2 cups. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Egg yolks, 2. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Pepper and salt. 

Clean carrots and cook in boiling water until tender. Cook 
together the butter and flour, add stock gradually and stir constantly 
till thick. Remove from fire and add the yolks of the eggs, beaten 
well. Season and pour over carrots. 

CREAMED PEAS. 

Peas, 1 quart. Cream, 2 tablespoons. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Milk, i/2 CU P- Salt and pepper. 

Shell fresh young peas, add boiling water to barely cover. 
lioil with cover on for 20 minutes or until tender, adding season- 
ing when half done. Blend flour till creamy in milk and pour 
slowly into peas, stirring all the time. Cook 1 minute and remove 
from fire. Add cream and butter, stir until melted and serve at 
once. 



282 VEGETABLES. 



LETTUCE AND PEAS. 

Lettuce. Butter, 1 heaping tablespoon. 

Green peas, 1 quart. Flour. 

Salt and pepper. Stock, 14 pint. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Use the outer leaves of 2 heads of lettuce. Remove from the 
head, wash, and soak in cold salted water for 2 hours. Drain and 
chop coarsely. Put in a saucepan with the remaining ingredients. 
Cover closely and simmer gently about i/ hour or until peas are 
soft. English Cook, Newtonville. 

SYRIAN IMGEDARA. 

This is the dish for whic h Esau sold his birthright. 

Lentils, 1 cup. Rice, % cup. 

Onion, 1. Salt. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Water. 

Wash the lentils and let them soak in cold water several hours. 
Boil till tender. Brown the sliced onion in the butter, add to the 
lentils with rice, and salt to taste. Cook till rice is done, adding 
enough water to make the thickness of succotash. 

Seliva, Hyde Park. 

TOMATO CREOLE. 

Tomatoes, 6. Butter, 4 tablespoons. 

Green peppers, 2. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Chopped onion, 1 teaspoon. Cream, 1 cup. 

Salt and paprika. 

The tomatoes should be large and perfect. Cut them in halves, 
crosswise, and - place in buttered baking pan. Chop the peppers 
fine and sprinkle over tomatoes, also onion, 2 tablespoons of the 
butter, in small bits, and seasoning. When baked, place the tomato 
rounds on slices of buttered toast. Add to the liquid left in pan 
the remaining butter and flour melted together and browned. Stir 
well and add cream. Let boil up once, then strain over tomatoes and 
toast. A. B. C., Newton Upper Falls. 



VEGETABLES. 283 



PARSNIP TIMBALES. 

Parsnips, 4. Salt and pepper. 

Milk, y 2 cup. Onion juice, 1 teaspoon. 

Eggs, 2. 

Boil parsnips and mash, add ingredients in order given with- 
out beating eggs. Mix well and press in small molds. Steam until 
firm and unmold onto a platter. Serve hot with a white sauce. 

GREEN TOMATO STEW. 

Green tomatoes, 6. Bread crumbs, 1/2 CU P- 

Pepper and salt. Egg, 1. 

Butter, 1 teaspoon. 

Cut tomatoes in slices and stew in closely covered saucepan 
without water for !/o hour. Season and stir in bread crumbs to 
which beaten egg has been added. Add butter and serve hot. 

FRIED EGGPLANT. 

Peel and slice eggplant, then put a sprinkling of salt between 
the slices. Pack in shape and place between 2 plates with a flatiron 
on top. Let stand over night. In the morning wipe each slice, dip 
in beaten egg, then into cracker crumbs and fry brown in deep fat. 
Serve hot. Mrs. E. L. G., Boston. 

EGGPLANT FRITTERS. 

Eggplant pulp, 1 pint. Eggs, 2. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. Salt and pepper. 

Flour, y 2 CU P- 

Boil eggplant whole in boiling salted water to cover, mixed 
wi'h vinegar. Cook 20 minutes or until tender. Mash and drain, 
then measure. Add the flour, well beaten eggs and seasoning to 
taste. Shape into small cakes and fry in hot fat. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Green corn, 2 cups. Eggs, 2. 

AlrltH tiutter, 2 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Flour. 

Cut corn from the cobb, add butter, beaten eggs and seasoning, 
and enough flour to form in little cakes. Fry in deep, hot fat. 



284 VEGETABLES. 



CORN PUDDING. 

Corn, 1 can. Egg, 1. 

Soda crackers, 4. Salt and pepper. 

Milk, 1 cup. Butter. 

Roll the crackers fine and add to the corn, add milk, beaten 
egg, seasoning and small piece of butter. Mix well and bake slowly 
for 45 minutes. 

CREOLE CORN. 

Corn, 6 ears. Sweet green peppers, 4. 

Olive oil. 

Cut the corn from the raw ea,rs, add the peppers, seeded, scalded, 
and cut fine. Pour just enough of the best olive oil into a frying 
pan to cover the bottom, when the oil hisses put in the corn and 
peppers and cook until done, stirring almost constantly to prevent 
burning. Season with salt just before serving. 

Mrs. F. C., Beverly. 

GREEN PEA SOUFFLE. 

Cooked peas, 1 quart. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt and pepper. Milk, 1 pint. 

Eggs, 3. 

Mash peas while hot, season well, add butter, milk and well 
beaten yolks of eggs. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, turn into 
buttered baking dish and bake for 20 minutes. Serve immediately. 

GREEN PEAS, SPANISH SAUCE. 

Green peas, 1 quart. Onion, 1. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Tomato, 1. 

Parsley, 1 sprig. Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Stock, 1 cup. Egg yolks, 2. 

Steam peas with butter, parsley and minced onion until tender, 
add stock, chopped tomato and sugar and simmer for 20 minutes. 
Thicken with the well beaten egg yolks and serve on buttered 
toast. 



VEGETABLES. 285 



SARDINES IN SPINACH. 

Fresh spinach, 1 quart. Butter, y 2 tablespoon. 

Boiling water, 1 quart. Cream, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, li/ teaspoons. Pepper. 

Egg yolk, 1. Sardines, 12. 

Bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons. 

"Wash the spinach well, drain and plunge into boiling water 
with a teaspoon of salt. Boil for 10 minutes, drain and chop fine. 
Stir in the egg yolk, butter, cream, salt and pepper and heat for 2 
minutes, stirring all the time. Remove from fire and spread half 
of spinach in a buttered baking dish. Split open without separat- 
ing the sardines. Bone, spread nicely over the spinach and arrange 
remaining spinach over them. Sprinkle over bread crumbs, dot 
with bits of butter and bake for 10 minutes in hot oven. 

SPINACH SOUFFLE. 

Cold boiled spinach, 2 cups. White sauce, % cup. 

Salt and paprika. Egg whites, 2. 

Chop spinach fine and put through vegetable chopper. Season 
and add white sauce. Mix well and fold in the stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Bake either in a large baking dish or individual ramekins. 

STEWED PEPPERS. 

Peppers, 4. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Cream, 4 tablespoons. Salt. 

Cut peppers in half and remove seeds and pith. Cut into neat 
small pieces and throw into boiling salted water. Boil for 30 min- 
utes. Drain and add salt to taste, butter and serve as any vegetable. 

TUNA FISH IN PEPPERS. 

Peppers, 6. Tuna fish, 2 cups. 

Eggs, 4. Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. Salt and pepper. 

Cut the peppers in halves lengthwise, remove seeds and soak 
in boiling hot water for 20 minutes. Beat the eggs until light, add 
the milk, fish, bread crumbs and seasoning. Pack into the peppers 
and sprinkle tops with buttered crumbs. Bake until brown. 



286 VEGETABLES. 



EGGS IN PEPPERS. 

Cut tops from sweet green peppers, remove seeds and mem- 
branes and parboil. Into each break an egg and cook in oven until 
firm, setting peppers in y 2 inch of water. When done remove to 
slices of hot toast. 

STUFFED PEPPER COMBINATIONS. 

Boiled sweet corn, cut from the cob and mixed with bread 
crumbs, cream, butter, pepper and salt. 
Bice, meat and tomato. 

Bread crumbs, chopped onion, chopped pepper, salt. 
Flaked fish and mashed potato. 
Vegetable or meat salad. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Cut peppers in halves, remove seeds and membranes and par- 
boil, stuff with rare roast beef, minced and mixed with boiled rice. 
Cover with buttered crumbs, place in a baking pan with i/ 2 inch 
of water and bake 20 minutes, basting occasionally with melted 
butter. 

PEPPERS STUFFED WITH NUTS. 

Parboil peppers and stuff with chopped nuts and bread crumbs 
in equal quantities, moistened with cream or melted butter and 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Bake as above. 

KENTUCKY STUFFED PEPPERS. 

Stuff with a mixture of tomato, bread crumbs and sausage 
meat. Bake with gravy. 



INDEX 



Alligator pear salad, 248 

Almond cherry salad, 246. 
Cocoanut cake, 50. 
Pudding, 104. 
Soup, Chinese, 266. 

Angel Cake, 40. 

Cakelets, 94. 
Cake, mock, 40. 

Apple and apricot pie, 229. 
Batter pudding, 101. 
Butter, 195. 
Cake, German, 51. 
Cocktail, 175. 
Dessert croquettes, 110. 
Dumplings, 98. 
Filling, 60. 
Fruit cake, 42. 
Ginger conserve, 193. 
Jam, quince and, 192. 
Jelly, 179. 

Dried, 180. 

Economical, 180. 

Spiced, 179. 
Marmalade, 190. 
Pie, 227. 

Banbury, 228. 

De Luxe, 227. 

Lemon, 233. 

Old-fashioned, 228. 
Pudding, fruited, 97. 

Prune and, 104. 
Sauce cake, 50. 
Stuffing, 220. 
Sherbet, 159. 
Slump, 110. 
Tapioca, creamed, 132. 
Tart, grated, 227. 
Apples, jellied, 127. 

Baked, 127. 



Apples (Continued) 

Stuffed baked, 110. 

Steamed, 113. 
Apricot ice, 158. 

Jam, 192. 

Jelly, orange and, 125. 

Pie, 235. 

Pie, apple and, 229. 
Arrowroot cake, 43. 

Pudding, English, 106. 
Asparagus au gratin, 280. 

On toast, boiled, 279. 

Pudding, 280. 

Souffle, 280. 

Soup, cream of, 261. 

B 

Hacon, baked eggs and, 139. 
Baked apples, jellied, 127. 
Stuffed, 110. 

Bananas, 117. 

Bean muffins, 30. 
Sandwiches, 253. 

Beans, Boston, 273. 

Bluefish, 147. 

Canned salmon, 145. 

Custard, 117. 

Cream omelet, 139. 

Egg cream on toast, 258. 

Eggs and bacon, 139. 

Halibut, 147. 

Ham, milk, 201. 

Omelet, 137. 

Onion, 277. 

Quinces, 111. 

Shad, 147. 

Squash, 278. 

Stuffed haddock, 1 is. 

Welsh rabbit, 140. 
linking powder, 36. 

Oatmeal bread, 1 7. 



288 



INDEX 



Balloons, 171. 
Balls, codfish, 145. 

Cheese, 140. 

Marrow, 214. 

Potato, 274. 

Fruit, 71. 

Banana and nut salad, 248. 
Mousse, 155. 
Pancakes, 169. 
Puff pudding, 103. 
Soup, cream of, 265. 
Whip, 119. 
Frozen, 163. 

Bananas, baked, 117. 
Scalloped, 117. 

Banbiiry tarts, 239. 
Barbecued ham, 84. 
Bars, fig, 91. 

Oatmeal fruit, 91. 

Batter pudding, 98. 

Apple, 101. 

Bean muffins, Ijaked, 30. 

Chowder, 270. 
Croquettes, 222. 
Pot roast, 207. 
Soup, 267. 

Beans, Boston baked, 273. 
Beef a la mode, 201. 

Creamed chipped, 83. 

Fritters, 211. 

Loaf, jellied, 209. 

Olives, 212. 

Pot pie, 210. 

Roast, 202. 

Shin of, 206. 
Beefsteak chowder, 269. 

Smothered in onions, 202. 

Roll, 205. 

Berlin pancakes, 169. 
Bermuda onions, stuffed, 277. 

Sandwiches, 256. 
Berries and farina, 73. 
Berry pie, 233. 

Shortcake, 109. 
Berwick sponge cake, 37. 
Biscuit, Georgia sweet potato, 26. 

Maple tea, 27. 



Biscuits, English tea, 25. 

Nut, 20. 

Sour cream, 25. 
Bisque cake, 52. 

Of clams, 262. 
Blackberry pudding, steamed, 107. 

Sherbet, 159. 

Slump, 109. 
Blueberries, canned, 187. 

Preserved, 186. 
Blueberry breakfast cake, 35. 

Muffins, 30. 
Bluefish, baked, 147. 
Boiled asparagus on toast, 279. 

Cider pie, 231. 

Custard, 115. 

Dressing, 250. 

Fresh codfish, 145. 

Ham, southern, 201. 

Mayonnaise dressing, 249. 

Onions, 276. 
Bones, marrow, 214. 
Boston baked beans, 273. 
Bouquet, kitchen, 271. 
Brambles, 95. 
Bran and cereal breakfast food, 74. 

Baking powder bread, 15. 

Bread, steamed, 14. 

Cookies, 90. 

Gems, 27. 

Griddle cakes, 168. 

Muffins, 31. 

Muffins, buttermilk, 29. 
Brandy sauce, 134. 
Bread, baking powder oatmeal, 17. 

Bran baking powder, 15. 

Brown, 20. 

Caraway, 23. 

Crumb griddle cakes, 167. 

Dark oatmeal, 16. 

Economical brown, 14. 

Entire wheat, 15. 

Filling, 203. 

Fruit, 19. 

Gluten, 13. 

Graham, 13. 
Fruit, 25. 

Hominy, 22. 

North Shore, 22. 



INDEX 



289 



Bread (Continued) 
Norwegian, 22. 
Nut, 18. 
Oatmeal, 16. 
Brown, 15. 
Potato, 21. 
Prune brown, 17. 
Pumpkin, 22. 
Quick buttermilk, 20. 
Raised Cornmeal, 23. 
Rye, 15. 
Sandwich, 23. 
Southern spoon, 21. 
Steamed bran, 14. 

Raisin, 20. 

Virginia salt rising, 16. 
White, 13. 

With a bread mixer, 14. 
Breaded pork chops, 207. 

Tongue, 207. 
Breakfast cake, blueberry, 35. 

Honey, 35. 

Food, bran and cereal, 74. 
Breast of veal, stuffed, 204. 
Brittle, peanut, 70. 
Broiled sweetbreads, 208. 
Broth, chicken, 263. 

Scotch, 205. 
Brown Betty, 102. 

Prune, 109. 
Bread, 20. 

Economical, 14. 
Oatmeal, 15. 
Prune, 17. 
Sugar cake, 45. 
Frosting, 59. 
Sandwiches, 255. 
Sauce, 166. 

Buckwheat rakes, raised, 167. 
Buns, collVc, 33. 
English Bath, 33. 
Hot Cross, 32. 
Butter, apple, 195. 
Cakes, 35. 
Frosting, 56. 
Grape, 195. 
Peach, 195. 
Pear, 195. 
Pie, 234. 



Buttermilk bran nnillins, 29. 
Bread, quick, 20. 

Butterscotch, 69. 



Cabbage and apples, 278. 

Rolls, Swedish, 279. 

Turkish, 279. 
Spanish red, 279. 

Cake, almond cocoamit, r.o. 

Angel, 40. 

Apple fruit, 42. 

Apple sauce, 50. 

Arrowroot, 43. 

Berwick sponge, 37. 

Bisque, 52. 

Blueberry breakfast, 35. 

Brown sugar, 45. 

Chocolate, 43. 
Cream, 44. 

Cider, 48. 

Cocoa, 50. 

Coffee fruit, 41. 
Spice, 55. 

Crumb, 49. 

Custard corn, 24. 

Economical chocolate, 39. 

Economy, 39. 

Eggless, butterless.milkless, 45. 
Date, 53. 
Graham, 45. 
German apple, 51. 
Ginger pound, 43. 
Graham fruit, 41. 
Honey, 49. 

Breakfast, 35. 
Indian sponge, 39. 
Lemon, 55. 
Light chocolate, 44. 
Lily, 46. 
Mahogany, 48. 
Maple syrup, 48. 
Mock angel, 40. 
Molasses layer. 56. 

Orange, 53. 
Nut, 43. 
Old-fashioned loaf, 37. 



290 



INDEX 



Cake (Continued) 

Orange, 42. 
Sponge, 38. 

Pineapple, 51. 

Pork, 46. 

Potato chocolate, 52. 

Pound, 38. 

Prize fruit, 41. 

Prune, 49. 

Quick coffee, 31. 

Ribbon, 55. 

Scripture, 47. 

Silver and gold layer, 54. 

Sour cream fruit, 42. 

Spice, 53. 

Sponge, 3S. 

Suuoliiue, 37. 

Velvet sponge, 39. 

Vinegar, 49. 

Wedding, 40. 

White citron, 48. 
Cakelets, angel, 94. 
Cakes, bran griddle, 168. 

Bread crumb griddle, 167. 

Butter, 35. 

Cereal griddle, 167. 

Cocoa sour milk, 50. 

Coffee spice, 55. 

Corn griddle, 168. 

Cornmeal flannel, 168. 

Fried rye, 172. 

Ham, 213. 

Koney, 91. 

Old-fashioned fried, 172. 

Portugal, 56. 

Raised buckwheat, 167. 

Rice, 74, 170. 

Rye griddle, 167. 
Spiced tea, 93. 

Yokohama rice, 76. 
Calf's liver, 208. 

a la terrapin, 81. 
Camembert toast, 258. 
Canape, caviar, 178. 
Crabmeat, 177. 
Cucumber, 177. 
Hot cheese, 178. 
Mushroom, 178. 
Sardine, 177. 



Canape (Continued) 

Tomato, 177. 
Canape, tuna fish, 178. 
Canapes, hot pineapple, 84. 

Candied grapefruit peel, 72. 

Sweet potatoes, 275. 

Candy, marshmallow, 68. 

Old-fashioned molasses, 67. 

Peanut butter, 70. 
Canned blueberries, 187. 

Cherries, 186. 

Currants, 186. 

Peaches, 187. 

Rhubarb, cold, 186. 
Cantaloupe preserves, 184. 
Caper sauce, 218. 
Caramel custard, 115. 

Frosting, 57. 

Sponge, 126. 

Tapioca, 130. 
Caramels, chocolate, 68. 

Cream, 66. 
Caraway bread, 23. 

Cookies, old-fashioned, 88. 
Carrot cocoamit pie, 238. 

Croquettes, 223. 

Jam, 192. 

Pudding, 108. 
English, 106. 

Saute, 280. 

Soup, 262. 
Carrots, fried, 281. 

and peas, 281. 

Southern, 281. 
Catsup, grape, 200. 

Tomato, 200. 
Caviar canape, 178. 
Celery, cream of, 264. 

Essence of, 271. 

au Gratin, 276. 

Stuffing, 219. 

and tomato sauce, fried, 276 
Cereal, custard, 74. 

Fruit juice, 74. 

Fruit pudding, 73. 

Griddle cakes, 167. 
Charlotte, canned fruit, 123. 

Orange and grapefruit, 125. 



INDEX 



291 



( 'horse balls, 1 40. 
Canape, hot, 178. 
Crackers, devilled, 95. 

Chersr custard, baked, 141. 
Dreams, 82. 
Fingers, 96. 
Muffins, 32. 

Pennsylvania cottage, 141. 
Pork, 213. 
Roast, 140. 
Salad, 244. 
Frozen, 246. 
Sandwich, club, 253. 
Souffle, 140. 
Straws, 95. 
Toast, 257. 

Cherries, canned, 186. 
Preserved, 184. 
Spiced, 188. 

Cherry cups, steamed, 111. 
and currant jelly, 182. 

Preserve, 184. 
Ice, 158. 
Pie, 229. 

Mock, 237. 
Pudding, 107. 
Sauce, 136. 

Chestnut cream, 120. 
Soup, cream of, 262. 
Stuffing, 220. 

Chicken broth, 263. 

en casserole, whole, 216. 
Custards, 217. 
Gumbo, mammy's, 215. 
a la King, 83. 
Livery on toast, 208. 
Pot roast, 216. 
Pressed, 216. 
Sandwiches, 255. 
Scalloped, 215. 
Southern fried, 215. 

' hilli sauce, 200. 
Winter, 199. 

Chinr-r cookies, 92. 
Clung Chintf, 6. 
Chipped heel, rreamcd, xn. 
Chips, boiled umlas'-rs, X". 



Chocolate cake, 43. 

Economical, 39. 

Light, 44. 

Potato, 52. 
Caramels, 68. 
Chestnuts, 65. 
Cream, 7. 

Cake, 44. 

Pie, 236. 
Crullers, 174. 
Custard pudding, 1 1 (I 
Fig cream, 151. 
Filling, 59, 60. 
Gingerbread, 19. 
Hot, 10. 
Ice cream, 151. 
Iced, 4. 
Icing, 61. 
Jumbles, 92. 

Marshmallow frosting, 57. 
Milk shake, 8. 
Mousse, 154. 
Pie, 232. 

Plum pudding, 129. 
Pudding, steamed, 100. 
Rice custard, 116. 

Pudding, 118. 
Sauce, 136, 165. 
Schnutten, Viennese, 17. 
Souffle, 117. 
Squares, 94. 
Sweet, 9. 
Thick hot, 9. 

Chocolates, 65. 
Chops, breaded pork, -<>7. 
en casserole, lamb, 207. 

Chowder, bean, 270. 
Beefsteak. 269. 
Corn, 269. 

Gloucester clam, 268. 
Haddock, 268. 
Lobster, 267. 
Oyster, 270. 
Potato, 268. 
Vegetable, 269. 

Cider cakr, 48. 
Eggnog, 7. 
Mulled, 11. 



292 



INDEX 



Cider (Continued) 

Pie, boiled, 231. 

Pudding sauce, 135. 
Cinnamon crisps, 94. 

Squares, 33. 

Toast, 257. 
Citron cake, white, 48. 

Melon, preserved, 185. 
Citrus marmalade, 188. 
Clam chowder, Gloucester, 268. 

Cocktail, 176. 
Clams, bisque of, 262. 
Club cheese sandwich, 253. 

Sandwich, 253. 
Cocktail, apple, 175. 

Clam, 176. 

Fruit, 176. 

Grapefruit, 175. 

Lobster, 176. 

Oyster, 175. 

Strawberry, 176. 

Tomato, 176. 

Watermelon, 176. 
Cocoa cake, 52. 

Parfait, 156. 

Sauce, 134. 

Sour milk cakes, 50. 
Cocoanut cake, almond, 50. 

Crumb pudding, 101. 

Cup, 10. 

Filling, 60. 
Ripe, 61. 

Fudge, 64. 

Jumbles, 93. 

Macaroons, 88. 

Pudding, 121. 

Tarts, 238. 
Codfish balls, 145. 

Boiled fresh, 145. 
Coffee, 9. 

Buns, 33. 

Cake, quick, 31. 

Flummery, 125. 

Fruit cake, 41. 

Ice cream, 152. 

Icing, 61. 

Mousse, 155. 

Spice cakes, 55. 

Tapioca, 131. 



Coffee (Continued) 

Whip, 118. 

Coleslaw dressing, 251. 
Conserve, apple ginger, 19.3. 

Cranberry, 193. 

Currant, 193. 

Gooseberry, 194. 

Orange, 191. 

Plum, 193. 

Rhubarb, 194. 

Rhubarb and fig, 194. 
Cookies, bran, 90. 

Chinese, 92. 

Crisp peanut, 90. 

Dropped nut, 87. 

Hard gingerbread, 93. 

Molasses, 90. 

Nut, 90. 

Old-fashioned caraway, 88. 

Orange, 92. 

Peanut butter, 92. 

Raisin drop, 95. 

Southern sour cream, 91. 
Corn cake, custard, 24. 

Chowder, 269. 

Creole, 284. 

Fritters, 171. 

Griddle cakes, 168. 

Oysters, 283. 
Com pudding, 284. 

Salad, 242. 

Soup, cream of, 265. 
Corned beef salad, 243. 
Cornmeal and fig pudding, 104. 

Bread, raised, 23. 

Flannel cakes, 168. 

Flapjacks, 168. 

Cottage cheese, Pennsylvania, 141. 
Crab flakes, 84. 
("rabapple jelly, 181. 

Spiced, 181. 

Crabapples, preserved, 184 
Crabmeat canape, 177. 
Cracker pudding, New England, 99. 
( rackers, devilled, 96. 
Cheese, 95. 

Maple raisin, 95. 

Oatmeal, 96. 

Puffed, 95. 



INDKX 



293 



(Cranberry conserve, 193. 
Frappe, 162. 
Muffins, 30. 
Pie, 237. 
Pudding, 100. 
Raisin pie, 230. 
Relish, 198. 
Sauce, 195. 

Cream caramels, 66. 

Chestnut, 120. 

Chocolate, 7. 

Doughnuts, 174. 

Fig, 152. 

Maple tapioca, 131. 

Muffins, 28. 
Cream of asparagus soup, 261. 

of Banana soup, 265. 

of celery, 264. 

of chestnut soup, 262. 

of corn soup, 265. 

of lettuce soup, 266. 

of pea soup, 261. 

of rice soup, 263. 

Omelet, haked, 139. 

Pastry, Turkish, 239. 

Pineapple, 120, 154. 

Quick strawberry, 152. 

Rice pudding, 118. 

Salad, 250. 

Strawberry, 123. 

Tapioca, 131. 

Toast, 258. 
Creamed apple tapioca, 132. 

Chipped beef, 83. 

Finnan haddie, 146. 

Lobster, S 1 . 

Peas, 281. 

Shrimps, 83. 
('reams, maple nut, 65. 
Creamy frosting, simple, 56. 

Nut frosting, 57. 
Creole corn, 284. 

Salad, 243. 

Soup, 264. 

Tomato, 282. 
Crisps, cinnamon, 94. 
Croquettes, apple dessert, 110. 

I van, 222. 

Carrot, 223. 



(Continued) 

Egg, 222. 

Nut and potato, 222. 

Rice, 222. 

Squash, 221. 
Crullers, chocolate, 174. 
Crumb cake, 49. 
Crust, hot water pie, 22.". 

Plain pie, 225. 

Rich old-fashioned pie, 22S. 
Crystallized mint leaves, 71. 
Cucumber canape, 177. 

Jelly salad, 245. 

Pickles, sweet, 197. 
Cup, cocoanut, 10. 

Custards, grandmother's, 114. 

Eggs, 139. 

Cups, steamed cherry, 111. 
Currant conserve, 193. 

Ice cream, 153. 

Jelly, 181. 

Cherry and, 182. 
Strawberry and, 182. 

Pancakes, 169. 

Pie, 234. 

Preserve, cherry and, 1st. 

and raspberry pie, 234. 
Currants, canned, 186. 

Spiced, 187. 

Curry, East Indian, 206. 
Custard, ba.ked, 117. 
Cheese, 141. 

Roiled, 115. 

Caramel, 115. 

Cereal, 74. 

Chocolate rice, 1 1 1!. 

Corn cake, 24." 

Orange cream, 116. 
Nut, 114. 

Pie, orange, 231. 
1 Hi u barb, 23s. 
Sweet potato, i 1 :;.:. 

[Muldin: rh late, 116 

Sandwiches, lemon, 54. 

Souffle, 115. 

Custards, grandmother's i up, 1 I I. 
Cutlets, lamb, 2 Of,. 

Lobster, L43. 

Salmon. 111. 



294 



INDEX 



Cutlets (Continued) 
Veal, 203. 

D 

Dainties, peanut butter, 88. 
Dandelion salad, molded, 244. 
Date cake, eggless, 53. 

Filling, 60. 

Fluff, 212. 

Gems, 31. 

Nut filling, 58. 

Pie, 226. 

Pudding, 99. 

Souffle, 108. 

Tapioca, 132. 
Dates, stuffed, 72. 
Devilled cheese crackers, 95. 

Crackers, 96. 

Fish, 146. 

Oysters, 143. 

Scallops, 144. 
Devil's food, 46. 
Divinity fudge, 64. 
Doughnuts, 173. 

Cream, 174. 

Potato, 174. 

Raised, 173. 

Sour cream, 173. 
Dreams, cheese, 82. 
Dressing, boiled, 250. 
Mayonnaise, 249. 

California French, 251. 

Coleslaw, 251. 

French, 250. 

Pineapple, 251. 
Dried apple jelly, 180. 
Drop cookies, raisin, 95. 
Dropped nut cookies, 87. 
Drops, gum, 68. 
Dumplings, apple, 98. 

Lemon, 112. 



East Indian curry, 206. 

Pudding, 103. 

Economical brown bread, 14. 
Economy cake, 39. 



^gg cream on toast, baked, 258. 

Croquettes, 222. 

Muffins, 28. 

Rolls, 24. 

Salad, stuffed, 243. 

Sauce, 149. 

Eggless, butterless, milkless cake, 
43. 

Date cake, 53. 

Gingerbread, 18. 

Graham cake, 45. 
Eggnogg, 6. 

Cider, 7. 

Grape, 7. 
Eggplant, fried, 283. 

Fritters, 283. 
Eggs, coated, 137. 

Cup, 139. 

in peppers, 286. 

in potato cases, 137. 

in white sauce, poached, 84. 

Scalloped, 137. 

Spanish, 139. 

Vermicellied, 138. 
Elderberry jelly, 181. 
English Bath buns, 33. 

Plum pudding, 97. 

Tea biscuits, 25. 
Entire wheat bread, 15. 
Essence of celery, 271. 



Farina, berries and, 73. 

Mush, 73. 
Pig bars, 91. 

Conserve, rhubarb and, 194. 

Cream, 152. 

Chocolate, 151. 

Filling, 59. 

Pudding, cornmeal and, 104. 
Grape and, 122. 

Roll, 112. 

Sandwiches, 254. 
Figs, jellied, 129. 

Stuffed, 71. 
Filbert Sauce, 165. 
Filet of whiteflsh, 146. 
Filled fritters, 172. 



INDEX 



29H 



Filling, apple, 60. 

Bread, 203. 

Chocolate, 59, 60. 

Combinations, layer cake. 61. 

Date, 60. 

Date-nut, 58. 

Fig, 59. 

.Mocha, 59. 

Pineapple, 60. 

Raspberry and rhocolnte, 59. 

Ripe cocoanut, 61 . 

I i I lings, tart, 239. 

Finnan haddie, creamed, 14G. 

Finger sticks, 34. 

Fish, devilled, 146. 

Hollandaise, 85. 

Flake salad, 243. 
Flannel cakes, eornmoal, 10.8. 
Flapjacks, cornnieal, 168. 
I 'lower rolls, 25. 
Fluff, date, 121. 
Flummery, coffee, 125. 
Foam sauce, 133. 
Fondu, plum, 141. 
Food, devil's, 46. 

Frappe, cranberry, 162. 

Grape, 162. 

Pineapple, 162. 

Strawberry, 161. 

Tea, 162. 

French dressing, 250. 
California, 251. 

Toast, 258. 
Fried rakes, old-fashioned, 172. 

Carrots, 2s 1 . 

Chicken, southern. 21.".. 

Eggplant, 283. 

Onions, 277. 

k>e cakes, 172. 

Scallops, 144. 

Fritters, beef, 211. 

Corn, 171. 

Eggplant, 283. 

Filled. 172. 

V< netian, 172. 
Frosting, hrown sugar, .".9. 

P. utter. 56. 

i '., ramel, 57. 



Frosting (Continued) 

'Chocolate marshmallow. 57. 

Creamy nut, 57. 

Marshmallow, 58. 

Mock marshmallow. ."s 

Nut, 61. 

Orange, 58. 

Simple creamy, 56. 
Frozen banana whip, 163. 

Cheese salad, 245. 

Custard, 153. 

Peaches, 154. 

Pudding, 163. 

Rice, 164. 

Strawberries, 154. 
Fruit halls, 7 1 . 

Bars, oatmeal. 91. 

Bread, 19. 
Graham, 25. 

Cake, apple, 42. 
Coffee, 41. 
Graham, 41. 
Prize, 41. 
Sour cream, 42. 

Charlotte, canned, 123. 

Cocktail, 175. 

Juice cereal, 74. 

Lozenges, 69. 

Nectar, mulled, 11. 

Punch, clear, 5\ 

Salad in pineapple, 24S. 
with prunes, 247. 

Sandwiches, 255. 
Fruited apple pudding, D7. 

Pudding sauce, 1 :'..">. 
Fruits and nuts, glared, 7 1 
Fudge, 63. 

Cocoanut, 64. 

Divinity, 64. 

Honey, 63. 

Potato, 64. 

Sauce, nut, 166. 

Uncooked, 63. 



(.'ems, bran, '21. 
Dale. 31. 
(linger, 51. 



296 



INDEX 



Gems (Continued) 

Potato, 31. 

Rolled oats, 26. 

Georgia sweet potato biscuit, 26 
German apple cake, 51. 

Potato salad, 241. 

Style sauerkraut, 197. 
Giblet toast, 258. 
Ginger ale julep, 3. 
Salad, 247. 

Gems, 51. 

Ice cream, 153. " 

Pear, 185. 

Pound cake, 45. 

Punch, 3. 

Water ice, 158. 
Gingerbread, chocolate, 19. 

Cookies, hard, 93. 

Eggless, 18. 

Lancaster, 18. 

Soft, 19. 

Sugar, 17. 

Glared fruits and nuts, 71. 
Glaze, meat, 216. 
Gluten bread, 13. 
Golden sauce, 135. 
Gooseberry conserve, 194. 

Jam, 191. 

Pudding, baked, 110. 

Relish, 198. 

Sauce, 219. 

Tart, 234. 

Gooseberries, preserved, 183. 
Graham bread, 13. 

Cake, eggless, 45. 

Fruit bread, 25. 
Cake, 41. 

Muffins, 26. 

Mush, 1 4. 

Popovers, 34. 
Grape and ng pudding, 122. 

Butter, 195 

Catsup, 200. 

Eggnogg, 7. 

Frappe, 162. 

Jelly, green, 179. 

Juice, 9. 
Jelly, 123. 
Mulled, 10. 



Grape, juice, (Continued 
Parfait, 152. 
Pudding, 121. 
Punch. 5. 
Lemonade, 7. 

Marmalade, wild fox, IS 9. 
Mousse, 156. 
Sherbet, 160. 
Souffle, 111. 
Sweetmeat, 194. 
Tapioca, 30. 
Grapefruit charlotte, orange and, 

125. 

Cocktail, 175. 
Marmalade, IS'J. 
Peel, candied, 72. 
Salad, 248. 

Grated apple tart, 227. 
Green grape jelly, 179. 

Pepper hors d'oeuvres, 177. 
'tomato pie, old-fashioned. 232. 
Griddle cakes, bran, 168. 
Bread crumbs, 167. 
Cereal, 167. 
Corn, 168. 
Rye, 167. 
Gum drops, 68. 
Gumbo, mammy's chicken, 215. 

H 

Haddock, baked stuffed, 148. 

Chowder, 268. 
Halibut, baked, 147. 
1 1 iii n, barbecued, 84. 

Cakes, 213. 

Milk baked, 201. 

Southern boiled, 201. 
Hamburg loaf, 209. 
Hash, rice, 75. 
Hashed brown potatoes, 273. 
Hermits, 87. 
Holland Flensjes, 170. 
Hollandaise sauce, 218. 
Hominy, 73. 

Bread, 22. 

Puffs, 112. 
Honey breakfast cake, 35. 

Cake, 49. 



INDEX 



297 



Honey (Continued 

Cakes, 91. 

Fudge, 63. 

Mousse, 155. 

Muffins, 32. 

Nougat, 66. 

Quince, 182. 

Sauce, 165. 

Tapioca, 132. 
Honeycomb pudding, 105. 
Honeyed sweet potatoes, 270. 
Hors d'oeuvres, green pepper, 177 
Horseradish sauce, 219. 
Hot chocolate, 10. 
Thick, 9. 

Cross buns. 32. 

Spice, 217. 



I 



Ice, apricot, 158. 
Cherry, 158. 
Ginger water, 158. 
Orange water, 158. 
Raspberry, 157. 
Strawberry, 159. 
Macaroon, 157. 

Ice cream, chocolate, 151. 
Coffee, 152. 
Currant, 153. 
Ginger, 153. 
Marshmallow, 151. 
MI ringued, 165. 
Peach, 153. 
Prune, 152. 
Puffs, 164. 
Raspberry, 152. 
Taffy, 70. 
Vanilla, 151. 

Iced chocolate, 4. 
Tea, 3. 

Jellied, 125. 

l< iiij;, chocolate, 61. 

Cuffee, 61. 

India tomato preserve, ISo. 
Indian sponge cake, 39. 

Tapioca pudding, 131. 
Indians, 89. 



Jam, apricot, 192. 

Carrot, 192. 

Gooseberry, 191. 

Green tomato, 192. 

Orange, 191. 

Quince and apple. 192. 

Raspberry, 191. 

Rhubarb and strawberry, 191, 

Sunshine, 192. 
Jellied apples, 127. 

Baked apples, 127. 

Beef loaf, 209. 

Figs, 129. 

Iced tea, 125. 

Peaches, 128. 

Salad, 242. 

Strawberries, 128. 

Veal, 209. 
Jelly, apple, 179. 

Cherry and currant, 182 

Crabapple, 181. 

Currant, 181. 

Dried apple, 180. 

Economical apple, 180. 

Egyptian, 126. 

Elderberry, 181. 

Grape juice, 123. 

Green grape, 179. 

Kumquat, 128. 

Mint, 182. 

Omelet, 138. 

Orange and apricot, !_.". 

Punch, 4. 

Quince, 179. 

Raspberry, 180. 

Roll, 38. 

Russian, 126. 

Spiced apple, 179. 
Crabapple, 181. 

Strawberry and currant, isn. 

Venison, ISO. 

Wine, 124. 
Julep, ginger ale, 3. 

Mint, 3. 

Orange mint, 4. 
Jiimlilrs, chocolate, 92. 

Cocoanut, 93. 



298 



INDEX 



K 

Kidney pie, lamb and, 210. 

London, 210. 
Kisses, 72. 

Kitchen bouquet, 271. 
Kiimquat jelly, 129. 



Lady fingers, 87. 

Lamb and kidney pie, 210. 

Chops en casserole, 207. 

Cutlets, 206. 

Lancaster gingerbread, 18. 
Layer cake filling combinations, 

61. 

Molasses, 56. 
Silver and gold, 54. 
Leg of pork, roast, 203. 
Lemon apple pie, 233. 

Cake, 55. 

Cheese tarts, English, 238. 

Custard sandwiches, 54. 

Dumplings, 112. 

Juice, bottled, 8. 

Milk sherbet, 159. 

Pie, 232. 

Rice pudding, 97. 

Shortcake, 113. 

Soup, 264. 

Sponge pie, 233. 

Toast, 259. 
Lemonade, grape, 7. 

Variations, 6. 
Lettuce and peas, 282. 

Salad, 241. 

Soup, cream of, 266. 
Lily cake, 46. 
Liver a la terrapin, calf's, 81. 

Calf's, 208. 

Livers on toast, chicken, 208. 
Loaf cake, old-fashioned, 37. 

Hamburg, 209. 

Jellied beef, 209. 

Physical culture, 24. 

Veal, 209. 
Lobster a la Newburg, 79. 

Chowder, 267. 



Lobster (Continued) 

Cocktail, 176. 

Creamed, 81. 

Cutlets, 143. 
Loin of veal, 202. 
Lord Mayor's trifle, 122. 
Lozenges, fruit, 69. 

M 

Macaroni and cheese, baked, 78. 

and tomatoes, 77. 

Mexican, 77. 

Sour milk, 77. 
Macaroons, cocoanut, 88. 

Oatmeal, 89. 

Peanut butter, 89. 

Pecan, 89. 
Mahogany cake, 48. 
Mangoes, 200. 
Maple nut creams, 65. 

Parfait. 156. 

Raisin crackers, 95. 

Shortcake, M.4. 

Syrup cake, 48. 

Tapioca cream, 131. 

Tea biscuit, 27. 
Marguerites, 94. 
Marmalade, apple, 190. 

Citrus, 188. 

Grapefruit, 189. 

Mock orange, 190. 

Orange, 189. 

and rhubarb, 189. 

Pudding, English orange, 105 

Rhubarb, 190. 

Rhubarb and pineapple, 190. 

Ripe tomato, 190. 

Wild fox grape, 189. 
Marrow balls, 214. 

Bones, 214. 
Marslimallow candy, 68. 

Frosting, 58. 
Chocolate, 57. 
Mock, 58. 

Ice cream, 151. 

Sauce, 134. 

Whip, 120. 
Marshmallows, 67. 



1 N I > 



299 



Mar/ipan, 7_. 
Mayonnaise, 249. 

Dressing, boiled. 249. 

Without oil, 2 19. 
Me:it (ila/e, 216. 

Pie, Canadian, 212. 
Left-over, 213. 

Scalloped, 206. 

Meringue glace, orange and ba- 
nana, 1 '> I . 

Meriiigncd ire cream, 165. 
Milk baked ham, 201. 

Shake, chocolate, 8. 

Sherbet, lemon, 159. 
.Mince pie, 226. 
Mock, 235. 

Mincemeat, simple, 226. 
Mint jelly, 182. 
Salad, 247. 

Julep, 8. 
Orange, 4. 

Leaves, crystallized, 71. 

Paste, 70. 

Sauce, 219. 
Mocha filling, 59. 
Mock angel cake, 40. 

Cherry pie, 237. 

Orange marmalade, 190. 
Molasses candy, old-fashioned, 67. 

Chips, boiled, 87. 

Cookies, 90. 

Layer cake, 56. 

Orange cake, 53. 

Pear preserves, i 

Sauce, 13"). 
Monkeys, 88. 

Mousse, banana, L55. 

Chocolate, 154. 
Coffee, 155. 
Grape, 156. 
Honey, 155. 

Piiifiippl'-, 156. 
Strawberry, 155. 

MtifVins, baked bean, 30. 

Blueberry, 30. 

in, 31. 

I'.iitterniilk bran, 29. 
Cheese, 32. 



Mun'inv ( ( 'onl iimeil I 

Cranberry, 30. 

Cream, 28. 

Egg, 28. 

Graham, 26. 

Honey, 32. 

Oatmeal, 29. 

Pineapple, 29. 

Potato, 27. 

Raised squash, 28. 

Rice, 27. 

and meal, 29. 

Sweet, 28. 

Swiss, 30. 
Mulled cider, 11. 

Fruit nectar, 11. 

Grape juice, 10. 
Mush, farina, 73. 

Graham, 74. 
Mushroom canape, 178. 

Sauce, 217. 

Stuffing, 221. 
Mustard, 218. 

French, 218. 

Pickle, 198. 

Sauce, 214. 
Mutton, ragout of, 2 d."i. 

Sandwiches, savory, 254. 

N 

Nasturtium sandwiches, 258. 
Nesselrode pudding, 1<>- 
New England cracker pudding, 99. 
North Shore bread, 21'. 
Norwegian bread, 22. 

Prune pudding, !_-. 
Nougat, honey, 66. 
Nougatine, 67. 
Nut and potato croquettes, 222. 

Bread, 18. 

Biscuits, 20. 

Cake, 43. 

Cookies, 90. 
Dropped, 87. 

Custard, orange, 114. 

I 1 ' post itiLC, 61. 
Creamy, 57. 
idge sauce, 166. 



300 



INDEX 



o 

Oatmeal bread, 16. 

Dark, 16. 

Brown bread, 15. 

Crackers, 96. 

Fruit bars, 91. 

Macaroons, 89. 

Muffins, 29. 

Rolls, 17. 

Waffles, 170. 
Old Colonial punch, 8. 
Old-fashioned loaf cake, 37. 
Olive oil pickles, 199. 
Olives, beef, 212. 
Omelet, baked, 137. 

Baked cream, 139. 

Jelly, 138. 

Potato, 139. 

Swedish, 138. 

Tomato, 138. 
Onion puree, 265. 

Soup, 264. 

Stuffing, 220. 
Onions, baked, 277. 

Boiled, 276. 

Fried, 277. 

German stuffed, 278. 

Pickled, 199. 

Scalloped, 277. 

'Stuffed Bermuda, 277. 
Orange and apricot jolly, 125. 

and banana meringue glace, 16 

and grapefruit charlotte, 125. 

and rhubarb marmalade, 189. 
Orange cake, 42. 
Molasses, 53. 

Conserve, 191. 

Cookies, 92. 

Cream custard, 116. 

Custard pie, 231. 

Fool, 118. 

Frosting, 58. 

Jam, 191. 

Marmalade, 189. 
Mock, 190. 
Pudding, English, 105. 

Mint julep, 4. 

Nut custard, 114. 



Orange (Continued) 

Pie, 236. 
Prize, 231. 

Pudding sauce, 102. 

Rolypoly, 102. 

Sauce, 134. 

Sherbet, 161. 

Soup, 178, 267. 

Sponge cake, 33. 

Sunshine, 124. 

Water ice, 158. 
Orangeade, 5. 
Oyster celery soup, 263. 

Chowder, 270. 

Cocktail, 175. 

Pan roast, 83. 

Sandwiches, 254. 

Stew, old-fashioned, 270. 

Stuffing, 221. 

Welsh, 79. 
Oysters a la Newburg, 79. 

Creamed, 81. 

Devilled, 143. 

Roasted in shell, 143. 

Scalloped, 143. 



Pancakes, banana, 169. 

Berlin, 169. 

Currant, 169.. 

Pineapple, 169. 
Pandowdy pie, 229. 
Panned shrimps, 82. 
Parfait, cocoa, 156. 

Grape juice, 157. 

Maple, 156. 
Parsnip tim bales, 283. 
Paste, mint, 70. 

Turkish, 66. 

Pastry, Turkish cream, 239. 
Pea salad, 242. 

Souffle, green, 284. 

Soup, cream of, 261. 
Peach butter, 195. 

Ice cream, 153. 

Pie, dried, 235. 

Pudding, 108. 

Souffle, 113. 



INDEX 



301 



Peaches, canned, 187. 
Frozen, 154. 
Jellied, 128. 
Preserved, 183. 
Spiced, 188. 

Peanut and fig sandwiches, 255. 
Brittle, 70. 
Butter candy, 70. 
Cookies, 92. 
Dainties, 88. 
Macaroons, 89. 
Salad dressing, 252. 
Sandwiches, 255. 
Cookies, crisp, 90. 
Cream soup, 266. 
Pear butter, 195. 
Ginger, 185. 

Preserves, molasses, 186. 
Pears, preserved, 183. 
Spiced, 112. 

Seckel, 188. 
Peas and rice, 76. 
Creamed, 281. 
Spanish sauce, green, 284. 
Pecan macaroons, 89. 
Pennsylvania cottage cheese, 141. 
Pepper combinations, stuffed, 286. 

Relish, 199. 
Peppermints and fancy mints, 69. 

Peppers, eggs in, 286. 

Stewed, 2s:,. 

Stuffed, 286. 

Tuna fish in, 285. 
Physical culture loaf, 24. 
Piccalilli, 196. 

Uncooked, 196. 
Pickle, mustard, 198. 

Tomato, 197. 
Pickles, olive oil, 199. 

Sweet cucumber, 197. 
I'ickled onions, 199. 
Pie, apple, 227. 

and apricot, 229. 

Apricot, 235. 

Banburry apple, 228. 

Beef pot, 210. 

Berry, 233. 

Boiled cider, 231. 

Butter, 234. 



Pie (Continued) 

Canadian meat, 212. 
Carrot cocoanut, 238. 
Cherry, 229. 
Cheshire pork. 211. 
Chocolate, 232. 

Cream, 236. 
Cranberry, 237. 

Raisin, 230. 
Crust, hot, water, 225. 

Plain, 225. 

Rich old-fashioned. 228. 
Currant, 234. 

and raspberry, 234. 
Date, 226. 

de Luxe, apple, 227. 
Dried peach, 235. 
English pumpkin, 225. 
Fresh strawberry, 235. 
Lamb and kidney, 210. 
Left-over meat, 213. 
Lemon, 232. 

Apple, 233. 

Sponge, 233. 
London kidney, 210. 
Marlboro, 227. 
Mince, 226. 
Mirror, 237. 
Mock cherry, 237. 

Mince, 235. 
Old-fashioned apple, 228. 

Green tomato, 232. 

Pumpkin. 225. 
Orange, 236. 

Custard, 231. 
Pandowdy, 229. 
Pineapple, 237. 
Pork and apple, 204. 
Prize orange, 231. 
Prune, 237. 
Raisin, 230. 
Rhubarb, 236. 

and strawberry, 236. 

Custard, 238. 
Sour milk, 229. 
Squash, 230. 

Sweet potato custard, 233. 
Veal, 211. 

mid ham. 212. 



302 



INDEX 



Pilaf, Turkish, 77. 

Pineapple and grapefruit salad, 

246. 

Cake, 51. 
Canapes, hot, 84. 
Cream, 120, 154. 
Dressing, 251. 
Filling, 60. 
Frappe, 162. 

Marmalade, rhubarb and, 190. 
Mousse, 156. 
Muffins, 29. 
Pancakes, 169. 
Pudding, 119. 
Punch, 6. 

Rice pudding, 120. 
Sauce, 166. 
Sherbet, 150. 
Sponge, 129. 
Pinoche, 63. 

Plum conserve, 193. 
Fondu, 141. 
Pudding, chocolate, 129. 

English, 97. 
Sherbet, 161. 

Planked steak, 202. 
Poached eggs in white sauce, 84. 
Pompadour pudding, 103. 
Popovers, 34. 

Graham, 34. 
Pork and apple pie, 204. 

Cake, 46. 

Cheese, 213. 

Chops, breaded, 207. 

Pie, Cheshire, 211. 

Roast leg of, 203. 
Portugal cakes, 56. 
Pot roast, chicken, 216. 
Potato balls, 274. 

Bread, 21. 



Potato (Continued) 
Chips, Saratoga, 275. 
Chocolate cake, 52. 
Chowder, 268. 
Doughnuts, 174. 
Fudge, 64. 
Gems, 31. 
Muffins, 27. 
Omelet, 139. 
Pudding, sweet, 108. 
Salad, German, 241. 
Sandwiches, mashed, 256. 
Savory, 244. 
Soup, 261. 
Straws, 274. 
Turnovers, 274. 
Whipped, 273. 

Potatoes, au Gratin, 274. 
Candied sweet, 275. 
Creamed sweet, 275. 
Hashed brown, 273. 
Honeyed sweet, 275. 
in stock, sweet, 275. 
Sausage stuffed, 274. 
Spanish, 273. 

Pound cake, 38. 
Ginger, 45. 
Powder, baking, 36. 

Preserve, cherry and currant, 184. 

India tomato, 185. 
Preserved blueberries, 186. 

Cherries, 184. 
Citron melon, 185. 
Crabapples, 184. 
Gooseberries, 183. 
Peaches, 183. 
Pears, 183. 
Pineapple, 183. 
Watermelon rind, 184. 



INDEX 



302A 



Preserves, cantaloupe, 184. 
Molasses pear, 186. 

Pressed chicken, 216. 
Princess pudding, 130. 

Prune and apple pudding, 104. 
and nut salad, 247. 
Brown Betty, 109. 
Brown bread, 77. 
Cake, 49. 
Ice cream, 152. 
Pie, 237. 

Pudding, Norwegian, 122. 
Puff, 107. 
Snow balls, 107. 
Souffle, 123. 
Stuffing, 221. 
Whip, 121. 

Prunes in jelly, 127. 
Puff, prune, 107. 

Puffed crackers, 96. 

Puffs, hominy, 112. 

Ice cream, 164. 

Pudding, almond, 104. 
Apple batter, 101. 
Asparagus, 280. 
Baked gooseberry, 110. 
Banana puff, 103. 
Batter, 98. 
Carrot, 108. 
Cereal-fruit, 73. 
Cherry, 107. 
Chocolate custard, 116. 

Plum, 129. 

Rice, 118. 
Cocoanut, 121. 

Crumb, 101. 
Corn, 284. 

Cornmeal and fig, 104. 
Cranberry, 100. 



Pudding (Continued) 

Cream rice, 118. 
Date, 99. 
East Indian, 103. 
English arrowroot, 106. 

Carrot, 106. 

Orange marmalade, 105. 

Plum, 97. 

Yorkshire, 217. 
Eve's, 105. 
Frozen, 163. 
Fruited apple, 97. 
Grape and fig, 122. 

Juice, 121. 
Honeycomb, 105. 
Indian tapioca, 131. 
Lemon rice, 197. 
Nesselrode, 163. 
New England cracker, 99. 
Norwegian prune, 122. 
Peach, 108. 
Pineapple, 119. 

Rice, 120. 
Pompadour, 103. 
Princess, 130. 
Prune and apple, 104. 
Pumpkin, 101. 
Quince, 102. 
Raspberry tapioca, 130. 
Rolled oats, 98. 
Russian, 98. 
Sauce, 135. 

Cider, 13<>. 

Fruited, 135. 
Orange, 102. 
Squash, 105. 
Steamed blackberry, 107. 

Chocolate, 100. 
Si rawberry meringue, 106. 
Sunshine, 104. 



302B 



INDEX 



Pudding (Continued) 

Swedish sago, 133. 
Sweet potato, 108. 
White suet, 100. 

Pumpkin bread, 22. 

Pie, English, 225. 
Old-fashioned, 225. 
I'udding, 101. 

Punch, fruit, clear, 5. 

Ginger, 3. 
Grape juice, 5. 
Jelly, 4. 
Pineapple, 6. 
Raspberry, 4. 

Puree, onion, 265. 



Quince and apple jam, 192. 

Honey, 182. 

Jelly, 179. 

Pudding, 102. 

Souffle, 111. 
Quinces, baked, 111. 



R 

Rabbit, baked Welsh, 140. 
Rice and nut, 80. 
Tomato, 80. 
Welsh, 80. 

Ragout of mutton, 205. 
Raised cornmeal bread, 23. 

Raisin bread, steamed, 20. 

Crackers, maple, 95. 
Drop cookies, 95. 
Pie, '230. 
Sauce, 134. 

Raspberry and Chocolate Filling, 

59. 

Ice, 157. 
Ice cream, 152. 



Raspberry (Continued) 

Jarn, 191. 

Jelly, 180. 

Punch, 4. 

oauce, 166. 

Shrub, 8. 

Tapioca pudding, 130. 

Whip, 117. 

Raw oysters, sauce for, 175. 
Red cabbage, Spanish, 279. 

Relish, cranberry, 198. 
Gooseberry, 198. 
Pepper, 199. 

Rhubarb and fig conserve, 194. 
and pineapple marmalade, 190. 
and strawberry jam, 191. 
and strawberry pie, 236. 
Cold canned, 186. 
Conserve, 194. 
Custard pie, 238. 
Marmalade, 190. 

Orange and, 189. 
Pie, 236. 
Sherbet, 160. 
Shortcake, 113. 
Tapioca, 133. 

Ribbon cake, 55. 

Rice and meal muffins, 29. 

and nut rabbit, 80. 

au Gratin, 76. 

Cakes, 74, 170. 

Yokohama, 76. 

Croquettes, 222. 

Custard, chocolate, 116. 

Frozen, 164. 

Hash, 75. 

Muffins, 27. 

Peas and, 76. 

Pudding, chocolate, 118. 

Cream, 118. 

Lemon, 97. 

Pineapple, 120. 
Soup, cream of, 263. 
Spanish, 75. 
Syrian, 75. 

Riced tomatoes, 75. 



IXDKX 



Roast, bean pot, 207. 

Beef, 202. 

Cheese, 140. 

Leg of pork, 203. 

Oyster pan, 83. 

Pork salad, 244. 

Sweetbreads, 20s. 
Roll, beeksteak, 205. 

Fig, 112. 

Jelly, 38. 
Rolled oats gems, 26. 

Pudding, 3. 
Rolls, egg, 24. 

Flower, 25. 

Oatmeal, 17. 

Rye, 26. 

Rolypoly, orange, 102. 
Root beer, 7. 
Ruby sauce, 196. 
Russian pudding, 98. 

Salad dressing, 250. 

Toffee, 64. 
Rye bread, 15. 

Cakes, fried, 172. 

Griddle cakes, 167. 

Rolls, 26. 



Sago pudding, Swedish, 133. 
Salad, alligator pear, 248. 

Almond cherry, 2 1 6. 

Banana and nut, 248. 

Bird's nest, 21 1. 

Cheese, 244. 

Corn, 242. 

Corned beef, 243. 

Cream, 250. 

Creole, 243. 

Cucumber jelly, 245. 

Dressing, peanut butter, 252, 

Russian, 250. 

Sour milk, 251. 
Fish flake, 243. 
Frozen cheese, 246. 
German potato, 241. 
Ginger ale, 247. 
Grapefruit, 2 is. 
in pineapple, fruit, 248. 



Salad (Continued) 

Jellied, 242. 

Lettuce, 241. 

Mint jelly, 247. 

Molded dandelion, 211. 

Pea, 242. 

Pineapple and grapefruit, - 

Prune and nut, 247. 

Roast pork, 244. 

Spring, 243. 

Stuffed egg, 243. 
Tomato, 245. 

Tomato jelly, 246. 

Tongue, 245. 

Tuna fish, 245. 

Vegetable, 242. 

with prunes, fruit, 247. 
Sally Luiui, 32. 
Salmon, baked eanned, 145. 

Cutlets, 144. 

Souffle, 145. 

Steamed, 146. 

SaJt rising bread, Virginia, 16. 
Samp, 73. 
Sandwich bread, 23. 

Club, 253. 

Cheese, 253. 
Sandwiches, baked bean, 25:',. 

Bermuda, 256. 

Brown sugar, 255. 

Chicken, 255. 

Fig, 254. 

Fruit, 255. 

Japanese, 256. 

Lemon custard, 5 1. 

Mashed potato, 2 5'i. 

Mosaic, 253. 

Nasturtium, 257. 

Oyster, 254. 

Peanut and fig, 25.", 
Butter, 255. 

Russian, 256. 

Savory, 254, 256. 
Mut on, 254. 

Smearcase, 25t;. 

Tomato and egg, 255. 

Tuna fish, 254. 

Walnut and olive, 253. 
Sardine canape, 177 



304 



INDEX 



Sardines in spinach, 285. 
Sauce, brandy, 134. 

Brown sugar, 166. 

Caper, 218. 

Cherry, 136. 

Chilli, 200. 

Chocolate, 165, 136. 

Cider pudding, 133. 

Cocoa, 134. 

Cranberry, 195. 

Egg, 149. 

Filbert, 165. 

Foam, 133. 

for raw oysters, 175. 

Fruited pudding, 135. 

Golden, 135. 

Gooseberry, 219. 

Hollandaise, 218. 

Koney, 165. 

Horseradish, 219. 

Marshmallow, 134. 

Mint, 219. 

Molasses, 135. 

Mushroom, 217. 

Mustard, 214. 

Nut fudge, 166. 

Orange, 134. 
Pudding, 102. 

Pineapple, 166. 

Pudding, 135. 

Raisin, 134. 

Raspberry, 166. 

Ruby, 196. 

Sherry, 135. 

Strawberry, 98, 165. 

Tartar, 148. 

Tomato, 218. 

Tyrolienne, 148. 

Winter chilli, 199. 
Sauerkraut, German style, 197. 
Sausage meat, Oxford, 214. 
Stuffing, 219. 

Stuffed potatoes, 274. 

Tarts, 213. 
Saute, carrot, 280. 
Savory potato, 244. 

Sandwiches, 254, 256. 
Scalloped bananas, 119. 
Chicken, 215. 



Scalloped (Continued) 

Eggs, 137. 

Meat, 206. 

Onions, 277. 

Oysters, 143. 
Scallops, devilled, 144. 

Fried, 144. 

Scalloped, 144. 
Scones, 34. 

Sultana, 35. 
Scotch broth, 205. 

Shortbread, 21. 
Scottish woodcock, 80. 
Scripture cake, 47. 
Shad, baked, 147. 
Sherbet, apple, 159. 

Blackberry, 159. 

Fizz, 160. 

Grape, 160. 

Lemon milk, 159. 

Orange, 161. 

Pineapple, 159. 

Plum, 161. 

Rhubarb, 160. 

Strawberry, 161. 

Watermelon, 160. 
Sherry sauce, 135. 
Shin of beef, 206. 
Shortbread, Scotch, 21. 
Shortcake, berry, 109. 

Lemon, 113. 

Maple, 114. 

Rhubarb, 113. 
Shrimp wiggle, 82. 
Shrimps, creamed, 83. 

Panned, 82. 
Shrub, raspberry, 8. 
Silver and gold layer cake, 54. 
Slump, apple, 110. 

Blackberry, 109. 
Smearcase sandwiches, 256. 
Snowballs, prune, 107. 
Souffle, asparagus, 280. 

Cheese, 140. 
Chocolate, 117. 
Custard, 115. 
Date, 108. 
Grape, 111. 
Green pea, 284. 



INDEX 



305 



Souivie i Continued) 
Prune, 123. 
Quince, 111. 
Salmon, 145. 
Spinach, 285. 
Squash, 278. 
Soup, Arizona, 261. 
Bean, 257. 
Carrot, 262. 
Chinese almond, 266. 
Cream of asparagus, 261. 
Cream of banana, 265. 

Chestnut, 262. 

Corn, 265. 

Lettuce, 266. 

Pea, 261. 

Rice, 263. 
Creole, 264. 
Lemon, 264. 
Onion, 264. 
Orange, 267, 178. 
Oyster celery, 263. 
Peanut cream, 266. 
Potato, 261. 
Tomato, 263. 
Turkish, 265. 

Sour cream biscuits, 25. 

Cookies, southern, 91. 
Doughnuts, 173. 
Fruit cake, 42. 
Waffles, 170. 
Milk cakes, cocoa, 50. 
Macaroni, 77. 
Pie, 229. 
Salad dressing, 251. 

Southern boiled bam, 201. 

Spoon bread, 21. 
Spanish eggs, 139. 

Rice, 75. 
Spire cake, 53. 

Cakes, coffee, 55. 

Hot, 217. 
Spieed apple jelly, 179. 

Cherries, 188. 

Crabapple jelly. 1X1. 

Currants, 187. 

Peaches, L88. 

Pears, 112. 

Seckel pears, 188. 



Spiced (Continued) 

Tea cakes, 93. 
Spinach soufl'le, 285. 
Sponge cake, 38. 
Berwick, 37. 
/ndian, 39. 
Orange, 38. 
Velvet, 39. 
Caramel, 126. 
Pineapple, 129. 
Strawberry, 124. 
Spoon bread, southern, 21. 
Spring salad, 243. 
Squares, chocolate, 94. 
Squash, baked, 278. 
Croquettes, 221. 
Muffins, raised, 28. 
Pie, 230. 
Pudding, 105. 
Souffle, 278. 
Steak, planked, 202. 
Steamed apples, 113. 

Blackberry pudding, 107. 
Cherry cups, 111. 
Chocolate pudding, 100. 
Salmon, 146. 
Strawberries, 99. 
Stew, old-fashioned oyster, 270. 
Swedish, 204. 
Green tomato, 283. 
Stewed peppers, 285. 
Sticks, finger, 34. 
StrawlMM-ries, canned, 187. 
Frozen, 154. 
Jellied, 128. 
Steamed, 99. 

Strawberry and currant jelly, 182. 
Cocktail, 176. 
Cream, 123. 

Quick, 152. 
Frappe, 161. 
Ice, 159. 

Jam, rhubarb and, 191. 
Macaroon ice, lf>7. 
MCI iimun pudding, 106. 
Mousse, \:,~>. 
Pie, fresh, 235. 
Sauce, I 65, 98. 
Sherbet, nil. 



306 



INDEX 



Strawberry (Continued) 

Sponge, 124. 
Straws, cheese, 96. 

Potato, 274. 
Stuffed baked, apples, 110. 

Bermuda onions, 277. 

Dates, 72. 

Egg salad, 243. 

Figs, 71. 

Haddock, baked, 148. 

Onions, German, 278. 

Pepper combinations, 286. 

Peppers, 286. 

Potatoes, sausage, 274. 

Tomato salad, 245. 
Stuffing, apple, 220. 

Celery, 219. 

Chestnut, 220. 

Mushroom, 221. 

Onion, 220. 

Oyster, 221. 

Prune, 221. 

Sausage meat, 219. 
Suet pudding, white, 100. 
Sugar gingerbread, 17. 
Sultana scones, 35. 
Sunshine cake, 37. 

Jam, 192. 

Orange, 124. 

Pudding, 104. 
Swedish Omelet, 138. 

Sago pudding, 133. 

Stew, 204. 
Sweet chocolate, 9. 

Cucumber pickles, 197. 

Muffins, 28. 

Potato biscuits, Georgia, 26. 
Custard pie, 233. 
Pudding, 108. 

Potatoes, Candied, 275. 
Creamed, 275. 
Honeyed, 276. 
in stock, 275. 
Sweetbreads, broiled, 208. 

Roast, 208. 

Sweetmeat, grape, 194. 
Swiss muffins, 30. 
Syrian imgedara, 282. 

Rice, 75. 



Taffy, ice cream, 70. 
Tapioca, caramel, 130. 

Coffee, 131. 

Cream, 131. 
Maple, 131. 

Creamed apple, 132. 

Date, 132. 

Grape, 130. 

Honey, 132. 

Pudding, Indian, 131. 
Raspberry, 130. 

Rhubarb, 133. 
Tartar sauce, 148. 
Tart fillings, 239. 

Gooseberry, 234. 

Grated apple, 227. 

Shells, rich, 239. 
Tarts, Banbury, 239. 

Cocoanut, 238. 

English lemon cheese, 238. 

Sausage, 213. 
Tea biscuit, maple, 27. 

Biscuits, English, 25. 
Tea cakes, spiced, 93. 

Frappe, 162. 

Iced, 3. 

Jellied iced, 125. 
Thick hot chocolate, 9. 
Timbales, parsnip, 283. 
Toast, Camembert, 258. 

Cheese, 257. 

Cinnamon, 257. 

Cream, 258. 

French, 258. 

Lemon, 259. 

Tuna fish, 81. 
Toffee, Everton, 68. 

Russian, 64. 
Tomato and egg sandwiches, 255. 

Canape, 177. 

Catsup, 200. 

Cocktails- *Z6. 

Creole, 

Jam, greeii 

Jelly salad, "^ ... 

Marmalade, ripe, 190. 

Omelet, 138. 



I\ HEX 



30" 



Tomato (Continued) 

Pickle, 197. 

Pie, old-fashioned green, 

Preserve, India, 185. 

Rabbit, 80. 

Riced, 75. 

Salad, stuffed, 245. 

Sauce, 218. 

Soup, 263. 

Stew, green, 283. 
Tomatoes, macaroni and, 1 
Tongue, breaded, 207. 

Salad, 245. 
Torque mnla, 82. 
Tuna lish canape, 178. 

in peppers, 285. 

Salad, 245. 

Sandwiches, 254. 

Toast, 81. 
Turkish paste, 66. 

Pilaf, 77. 

Turnovers, potato, 274. 
Tutti irutti, 5, 164. 
T.vrolienne sauce, 148. 



u 

I'ncooked fudge, 63. 



w 



232. 



7. 



Wattles, oatmeal, 170. 

Sour cream. 170. 

Walnut and olive sandwiches, 253. 
Water ice, ginger, 1~, V 

Orange, 158. 

Watermelon cocktail, 176. 
Rind, preserved. 18-1. 
Sherbet, 160. 
Wedding cake, 40. 
Welsh, oyster, 79. 
Rabbit, 80. 

Baked, 140. 
Whip, haiiana, 119. 
Coffee, 118. 
Frozen banana, 163. 
Marshmallow, 120. 
Prune, 121. 
Raspberry, 117. 
Whipped potato, 273 
White citron cake, 4s. 

Suet pudding, 100. 
Whitefish, filet of, 146. 
Wild fox grape marmalade, 
Wine jelly, 124. 
Wonders, 171. 



Vanilla ice cream, 151. 
Veal and ham pie, 212. 

Cutlets, 203. 

Jellied, 209. 

Loaf, 209. 

Loin of, 202. 

Pie, 211. 

Stuffed breast of, 204. 
Vegetable chowder, 269. 

Salad, 242. 

Venetian I'ritters, 172. 
Venison jelly, 180. 
Vernv- ' : "d eggs, 138. 

locolate schnntten, 
, i sauce, 148. 
* ...egar <ake, 49. 
Virginia i-alt rising bread, 16. 



47. 



Yorkshire pudding, Knglish, 






v 

. / 



' 




EDIBLE WEEDS 

(Copyright, 191 i rs. M. A. Wilson. 

All rights reserved.) 

Along early in the spring, in the days 
pone by, the patent medicine man would 
make his rounds of yelling to the cre<i 
lous public, his concoctions of herbs ani 
weeds. Today the housewife has at hei 
finger tips the knowledge that it is f.-n 
better for the health of her family to 
eat the early spring greens and weeds 
than to gulp down a concentrated mix- , 
ture of various kinds. Kat plenty of 
greens and you will have no need of the 
medicine man's wares. 

As the spring days approach the fields 
begin to take on the tints from the in- 
visible brush of Mother Nature. Early 
in the spring from eastern Canada 
through the New England sintra and 
through New York and Pennsylvania 
the wild sorrel may be gathered. It is 
diuretic in itsp ropertles ; and it should 
be used sparingly in soups, sauces and 
for flavored herb vinegars. Gather it 
early in May. Right in the same locality 
may be found, growing in the meadows 
and by the roadside, great burdock. 
Peel it carefully and th^n cook these 
voung stalks just like you would cook 
isp.irrinus, in a porcelain lincrl kettle. 
Serve with plain melted butter or cream 
sauce. It may be eaten -raw \\\h salt. 
Early in May the milkweed may also be 
gathered. Cook It as you would aspar-' 
agus. 

Gather the marigold before it blos- 
soms and cook it as a vegetable green. 
Season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Wild chifkory may bo gathered until 
the end of May. Boil the rosette roots 
like cabbage, using two waters. The 
leaves may be blanched in boiling water 
and then dipped in cold water and used 
in salads and sauces. 

Purslane is gathered in early June. It 
may be cooked like all other vegetable 
greeens and it may be used as a garnish 
Cor salads, etc., in place of parsley. 

Pigweed and its brother, lambs quar- 
ter, or round top may be gathered 
Ing May. It may be boiled <>r made into 
soup. 

Wild cress found from Labrador to the 
Pacific and south to the Carnlm 
be gr, i rom early spring and eaten 

s ilad. 

The humble dandelion may be co. 



.nd served as greens or dressed as salad. 

Owing to the diuretic properties of 

many of these wild herbs, it is necessary 

o pay particular attention to the man 

ner of cooking them. The most satis- 

ry method is to thoroughly cleanse 

and then place in a casserole dish. 

adding om> cup of water. Cover and 

steam in the oven. Do not use tin or 

aluminum sauro puns. 

A liberal helping three times p*r we< 
of these early spring greens will drive 
spring fever or liver torpor from your 
tystem. 

Lettuce 

Lettuce, which is used chiefly as a 
salad, is, according to tradition, a na- 
tive of the Grecian island. Here it 
a daily visitor to the table. The Greeks 
dress 'it with oil, garlic and paprika or 
n it appears as a vegetable with a 
delicious creamy cheese sauce. 

Remain, or as it is known In English, 
Cos lettuce, derived its name from the 
islands of Cos, which formerly belonged 
to the Greeks. 

Lettuce may be classed into three dif 
tin, t grades: cabbage or head letl 
the loose leaf lettuce, so called becaus 
It does not head UP: when the leaves 
are cut the plant gives two or moi 
crops; and the Cos or Romam lettuce 

Lettuce should be washed in plenty 
of cold writer to remove the sand and 
Insects The water may contain one 

easpoon-of salt. This ^1 cause any 
tlnv unseen mite to leave the letl ; 
Tav the lettuce on a napkin or towel 
Jo dry If desired to keep the lettuce 



f 

Several days, thorough cleansing and 
placing on ice will keep it crisp. 

ing M-ason with its showers 
nnd sunshine gives the v\ gar- 

den a new lease on life. Tho old rl> 
"that to cat greens In April and 
and then the doctor may play" is might 
good advice. This change in the di. 
will bring about a general bodily house 
cleaning. The eye will brighten, th 
step become elastic and the feeling tha 
life is good comes to those who hearkei 
to Mother Nature's call of spring. 

Nature has provided all that th 
human system requires for its sprin; 
housecleanlng and rebuilding in th 
pleasing form of early salads and gar 
den greens. A dainty dandelion o: 
scullion salad, a spinach timbale 
asparagus with butter or holland.-iis 
sauce is a pleasing way of taking the 
necessary mineral salts at this season. 

Therefore, let us see that our mcni 
contains a generous amount of green 
bod which is made nourishing by good 
eauces and an abundance of salads. 

Dandelion Salad 

Select young leaves of dandelion and 
hen wash them in plenty of cold water. 
Drain free from moisture and then cut 
with scissors. Serve with a garnish of 

slices of hard-boiled egg and beet, with 
Russian dressing. 

Spinach Salad 

One cup of cooked spinach, one small 
onion (minced fine), one teaspoon of 
ealt ; one teaspoon of paprika. 

Mix well and then mould into small 
balls and lay on lettuce leaves Garnish 
with slices of hard-boiled rgg. 

Bermuda Salad 

Arrange the salad bowl with lettuce 
and then slice: 

L large Bermuda onion very thin 

1 ' S&S&P^ffcTjSWB *t$MS.J oeiina 

T8 "39CI SUJPU SqiUOUZ XIS 9l[4 JOJ 

-moo sjqj jo atuooui 3311 pojaodaa aqx 




pu-e 

'ansBi 3{OO}s Jojujtj 9q> uo pjBd SBAV 
jad %;[ jo ^uauiasjnqsip jBUjUf UB 
92 'J8nv MO uoi;BjodJOv> oq-j jo 
uoiumoD eqj ao pajjaja 
uo p("ud uaaq aA^eq ^a.v s 
'HI61 u l 8n P SSI ?snaj ['BJ.uBnoo OOO'OOK'yiJ 
jo ssaupa^qapui papuoq -B PUB 'aniBA 

001$ JO U 18 '>130}8 UOUIUI03 COO'OOC'iJ 

-'000'01$ 'pajaajajd ?sjy GAjjBinuino '?ua 

cr oiartr 



JAN 18 



