i is. 

H 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

ITS PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 

AND THE SANITATION OF 

ITS SURROUNDINGS 



BY 



THEODORE HOUGH 

Professor of Physiology and Dean of the Department of 
Medicine in the University of Virginia 

AND 

WILLIAM T. SEDGWICK 

Professor of Biology and Public Health and Lecturer on Hygiene 
and Sanitation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 



REVISED EDITION 




GINN AND COMPANY 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO LONDON 
ATLANTA DALLAS COLUMBUS -SAN FRANCISCO 




\ ' x ^ 

ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL 



COPYRIGHT, 1906, 1918, BY 

THEODORE HOUGH AND WILLIAM T. SEDGWICK 



ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 
218.10 



fltftenaeum 



GINN AND COMPANY PRO- 
PRIETORS BOSTON U.S.A. 



PREFACE TO THE REVISED EDITION 

This edition presents a thorough revision in which the 
authors have incorporated those advances in physiology, 
hygiene, and sanitation which are directly applicable to the 
fundamental purpose of this book, as stated in the preface 
to the first edition. Portions of certain chapters have been 
entirely rewritten, notably those dealing with the work of 
organs and cells, internal secretions, digestion, nutrition, the 
nervous system, and the communicable diseases. Two new 
chapters have been added: one dealing with the hygiene of 
the mouth, nose, and throat and with focal infections in 
general ; the other with diseases conveyed by insects. Advan- 
tage has also been taken of the opportunity offered by the 
reprinting of the entire work to make many changes in the 
interest of greater simplicity or clearness of presentation. 

The two parts of this edition will, as heretofore, be issued 
also as separate books, entitled Elements of Physiology and 
Hygiene and Sanitation. 

We are indebted to Dr. E. P. Joslin for permission to repro- 
duce from his work on the Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus 
the table on page 238, and to Dr. J. S. Ferguson for per- 
mission to use the figure of the lingual tonsil on page 404. 



iii 



PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION 

The authors of this work believe that extensive and funda- 
mental changes must be made in the elementary teaching of 
physiology, hygiene, and sanitation if these subjects are ever 
to occupy in the curriculum of education the place which 
their intrinsic importance requires. This textbook is a con- 
tribution toward effecting these changes, and has been prepared 
both as a demonstration of what the authors believe to be 
needed and as a practical aid toward securing the end in view. 

The health and efficiency of the human body have rarely, 
if ever, been more highly esteemed than they are to-day, and 
yet no subject of similar importance is so generally neglected 
in the schools, or, when taught, taught less effectively. 
Several causes have contributed to this curious state of things, 
but undoubtedly one of the most important is that the teach- 
ing has been too largely anatomical and too remotely con- 
nected with the activities and problems of daily life. 

In the present textbook, anatomy has been reduced to its 
lowest terms and microscopic anatomy or histology touched 
upon only so far as seemed absolutely necessary. Space has 
thus been gained for more physiology and, especially, for more 
hygiene than is usual, and also for the elements of sanitation, 
a new and comparatively easy subject, but one of the very 
first importance in all wholesome modern living. 

That point of view which regards the human body as a 
living mechanism is to-day not only the sure foundation of 
physiology, hygiene, and sanitation but is also surprisingly 
helpful in the solution of many questions concerned with 
intellectual and moral behavior. This view, therefore, we 
have not hesitated to expound and emphasize. Avoiding that 



vi THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

form of physiology which looks chiefly at the organs and over- 
looks the organism, we have constantly kept in view the body 
as a whole, in order that physiology may become the inter- 
preter of the common physical phenomena of the daily life and 
find in hygiene and sanitation its natural application to conduct. 

We believe with Matthew Arnold that "conduct is three 
fourths of life," and that this is no less true of the physical 
than of the moral and the intellectual life. We therefore 
make no apology for fixing upon conduct as the keynote of 
this work and the right conduct of the physical life as the 
principal aim and end of all elementary teaching of physiology, 
hygiene, and sanitation. 

In those portions of the book devoted to public hygiene 
and sanitation the authors have kept in view the importance 
of this subject in all education for good citizenship. Sanitary 
science and the public health can be advanced only as they 
are supported by an intelligent public opinion, which appre- 
ciates the nature of the problems involved, the frequent duty 
of subordinating personal liberty to the public good, and the 
importance of rendering hearty support to public officials in 
the discharge of difficult and often delicate tasks. 

It has not seemed wise to include in the text extensive 
directions for laboratory work. The opportunities and facil- 
ities for such work vary to such an extent in different schools 
that the largest discretion must here be left to the teacher. 
Many demonstrations and experiments described or referred 
to can, however, easily be performed, when advisable, with 
comparatively little trouble or expense. 

We are greatly indebted to Professor Werner Spalteholz 
for his kind permission to copy certain figures from his Hand 
Atlas of Anatomy, 1 a book which we recommend as a most 
useful reference work for anatomical study. Our acknowl- 
edgments are also due to Professor Schottelius, from whom 

1 Werner Spalteholz, Hand Atlas of Human Anatomy, translated by 
L. F. Barker. G. E. Stechert, New York. 



PREFACE vii 

we have taken many of the figures of bacteria given in Part II. 
In the preparation of most of the original figures we have 
had the assistance of Dr. Percy G. Stiles, whose skill as a 
draftsman, combined with his appreciation, as a physiologist, 
of our point of view, has greatly facilitated this part of 
our work. 

The index has been prepared with special reference to its 
use as a glossary of anatomical terms. 



CONTENTS 



PART I. PHYSIOLOGY 

CHAPTER PAGE 

I. THE HUMAN MECHANISM 3 

II. THE STRUCTURE (ANATOMY) OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 6 

III. THE FINER STRUCTURE OF Two TYPICAL ORGANS, 

GLANDS AND MUSCLES. THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. 

THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM 28 

IV. THE ORGANS AND CELLS OF THE BODY AT WORK . . 43 
V. WORK AND FATIGUE 55 

VI. THE INTERDEPENDENCE OF ORGANS AND OF CELLS. 

INTERNAL SECRETIONS 63 

VII. THE ADJUSTMENT OR COORDINATION OF THE WORK OF 

ORGANS AND CELLS 69 

VIII. ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 91 

The Supply of Matter and Power to the Human Machine 91 

Digestion in the Mouth. Enzymes 103 

Digestion in the Stomach 107 

Digestion and Absorption in the Small Intestine and in 

the Large Intestine 117 

IX. THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 135 

Blood and Lymph 135 

Mechanics of the Circulation of the Blood and of the 

Flow of Lymph 139 

The Adjustment of the Circulation to the Needs of 

Everyday Life 152 

X. RESPIRATION 165 

XI. EXCRETION . . 180 

XII. THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 189 

The Constant Temperature 189 

The Regulation of the Body Temperature 199 

ix 



x THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XIII. NUTRITION 215 

The Sources of Power and Heat for the Human 

Mechanism 216 

The Food Reserve of the Body. Fat. Glycogen. Cell 

Proteins 222 

Food as the Material for Growth, Repair, and the 

Manufacture of Special Products of Cell Activity 229 

The Proper Daily Intake of Protein 235 

XIV. SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 240 

XV. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 263 

Its Anatomical Basis 263 

The Physiology of the Nervous System . . . . . 269 



PART II. THE HYGIENE OF THE HUMAN 

MECHANISM AND THE SANITATION OF 

ITS SURROUNDINGS 

XVI. INTRODUCTORY 289 

PERSONAL HYGIENE 

XVII. MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 297 

The Ministry of Muscular Activity to the Body as 

a Whole 297 

General Muscular Exercise 307 

Muscular Exercises for Special Purposes. Corrective 

Work. The Gymnasium 314 

XVHI. THE HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. REST AND 

SLEEP 327 

XIX. THE HYGIENE OF FEEDING 342 

XX. FOOD ACCESSORIES, DRUGS, ALCOHOL, AND TOBACCO . 352 
XXI. THE PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS AND SOME 

OTHER INFLAMMATIONS 374 

XXH. THE CARE OF THE EYES AND EARS 389 

XXIH. HYGIENE OF MOUTH, NOSE, AND THROAT. FOCAL 

INFECTIONS . . 397 



CONTENTS xi 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XXIV. THE HYGIENE OF THE FEET 407 

XXV. BATHING 417 

XXVI. CLOTHING 422 

DOMESTIC HYGIENE AND SANITATION 

XXVII. THE HOUSE : ITS SITE, CONSTRUCTION, FURNISH- 
INGS, AND CARE 429 

XXVIII. THE WARMING AND LIGHTING OF THE HOUSE . . 438 

XXIX. THE AIR SUPPLY OF THE HOUSE. VENTILATION . 446 
XXX. THE WATER SUPPLY, PLUMBING, AND DRAINAGE OF 

THE HOUSE. GARBAGE AND RUBBISH . . . 455 

PUBLIC HYGIENE AND SANITATION 

XXXI. PUBLIC HEALTH. COMMUNICABLE AND NON-COM- 
MUNICABLE DISEASES. MICROBES 467 

XXXII. SOME PARASITIC DISEASES AND THEIR PREVENTION. 

VACCINATION AND ANTITOXIC SERUMS . . . 483 

XXXIII. COMMUNICABLE DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS . 512 

XXXIV. PUBLIC SUPPLIES OF FOOD, WATER, AND GAS. PUB- 

LIC SEWERAGE 527 

XXXV. HYGIENE AND SANITATION OF TRAVELING, AND OF 

PUBLIC CONVEYANCES, PUBLIC HOUSES, ETC. . 541 

XXXVI. PUBLIC PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH . . 550 

XXXVII. INTERNATIONAL HEALTH RELATIONS 556 

INDEX . 563 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

PART I 
PHYSIOLOGY 



PART I 

CHAPTER I 
THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

1. The human body a living organism. The human body, 
as compared with bodies of water such as lakes and seas, 
or with heavenly bodies such as the sun, moon, and stars, 
is a small mass of matter weighing on the average, when 
fully grown, about 150 Ib. and measuring in length about 
5 ft. 9 in. It is neither very hot, as is the sun, nor warm 
in summer and cold in winter, as are many bodies of 
water, but in life and health has always almost exactly the 
same moderate temperature, namely, 98.6 F. or 37.5 C. The 
human body is not homogeneous, that is to say, alike in all 
its parts, as is the substance of a lake, but consists of very 
unlike parts eyes, ears, legs, heart, brain, muscles, etc. 
these parts being known as organs, and the whole body, there- 
fore, as the human organism. 

The most remarkable peculiarity of the human body, how- 
ever, is that it is a living organism. A watch has unlike parts 
spring, dial, hands, case, etc. which are essentially its 
organs, and the watch might therefore be called an organism; 
yet it never is so called. We speak of a well-organized army, 
navy, government, society, church, or school, but never of a 
well-organized automobile, typewriter, printing press, or loco- 
motive apparently for the reason that in army, navy, or 
school living things play a principal part, while in mere 
machinery life is wholly wanting. The highest compliment 
we can pay to a machine is to say that it seems " almost 

3 



4 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

alive," but it is not a compliment to any human being to 
describe him as " a mere machine." What the vital property 
is, what we mean by the terms " life " and " living," no one 
can exactly tell. About all we know of it is that some of the 
commonest elements of matter (carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, 
and nitrogen, with a little sulphur, phosphorus, and a few 
other elements) frequently occur combined as living matter, 
and that this living matter has marvelous powers of growth, 
re'pair, and reproduction, besides a certain spontaneity, origi- 
nality, and independence, which lifeless matter never displays. 
" While there is life there is hope " for any plant or any ani- 
mal, but this saying does not apply to any lifeless machine, 
however complex or wonderful. 

2. The human body a living machine or mechanism. By 
a machine we mean an apparatus, either simple or complex, 
and usually composed of unlike parts, by means of which 
power received in one form is given out or applied in some 
other form. This power may be received, for example, in the 
form of heat, or electricity, or muscular effort, or as the poten- 
tial energy of fuel ; and it may be given out as heat, or elec- 
tricity, or light, or sound, or as mechanical work, or in any 
one of many other ways. One of the simplest of all machines 
is a stove, an apparatus composed of a few simple parts by 
means of which the potential energy or power of fuel 
wood, coal, gas, or oil is liberated and applied as heat, for 
warming or cooking. A lamp is a still simpler machine in 
which the potential energy or power of gas or oil is liberated 
and converted into useful light. A candle is a lamp so 
simple that it almost ceases to be a machine, and yet the 
wick is really an apparatus for securing proper combustion 
of wax or tallow to provide good light. 

Machines of greater complexity are watches or clocks, 
pieces of apparatus composed of many unlike parts which 
receive power in comparatively large amounts for a short time 
during the process of winding, store it as potential energy in 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 5 

coiled springs or lifted weights, and liberate it slowly in the 
mechanical work of moving the hands of the timepiece over 
a dial. Still more complex is a locomotive or an automobile, 
machines in which the power of coal, oil, gasoline, or other 
fuel or the electricity of a storage battery is applied to swift 
locomotion. But the most wonderful of all machines is, the 
human body, a complicated piece of apparatus in which the 
power stored in foods, such as starch, sugar, butter, meat, 
milk, eggs, and fish, is transformed into that heat by which 
the body is warmed and into that muscular, nervous, diges- 
tive, or other work which it performs. 

For delicate and intricate machinery the term " mechan- 
ism " is often employed, and we may therefore describe 
the human body either as the " human organism," or the 
" human machine," or, perhaps best of all, as the HUMAN 

MECHANISM. 

The study or the science of the construction (structure) 
of this mechanism is called its anatomy ; of its ordinary be- 
havior, operation, or working, its physiology ; of its proper 
management, protection, and care, its hygiene. This textbook 
is devoted chiefly to an account of its operation and care, 
that is, to its physiology and hygiene ; but as any true com- 
prehension of these subjects depends upon some preliminary 
knowledge of the parts of the mechanism itself, we shall 
begin by considering briefly the structure or anatomy of the 
human machine. 



CHAPTER II 

THE STRUCTURE (ANATOMY) OF THE HUMAN 
MECHANISM 

Anatomy is studied partly by dissection, which reveals 
chiefly those organs which are visible to the naked eye, and 
partly by microscopic examination, which gives a deeper in- 
sight into the detailed arrangement of the cells and tissues 
of which the organs of the mechanism are composed. The 
present chapter is devoted to structures or organs shown 
by dissection the gross anatomy of the body as distin- 
guished from its microscopic anatomy (histology). 1 

1 Further explanation of the structure of the human machine will be 
given as it may be needed in subsequent chapters. At this point it is of 
the utmost importance that the student thoroughly master the general 
relations of the more important organs one to another ; this, however, 
is not to be done by extensive reading, and still less by memorizing verbal 
descriptions ; the aim should rather be to acquire from figures and dia- 
grams, or better yet from actual dissection, where that is possible, a correct 
mental picture of the structures involved. Far more can be learned by 
constructing drawings or diagrams from memory than by the mere memo- 
rizing of text. The drawings may lack finish and may be at first difficult 
to execute ; but so long as they represent the relations of the organs one 
to another they accomplish their purpose; beyond this point the more 
accurately they are drawn the better. 

Moreover, drawing is a great aid to dissection. It not only fixes in the 
memory what is seen but it compels close observation ; when one draws an 
object he is forced to note details and relations of structure which would 
otherwise escape observation. Nor is the freehand drawing which is re- 
quired for our purpose so difficult as is often supposed by those who 
have never seriously used it. Let the student attempt to reproduce an 
object from his memory of its picture ; begin with one which is not too 
complicated (such as the figure of the peritoneum and mesentery on 
page 14). Where he does not know how to represent a special structure, 
let him refer to the original, from which he may get suggestions ; then 
close the book and draw from memory ; any completed part of the work 
may be compared with the original and possible improvements discovered. 

6 



STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 7 

The human mechanism is composed of different parts, such 
as head, neck, trunk, arms, hands, legs, and feet, and each of 
these in its turn is composed of lesser parts. Arms and hands, 
for example, are covered by skin, which may be moved over 
underlying soft parts ; at the ends of the fingers the place of 
the skin is taken by nails, while scattered over and emerging 
from its surface are hairs. Through the skin may be seen the 
veins, which may be emptied of the purplish blood they con- 
tain by pressing one finger on a part of the vein near the 
finger and pushing another finger along the vein toward the 
wrist; so long as pressure is maintained by both fingers 
the vein remains collapsed, but on removing the first finger 
it fills again with blood. Finally, through the soft parts 
(flesli) may be felt the hard bones. In general these various 
parts of which the body is composed are known as its organs, 
and because it possesses organs it is called an organism (p. 3). 

1. The skin. The body is everywhere covered by a com- 
plex protective and sensitive organ, the skin. Only the eyes 
and nails seem to be exceptions ; but as a matter of fact the 
exposed surface of the eye is covered by a very thin, trans- 
parent portion of the skin, and the nails are really modified 
portions of skin. 

2. Subcutaneous connective tissue. On cutting through the 
skin we find that it is bound to the underlying flesh (chiefly 
meat or muscle) by what is known as connective tissue, the 
structure of which we shall study in the next chapter. Mean- 
while we may notice that it contains blood vessels, that at 
some places it is more easily stretched than at others, and 
that when a flap of skin is pulled away from the muscles, 
this subcutaneous tissue fills with air. It often contains large 
quantities of fat. 

Such practice may well precede drawing from an actual dissection and 
will pave the way to the latter. At all events let the student understand 
thoroughly that in the present chapter the figures, supplemented if possible 
by actual dissections, form the main objects of study ; the text is strictly 
subordinate to the figures. 



8 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

3. Muscles and deeper connective tissues. 1 The subcu- 
taneous connective tissue sometimes connects or binds the 
skin directly to bone, as in parts of the head ; usually, how- 
ever, in the neck, trunk, and limbs the underlying tissue is 
the red flesh, or muscle^ familiar to us as " lean of meat." 
If the skin be removed from the forearm, it at once becomes 
evident that this mass of meat or flesh is composed of a 
number of muscles which may be separated from one an- 
other more or less completely. In doing this it will be found 
that the muscles are held 'together by connective tissue in 
most respects quite similar to that immediately under the 
skin. Further dissection will show that one or another form 
of this tissue is the means of binding other organs together; 
thus the muscles are joined to the bones by a very dense, 
compact, and strong form known as tendon-, the bones are 
united by a somewhat similar form known as ligament; and 
so on. The physical characters of the tissue differ widely, 
according to its situation and the use subserved; but one 
form shades more or less into another, and we have no diffi- 
culty in recognizing the general similarity which leads us to 
group them all together in one class. 

4. Muscles attached to bones. When a muscle is carefully 
dissected away from neighboring muscles and other organs, 
it is almost always found that it is attached to one and 
usually to two bones; this union is frequently made by 
means of a tendon, as in the case of the large muscle of the 
calf of the leg, which is attached at one end to the bone 
of the thigh and at the other to that of the heel. A good 
example of the direct attachment of muscles to bones is 
furnished by those muscles which lie between the ribs (see 



1 The general appearance and arrangement of muscles, their attachment 
by means of tendons to bones, and the action of tendons on bones can be 
beautifully shown by a dissection of the leg of a chicken. The difference 
between trunk and limbs in the matter of the body cavity may also be 
readily demonstrated on the same 'animal. 



STKUCTUKE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 9 



Fig. 161): In either case the shortening of the muscle brings 
closer together the bones to which it is attached. 

5. Definition of some anatomical terms. Before proceeding 
further we must agree upon the exact meaning of certain 
anatomical terms. We often speak of one part of the body as 
being " above " or " below," " before " or " behind," another. 
Such terms, however, are confusing, because their meaning de- 
pends upon the position of the body at the time they are used. 
For example, when one is lying on his back the head is in 
front of, or before, the 
trunk ; but when he is 
standing on his feet it 
is above the trunk. 

Now the body is 
certainly divided into 
right and left halves, 
which are much alike 
externally, though this 
likeness is not so 
marked in the internal 
parts'. Right and left 
then have their ordi- 
nary meanings, and 
that without regard to 
the various positions 
the body may take. 

To indicate that any 
part is nearer the head than another part, we say that the 
former is anterior to the latter ; to indicate that the latter- is 
further away from the head, we say it is posterior to the former. 

Finally, the region popularly known as the back is- called 
dorsal (Latin dorsum, " back "), that opposite the back being 
called ventral (Latin venter, "belly"). Thus the nose- is on 
the ventral side of the head; the toes are at the posterior 
extremity of the foot. 




FIG. 1. Cross section of arm 

A, skin ; B, subcutaneous connective tissue, bind- 
ing the skin to the muscles D and continuous 
with the connective tissue which binds together 
the muscles ; (7, blood vessels and nerves 



10 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



6. The body cavities. There is one striking and important 
structural difference between the trunk and the limbs ; the 
former contains a central body cavity, completely filled, how- 
ever, with various organs, while the arms and legs are each 
composed of a continuous mass of tissues, namely, muscle, 

blood vessels, nerves, 
bone, etc., all bound 
together by connec- 
tive tissue (Figs. 1 
and 2). 

The cavity of the 
trunk, or body cav- 
ity, is subdivided 
transversely by the 
dome-shaped muscle 
known as the dia- 
phragm into two 
cavities an ante- 
rior, known as the 
thoracic, or pleural, 
cavity ; and a poste- 
rior, known as the 
abdominal, or perito- 
neal, cavity. Both 
cavities are lined by 
a thin, smooth, shiny 
membrane, that of 
the thoracic being 
known as the pleura, and that of the abdominal as the 
peritoneum. 

Filling the pleural cavity are found the heart, lungs, 
oesophagus, windpipe (or trachea), and many great blood vessels ; 
filling the abdominal cavity, the stomach, the small intestine, 
the large intestine, the liver, the pancreas, the kidneys, the 
spleen, and other organs, together with numerous large and 




FIG. 2. The thoracic, or pleural, and the abdomi- 
nal, or peritoneal, cavities filled with organs 



STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 11 



important arteries and veins. In both cavities the lining 
membrane (pleura or peritoneum) is folded back over the 
organs ; that is to say, the organs do not really lie in the 
cavities, but only fill them as the hand would fill a bladder 
one wall of which it pushes in against the other. The sur- 
faces of the organs, like the walls of the cavity, are conse- 
quently smoothly covered and glide over one another with 
very little friction. The 
preservation of these pleu- 
ral and peritoneal linings 
in their normal condition 
is a matter of great impor- 
tance ; when inflamed or 
otherwise injured their sur- 
faces become roughened, 
and adhesions of connec- 
tive tissue often develop 
between them which fas- 
ten the organs together or 
to the walls of the cavity, FlG - 3 - Cross section of the chest ante- 




so that surgical interfer- 
ence is sometimes neces- 



rior to the branching of the trachea 

A, a vertebra of the spinal column ; B, spinal 
cord ; C, the pleural cavity (which is exag- 
Sary. Pleurisy is Such an gerated for the sake of clearness, the sur- 
. n . . P . T , face of the lung heing actually in contact 

inflammation of the pleura, with the body wall) . The oesophagus, tra- 

peritonitis of the peritO- chea together with several large arteries 

, , , and veins, are shown in the mediastinum ven- 

neum ; and both are very t ral to the vertebra and in the order named 

serious conditions. 

7. Attachment of the organs to the walls of the pleural 
and peritoneal cavities. The pleural cavity is completely 
divided by 'a median partition of connective tissue (the 
mediastinum), within which are found the trachea, the 
oesophagus, the great blood vessels, and lying within a 
special cavity of its own the heart. Approximately half- 
way from the anterior to the posterior border of the medi- 
astinum the trachea divides within that membrane into two 



12 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

tubes, or bronchi, which pass through the mediastinum out- 
ward, one to the right lung, the other to the left. The pleural 
lining of the mediastinum is pushed outward by these tubes 
and, as they end in the lungs, forms the pleural covering of 
the latter (Fig. 5). Consequently the organs of the pleural 
cavity either lie within the mediastinum (heart, oesophagus, 




FIG. 4. Cross section of chest posterior to branching of trachea 

A, bronchus, entering the lung ; B, the aorta cut at its origin and again at the 

descending part of its arch; (7, the pericardial space; D, the pleural cavity; 

P. A., the pulmonary artery 

trachea, etc.) or else are covered by extensions of the 
mediastinal pleura (bronchi and lungs). 

The abdominal cavity is not similarly separated into right 
and left halves ; but a membrane, the mesentery, passes ven- 
trally from the dorsal wall to the stomach and intestine, 
which are slung in it somewhat as a man lies in a hammock. 
The line of attachment of this mesentery to the small intes- 
tine is much longer than that of its attachment to the body 
wall ; hence it has the general shape of a ruffle, or flounce 
an arrangement which permits the suspension of the very 



STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 13 



long intestine (20 to 25 ft.) from the comparatively short 
median dorsal body wall (see Fig. 156). The great arteries 
and veins lie in the mesentery near the dorsal body wall, 
and branches are distributed from them to the intestine 
within this expand- 
ing membrane (see 
Fig. 163). 

The kidneys do 
not lie movably sus- 
pended in the ab- 
dominal cavity, as do 
the intestines, but 
are large organs, one 
on each side, situated 
near the spinal column 
and dorsal to the ab- 
dominal cavity from 
which they are sep- 
arated by the peri- 
toneum. Arteries 
and veins are sup- 
plied to them from 
the large median 
artery and the me- 
dian vein already if/ 
referred to (aorta ' 
and vena cava, 
Fig. 15), and these 




5. Diagrammatic vertical right- 
tc^lef t section of the right thorax 

A, mUscles, ribs, etc., of the body wall; 

B, pleura, lining the same ; C, the pleural 
space or cavity ; D, the pleural covering 
of the lung; E, connective tissue of the 
lung; F, alveoli of the lung; G, dia- 
phragm ; H, trachea ; 7, right bronchus, 
branching; K, the pericardial space in 
which lies the heart. Note the division 

of the lung into two lobes 



renal arteries and veins are 
likewise outside the abdom- 
inal cavity. 

The relation of the other organs to the peritoneum is more 
complicated, notably in the case of the liver ; but in all cases 
the organs are inclosed, or wrapped, either in a fold of the 
peritoneum, as is the kidney, or in a fold of the mesentery, 



14 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Kidney 



as is the intestine ; and their blood and nerve supplies run 

to them in similar folds. 

8. The axial skeleton. The bones and cartilages of which 

the skeleton is composed may be classified into an axial 

skeleton (of the head, 
neck, and trunk) and 
an appendicular skele- 
ton (of the arms and 
legs). The axial skele- 
ton comprises (1) the 
backbone, or vertebral 
column, (2) the ribs 
and breastbone, and 
(3) the skull. 

9. The backbone, 
or vertebral (spinal) 




FIG. 6. 



Diagrammatic cross section of the 
abdominal cavity 

Showing the relation of the kidneys and great 
blood vessels to the peritoneum. The intestine has 



column. This is com- 



been removed, the cut border of the mesentery posed of separate ir- 



regular ringlike bones, 



being shown 

or vertebrae, placed one above another and bound together by 
bands of strong connective tissue known as ligaments. It is 
customary to divide the backbone into the following regions : 

Cervical, 7 vertebrae of the neck. 

Thoracic, 12 vertebrae of the chest, to which ribs are attached. 

Lumbar, 5 vertebrae of the " small of the back." 

Sacral, 5 vertebrae (fused together) to which the large hip bones 
are attached. 

Coccygeal, 4 or 5 very small, simple vertebrae (constituting the skele- 
ton of a rudimentary tail and corresponding to the tail of lower 
animals). 

When one looks at the spinal column from behind, the 
vertebrse are seen to be placed one .upon another, but all in 
the median dorsoventral plane of the body (see Fig. 7). Seen 
from the side, however, several curves come into view, as 
shown in Fig. 10. On the ventral side, in the cervical and 




FIG. 7. The skeleton entire 
15 



16 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 




FIG. 8. Sixth thoracic 
vertebra 

Seen from above 



upper thoracic region, the curvature is slightly convex ; in 
the thoracic region it is quite concave ; in the lumbar region 
slightly convex ; and in the sacral-coccygeal region again 

concave. It may well be asked how 
these separate vertebrae, piled, as it 
were, one above another, maintain 
their proper relative positions. This 
is partly due to the shape of the 
individual vertebrae, partly to the 
ligaments (p. 17) which pass from 
one vertebra to another and limit 
the movements of each, and partly 
to the action of muscles which are 
placed upon opp6site sides of the 
vertebrae and by their antagonistic 

action hold them in place. The action of muscles and liga- 
ments upon the bones may be illustrated by two blocks of 
wood held together by two rubber bands (w, m', Fig. 11) 
slightly stretched ; so long as each 
pan* of opposite bands pulls with 
the same force, the blocks are kept 
in what we may call their resting 
position. Here the rubber bands 
represent two of the. antagonistic 
muscles, which, by maintaining a 
steady and equal pull on the oppo- 
site sides of the vertebrae, keep 
them in place. Should one pull 
harder than its antagonist, as when 
a muscle contracts (see Chap. IV), 
the antagonist will be stretched 
and the bones become inclined 
toward one another, as shown in right portion of Fig. 11. 
This principle of muscular antagonism is quite general in 
the maintenance of the proper relative positions of bones in 




FIG. 9. Sixth thoracic 
vertebra 

Seen from the side 



STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM IT 



Cervical 



Thoracic 
(or dorsal) 



10 



the body. Almost every joint is the theater of such plays 
of antagonistic muscles, which serve the double function of 
keeping the bones in proper position with regard to one an- 
other and of producing movement at the joint, the amount 
of this movement being limited by 
the slack but inextensible connective- 
tissue ligaments which bind the bones 
together. In Fig. 11 both the short- 
ening of the muscle and the slack- 
ness of the ligaments are purposely 
exaggerated, in order to represent 
more clearly the functions of these 
tissues. Ligaments may also guide 
the movement of bones by pre- 
venting motion in one direction 
or another. 

10. The ribs. Each rib consists 
of a bony and a cartilaginous por- 
tion. The former articulates (that 
is, forms a joint with) the vertebral 
column, while the latter continues 
this bony portion to the ventral 
median breastbone, to which it is 
directly joined. The ribs form the 
framework for the thorax and may 
be lifted or lowered by muscles 
which connect them with the verte- 
bral column and other parts of the 
skeleton (see Fig. 12). 

11. The skeleton and the central 

nervous system. The skull consists of the bones of the 
face and those of the cranium, the latter holding the brain. 
It is supported on the spinal, or vertebral, column, whose 
ringlike vertebrse inclose a bony canal continuous with the 
cranial cavity. This is known as the spinal, or vertebral, 



Lumbar 



Sacral 



FIG. 10. The vertebral col- 
umn 

Seen from the side 



18 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



canal, in which lies the spinal cord 1 the continuation of 
the central nervous system posterior to the brain. 




FIG. 11 

Model showing the action of muscles on two vertebrae and of the ligaments (I, I') 

in limiting the amount of movement. The contraction of the muscle m stretches 

its antagonist m'. The amount of movement is greatly exaggerated 

Nerves, which pass through small openings in the cranium 
and between the vertebrae, leave the brain and cord and 
end in the muscles, skin, glands, 
and other organs of the body (see 
Chap. VII). 

12. The appendicular skeleton. 
The bones of the arm, leg, hand, 
and foot may readily be felt and 
are sufficiently familiar. We may, 
however, call attention to the simi- 
larity in the number and form of 
the bones of the arms and legs, a 

similarity which is not only helpful 

FIG. 12. Dorsal view of ver- 
tebrae and ribs 




Showing some of the muscles 
which lift or raise the ribs 



1 The terms ff spinal cord," "spinal col- 
umn," and "spinal canal" are sometimes 
confused by beginners. The spinal column 
is the entire bony framework formed by 

the vertebrae the whole backbone; it surrounds the spinal canal, which. 
in turn, contains that part of the nervous system known as the spinal cord. 



STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 19 



in mastering their names and arrangement but is also sug- 
gestive of the similarity of function in quadrupeds, both 
limbs in these animals be- 
ing organs of locomotion. /iOKM^L\ Cranium 

ARM 

Humerus, single long bone of the 
upper arm. 

Radius and ulna, two nearly par- 
allel bones of the forearm. 

Eight small irregular bones of 
the wrist. 

Five parallel bones of the palm. 

. f Thumb, two bones. 
Bones of I ~ ,. ' 

<( Other fingers, 
fingers ] 

[^ three bones. 

LEG 

Femur, single long bone of the 
thigh. 

Tibia and fibula, two nearly par- 
allel bones of the lower leg. 

Seven small irregular bones of 
the ankle and heel. 

Five parallel bones of the instep. 

. f Great toe, two bones. 
Bones of ~ _,, 

4 Other toes, 
toes , 

three bones. 



Thorax 




Vertebral 
Canal 



Sacrum 



Pelvis 



The legs are attached to FlG - 13. Median dorso ventral section 
the vertebral column by the of the skeleton 

large hip bones, which articulate directly and immovably 
with the sacrum 1 ; but the humerus, or bone of the upper 
arm, articulates on each side with one of a pair of bones 
which form the shoulder girdle, or skeleton of the shoulder 
region ; this pair consists of the collar bone (clavicle) ven- 
trally and the shoulder blade (scapula) dorsally. The clavicle 
articulates with the head of the breastbone ; otherwise the 
shoulder girdle, with the arm attached to it, is connected 
1 The sacrum and the two hip bones together form the pelvis. 



20 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



with the axial skeleton by muscles only. A wide range of 
movement is thus secured at the shoulder joint. 

13. Organs of digestion. The digestive system consists es- 
sentially of a long tube, the alimentary canal, passing through 
the body. 1 Into this tube, at various points, ducts from a 
number of glands pour digestive juices. The alimentary 

canal begins with the mouth cavity 
and its familiar organs, the teeth, the 
tongue, etc. ; this cavity opens pos- 
teriorly into that of the pharynx, 
into which also opens the nasal 
cavity, separated from the mouth 
only by the palate (see Fig. 14). 

On the ventral side of the pharynx, 
just beyond the root of the tongue, is 
the slitlike opening of the windpipe 
(see sect. 14) ; posteriorly the pharynx 
is continued in the long gullet, or 
oesophagus, a tube which passes down- 
ward through the neck and thorax 
FIG. 14. Diagrammatic me- (within the mediastinum) to join the 

dian dorsoventral section stomach, which it enters immediately 
of the nasal and throat .. . , , ,. , 

passages after passing through the diaphragm. 

C, nasal cavities; M, mouth The stomach is a large pouch with 
cavity; T, tongue; E, epi- contractile walls permitting adapta- 

glottis; G, glottis, or opening . -. . .., PPJ 

from the pharynx into the tion of its S1Z6 to the bulk Ot toOQ 

trachea; U, the end of the ft may CO ntain. Its Situation is shown 

soft palate; 0, oesophagus . / 1-11 ^ i, v 

in Fig. 155, which also shows how it 

opens on the right side of the body into the very long, 
coiled small intestine. The coils of this part of the tube 
may be followed for from twenty to twenty-four feet, to the 
large intestine, into one side of which it opens. The large 
intestine, or colon, consists of three portions: the first ascend- 
ing on the right side to the general level of the stomach, the 
1 See Fig. 165 for the general arrangement of the organs of digestion. 




STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 21 

second passing transversely at this level from right to left, 
and the third descending on the left side to the rectum, the 
posterior terminal portion of the digestive tube. 

Numerous glands pour secretions through ducts into the 
digestive tube, the more important, with their places of dis- 
charge, being the following : salivary glands (see Chap. Ill) 
mouth; liver beginning of small intestine; pancreas 
beginning of small intestine (see Fig. 54). Smaller glands 
empty into the stomach and intestines at numerous places. 

14. The organs of respiration. The organs of respiration 
consist of the right and left lungs (see Fig. 5), from each 
of which a single bronchus (pi. bronchi) leads to the trachea 
(or windpipe). The walls of the trachea and bronchi are kept 
from collapsing by successive rings of cartilage. Anteriorly 
the trachea opens into the pharynx through the larynx, or 
voice box, the cartilages of which may be felt in the throat 
at the root of the tongue. The familiar hoarseness which 
accompanies inflammatory roughening of the lining of the 
larynx shows how important is this organ in the production 
of the voice. The respiratory and digestive paths cross in 
the pharynx, the former reaching the exterior through the 
nose, the latter through the mouth. 

15. The organs of circulation. The position of the heart 
and the great blood vessels in the thorax has been described 
on page 11. The heart is essentially a large 'mass of muscle 
containing a cavity which is divided into right and left 
halves, wholly separate from each other. The cavity on each 
side is divided into that of the large ventricle, with very thick 
walls, and that of the much smaller auricle. The heart is thus 
composed of right and left auricles and right and left ven- 
tricles. Valves are so placed in the heart as to allow blood 
to flow in one direction only (see Fig. 69). 

The arteries are tubes which carry the blood to the tis- 
sues, and from each side of the heart a single artery takes 
its origin the pulmonary artery from the right ventricle, 



22 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

and the aorta from the left ventricle. The pulmonary artery 
supplies the lungs with blood, while all other organs are 
supplied by the aorta. 

The veins are tubes which conduct the blood from the 
various organs to the heart. Beginning in the tissues as 
microscopic tubes, they unite to form larger and larger tubes 
as they approach the heart; those visible through the skin 
of the hand may be regarded as of medium size; as the 
union goes on, the size of the vessels increases until finally 
at the heart there are only two great veins on the right side 
(superior vena cava and inferior vena cava) and four on the 
left (pulmonary veins). The venae cavae bring blood back 
from those portions of the body which are supplied by the 
aorta, that is to say, from all parts of the body except the 
lungs ; the pulmonary veins bring blood back only from 
the lungs, that is to say, from the organs supplied by the 
pulmonary arteries. The venae cavse empty into the right 
auricle, the pulmonary veins into the left auricle. The gen- 
eral arrangement of heart, arteries, and veins is shown in 
Fig. 15, and the figures in Chapter IX (especially 70 and 71) 
should also be consulted. 
The blood flows in the following circuit: 






Right ventricle to 

Pulmonary artery to 

Lungs to 
^Pulmonary veins to 

Left auricle to 

Left ventricle to 

Aorta and its branches to 

All organs of the body (except the lungs) to 

Veins which unite to form the venae cavae to 

Right auricle to 
^ Right ventricle 

Thus the blood which leaves the left ventricle flows to 
the different organs of the body (except the lungs) and 
returns by way of the veins to the right side of the heart; 



Pulmonary circulation* 



Systemic circulation 




FIG. 15. Diagram of the circulation of blood 

R.A., right auricle ; L.A., left auricle ; R.V., right ventricle ; L.V., left ventricle ; 
P. A., pulmonary artery ; A, pulmonary artery and vein of right lung ; B, pulmo- 
nary artery and vein of left lung; C, carotid artery to head, showing branch 
of left subclavian artery ; D, portal vein ; E, hepatic vein ; F, hepatic artery ; 
G, jugular vein, bringing blood from head and neck 



24 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



thence it passes through the lungs and again to the left 
auricle and ventricle, thus completing the " circulation." 
The term " circulation," strictly speaking, is applied to the 
entire circuit which the blood must traverse before it returns 
again to the point from which it started; it is often con- 
venient, however, to use it to denote the course from the 
right ventricle to the left auricle, or from the left ventricle 
to the right auricle ; in this case we speak of the former as 

the pulmonary and of 
the latter as the sys- 
temic, or aortic, circu- 
lation. In this sense 
there may be said to 
be a " double " circu- 
lation. 

The veins have 
thinner walls than the 
corresponding arter- 
ies, and those of the 
systemic circulation 
contain purplish or 
even bluish blood, 
while the arteries of 
the same circulation 
contain bright-scarlet 
blood. The bright 
color of the arterial blood is due to the fact that it contains 
more oxygen. The change from purple to scarlet occurs in 
the lungs, and the reverse change in the organs supplied 
by branches of the aorta. Consequently the blood of the 
pulmonary arteries is blue, or venous, in color and that of the 
pulmonary vein scarlet, or arterial. 

16. The course and branches of the pulmonary artery and 
vein. Soon after leaving the right ventricle the pulmonary 
artery divides into two branches, one going to each lung. 




FIG. 16. A network of capillaries, with the 
artery a and vein v (highly magnified) 



STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 25 



Each of these further divides as it plunges into the substance 
of the lung alongside the bronchus. The course of the four 
pulmonary veins may be similarly traced into the lungs, from 
which they bring the blood back to the heart (Fig. 15). 

17. The course and branches of the aorta. The aorta 
passes anteriorly from the left ventricle, but very soon 
arches dorsally and posteri- 
orly, forming the arch of the 
aorta (Fig. 15); the general 
course of the artery can be 
best understood from the fig- 
ures or from actual dissec- 
tion. The arch of the aorta is 
continued in the large dorsal 
aorta, which passes posteriorly 
on the left side of the me- 
diastinum near the spine, 
through the diaphragm, to the 
lower portion of the abdomi- 
nal cavity, where it divides 
into two large arteries which 
supply blood to the hips and 
legs. From the arch of the 
aorta three large arteries pass 
to the head, neck, shoulders, 
and arms; from the thoracic 
dorsal aorta arise a number of 
small arteries which supply 
the muscles and other organs FIG. 17. The general arrangement of 
of the thoracic wall ; immedi- the nervous system < dorsal view > 
ately after passing through the diaphragm two large branches 
go to the stomach, spleen, liver, pancreas, and a large part 
of the small intestine ; posterior to these the renal arteries 
pass right and left to the kidneys, and still further down 
a large artery supplies the lower small intestine and the 




26 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



large intestine. The supply to the legs has already been 
mentioned. Other small arteries arise from the abdominal 
aorta and are distributed to the muscles 
and skin of the back. The arteries to the 
stomach and intestine lie in the mesen- 
tery (Fig. 163) and their course may 
be readily traced in a dissection. 

18. The course and branches of the 
venae cavae. The blood which has thus 
been distributed from the aorta returns 
to the opposite side of the heart through 
the veins which ultimately form the two 
venae cavse. In general, it may be stated 
that the veins of those organs which are 
anterior to the diaphragm form the su- 
perior vena cava, while those posterior 
to the diaphragm form the inferior vena 
cava. The larger veins usually run near 
and approximately parallel to the larger 
arteries. This is the case with those 
from the arms and legs, the kidneys, 
and the muscles of the trunk. One nota- 
ble and very important exception, how- 
ever, is found in the venous supply of 
the stomach, spleen, and intestines, the 
veins of which unite to form a single 
large vein (portal vein) which passes 
to the liver, where it breaks up into 
smaller vessels; the blood which has 
thus passed through the liver is finally 
collected in the hepatic vein and poured 
by this into the inferior vena cava just 
before the latter passes through the dia- 

Fio.18. Nerve trunks P hra g m on its way to the right ventricle 
of the right arm (Fig. 15 ; see also Fig. 70). 



STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM 27 

19. The capillaries. The blood which enters an organ 
through the arteries passes to its veins through a system of 
microscopic tubes (Fig. 16), the capillaries (Latin capilla, " a 
hair") ; these may be readily seen under the microscope in 
the web of a frog's foot. From the foregoing description, of 
the course of the circulation it will be observed that gen- 
erally the blood must pass through one set of capillaries in 
going from the aorta to the vense cavse or from the pul- 
monary artery to the pulmonary vein ; but the blood which 
flows through the capillaries of most of the abdominal organs 
(stomach, intestines, spleen) must pass also through a second 
set of capillaries, namely, those of the liver, before it can 
return to the heart. 

20. Organs of the nervous system. The skull and the 
spinal column (p. 18) are chiefly occupied by the brain and 
the spinal cord, respectively, and from each of these principal 
organs of the nervous system branches consisting of cords 
of nervous substance, the nerves, pass out through small 
holes in the skull or spinal column and are distributed to 
all the other organs, where they terminate in peculiar struc- 
tures called end organs. The optic nerve, for example, ends 
in the retina, the auditory nerve in the inner ear, and motor 
nerves in muscles the nerve endings in these different 
organs differing materially in structure and arrangement. 

Fig. 17 gives some idea of the general arrangement of 
the nervous system. The nerves to the shoulder, arm, and 
hand will be seen to arise from the cervical region of the 
spinal cord ; those for the trunk, from the dorsal and lumbar 
regions ; those for the legs, from the sacral region. The head 
and face receive nerves from the posterior portions of the 
brain. The dissection of the arm in Fig. 18 shows more 
accurately the main nerve trunks to that region. Further 
information with regard to the structure of the nervous 
system will be given in Chapters VII, XIV, and XV. 



CHAPTER III 

THE FINER STRUCTURE OF TWO TYPICAL ORGANS, 

GLANDS AND MUSCLES. THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. 

THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM 

In the previous chapter we have examined the general 
construction of the human machine as regards its more 
conspicuous parts or organs, and especially their location, 
whether internal or external, dorsal or ventral, anterior or 
posterior, on the right or on the left, their relations to 
certain important cavities, and their combination to consti- 
tute the mechanism which we call the human body. We 
must now push our examination further and investigate 
the finer structure of some of the more important parts of 
the machine. For this purpose we may select two typical 
organs, a gland and a muscle, the one unfamiliar, by name 
at least, to most people, the other well known in the form 
of steaks, chops, roast beef, and other meats. 

1. What is a gland? A gland is a mass of tissue, gen- 
erally softer than muscle and of no special size or shape, 
though often rounded or egg-shaped. The gland most 
easily seen is the milk gland or udder of the cow. This 
is a large mass of soft tissues devoted to manufactur- 
ing or secreting milk. In general, glands are manufac- 
turing organs for the preparation of saliva, gastric juice, 
bile, tears, sweat, or other secretions. Some have tubes, 
or ducts, through which their secretions are carried away; 
others have no such outlets and hence are known as duct- 
less glands. Glands vary in size from some which are 
microscopic to the huge liver, which is the largest single 

28 



TYPICAL STEUCTUEE OF OEGAJSTS 



29 



organ in the human body (see Fig. 2). The pancreas, or 
"sweetbread," of the calf is an excellent gland for the 
beginner to dissect or study. 

2. A typical gland. If we have before us the whole or a 
part of any typical gland, we find that we are dealing with 
a comparatively soft and sometimes even pulpy mass held 
together by a loose mesh or network of harder, tougher, and 
more or less fibrous materials. 

A pancreas or a liver, if en- 
tire, shows conspicuous lobes, 
and in the pancreas these 
lobes are plainly subdivided 
into smaller lobes, or lobules. 
In favorable specimens tubes 
may be seen connected with 
the gland ; some of these are 
blood vessels supplying blood 
to the gland, and one of them 
is a duct draining away from 
it the liquid which the gland 
has manufactured or secreted. 
After a preliminary examina- 
tion of this sort of some edible 
gland, preferably the pancreas, 
we may pass on to consider in greater detail one of our own 
salivary glands, of which we have two on each side of the 
head, namely, one parotid and one submaxillary gland. 

3. The structure of the submaxillary gland. The two sub- 
maxillary glands lie, one on each side of the face, embedded 
in the tissues between the lower jaw and the upper portion 
of the neck. From each gland a duct passes forward in the 
tissues forming the floor of the mouth, into which it opens 
by one of the small eminences, or papillce, under the tongue. 
Through this duct the gland pours into the mouth its 
secretion, saliva. 




FIG. 19. Diagram of submaxillary 
gland 

D, its duct ; N, its nerve ; A, its artery ; 
V, its vein ; T, tongue 



30 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



If the gland were to be cut in two in any direction with 
a sharp knife, we should see at once that it is composed of 
separate parts, or lobes, and that these lobes are still further 
divided into smaller portions, or lobules. The lobules and 
lobes are bound together with a rather loose connective tissue 
which is continuous with a somewhat denser layer surround- 
ing the gland and forming its capsule ; the connective tissue 

between the lobes forms 
the primary septa (sing., 
septum) and that between 
the lobules the secondary 
septa. The relation of 
these structures is shown 
in Fig. 20. With the aid of 
the microscope we find that 
each lobule is still further 
divided by connective tis- 
sue into flask-shaped struc- 
tures, or alveoli (sing., 
alveolus) ; in these the se- 
cretion, saliva, is manufac- 
tured and from them it is 
discharged into the duct of 
which the alveoli are the 
blind ends (Fig. 21). 

The whole gland may be 
compared to a large bunch 
of grapes ; the main tubular 
duct of the gland branches (in the septa of connective tissue) 
very much as the stem of the bunch of grapes branches ; and 
just as the branches and subbranches of the stem lead, when 
followed up, to the grapes themselves, so the branches of the 
duct lead to the alveoli of the gland. If now we pack the 
bunch of grapes in a small basket of sawdust or cork waste, 
as Malaga grapes are packed, so that the sawdust fills up 




FIG. 20. Diagram of a cross section of 
a gland 

Showing its division by primary septa (S) 
into lobes and by secondary septa (s) into 
lobules; also the origin of the larger 
branches of the duct (D) in the lobes and 
lobules. The beginnings of the duct are 
shown in Figs. 21 and 22 



TYPICAL STRUCTURE OF ORGANS 



31 



loosely the spaces between the individual grapes and the 
branches of the stem, we shall have something with which 
to compare the arrangement of the connective tissue in 
relation to the rest of the gland the sawdust standing 
for the connective tissue in which the ducts and alveoli 
are embedded, and the basket for the capsule. 



Duct 




Alveoli 



Secreting CelU 
Capillary Network 



FIG. 21. The origin of the duct of a gland in alveoli, together with the 
connective tissue and blood vessels 

4. Minute structure of ducts and alveoli. The alveoli are 
not, however, empty shells like glass flasks nor solid masses 
like grapes, but rather hollow bags lined with a layer of 
thickish, closely set cells, all much alike. Each of these cells 
consists of two portions a small central body, the nucleus, 
and a larger surrounding mass, the cytoplasm. All organs 
of the body are composed of cells, differing in different 
organs or in different parts of the same organ (as in the 
duct and the alveolus of the gland), but all consisting of two 
never-failing parts nucleus and cytoplasm. 



32 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



The muscle and the gland consist of cells, just as all the 
branches of the military service the infantry, the cavalry, 
the artillery, the engineers, etc. consist of men. The cell 
is the anatomical or fundamental unit of these organs, as the 
soldier is the fundamental or anatomical unit of the army ; 
in both cases the anatomical units, differing in equipment 
and training, perform different kinds of work, yet have the 




FIG. 22. Section of a portion of a salivary gland (magnified 500 diameters) 

After Koelliker 

The duct d divides into the two branches d' and d", one of which ends in the 

alveoli, a, a. Neighboring alveoli, a',. a', whose ducts are not in the plane of the 

section, are also shown. In some cells the section does not include the nucleus, 

which would be in the preceding or the succeeding section 

same essential structure; and the cells are combined into 
brigades, divisions, or corps, as tissues and organs; they make 
of the body an army organized to fight its way through the 
vicissitudes and against the obstacles of life. 

5. The structure of the biceps muscle. The biceps muscle 
is familiar as the mass of flesh lying on the front of the 
upper arm and bulging somewhat when the arm is bent at 
the elbow, especially when one "feels his muscle" or when 
a weight is being lifted by the hand. Figure 23 shows this 
muscle with the bones to which it is attached. Jt consists of 



TYPICAL STRUCTURE OF ORGANS 



33 



two portions: a central, thick, red part, known as the belly, 
soft when the muscle is at rest, hard when it is contracted ; 
and cordlike strings, or tendons, two at the upper end and one 
at the lower, by means of which the muscle is attached to two 
bones of the shoulder girdle and to one of the forearm. When 
the belly of the muscle shortens, the points a and b are brought 
closer together and the arm is bent, or flexed, at the elbow. 
This drawing together, or contraction, is the special work, or 
function, of muscles in general. 

Everyone has seen the cross 
section of a muscle in a raw 
beefsteak. This shows that the 
muscle as a whole is surrounded 
by a sheath of connective tissue 
which contains more or less fat ; 
septa pass inwards, dividing the 
muscle into lesser red masses 
known as fasciculi, or bundles, 
and these are further subdivided 
into secondary fasciculi by sec- 
ondary septa, very much as the 
gland is subdivided into lobules. 

A longitudinal section shows 
that the fasciculi run from ten- 
don to tendon, and microscopic 
examination proves that the general connective tissues of the 
belly of the muscle are continuous with that of the tendon. 
The tendon itself is a peculiarly strong and inextensible 
variety of connective tissue consisting chiefly of parallel 
fibers which are specially fitted to transmit to the bone the 
pull of the belly of the muscle. 

6. The muscle fibers. Examination of the structure of 
one of the finer fasciculi in the belly of the muscle shows 
that it is composed of threads, or fibers, which at first sight 
differ greatly from the secreting cells of the gland. These 




FIG. 23. The biceps muscle of 
the arm 

The resting condition is shown by 
the solid lines, the contracting con- 
dition by the dotted lines 



34 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 




FIG. 24. Tendon 
(highly magnified) 

Showing the fiber 
bundles separated 



are the muscle fibers. They are 1 to 1^ inches in length and 
from --- to of an inch in thickness, thus being from 

250 to 2500 times as long as wide, and 
comparable in shape to a long leather shoe- 
string rather than to a sausage. Each fascic- 
ulus contains hundreds or even thousands 
of fibers. The fibers always run lengthwise 
of the fasciculus, but, as a' usual thing, do 
not extend its entire length, as obviously 
follows from the fact that a single fasciculus 
of the biceps is several inches in length. 
The fibers are inclosed in a very thin trans- 
parent membrane, the sarcolemma, and are 
bound into bundles (or fasciculi) by the 
same fine connective tissues seen between 
the alveoli of a gland. To the end of 
the sarcolemma are attached fine fibers of 
connective tissue which pass into the tendon 
(Fig. 25). Indeed, the fibers of the tendon are 
the collected fibers from the sarcolemmas of all 
the muscle fibers. For this reason the part 
of the muscle near the tendon is " tough meat," 
while that in the belly of the muscle is tender, 
owing to the smaller number of connective- 
tissue fibers. 

7. The muscle fiber a cell. The muscle fiber 
at first sight does not seem like the typical cell 

already described, with nucleus and cytoplasm ; Fl< - 

. T 

for when examined in the iresn condition the c j e 

only obvious points of structure seen in it are showing the at- 
striking cross striations consisting of alternate tachment of the 

iiiTi.i i T, i i i i tendon fibers to 

dark and light bands. It has been shown, how- the sarco iemma 
ever, by ingenious and careful study that the 
cross striations are optical appearances produced by the 
peculiar shape of extremely minute longitudinal rods in the 




TYPICAL STRUCTURE OF ORGANS 



35 



cytoplasm of the muscle fiber and that, immediately under 
the sarcolemma, there are numerous characteristic nuclei 
which are easily brought into view by suitable treatment. 
Briefly, then, the muscle fiber is a cell with many 'nuclei, in 
whose cytoplasm are found peculiar structures, the myofibrils ; 
upon superficial examination these myofibrils not only obscure 
the nuclei but give to the whole fiber the 
appearance of cross striation. 

8. How far is the structure of glands 
and muscles typical of all organs? Both 
the gland and the muscle are thus com- 
posed of cells. Although differing con- 
siderably in the two organs, these cells 
possess certain general and fundamental 
features in common, for each one contains 
a nucleus (or nuclei) and surrounding 
cytoplasm. Is the same thing true of all 
other organs ? The muscle and the gland 
are examples of organs which do active 
work, but some other organs perform 
purely passive functions. Such are the 
bones, which do no work themselves, but 
upon which the work of mechanical motion FlG 2 g p art O f a 
is done by the muscles ; the tendons, which muscle fiber 
transmit the pull of muscles ; the ligaments, Specially prepared to 
which limit and sometimes guide the mo- bring V^ieT* 1 * 16 *' 
tion of bones ; and the connective tissues, 
which bind together other parts of the body. None of these 
is a working organ in the sense that a muscle or a gland is 
a working organ, and we are not surprised to find that their 
structure departs from that of the muscle and gland in that, 
while nucleated cells are present in all of them, the great mass 
of the organ is composed of lifeless matter between the cells. In 
a tendon this consists of very strong parallel fibers (Fig. 24) ; 
a ligament shows much the same structure ; a bone consists 




36 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



chiefly of lifeless material containing large amounts of mineral 
matter, with cells lying here and there in spaces which com- 
municate with one another by means of minute channels. The 
connective tissues, like that which binds the skin to the un- 
derlying muscles or that which forms the sheath and septa of 
glands and muscles, consist essentially of lifeless fibers run- 
ning in all directions and thus ready to limit the extent of any 
pull tending to separate unduly the adjacent organs. To organs 
and tissues of this kind we may give the name of supporting 

organs and tissues, 
and they form al- 
most the sole excep- 
tion to the general 
rule that the essen- 
tial part of a tissue 
consists of its cells. 
The latter state- 
ment is true of all 
organs and tissues 
which do work 
the active organs of 
the body. In the 
case of the support- 
ing tissues the cells 
which they contain 
are the fundamental units of the organ, since they make the 
intercellular lifeless substance ; but the part which the organ 
plays in the work of the body as a whole is performed 
by the lifeless substance (fibers, etc.) which the cells have 
manufactured and keep in repair. 

9. The blood vessels are closed tubes in connective tissue. 
The arrangement of connective tissues is fundamentally the 
same in gland and muscle. These tissues serve the obvious 
purpose of binding the anatomical units into organs, but 
they also perform other functions equally important. 




FIG. 27. Longitudinal (A) and transverse (B) 
sections of bone 

Showing the branching and communicating canals 
in which are blood vessels and nerves surrounded 
by the lifeless bone substance. In this are spaces 
connected with one another by very minute channels. 
Each of these spaces contains a living cell, shown in C 



TYPICAL STRUCTURE OF ORGANS 



37 



We have seen (Chap. II, sect. 19) that each organ receives 
blood through one or more arteries, and that this blood flows 
away from the organ through one or more veins. If a colored 
fluid mass which would afterwards set (for example, a warm 
solution of gelatin colored with carmine) had been forced 
into the arteries before we began our examination, we should 
find that this mass would every- 
where be confined in a system of 
closed tubes which merely lie in 
the connective tissue. The artery 
entering the muscle branches into 
smaller and smaller arteries in the 
general sheath of the organ, or in 
its branches, the septa; from these 
finer arteries an exceedingly rich 
network of small thin-walled tubes 
is given off to the finest connective 
tissue which surrounds the cells 
themselves ; these tubes are the 
capillaries. They ultimately unite 
to form the larger veins, which can 
be traced in the septa to those veins 
which gross dissection reveals as 
leaving the organ (see Fig. 19). 
Through thes^e tubes arteries, capil- 
laries, and veins the bltfoid flows ; 
and it is important for us to under- 
stand that it is everywhere confined to them in its passage 
through the organs ; nowhere does it come into direct contact with 
the living cells (save those lining the vessels). Whatever ex- 
change of matter or energy takes place between the blood and 
the living cells must be through the walls of the blood vessels. 1 

1 The term " blood vessel " is sometimes confusing to the beginner, since 
it suggests a utensil for holding liquids. In anatomy ''vessel" is a name 
for tubts, ducts, or canals through which blood or lymph flows. 




FIG. 28. Three muscle fibers 
and an artery breaking up 
into capillaries between them 



38 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



These walls are relatively thick in the arteries, usually some- 
what thinner in the veins; in the capillaries, however, they 
are very thin, and it is through these thin capillary walls 
that all interchanges of matter take place. That the con- 
nective tissue surrounding the capillaries bears an important 
relation to the circulation we shall now see. 

10. The lymph spaces of the connective tissue; the lymph. 
Careful examination shows that the fine connective tissue 

within which the capillaries 
are embedded is not a solid or 
continuous mass, but rather 
a mass or mesh of extremely 
fine fibers or bundles of 
fibers, with here and there 
connective-tissue cells which 
keep the fibers in repair. 
The connective tissue, there- 
fore, is everywhere channeled 
by irregular spaces running 
between the fibers and other 
structures ; these spaces com- 
municate freely with each 
other and contain a colorless 
liquid known as lymph ; the 
spaces of the connective tis- 
sue may thus be conveniently 
described as lymph spaces. 
They serve as communicating 
channels between the cells and the walls of the capillaries. 

11. Origin of the lymph. The lymph which the spaces 
contain is derived partly from water and soluble food mate- 
rials which have passed through the capillary walls from the 
blood and partly from material produced by the neighboring 
cells (see the next chapter); on the other hand, the cells 
absorb from the lymph substances which the latter has 




FIG. 29. Superficial and some deeper 
lymphatics of the hand 



TYPICAL STRUCTURE OF ORGANS 



39 



received from the blood, while the 
the lymph substances discharged 
from the cells. The lymph thus 
becomes the means of communi- 
cation, the middleman, between 
the living cells of the organs 
and the nourishing blood, and 
forms the immediate environment 
of the cells themselves. In other 
words, the cells of muscles, glands, 
and other organs live in lymph, just 
as the human body as a whole 
lives in air, or a fish in water. 

12. The lymphatics. Besides 
the veins, which convey blood 
away from an organ, a second 
system of tubes or vessels passes 
out through the capsule. These 
tubes arise in the lymph spaces 
of the connective tissue and 
unite with similar tubes from 
other regions to form larger and 
larger trunks, known as lym- 
phatics, which ultimately form 
one or two great trunks .and 
open into the great veins near 
the heart (see Fig. 30). Through 
these direct outlets the surplus 
lymph of the organ flows in a 
varying but for the most part 
continuous stream. This flow 
of lymph away from an organ 
is of the very greatest impor- 
tance in maintaining the normal 
environment of the cells. 



blood, in turn, takes from 




FIG. 30. The two main lymphatic 

trunks (in white), with their 

openings into the great veins 

near the heart 

The larger of these trunks that 
on the left side and known as 
the thoracic duct returns all the 
lymph except that from the right 
side of the head and neck and the 
right arm and shoulder region 



40 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



13. Function of the lymph flow from an organ. It is clear 
from inspection of Fig. 31 that there is a steady flow of 
liquid from the capillaries, through the lymph spaces of the 
connective tissue, over the surfaces of the living cells or of 
any intervening capillaries, to the lymphatics. The cell is 
thus bathed not by a stagnant medium but by one which 
is in gentle movement one which brings to all parts of its 




FIG. 31. Diagram of the relation of the cells of an organ to its blood 
vessels, lymphatics, and connective tissue 

A, artery; V, vein ; L, lymphatic 

surface the food which it needs and immediately carries 
away from all parts of its surface to the adjacent capillaries 
the products of its activity. By providing this outlet from 
the lymph spaces the lymphatics render possible the move- 
ment of lymph within the organ itself, whereby material is 
readily transferred from the cell to the capillaries and from 
the capillaries to the cell. 

14. Distribution of nerves to muscles and glands. The dis- 
tribution of nerves resembles that of the arteries, the larger 



TYPICAL STRUCTURE OF ORGANS 41 

nerve trunks being found in the septa, and their fine ultimate 
branches being distributed by way of the connective tissue 
which surrounds the cells, in whose neighborhood or even 
within whose substance they finally end. As we shall see in 
subsequent chapters, it is the function of the nerves to arouse 
the gland cells or muscle fibers or other cells to activity. 

15. Summary. Disregarding for the moment those pecu- 
liarities of arrangement, shape, and structure of the cells 
which are connected with the special work of each organ 
(for example, the arrangement of gland cells to form a blind 
tube or of the connective tissue and fibers of muscle so as 
to exert a pull on a bone), we may say that the typical 
structure of an organ would be represented in Fig. 31. The 
whole is surrounded by a capsule, receives a blood supply 
through a system of closed tubes, and contains the special 
cells upon whose activity its characteristic work depends. 
These cells are held together by a fine connective tissue 
whose numerous and freely communicating spaces contain 
a fluid, the lymph, which is free to flow out through a 
second system of tubes, the lymphatics. Nerves from the 
brain or spinal cord are also distributed in the connective 
tissue to the cells of the organ. 

Before concluding this description of the finer structure 
of organs, a word may be added with regard to the physical 
nature of the cell substance. In its literal meaning the word 
"cell" is a misnomer, since it suggests a hollow space inclosed 
by solid partitions or walls. Plant cells do, in fact, usually 
have such walls around their cytoplasm (Chap. VIII), and 
this cytoplasm frequently contains spaces (vacuoles) filled 
with a solution of salts, sugar, and other dissolved material ; 
but neither the cell wall nor vacuoles are of universal occur- 
rence, each being rarely found in the animal cell, and often 
absent even in the plant cell. Fifty years of thorough investi- 
gation has reduced the number of essential cell constituents 
to the cytoplasm and the nucleus, the ultimate structure of 



42 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

which is far from being completely understood. It would 
seem that the cytoplasm is a mixture of a number of mate- 
rials which differ in chemical composition and in physical 
properties. Some are dissolved in water, making viscous 
solutions comparable to the white of egg or to thick or thin 
jellies. Others are known as lipim, or lipoids (from the Greek 
lipos, "a fat"), because they resemble fats or oils in physical 
characters and to some extent in chemical structure ; they 
do not mix, or mix only imperfectly, with the viscous aqueous 
(that is, watery) solutions, but spread over the outer surface 
of the cell, forming a membrane, and probably also penetrate 
into the cytoplasm somewhat as the connective-tissue septa 
of the gland penetrate the gland. These lipoid membranes 
would thus separate the viscous aqueous solutions of the 
cytoplasm into separate masses, much as the gland is divided 
by its septa into lobes and lobules. The lipins are supposed, 
among other functions, to control the passage of material into 
and out of the cell. The cytoplasm also frequently contains 
granules, one kind of which we have already seen in the 
zymogen granules of the gland cells. 

The nucleus, on the other hand, is known to contain cer- 
tain other compounds peculiar to itself. Some of these at 
times are probably in an almost solid state and appear as 
denser material within the membrane which usually bounds 
the nucleus; at other times they undergo solution, doubt- 
less as the result of chemical changes taking place within 
them. There are many strong reasons for thinking that the 
nucleus bears an important relation to the oxidations of 
the cell. 



CHAPTER IV 
THE ORGANS AND CELLS OF THE BODY AT WORK 

The understanding of a mechanism involves more than a 
knowledge of its structure ; we must study the mechanism 
at work, and the human mechanism, which we are studying, 
may be regarded as a factory in which work is done. 

The work of some manufacturing establishments consists 
in separating useful constituents of the raw material from 
useless constituents, as where kerosene is refined from crude 
petroleum ; that of others consists in producing chemical 
changes in the raw material, as where soap is made from fat 
or oil; while that of a third class consists in the application 
of power by machinery, as where lumber is sawed, planed, 
turned, or molded into the material of which houses are 
constructed. The work of a factory, in other words, is either 
a process of refinement or the production of a new substance or 
the application of power. 

The human body is a factory which presents in its activities 
examples of all three of these processes. A large part of 
digestion is a process of food refinement ; out of the food we 
eat the very substance of the body itself is formed; while 
all muscular work, including the beat of the heart, consists 
in the application of power to accomplish useful ends. This 
work is done chiefly by the two kinds of organs whose struc- 
ture we have just studied, namely glands and muscles ; and 
just as their structure presents a fundamental similarity of 
plan, so there is a fundamental similarity in the nature of 
their activities. This can best be made clear by a somewhat 
detailed study of each organ at work. 

43 



44 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

1 . Physiology of the salivary glands ; working glands and 
resting glands. The function of the salivary glands is the 
secretion or manufacture of saliva for use in the mouth, and 
one of the first things we notice about this act of secretion 
is that it is not constant but intermittent. Most organs have 
periods of activity, or work, followed by periods of inactivity, 
or rest, and these glands are no exception. Physiologists 
frequently speak of " working glands " and " resting glands." 
We all know that our own salivary glands work more effec- 
tively at some times than at others. The mouth " waters " 
at the sight of food; when we are in the dentist's chair the 
flow of saliva often seems excessive, and at other times our 
mouths are " parched " or " dry." 

2. The chemical composition of saliva. The saliva is some- 
times thin and flows readily, while at other times it is thick 
and viscous, or glairy. This difference is caused by the fact 
that the amount of water in it varies under different con- 
ditions. At all times, however, it is a fluid which consists 
of water containing certain solids in solution. The amount 
of these solids varies from five to ten parts in a thousand of 
saliva, and they consist chiefly of three groups of compounds. 
The first is mucin, familiar to us as the chief constituent of 
the phlegm or mucus discharged from the nose and throat, 
and giving to the fluid its viscous character; the second 
group consists of substances known as enzymes, those in the 
saliva having the power of changing starch to sugar ; these 
we shall study in detail in the chapters on digestion; the 
third group consists of mineral or inorganic salts, of which 
ordinary table salt, or sodium chloride, is the most important. 
As we shall see, the salts and water are derived directly from 
the blood, while the mucin and enzymes are manufactured 
by the gland. 

3. Blood supply of the working gland. Whenever a gland is 
actively working there is an increased flow of blood through 
it. For this reason the resting gland is slightly pink, while 



THE WORK OF ORGANS AND CELLS 45 

the working gland becomes distinctly red. Since the secretion 
of saliva requires water and this can be obtained only from 
the blood, it is easy to see why an abundant blood supply is 
essential to activity. Other constituents of the saliva, such 
as the inorganic salts, likewise come directly from the blood. 

4. The relation of nerves to gland work ; irritability. Nerves 
pass, as we have seen (p. 29), from the central nervous sys- 
tem to the salivary glands. These nerves are essentially 
bundles of nerve fibers which are distributed from the brain 
and spinal cord to the neighborhood of the gland cells. 
Such fibers are the means of conveying to the gland an 
influence, called a nervous impulse, and nervous impulses 
cause the gland to secrete. It is also a fact that when these 
nerves are cut or injured in any way, so that the gland is 
no longer in nervous connection with the brain and spinal 
cord, saliva is not secreted, even when food is placed in the 
mouth. Evidently the activity of the gland is normally 
aroused by nervous impulses from the brain and spinal cord, 
just as the activity of a receiving instrument in a telegraph 
office is aroused by the electric current which comes to it 
over a wire, or as a mine is exploded by the same means. 
The gland then stands ready for the act of secretion and is 
thrown into activity by a nervous impulse from the central 
nervous system. We speak of this action of a nerve upon 
the organ in which its fibers end as stimulation and that 
property of an organ in virtue of which it may be aroused 
by a stimulus as irritability. 

All the working organs of the body (in contradistinction 
to the supporting organs, p. 35) are in this sense irritable, 
and most of them receive nerves which set them to work. 
Irritable tissues may, however, be stimulated by other means 
than by nervous impulses. Of these means an electric shock 
is the most familiar; others are the sudden application of 
heat, the presence of certain substances in the blood, and 
even a sharp blow. 



46 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

We have now to inquire what it is that happens in the 
gland when it is stimulated by a nervous impulse. 

5. The response of the gland to stimulation by its nerve. 
The visible result of stimulation of the gland is the discharge 
of saliva into the mouth. Something must have happened in 
the gland which has led to the passage of water and other 
substances from the blood (and lymph) through the gland 
cells into the duct. But something more has happened, for 
saliva contains several substances which are not found in the 
blood. The gland has evidently contributed something to the 
saliva. How were these contributions to the secretion made? 





FIG. 32. Diagram showing the granules in a resting gland (A) and in a 
worked alveolus of a gland (B) 

When a gland has been resting for some time microscopic 
study shows that the cytoplasm of its cells becomes loaded 
with small granules, at times so numerous as to obscure the 
nucleus itself. As secretion goes on these granules disappear 
from the cell, presumably contributing something to the 
secretion. If the secretion continue for several hours, it is 
found that the granules have disappeared and that the cell 
is often distinctly smaller in size than before secretion began. 

The " resting " gland is therefore by no means an idle 
gland, but gradually stores within its cytoplasm something 
in the form of granules, which under the influence of 
nervous impulses or other forms of stimulation more or less 
rapidly disappears in the secretion. 

6. Activity of the gland involves chemical change within its 
cells. It might be -supposed that the granules manufactured 
during rest are merely dissolved or washed out of the cells 



THE WORK OF ORGANS AND CELLS 47 

in the copious stream of water and salts which during secre- 
tion passes through from the blood and lymph to the duct. 
If this were so, it would be possible to dissolve from the 
gland a substance exhibiting in general the same properties 
as the secretion itself. But this is not generally the case. 
Extracts of fresh glands commonly fail to exhibit the char- 
acteristic properties of normal secretions, although these ex- 
tracts may often be changed by chemical means into the 
elements of the secretion. We are therefore compelled to 
believe that the activity of a gland means something more 
than the mere discharge of previously stored substances ; 
that is to say, the material of the granules in the resting 
cells is not simply set free when the gland secretes, but is 
at the same time chemically changed. In the digestive juices, 
for example, we have active substances called enzymes, which, 
it has been shown, are derived from other substances, called 
zymogens, in the gland cells. The chemical change from the 
one into the other is as essential to the process of secretion 
as is the visible flow from the duct. 

These facts then present to us the picture of the cell as 
the working or physiological unit, as we have already seen 
that it is the anatomical unit of the gland (p. 32). The 
work of the gland is the sum of the work of its constituent 
cells. During the period of rest these cells manufacture 
from the blood zymogens or other substances which they 
store away in the form of granules within their cytoplasm. 
When they are stimulated by the nervous impulse a chemical 
change takes place in them, the zymogens are changed to 
enzymes and other substances, and these, together with the 
water, salts, etc., derived from the blood, form the secretion. 

7. Physiology of muscular contraction. At first sight mus- 
cles and glands seem to differ in action or function no less 
than in form and structure. No two acts are apparently 
more unlike than lifting a weight by the muscles of the 
arm and the secretion of saliva by the salivary glands. But 



48 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

beneath obvious and important differences there are profound 
and fundamental similarities in the processes which occur in 
the two organs during activity. Like the gland, the muscle 
is set to work or stimulated by a nervous impulse ; its con- 
traction is accompanied by an increased blood supply; and, 
most important of all, the work, or contraction, is accom- 
panied indeed, preceded by chemical changes much more 
profound than that of the transformation of zymogen into 
enzyme. These chemical changes supply the power for the 
work. 

That some chemical change has taken place when the 
muscle contracts is proved by the fact that certain new sub- 
stances then make then- appearance in the muscle and are 
given off to the blood flowing through it. The most impor- 
tant of these are carbon dioxide, the gas which is formed 
whenever wood or coal is burned, and an acid substance 
known as lactic acid. These substances were not present 
in the resting muscle, or else were present in very small 
quantities. With the act of contraction relatively large 
quantities of them make their appearance. They are gener- 
ally spoken of as waste products, and it is known that they 
are the result of a chemical change in the muscle fiber, or cell, 
precisely as the enzymes are the result of chemical changes 
in gland cells. Just as glandular activity produces an out- 
put called a secretion^ so muscular activity produces an 
output consisting of silbsiiandes usually described as waste 
products. 

8. The storage of fuel within the muscle fiber. The source 
of the carbon dioxide and lactic acid produced by the active 
muscle must in the long run be the matter taken into the 
body in the form of food. After undergoing in the stomach 
and intestine relatively simple changes, which do not pro- 
foundly affect its chemical constitution, this food is absorbed 
into the blood and through this channel delivered to the 
cells. Thus far, however, the food material does not differ 



THE WOKK OF ORGANS AND CELLS 49 

greatly from the food as swallowed. Especially to be noted 
is the fact that it does not undergo sudden and profound 
chemical change. When, on the other hand, a muscle is 
stimulated to contraction, there occurs in it a chemical 
change requiring less than the hundredth of a second for its 
completion. This of course suggests the chemical change in 
gunpowder or dynamite. Obviously the food delivered by 
the blood to the muscle fiber has been transformed in the 
fiber into something more unstable, something capable of 
a very sudden chemical change. The meat, bread, butter, 
potatoes, and the like have been changed into something 
comparable to the phosphorus in a match or the gunpowder 
in a percussion shell. This unstable material has not been 
demonstrated as granules or other visible material within the 
cell, as have the zymogen granules of a gland; nor has it 
been extracted from the cell, as have mucin and enzymes ; 
but the facts force the conclusion that, like the gland cell, 
the muscle fiber has used its period of rest to make and store 
within itself an unstable compound which undergoes upon 
the application of a stimulus a very sudden chemical change. 
This unstable compound we may call the fuel substance or 
the fuel of the fiber. 

9. Available and reserve fuel. The analogy of a match is 
useful to make clear these fundamental conceptions of mus- 
cular activity. The phosphorus on the head of the match is 
the unstable fuel substance ; the friction of the match when 
it is rubbed against a rough surface is the stimulus, which 
is followed by a sudden chemical change in the fuel when 
the match " goes off." At this point, however, the analogy 
ends ; for when a second stimulus is applied to a muscle 
within one tenth of a second, there is a second contraction, 
and in this second contraction there is the same sudden 
chemical change in the fuel ; moreover, this stimulation may 
be repeated over and over again with like results. Even 
more striking is the fact that the same thing is true of a 



50 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

muscle removed from the body and consequently shut off 
from access to new fuel supply in the blood flowing through 
it. Such an excised muscle will give a long series of con- 
tractions upon the repeated application of stimuli. With the 
match or the percussion cap, on the other hand, such repeated 
discharges would not occur, for the entire stock of fuel is 
used up with each discharge. 

In order to explain these facts, it is commonly assumed 
that the fuel substance of the muscle fiber exists in two 
forms: the one unstable and ready to be discharged by the 
stimulus ; the other and larger part incapable of being dis- 
charged by the stimulus, but rapidly providing, after each 
discharge, the material to make good the loss of unstable fuel. 
We may speak of the one as the available or unstable fuel and 
of the other as the reserve fuel. 

10. The chemical change of unstable fuel into waste prod- 
ucts involves cleavage and oxidation. Although our present 
knowledge is inadequate to the full understanding of the 
chemical changes in the muscle during activity, it can at 
least be stated that changes of two kinds are involved, 
namely oxidation and cleavage. 

Oxidation is the union of the material with oxygen, one 
of the gases of the atmosphere. When carbon (charcoal) is 
burned, for example, it disappears by uniting with oxygen 
to form the colorless gas, carbon dioxide ; when hydrogen is 
burned, it unites with oxygen to form water; or if a chem- 
ical compound of carbon and hydrogen (for example, kero- 
sene) is burned, its carbon unites with oxygen to form carbon 
dioxide, while its hydrogen unites with oxygen to form water. 
Conversely, when we find that the products of any chemical 
change contain more oxygen than the original substance, we 
infer that the change is a combustion or, as it is generally 
called, an oxidation. 

The second kind of chemical change, cleavage, takes place 
without the addition of oxygen or, indeed, of any other 



THE WORK OF ORGANS AND CELLS 51 

chemical element, except that water is often added to the 
material changed. In this process the combination of differ- 
ent atoms which makes the compound is broken and the 
molecule is split into two or more molecules. 1 Thus new 
compounds or substances are formed. 

In the muscle fiber both these changes occur during con- 
traction. Many, perhaps the majority of physiologists, now 
think that the stimulus to the muscle fiber (nerve impulse, 
electric shock) first causes a cleavage of the unstable fuel 
of the fiber into lactic acid and possibly other products and 
that this cleavage is the cause of the contraction ; under 
normal conditions this is followed by an oxidation of the 
lactic acid to carbon dioxide and water 

C 3 H 6 O 3 + 3 O 2 = 3 CO 2 + 3 H 2 O. 

On this view the cleavage takes place very suddenly (per- 
haps requiring less than the hundredth of a second), while 
the oxidation which follows requires several seconds or even 
minutes for completion; indeed, before it is complete, some 
of the lactic acid may have passed out of the muscle fiber 
into the lymph and blood. Some of the facts supporting this 
view are the following : the lactic acid produced within the 
muscle during contraction increases with the intensity of the 
work ; the amount of it found after contraction is greater 
when the supply of oxygen from the blood is diminished or 
cut off ; and, finally, lactic acid disappears from the muscle 
more rapidly after contraction, when the blood is well sup- 
plied with oxygen, than when it is deficient in that element. 

1 Matter is composed of atoms of chemical elements ; these atoms are 
combined or bound together to form molecules. A lump of sugar, for ex- 
ample, would be composed of an inconceivable number of molecules of sugar, 
and each molecule would consist of six atoms of carbon, twelve atoms of 
hydrogen, and six atoms of oxygen bound together in chemical combination. 
Sugar may undergo cleavage into lactic acid by splitting its molecule of 
twenty-four atoms into two molecules of twelve atoms. The chemist ex- 
this by the following equation : 

C 6 H 12 6 = 2C 3 H 6 3 . 



52 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Let us not lose sight of the central fact. The activity of a 
muscle fiber, like the activity of a gland cell, is the result of a 
chemical change within the cell. In both cases the food mate- 
rial derived from the blood is transformed into something else 
and activity is accompanied by the production of new sub- 
stances. In the case of the gland these new substances, or 
part of them, go to form essential constituents of the secre- 
tion, and we see at once the end secured by the chemical 
change. In the case of the muscle the end is, at first sight, 
not so clear. The substances formed are not of obvious use 
to the body, and we have now to inquire how this chemical 
change serves the purpose of producing a muscular contraction. 

11. Relation of the chemical changes to the work of muscular 
contraction. It is a familiar fact that chemical changes often 
yield power for work. The explosion of dynamite (a cleavage 
change), for example, will shatter large masses of rock ; 
the oxidation of coal in a locomotive engine supplies the 
power to move a heavy train of cars. In both cases waste 
products are produced, and in the change which produces 
them power is liberated; but in order that this power may 
be utilized to do work, some mechanism is needed to apply 
it to the desired end. The burning of coal in an open grate 
liberates power, but in the absence of any mechanism adapted 
to that purpose, it does no work ; the same coal burned under 
the boiler of an engine, with its mechanism of boiler, piston, 
driving rod, and wheels, moves the train of cars. 

So it is with the muscle. Within the cytoplasm of the 
fiber are the myofibrils (p. 35), and there are convincing 
reasons for believing that the combination of myofibril and 
sarcoplasm constitutes the mechanism of the muscle fiber. 
The power liberated by the cleavage change acts upon this 
mecjianism, causing the shortening and thickening of the 
myofibrils, whereby a pull is exerted on the tendon. Whether 
the subsequent oxidative changes also contribute power for 
the work or merely produce heat is still an open question. 



THE WORK OF ORGANS AND CELLS 53 

' ' 12. Heat" production by the working muscle. One other 
point of ' similarity between the working muscle fiber and the 
working steam engine should 'be pointed out ; namely, that 
both produce heat. It is a familiar fact that muscular activity 
makes us feel warm. This is the direct result of the libera- 
tion of heat by the oxidations within the working muscle 
fiber. The same thing is true of the steam engine, the liber- 
ated heat going in that case to warm the engine or passing 
away in the gases which escape from the smokestack, steam 
vents, etc. It is important that the student of physiology 
bear clearly in mind this feature of muscular action, since 
the active muscles not only supply power for work but also 
the heat necessary to maintain the temperature of the body, 
and no muscle can be thrown into contraction without liber- 
ating a certain amount of heat. For a full discussion of this 
matter see Chapter XII. 

13. The repair and maintenance of the cellular mechanism. 
Thus far we have considered only those chemical activities 
of gland and muscle cells which are directly concerned with 
secretion and contraction or which prepare the cell for the 
performance of these functions. This is only a part, how- 
ever, of the work of living cells, for, like all machines, cells 
may be injured by overwork or by accident, and their parts 
(nucleus, cytoplasm, fibrils, etc.) must be kept in working 
order. Just here the living mechanism differs from the life- 
less engine, for the living mechanism is itself capable of 
repairing damage to itself. The locomotive must be sent to 
the shops and be repaired by work done upon it by other 
machines; if the boiler rusts, it must be taken out and a 
new one put in ; if the wheels wear unevenly, they must be 
made true again by turning in a lathe or new ones must 
be substituted ; when the grate burns out, a new one must be 
put in its place. The living cell, on the other hand, itself 
makes these repairs from certain constituents of the same 
food out of which fuel and zymogen granules are made, and 



54 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

it does this by other chemical activities than those we have 
described and about which we possess only fragmentary 
knowledge at present. In picturing to ourselves the activi- 
ties of these living mechanisms we must include all these 
chemical processes, those of maintenance and repair as well 
as those concerned immediately with the performance by 
each cell of its own special functions, such as secretion by 
a gland and contraction by a muscle. 

14. Recapitulation. We have traced the character of the 
work done in the case of the gland and the muscle and have 
found that it is fundamentally the work of the cells of which 
the organs are composed. The cells of other organs are simi- 
larly constructed to do other kinds of work, and the character 
of their chemical changes and of the mechanisms -for utilizing 
power varies accordingly ; all* however, showing the same 
fundamental plan of working engines. The body is a com- 
munity of groups of cells of different kinds, each kind doing 
some work more or less peculiar to itself. In addition to the 
two groups (gland and muscle cells) which we have studied, 
there are nerve cells in the brain, spinal cord, and elsewhere ; 
cells which make blood corpuscles; cells which keep in repair 
the connective tissues (bone, gristle, tendon, and ligament) ; 
and many more, such as cells which manufacture or them- 
selves form the lining of free surfaces, like the skin, the ali- 
mentary tract, the air passages, etc. The sum total or net 
result of the activities of these and other cells makes up the 
work of the body as a whole. The work of the body the 
human organism, the human mechanism is thus the outcome 
or resultant of the work of its different component cells. 



CHAPTER V 
WORK AND FATIGUE 

While it is true, as shown in the last chapter, that ca- 
pacity for work is one of the principal characteristics of the 
human body, no experience of daily life is more familiar 
than that work is followed by fatigue. This is true both 
of individual organs and of the organism as a whole; for 
fatigue may be either local, as when some one muscle is 
tired from hard work, or general, as when weariness affects 
all organs those which have been resting as well as those 
which have been working. 

We use the word "fatigue" in two different senses, and it 
is important that a distinction be clearly made between them. 
In the one sense the word means the diminution of working 
capacity due to work. In testing one's strength of grip or of 
back a second test, if made immediately, shows less work done 
than at the first test, and this is true whether or not we 
are conscious of fatigue or of diminished working power. If, 
however, a certain time be allowed for rest, the second test 
will give as good results as the first. 

In the other sense the word refers to the feeling of fatigue 
which frequently, though not always, accompanies the dimi- 
nution of working power. We may " feel tired " when we 
have been doing nothing, and conversely, under the influence 
of excitement or other causes we may experience no feeling 
of fatigue even when we are near the limit of our working 
power. Often in an exciting game the players do not know 
at the time that they are tired or even that their working 
power is lessened; and stories are told of soldiers in hasty 

55 



56 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



retreat who feel that they must " drop in. their tracks " 
until the discharge of musketry close behind stimulates 
them to move faster than ever. 

The feeling of fatigue has its seat in the nervous system, 
and its study must be postponed until we have learned some* 
thing of the physiology of the brain and spinal cord. In the 
present chapter we are not immediately concerned with this 
side of the question, but rather with the diminution of work- 
ing power produced by 
work. Such fatigue 
must be measured not 
by our sensations but 
by the work accom- 
plished, whether that 
work be physical or 
mental. And as we 
studied the physiology 
of work in its simplest 
form in a single work- 
ing organ, such as a 
muscle or a gland, so we 

,, 00 . can best begin our study 

FIG. 33. Diagram of apparatus for recording ... . 

successive muscular contractions of diminished working 

power or fatigue in one 
of these same organs, namely, the skeletal muscle. 

1. Fatigue of an isolated muscle and of a muscle with in- 
tact circulation. The course of fatigue in a muscle is best 
studied by causing the muscle to contract to its utmost, at 
regular intervals of time, against the resistance of a suitable 
spring. If now we record the height of each contraction, we 
obtain a series which shows at once the effect of the work 
on the working power; that is, the course of fatigue. Fig. 33 
gives a diagram of the arrangement of such an experiment 
with an isolated muscle ; that is, a living muscle detached 
from the rest of the body. One tendon is made fast in a 




WORK AND FATIGUE 



57 



rigid clamp, while the other is attached to the spring, which 

is stretched by the contraction when the muscle is stimulated. 

The length of the line written by the lever AB records 

what the muscle is capable 

of doing at the time ; and 

if the records of successive 

contractions are made on 

the smoked surface of a 

slowly revolving drum, as 

in the figure, we have at 

once a record of the course 

of fatigue. 

Such fatigue tracings may 
also be taken from a muscle 
within the body, and hence 
with its circulation intact. 
Thus the work of the biceps 
muscle in bending the arm 
at the elbow (Fig. 23) may 
be recorded by instruments 
essentially similar to that 
used with the excised muscle. 
In Fig. 34 we have repro- 
duced a tracing of this kind. 

It is quite evident that a 
continuous line joining the 
highest points reached by 
the several contractions will 

represent graphically the 

. . ' FIG. 34. Record of the successive con- 
course Of fatigue, and ill tractions of the flexor muscles of the 
Fig. 35 the line a represents elbow joint 

this SO-Called "curve of Showing the gradual decrease in working 

n ,. ,, . ,, power to a fatigue level. The muscle con- 

tatlgue in the experiment tracted once every three seconds against 

whose results are given in the resistance of a strong spring, which 

T?" o \ Tj-.cn ce L ^ was stretched each time as far as the 
-big. d4. It tails Off at first strength of the muscle permitted 




58 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

rather rapidly, then more and more slowly, until at last it 
becomes parallel with the base line. In other words, the 
muscle in this case finally finds a constant level of working 
power. This may be called the fatigue level. 

The broken line b in Fig. 35 gives the result of a fatigue 
tracing with the isolated muscle. It will be seen that the 
fall in the height of contraction continues until at last the 
muscle no longer responds to stimulation. The contrast 
thus brought out between the effect of work upon muscles 



FIG. 35. Curves of fatigue 
a, from a muscle with intact circulation; b, from an isolated muscle 

with and those without the circulation suggests that the' cir- 
culation of the blood through the working organ in some 
way maintains the working power. 

The height of the fatigue level in the same muscle at 
different times is very closely dependent on the rate at 
which the muscle works. Thus with a contraction every 
four seconds instead of every three seconds the fatigue 
level would be higher than in Fig. 34 ; with a contraction 
every second it would be much lower. When the contrac- 
tions come every nine or ten seconds there is usually no 
falling off in the work done, the time between contractions 
being sufficient for the complete recovery of working power. 

This picture of fatigue hardly agrees with our feeling of 
fatigue, for the decline of working power begins at once, or 



WOKK AND FATIGUE 59 

at most after a very small number of contractions, whereas 
we usually notice fatigue only after work has gone on for 
a considerably longer time. One does not feel tired from 
walking, for example, during the first ten or twenty minutes 
of the walk. We need not discuss here just what makes us 
unconscious of the beginnings of fatigue ; but it is important 
to understand that whether we are or are not aware of its 
presence, fatigue is the invariable and immediate result of 
all muscular work. 

Weariness is simply the conscious feeling of fatigue, but 
fatigue is a physical condition of living cells and organs. 
Moreover, its phenomena are by no means confined to 
muscular work. When a gland is stimulated to vigorous 
secretion a diminution is sooner or later noted in the amount 
of the secretion, and there is some reason to believe that 
nerve cells may also become tired from continued activity. 
Fatigue, then, in one word, is a natural condition of an 
organ accompanying work, and we may proceed to inquire 
into its exact cause. 

2. Waste products as a cause of fatigue. When blood 
which has been circulating through a fatigued muscle is 
sent through a resting muscle, the resting muscle shows 
signs of fatigue, even though it has itself done no work. 
Apparently the blood has extracted from the working 
muscle something which has the power of lessening the 
working capacity of a fresh muscle. 

The same thing is illustrated by another experiment. A 
muscle which is deprived of its circulation (for example, by 
clamping its arteries and veins) is fatigued by vigorous work ; 
it is then found that although when left to itself a slight re- 
covery takes place, this recovery is much more marked if we 
first pass through its blood vessels a weak solution of salt. 
Here no food is supplied ; the salt solution has only removed 
something from the fatigued muscle, which, in consequence of 
this treatment, recovers some of its working power. 



60 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Again, the mere exposure of a resting muscle to blood 
containing lactic acid or to blood heavily charged with 
carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) produces the condition of fatigue. 
Now in the last chapter it has been shown that both lactic 
acid and carbon dioxide are waste products of muscular 
activity ; and these and other facts have led to the view, 
now generally received, that the waste products of the 
active organ interfere with the work of the organ and so 
constitute one of the main causes of fatigue. It is ap- 
parently for this reason that the injection of an extract of 
worked muscle fatigues fresh muscle, for the extract con- 
tains waste products. It is for the same reason that wash- 
ing out a fatigued muscle with salt solution produces partial 
recovery, for the waste products of activity are in this way 
partially removed. We can also understand why fatigue 
always accompanies vigorous work. Waste products then 
necessarily accumulate and clog the living mechanism be- 
cause they cannot be removed by the blood as fast as they 
are formed by the muscle cells. No fatigue occurs with 
.only a single contraction every ten seconds or more be- 
cause between contractions sufficient time is given to insure 
the complete removal of wastes. 

3. Loss of fuel in the working muscle as a cause of fatigue. 
The blood, however, not only removes the wastes but also 
brings new food and oxygen with which the muscle makes 
good the loss of fuel ; and it may well be although it is 
not absolutely proved that recovery from fatigue depends 
upon both of these good offices of the blood. We have 
certainly one well-established cause of fatigue, namely, the 
presence of the waste products of activity ; and we recog- 
nize the probability that the depletion of fuel may also 
contribute to the result. But whether the first of these 
causes alone is sufficient to explain it, or whether both 
work together, we can understand that the maintenance 
of a good blood supply is of the first necessity and that 



WOKK AND FATIGUE 



61 



undue fatigue can be avoided only by working at a moder- 
ate rate. It is an old and physiologically true saying that 
"it is the pace that kills." 

4. Explanation of the fatigue level. In the experiment 
with the isolated muscle no waste products were removed 
nor were new food and oxygen supplied ; hence the wastes 
in the muscle increased with each contraction, until at last 
their accumulation prevented all contraction. In the normal 
muscle the wastes likewise accumulate for a time ; and this 
is why the curve of work at first falls (Fig. 34). It does 
not continue to fall, because as the wastes within the muscle 
increase in amount, the blood carries more and more of 
them away in a given time. The quantity of waste removed 
thus continues to increase until the same quantity is carried 
away from the muscle between two contractions as the 
muscle produces with each contraction. When this happens 
no further accumulation of waste is possible and the fatigue 
level is established. 

5. General fatigue resulting from muscular activity. Every- 
one knows that after a day's tramp it is not simply the 
worked muscles which are unfit for good work, but that 
the brain, too, is tired, for hard mental work is then diffi- 
cult or well-nigh impossible ; and it is generally the fact 
that long-continued muscular work fatigues the brain more 
than brain (mental) work itself. The obvious explanation 
of this fact is that the waste products of muscular activity 
have accumulated in the blood more rapidly than the body 
can get rid of them, and so have fatigued the other tissues, 
including the nerve cells of the brain, just as the injection 
of the extract of a tired muscle lessens the working power 
of a fresh muscle. No doubt these same waste products may 
similarly fatigue gland cells; for experience seems to show 
that the secretion of digestive juices is not so active when 
one is suffering from muscular fatigue and that it is not 
wise to eat heavy meals when one is tired out. We can also 



62 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

understand why long-continued, vigorous muscular action 
produces marked fatigue in nerve cells and gland cells, 
while the activity of the latter produces only inappreciable 
fatigue in the muscles; for the amount of chemical change 
and the production of wastes are far greater in the case of mus- 
cular work than in that of nervous or glandular activity. 

6. The analogy of the engine. In previous chapters we 
have compared the living body with a machine or locomotive 
engine ; both do work, and both obtain the power for work 
from the chemical changes in food or fuel. What we have 
now learned about fatigue suggests an extension of the 
same comparison. Every locomotive suffers impairment of 
its working power with use, and special measures are taken 
to limit this impairment as much as possible; the gases and 
smoke are carried away at once by the chimney or smoke- 
stack ; the furnace is provided with a grate so that the ashes 
shall not accumulate and shut off the draft ; the bearings are 
oiled and foreign matters removed; finally, as the consump- 
tion of fuel goes on, the loss is made good by stoking. 

The continuance of the work of the engine requires two 
things fresh supplies of fuel and the removal of wastes. 
Obviously the blood performs these same offices for the cell. 
It supplies to the cell fuel (food) from the alimentary canal 
and oxygen from the lungs and it carries away the waste. 
Provision is thus made to maintain the human machine in 
working order and good condition during its activity. If the 
blood flows too slowly through the muscle, the same thing 
happens as in the locomotive when the fireman neglects to 
rake the fire or to put on new fuel ; the efficiency both of the 
human engine and of the locomotive may be impaired either 
by the undue accumulation of the waste products of its own 
activity or by the neglect to supply proper food or fuel. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE INTEBDEPENDENCE OF OBGANS AND OF CELLS 
INTERNAL SECRETIONS 

1. The products of cellular activity not necessarily harm- 
ful. We have now learned that the active living cells of 
the body are the seat of chemical changes which produce 
new substances; that the accumulation of these products of 
activity often limits the working power of the cells in which 
they are produced, and may even depress the activity of 
other cells to which they are carried by the blood. In the 
case of the skeletal muscles we have spoken of the carbon 
dioxide, the sarcolactic acid, etc. as "waste products," mean- 
ing thereby that they are incapable of serving as sources of 
power for the work of the muscle ; and this term, together 
with the fact that they constitute one cause of fatigue, is apt 
to mislead us into supposing that they can be of no further 
use to the body or, even more, that they are necessarily 
harmful and that their presence in the blood is objectionable. 

These conclusions, however, do not necessarily follow from 
the facts. It does not even follow that a substance which 
produces fatigue for that reason serves no useful purpose. 
Most adults can recall times when because of long-continued 
application to mental work or because of worry or other 
nervous strain they have become overexcitable and restless 
and have been unable to obtain the sleep of which the body 
as a whole stands in need. At such tunes sleep is often 
best secured by producing general fatigue through muscular 
work. The waste products, by their very act of fatiguing 
the overexcited nerve cells, may be of service to the body 



64 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



as a whole; and it is probably true that not only in such 
abnormal conditions but also in the daily conduct of life the 
fatigue of moderate muscular activity contributes its share 
toward inducing healthful and refreshing slumber. 

Thus far we have considered the chemical activities of 
each organ as contributing to the work of the organ in 
which they occur and, because of the accumulation of waste 

products, as the occasional 
cause of undue interference 
with efficient activity, both in 
the working organ and else- 
where. And yet the familiar 
case which we have just cited 
suggests another view of the 
matter. The products of the 
chemical activity of one organ 
may be of service to other 
organs, and so to the body 
as a whole ; and while their 
too rapid accumulation in the 
FIG. 36. Cross section of the thyroid blood ma J be undesirable, 




gland 



their presence in moderate 



The cells secrete into the closed sacs, amounts may be beneficial 

which they surround, the internal se- i , i , ,-t 

cretion, which then pisses out between and ma 7 contribute to the 

thfe cells into the lymph spaces of the normal environment of the 
connective tissue 17 > ,1 11 

cells of the body. 

2. The thyroid gland. This view of the case is strikingly 
emphasized in the physiology of the thyroid gland a small 
organ in the neck, the two chief lobes of which lie alongside 
the trachea. For a long time its use was not understood, 
and at times it was even supposed that it plays no important 
part in the life of the body as a whole. It has been found 
by experiment, however, that removal of the thyroid is fol- 
lowed by a disease in all respects similar to one which had 
long been observed in human beings, especially in children ; 



INTERDEPENDENCE OF ORGANS 65 

and this fact suggested that the disease is due to the failure 
of the thyroid to perform its normal functions. 

The subject was further cleared up by the discovery that 
after the removal of the thyroid in a lower animal the disease 
in question could be prevented by feeding the animal thyroids 
or even by giving to it a certain substance extracted from 
them. Evidently the thyroid manufactures and discharges 
into the blood a peculiar substance necessary to the healthy 
life of the cells of the body ; and when the gland fails to 
manufacture this substance it can still be supplied artifi- 
cially by introducing it into the blood by absorption from 
the alimentary canal. 

3. Internal secretions. In our study of secretion in Chap- 
ter IV (p. 43) we dealt only with glands which discharge 
their principal products through a duct into some part of the 
alimentary canal ; such glands are the salivary glands, the 
pancreas, and the liver. Other glands send ducts to the surface 
of the body for example, the sweat glands, which discharge 
perspiration upon the skin ; and the lachrymal glands, which 
discharge the tears on the eyeball. In the case of the thyroid, 
on the other hand, we have an example of an organ which, 
like those just mentioned, manufactures a special substance 
from the blood, but, having no duct, contributes the products 
of its manufacture to the blood, for the use of other cells. 
This process is spoken of as internal secretion, to distinguish 
it from ordinary secretion, in which case something is dis- 
charged on a free surface like the skin or into the alimentary 
canal, the nasal cavity, or the air passages. 

4. The adrenal glands. Lying immediately above the kid- 
neys are two small glandular organs, the adrenals, which, like 
the thyroid, were formerly considered of minor importance. 
It has been shown, however, that these also contribute to 
the blood a most important internal secretion known as 
adrenaline. This substance is manufactured by the gland cells 
and, during their periods of inactivity, is stored within the 



66 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



cells, from which it is discharged by nervous impulses. Like 
the thyroids, the adrenals have no ducts ; but the cells of 
the gland come into very close relation with the unusually 
rich network of blood capillaries into which the adrenaline is 
discharged when the gland is stimulated by its nerves. 

Once in the blood, ad- 
renaline produces profound 
effects in many organs of 
the body. Among these may 
be mentioned a decrease 
in the blood supply to the 
digestive organs ; a change 
in the beat of the heart; 
an increased flow of blood 
through the brain, the skele- 
tal muscles, and, to a less 
extent, the skin ; the dis- 
charge of sugar into the 
blood by the liver; and an 
increase in the number of 
the red blood corpuscles 

FIG. 37. Diagrams of external (A) and ( see P' 6). 

internal (B) secretion It is a most significant 

The passage of food material from the fact that many if not most 
capillaries into the gland cells is repre- * ^ rpnptirm* rvf rhp nr 
sented by the arrows with broken lines; Ol tne reactlons c 

the path of discharge of the secretion, in A ganisni to adrenaline are the 

into the duct and in B into the blood, is in- rPflpfinns wViiph arp 

dicated by the arrows with unbroken lines V6rV 

needed in times of great 

muscular exertion. For example, the shifting of the blood 
from digestive organs to the working muscles and to the 
brain, which is thereby rendered more alert; the supply of 
increased quantities of sugar to serve as power for muscular 
work ; the assistance to the heart, which is called upon at such 
times to pump more blood; the augmented oxygen-carrying 
capacity of the blood by increase of its red corpuscles all 




INTERDEPENDENCE OF ORGANS 67 

these reactions place at the disposal of the muscles and nerv- 
ous system the conditions for maintaining intense work for 
comparatively brief periods of time, and all this is done by 
the simple expedient of discharging from one of the organs 
of the body an internal secretion on the blood. 

Finally, that adrenaline does in fact serve the purpose of 
placing the body in condition to perform intense muscular 
work is rendered probable by the discovery that conditions 
of emotional excitement, especially those of fear or anger, 
cause the discharge of nervous impulses to the adrenals. 
Among animals it is these very emotions which accompany 
or at least precede the most vigorous muscular activity, 
fear going along with flight and anger with combat. This 
suggests that these emotions serve the purpose of calling 
forth the utmost of which the animal is capable in preserving 
its very existence. 

5. Other examples of internal secretion. An equally re- 
markable discovery has shown that the pancreas not only 
manufactures an important digestive juice (pancreatic juice) 
which it discharges into the intestine through its duct (pan- 
creatic duct, see Fig. 54) but also produces another sub- 
stance which is necessary, in order that other organs may 
use the sugar which is in their food. Here we have an ex- 
ample of an organ which produces both an ordinary and 
an internal secretion, and the same thing seems to be true 
o the kidney, as it certainly is of the liver. 

Much attention has recently been given to the study of 
another ductless gland, the pituitary body, situated in the 
bone between the roof of the nasal cavity and the base of 
the brain (see Fig. 14). There is good reason for thinking 
that this gland contributes an important internal secretion 
to the blood and that certain organs of the body fail to act 
normally when this secretion is deficient ; serious results also 
follow an excessive secretion. Incidentally it may be men- 
tioned that it is widely held that excessive secretion of the 



68 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

thyroid leads to a very serious condition, known as Graves's 
disease or exophthalmic goiter, just as deficiency of the secre- 
tion leads to the entirely different disease to which we have 
already referred. 

Thus, through the medium of the blood the chemical 
activity of one organ may affect the life of other organs 
favorably or unfavorably. All the cells of the body help to 
make the blood what it is, many of them contributing to it 
something useful or even necessary to other cells. The work 
of the body is not merely the sum total of the work of its 
separate cells, each working for itself alone and performing 
a single function; between the cells an exchange of prod- 
ucts often takes place, so that cells become both serviceable 
to and dependent upon one another for the material needed 
to carry out their own special chemical activities. And what 
is true of cells is no less true of organs; these also are 
interdependent, ministering to one another. 



CHAPTER VII 

THE ADJUSTMENT OR COORDINATION OF THE 
WORK OF ORGANS AND CELLS 

A great physiologist once said, " Science is not a body of 
facts ; it is the explanation of facts." Some of the most im- 
portant chapters of science are those which seek to explain 
facts so well known and obvious that we are apt to forget 
that they need explanation. When anything irritates the 
lining of the nasal cavity we sneeze; when it irritates the 
larynx we cough; when it irritates the exposed surface of 
the eyeball we wink. These three facts are well enough 
known; but it is safe to say that anyone considering the 
matter for the first time would find it difficult to explain 
how it comes about that anything going " down the wrong 
way" does not make us sneeze or wink, but sets us to 
coughing. The answer to the general question thus raised 
is the subject of this chapter, which considers the adjust- 
ment of the work of the individual cells and organs of the 
body, each to do its work at the proper time and so to play 
its due part in the work of the organism as a whole. 

The more we think of it, the more wonderful does this 
fact of adjustment appear. The millions of living cells are 
in a way individual units, and communities of individuals do 
not invariably work together. Let us compare the human 
body in this respect with bodies or groups of men or boys. 
In a game of football each team is a body of eleven indi- 
viduals, and each individual is assigned to a definite posi- 
tion to do definite things as occasion arises. Theoretically, 
under given conditions of the game it is the work, or 
function, of the " left tackle " to prevent a certain player 



70 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of the opposing side from making a certain play. But there 
is always a doubt whether he will do this thing or " lose 
his head" and do something else, leaving his man free to do 
what he pleases. In the latter case that organism which we 
call a football eleven would act very much as the human 
organism would act if it were to wink and not cough when a 
foreign body lodges on the lining membrane of the larynx. 

Evidently we have something here to explain. Why are 
the actions of the body purposeful; that is, adapted to ac- 
complish the right thing at the proper time ? And in the 
more complicated actions how is the work of the different 
units the organs and the cells adjusted, or coordinated ; 

that is to say, how is each 
one made to do its proper 
share of the work ? Let 
us begin with the study 
of a very simple action 
that of winking. 

1. Winking is caused by 

the contraction of muscle 
FIG. 38. The muscular mechanism fiberg which mn trang _ 
of winking 

versely across the eyelid 

in a curved course. As they are attached most firmly at 
the regions A and B (Fig. 38), their shortening straightens 
their arched course and so brings the two edges of the eye- 
lid into contact. The work of this muscle is obviously pur- 
poseful, for the wink takes place when the eyeball needs 
protection ; it is also coordinated, since the act is executed 
by a number of fibers working together, for if only those of 
the lower eyelid were to contract the lids could not be closed. 
The muscle fibers which work together to produce the 
wink do not originate their own activity. They merely do 
what they are stimulated to do by the nervous impulse, 
which acts upon the muscular fuel substance somewhat as 
a fuse acts upon a charge of gunpowder. Even the amount 




COORDINATION 



71 



of contraction is determined by the strength of the nervous 
impulse, a strong impulse producing greater contraction 
than a weak impulse. In health the muscle fibers are the 
obedient servants of the nerves, and if they act in a pur- 
poseful and coordinated manner, it is because the nerves 
stimulate them to act in this way. The explanation of 
purposeful and coordinated action must therefore be sought 





FIG. 39. Cross section of a nerve 

Showing five bundles of nerve fibers bound together by connective tissue con- 
taining a few blood vessels. On the right are shown four fibers more highly 
magnified, the dark center being the axon, around which is the white or fatty 
sheath, both axon and fatty sheath being inclosed within the fine membrane, 
the neurilemma. Cf. Fig. 40 

not in the muscles but, behind these, in the nervous system, 
to the study of which we now turn. 

2. Structure of a nerve. A nerve, like a muscle, may be 
separated into long fibers (Fig. 40) which are bound together 
by connective tissue containing blood vessels, lymph spaces, 
and lymphatics. The nerve fiber, which is the essential 
part of the nerve, just as the muscle fiber is of the muscle, 
differs somewhat in structure in different nerves; it generally 



72 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 




consists of a central threadlike core surrounded by a fatty 
sheath, the latter being, therefore, shaped like a hollow 
cylinder, which, however, is interrupted at intervals of 
about one millimeter, and both of these are enveloped hi a 
delicate membrane comparable to the sarcolemma of the muscle 
fiber. Such fibers are from about -g^Yo ^ iVo"o ^ an mc ^ 
in diameter (compare the diameter of a muscle fiber, p. 34). 

There are, however, nerve fibers 
which have no fatty sheath, and 
others which are destitute of mem- 
brane. The essential part of the 
fiber is the threadlike portion in 
the center; this is never absent 
from nerves and is known as the 
axon, or axis cylinder. 

3. The axon of a nerve fiber is 
a branch of a nerve cell. By suit- 
able methods these axons may be 
traced along the nerve of which 
they form part and even into the 
brain and spinal cord ; it is then 
found that they pursue an uninter- 
rupted course and ultimately become continuous with the 
cytoplasm of a nerve cell. Nerve cells are found in the brain, 
in the spinal cord, in enlargements (ganglia) on certain 
nerves, and even alone in the connective tissue of many or- 
gans of the body, as the heart, the intestine, etc. By far the 
greater number are in the brain and spinal cord, and in some 
cases the axons to which they give rise are of very consider- 
able length; those of the muscles of the foot, for example, 
reach from cells in the sacral region of the spinal cord to the 
extremity of the foot. Such fibers would be over a yard long 
and less than y?ftnr of an inch wide, and we may regard the 
cell whose main portion is in the sacral cord as sending out 
a branch, or process, from this region to the foot. 



FIG. 40. Four nerve fibers 
(highly magnified) 

R, node of Ranvier at which 
the fatty sheath is discon- 
tinuous 



COORDINATION 



73 



Furthermore, recent investigations have led to the gener- 
ally accepted conclusion that each axon is a part of only one 
nerve cell] a single cell may give off more than one axon, 
but the axon is never connected with more than one nerve 
cell. Of these cells and of their connections with nerve 




FIG. 41. Four nerve cells 



A and C, from the cerebellum; , from the gray matter of the spinal cord; 

D, from the cerebrum ; a, the axon. The cells A and D are stained so that the 

main body and the dendrites (p. 75) are a uniform black ; B and C are stained so 

as to show the nucleus and the cytoplasm 

fibers we can get a more definite picture by an examination 
of the structure of the spinal cord. 

4. Structure of the spinal cord. When the vertebral canal 
is opened a whitish cord is found within it, the spinal 
cord, from each side of which arise thirty-one pairs of 
nerves, or, in general, one pair for each vertebra. One 
nerve of each pair arises on the ventral side of the cord, the 
other on the dorsal side. These nerves are known as the 



74 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



ventral and dorsal nerve roots 1 respectively. On the dorsal 
nerve root, some distance from the cord, there is a slight 
enlargement, or ganglion. Just outside this ganglion the 
two roots unite, and from their union nerves pass to the 
skin, the muscles, the blood vessels, the viscera, etc. 

The spinal cord itself in cross section shows a darker 
central core, known as the gray matter, surrounded by an 
outer lighter portion, the white matter. The white matter 

consists essentially of 
Dorsal 



Dorsal 



Dorsal Root 



Ganglion 




Ventral 



Dorsal 




Ventral 

Ventral 
Root 



nerve fibers which run 
lengthwise of the cord 
and here and there send 

branches into the gray 
"Ventral Root 5 J 

matter; it may be re- 
garded as a large nerve. 
The gray matter, on the 
other hand, contains a 
mesh of fibers and, in ad- 
dition, numerous nerve 
cells. There is the same 
difference everywhere 
between the white and 
gray matter of the nerv- 
ous system ; the arrange- 
ment in the brain is not 
so simple as in the cord, but here also the white matter con- 
sists of fibers running from one part of the nervous system 
to another, while the masses of gray matter always include 
collections of nerve cells. 

5. Fibers of the ventral, or anterior, nerve root. These 
fibers may be traced into the spinal cord. It is then found 
that the nerve cells from which they arise lie in the gray 
matter in the immediate neighborhood of the root to which 

1 The older anatomical terms and those even to-day more generally used 
are "anterior" and "posterior," instead of "ventral" and "dorsal." 



Dorsal Root 

Ganglion 

FIG. 42. The origin of the dorsal and 

ventral nerve roots of a segment of the 

spinal cord 



COORDINATION 75 

they belong; that is, the fibers of the roots do not come from 
higher or lower parts of the cord or from the brain. It has 
been found that when these roots are stimulated they throw 
muscles into contraction and produce effects on the blood 
vessels and glands, but they do not give rise to sensations 
or produce other effects in the cord itself. In other words, 
the fibers of the ventral root conduct impulses from the cells of 
the spinal cord outward, they do not conduct impulses from 
outside into the spinal cord. Hence they are known as 
efferent fibers (Latin ex, " out of " ; ferre, " to carry " ). 

The nerve cells from which these fibers arise consist of a 
mass of cytoplasm around the nucleus and of one or more 
outgrowths of this cytoplasm, usually more or less branched. 
These outgrowths of the cytoplasm divide and subdivide, ulti- 
mately forming in the gray matter exceedingly fine terminal 
branches like those of a tree in the air. Such processes are 
known as dendrites (Greek dendron, " a tree " ). The nerve 
cells in question have numerous dendritic processes ; in other 
nerve cells there may be but one, and still others possess 
no dendritic processes at all. In all cases the general appear- 
ance of the cell depends largely upon the number and man- 
ner of branching of these dendrites. Thus it happens that 
nerve cells differ from one another in appearance just as 
a Lombardy poplar, an oak, an elm, and a maple differ, 
although all show the fundamental characteristics of a tree 
(Fig. 41 ; see also Figs. 109, 110, and 111). 

In subsequent portions of this work it is unnecessary for 
us to go into the details of the form of the nerve cells to 
any extent; the student need only understand henceforward 
that nerve cells consist of a central mass of nucleated cyto- 
plasm from which proceed outgrowths, or processes, which 
are of two kinds : (1) those which become axons of nerve 
fibers and which form an essential part of all nerve cells; 
and (2) the dendrites, which are usually but not always 
present. The whole structure, including the central cell 



76 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

body with its dendrites and axons, is an anatomical unit 
a cell. To this entire cell the term " neurone " is given. The 
neurone is the cellular unit of the nervous system, just as 
the muscle fiber is the cellular unit of the muscle, and the 
gland cell of the gland. 

6. Fibers of the dorsal, or posterior, roots. The ventral 
roots, as we have seen, are entirely efferent in function ; 
that is, they conduct impulses only away from the spinal 




FIG. 43. Semidiagrammatic longitudinal section of a ganglion of the dorsal 

(posterior) root 

cord. The dorsal, or posterior, roots, on the other hand, are 
found to be essentially afferent (Latin ad, " to " ; ferre, " to 
carry " ) ; that is, they carry impulses from outside toward and 
into the spinal cord. This is shown by the fact that when 
these roots are destroyed by disease, muscles can still be 
thrown into contraction, glands will still secrete, etc., 
that is, there is no interference with efferent impulses, 
but no sensations are received from the part of the body 
to which these nerves are distributed; pinching the skin is 
not felt; the flesh may be burned and its owner suffer no 



COORDINATION 77 

pain. Since these results never follow destruction of the 
ventral roots, we must conclude that impulses enter the cord 
solely by the dorsal roots precisely as they leave the cord solely 
by the ventral roots. 

It has been stated above (p. 74) that there is a ganglion 
on the dorsal root. Microscopic study of this ganglion shows 
that the fibers of the dorsal root pass through it and that 
each fiber gives off at right angles to itself a branch which 
becomes continuous with a pear-shaped nerve cell of the 
ganglion. These cells have no other processes. We may 
express the relation between the pear-shaped cells of the 
ganglion and the fibers of the dorsal root by saying that the 
single axon from the main cell body divides into two in 
the ganglion, one branch passing outward to the periphery, 
the other passing centrally into the spinal cord (Fig. 43). 

7. Endings of the peripheral branches of the neurones of the 
dorsal root in sense organs. The peripheral branch ultimately 
ends in some " sense organ," one of the most important of 
which, so far as the spinal nerves are concerned, is the skin. 
The eye, 1 the ear, the nose, the mouth, are examples of other 
sense organs, and they all contain the peripheral endings of 
afferent neurones. Each is sensitive to some special influence 
from without, as the eye to light, the ear to sound, etc. ; 
and when stimulated they start nerve impulses moving in- 
ward along the nerves toward the brain or cord. 

8. Ending in the spinal cord of the central branch of the 
neurones of the dorsal root. The other or central branch 
passes into the spinal cord. It does not, however, like the 
neurones of the ventral root, there become continuous with 
the nerve cells of the gray matter, 1 but divides, on entering 
the cord, into an ascending and a descending branch (Fig. 44), 
each of which runs for a longer or shorter distance in the 
white matter of the cord. Indeed, many of the ascending 

1 It is, as has already been pointed out on this page, part of a nerve cell 
in the ganglion of the dorsal root. 






78 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



branches extend as far anteriorly as the lower parts of the 
brain. As shown in the figure, these branches give off at 
right angles to themselves subbranches (the collaterals), each 
of which enters the gray matter and ends there by breaking 
up into a tuft of extremely fine fibrils, the synapse. The 
synapse is in close proximity to, and possibly in a kind of 
anatomical continuity with, the dendrites or the main body 





FIG. 44. Relation of afferent (of) to efferent (ef) neurones of the spinal cord 

In A the single afferent neurone branches into six collaterals, each of which ends 

in a synapse around an efferent cell. In B the connection is made through the 

agency of the cell a, as explained in section 13 

of a nerve cell of the gray matter. Each afferent neurone, 
then, is a cell whose main body is in the ganglion of the 
dorsal root and whose branches, or arms, reach out, one of 
them to a peripheral sense organ and the other to the gray 
matter of the spinal cord and brain, where they end in 
synapses. By means of the synapses the afferent neurone 
excites or stimulates other neurones. 

9. Anatomical relation of afferent to efferent neurones. We 
may now put together what we have learned about the 
neurones of the ventral and those of the dorsal root; we 



COORDINATION 



79 



then obtain a plan like that shown in Fig. 44, and such, in 
principle at least, represents the manner in which the afferent 
neurone is brought into relation with efferent neurones. 

Afferent and efferent fibers enter and leave portions of the 
brain in much the same way, although the separation into 
ventral and dorsal roots is not obvious. We may there- 
fore take the above scheme as typical of the relation be- 
tAveen these two kinds of neurones those of the brain as 
well as those of the cord. 

10. Application of these facts 
of structure in the explanation 
of purposeful and coordinated 
action. The diagram in Fig. 45 
readily explains why the sud- 
den appearance of an object in 
front of the eye causes us to 
wink and not cough ; that is to 
say, it explains the purposeful 
character of this so-called reflex 
action. The formation of the FIG. 45. Diagram of the nervous 
image of the object on the mechanism by which a wink is pro- 

duced by the sudden appearance of 
retina, a sense organ, starts an object in front of the eye 

impulses along the fibers of r> affer ent neurone of the optic nerve ; 

m > m/ > w "> m "^ efferent neurones to 

tne muscles of the eyelid 




the afferent optic nerve ; these 

n , -i ' , ,T -I 

fibers extend into the brain, 
and their synapses end around and stimulate those efferent 
nerve cells which stimulate the muscles of the eyelid. The 
action is purposeful because the fibers of the optic nerve 
end around these cells and not around those which, for 
example, innervate 1 the muscles which open the mouth or 
flex the finger (Fig. 45). 

Our diagram also gives the basis of coordination the 
combination of the work of different muscle fibers in orderly 
harmonious action. The system of collaterals on the central 
1 That is, supply with nerve fibers. 



80 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



branch of the afferent neurone is obviously a mechanism to 
combine the action of the efferent neurones in this way. The 
diagram also gives a clew, at least, to the explanation of 
another element of coordination: when two or more muscles 
work together to accomplish a given act, one of the muscles 
usually works harder than another; not only must they work 
together, but the amount of force exerted by each must be 
adjusted to the needs of the movement as a whole. This 
A adjustment is most 

^Vx probably effected by 

jrV differences in the con- 

*\ nection of the syn- 

apses with their cells ; 
thus those muscles 
which contract most 
forcibly are innervated 
by neurones whose den- 
drites and main cell 
body come into more 
intimate contact with 
the synapses of the 
afferent neurone ; or 




FIG. 46. Diagram of the nervous mechanism 

represented in Fig. 45, with the addition of 

the neuron b (see sect. 12) 



the number of fibrils 
of the synapse may 
be greater in their case 
than in the others. These, however, are only possibilities ; the 
whole subject requires further elucidation. 

11. Definition of reflex action. An action such as we have 
just been studying is known as a reflex 1 action. By this we 
mean an action catted forth by the more or fess direct action of 
afferent upon efferent neurones and without the intervention of 

1 The word literally suggests the idea of reflection from the afferent to 
the efferent neurones, as light is reflected from a surface ; but the student 
has already learned enough to understand that efferent impulses are something 
more than mere mechanical reflections, or rebounds, of afferent impulses. 



COORDINATION 



81 



the will. The afferent neurone may be stimulated by some 
external agent, such as light, heat, sound, pressure, etc., or 
by some condition within the body itself, as when diseased 
or abnormal conditions of the stomach or some other organ 
induce vomiting. 

It is a common error to suppose that all actions which 
are not called forth by the will are reflex. The essential 
feature of a true reflex is the more or less direct action 
of the afferent impulses 
on efferent neurones and 
not merely its nonvoli- 
tional character. There 
are, in fact, involuntary 
actions in which the ef- 
ferent neurones are di- 
rectly stimulated not by 
afferent neurones, but 
by the condition of the 
blood or in other ways. 
Such actions are not re- 
flex, though they may 
be either involuntary 
or unconscious or both. 
They are known, in gen- 
eral, as automatic actions, and we shall meet examples of them 
as we proceed with the study of the various functions of 
the body. 

12. Actions resulting from stimulation by the will. A wink 
is not always a reflex action. We can wink " on purpose," 
or, otherwise expressed, a wink may be called forth by the 
will and entirely apart from the sudden appearance of some 
object in front of the eye. Here the muscles of the eyelid 
act in exactly the same manner as in a reflex wink, which 
means that they are stimulated in the same way by the same 
efferent neurones. Thus far the mechanism is the same in 




FIG. 47. The nervous mechanism shown in 

Fig. 46, with the addition of the afferent 

neurone c, from the cornea (see sect. 12) 



82 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

the two cases, but the source of stimulation of the efferent 
neurones must be different. 

In later chapters of this book we shall bring forward 
evidence to show that the exercise of the will (volition) 
requires the cooperation of the highest portion of the brain 
or cerebrum. Nerve cells in the gray matter of the cerebrum 
send off axons which pass downward to those portions of the 
brain and spinal cord from which the motor or efferent neu- 
rones arise ; with the neurones of these nerves they make ex- 
actly the same kind of connections (collaterals and synapses) 
as are made by the afferent fibers from the retina which excite 
the reflex (see Fig. 46, in which b is the cerebral neurone). 

The collaterals and synapses of the cerebral neurone 
(which, it will be observed, is entirely confined to the cen- 
tral nervous system) simply duplicate those of the afferent 
neurone ; hence the two neurones produce the same result. 

There is, however, still a third way in which winking may 
be stimulated. When the cornea of the eye begins to dry, a 
reflex wink spreads tears over the eyeball. In this case we 
have to deal with a second reflex, the afferent neurones being 
not those in the optic nerve, but those in what is known as 
the trigeminal, the sensory nerve of the cornea. Our scheme 
thus becomes that shown in Fig. 47. 

13. The tf master " neurone. The multiplication of collat- 
erals and arborizations which this scheme involves would 
seem to be largely avoided by the presence of a third neu- 
rone between those which stimulate the action and the effer- 
ent neurones which directly act on the muscles (Fig. 48). 

In this way, when a wink is produced, whether from the 
cerebrum or from the retina or from the cornea, the single 
cell a is stimulated, and this in turn stimulates the groups 
of efferent neurones which immediately innervate the mus- 
cles of the eyelids. Many of the nerve fibers of the cord and 
brain belong to neurones which perform the same function 
as that attributed to the cell a in our diagram. They are 



COORDINATION 



83 



entirely confined to the brain or cord and group together 
those efferent cells which by working together produce a 
coordinated action. 

The organization of the nervous system is, in fact, much 
like that of a large manufacturing establishment. The nerve 
cells which send axons to the muscles, glands, blood vessels, 
etc. may be compared with the operatives, each with his 
special task to perform ; over these are foremen, or " bosses," 
from whom they take their orders or, in physiological 
language, who stimulate 
them to do their work 
and who would corre- 
spond to cells like a in 
Fig. 48. The foremen in 
turn receive orders, now 
from one department of 
the establishment, now 
from another, as the work 
of their operatives is 
needed in making one or 
the other of the products 
:ered for sale. So the 
laster neurones receive 
;imuli from the brain or from afferent nerves, as the needs 
>r the desires of the organism as a whole require their 
3tivity. The comparison is instructive and may easily be 
ied out in greater detail by the student himself. 
14. The coordination of two or more actions to achieve a 
lite end. These conceptions will become more definite if 
study the nervous mechanisms represented in Fig. 49, 
rhich represents the combination of the wink with different 
)hysiological actions, according to the nature of the con- 
iitions which call it forth. Let us consider the two reflex 
rinks already referred to, that from the cornea and that from 
le retina. The wink from the cornea is for the purpose of 




FIG. 48. The master neurone 



84 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



spreading tears over the surface of the eyeball and, to be 
effective, must be accompanied by a secretion of tears. We 
may suppose that this is accomplished, as in the diagram, 
by the afferent neurone ((?) from the cornea stimulating two 

master neurones, one of 
which (m w ) produces the 
wink, while the other 
(w') stimulates the tear 
glands to secrete. 

The wink from the 
retina, on the other hand, 
has the entirely different 
purpose of preventing 
the contact of foreign 
objects with the cornea. 
For this purpose tears 
are not necessary and 
they are not secreted. 
But at times this wink 
is accompanied by a 
sudden starting back of 
the body as a whole 
to avoid the threatened 
FIG. 49. Coordinations involved in the com- danger. In this case we 

may suppose that the 
afferent neurone from 
the retina connects with 
the master neurones m w , 

asionows: m~, lor wmiuug : /, ior seureium . , . j *b 

of tears; m* f for starting back. Neurones con- m Winking, and m , lor 

cerned hi volitional actions are V 6 , for starting starting back, but that 
back, and v". for winking , . ~> 

this afferent neurone 
does not connect with m\ for the secretion of tears. 

Finally, the volitional neurones v gb and v w , which pass from 
the cerebrum to their appropriate master neurones, call forth 
these actions of starting back or winking as separate acts. 




bination of the wink with other actions 

The afferent neurones r, from the retina, and 
c, from the cornea, connect with different com- 
binations of efferent neurones as explained in 
the text. Efferent master neurones are shown 
as follows : m", for winking ; ra', for secretion 



COORDINATION 85 

15. The . acquisition of reflexes; conditioned and uncondi- 
tioned reflexes. There can be no doubt that many of these 
reflex mechanisms are born with us. A newborn baby, for 
example, like the adult, winks and secretes tears when the 
cornea dries ; it secretes saliva when a sapid substance is 
placed in the mouth; it swallows when something touches 
the throat; if a cane is brought in contact with the palm 
of the hand, it is grasped firmly. These and many other 
reflex actions take place from the first because the baby in- 
herits and hence is born with the complete reflex mechanism 
for their execution upon the application of the appropriate 
stimuli. 

On the other hand, new involuntary reactions can be 
acquired in adult life, even reactions which are useless to 
the body. The extent to which this is true is illustrated by 
the following extreme case : if a piece of ice is applied to a 
definite spot of the skin, the amount of blood flowing through 
that part of the skin is greatly diminished and the skin be- 
comes pale. This is an inherited reflex which (Chap. XII) 
protects the body from exposure to cold. A morsel of food 
placed on the tongue (where it stimulates the afferent nerves 
of taste) will reflexly excite the flow of saliva. In both cases 
we see the obvious purposeful relation between the stimulus 
id the reaction and in both cases we are dealing with in- 
herited reflexes. Moreover, these two reflex mechanisms as 
inherited are entirely independent of each other, for the 
stimulation of the skin by ice does not excite the flow of 
saliva nor does the stimulation of the sense of taste influence 
the blood flow through the skin. If, however, every time 
that one eats, a piece of ice is applied to the same region of 
skin, so that loth these reflexes are simultaneously excited, in 
the course of two weeks or more it will be found that the 
application of ice to the skin excites a flow of saliva even 
though no food is taken into the mouth. In other words, these 
two reflex mechanisms have become associated, so that activity 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



of the one now discharges the other. Evidently some sort 
of nervous connection has been established between them. 
Fig. 50 gives a diagram of the new association which has 

been established 
between the two 
centers. 

The connec- 
tion thus newly 
established be- 
tween the affer- 
ent neurones of 
cold (<?) and the 
efferent neu- 
rones to the sal- 
ivary glands (s) 
differs in sev- 
eral ways from 
the connection 
between the af- 
ferent and ef- 
ferent sides of 
an inherited 
nervous mech- 
anism. Such ac- 
quired reactions 
are not evoked 
with the same 
certainty as the 

inherited and, once acquired, they are more readily lost by 
disuse. Whether we get the reaction or not depends upon 
the condition of the 'body at the time we apply the stimulus. 
Hence they are spoken of as conditioned reflexes, to distinguish 
them from the unconditioned (or inherited) reflexes. Undoubt- 
edly many of our involuntary actions, especially acquired 
habits in general, are conditioned reflexes acquired since birth 




FIG. 50. The acquisition of a conditioned reflex 

A, reflex mechanism for constriction of cutaneous vessels 
when cold is applied to the skin; 5, reflex mechanism of 
the secretion of saliva when a sapid substance comes in 
contact with the tongue. Above is shown the usual normal 
condition with no connection between the two mechanisms ; 
below, the condition after both have been repeatedly in 
simultaneous action 



COORDINATION 



87 



and thus added on to the stock of inherited reflexes which 
make part of the equipment with which we begin life. 

16. The complexity of the mechanisms of the nervous 
system. Such actions as we have been studying whether 
the inherited reflex of winking, even when this is combined 
with other acts like the secretion of tears, or the acquired 
conditioned reflex secretion of saliva from the stimulation 
of the skin by cold are comparatively simple, as compared 
with many other actions of daily life, such, for example, 
as the throwing of a stone. Here not only muscles which 
produce motion at the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and finger 
joints are called into play, but also muscles which maintain 
the erect position and balance of the body as a whole. 
The entire .nervous mechanism involved baffles the imagi- 
nation to conceive; and yet any boy can perform the act. 
He can do it, however, because his motor neurones are 
grouped together into a perfectly well-organized army which 
executes at once the bidding of its commander in chief - 
the will. 

We have given in the foregoing pages a mere glimpse 
into the complexity of one part of the wonderful nervous 
mechanism. No watch, no machine which man has ever 
invented or constructed can for a moment compare with this 
living machine in complexity or in perfection. Yet, like all 
machines, this one can be abused ; it can get out of order ; it 
can even break down. And we have already learned enough 
to understand why this is so. Some neurones may be injured 
by overwork or may degenerate from disuse ; indulgence in 
stimulants or narcotics may poison the governing nerve cells ; 
above all, constant failure to lead a normal life may deprive 
these cells of their sole means of repair. The human body 
is a machine designed for use, even for hard use, and it 
thrives upon right use ; but it is a machine too delicate and 
too complex to be abused with impunity. 



88 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

When one thinks of the hundreds, perhaps thousands, of 
movements which the body makes, and of the combination 
of these movements into definite actions or work, and then 
reflects that the muscle fibers which execute any movement 
are thrown into orderly contraction by nerve cells which are 
themselves commanded by higher nerve cells; that these in 
turn are marshaled, as it were, by still higher cells when 
the separate movements they evoke are to be combined into 
a still more complicated action one begins to appreciate 
the complexity of the organization of the nervous system. 
The number of the nerve cells is measured by hundreds of 
thousands, and their efficiency in directing the working 
organs of the body, so as to meet the demands of life, de- 
pends not only upon the integrity of the neurones but also 
upon the perfection of their organization, that is, then- 
grouping into squads, companies, regiments, brigades, divi- 
sions, and corps, ready to yield instant and obedient response 
to the command of the higher officers of the will or to the 
signals of those pickets the sense organs and their afferent 
neurones which everywhere guard the outposts and give 
information of the need for action. 

' Moreover, this army of neurones, like any other army, 
becomes efficient by work, by drilling, by practice, even by 
battle. Like the soldiers of a regular army the neurones 
may be overworked and their efficiency as a military body 
may suffer thereby, but they may also work too little ; 
the perfection of their development and of their organi- 
zation depends on the practice they get with reasonable 
activity. To this point we shall return; but meantime 
the student can safely make the application for himself. 
Such comparison and such application are not only in- 
structive but intensely practical in their bearing upon 
the affairs of everyday life upon that right conduct of 
life which is the first duty of every man, every woman, 
every child. 



COORDINATION 89 

17. Stimulation and coordination by chemical means ; hor- 
mones. In previous chapters we have dealt chiefly with 
examples of stimulation of muscle and gland cells by nervous 
impulses and of the coordination of the work of organs 
through the central nervous system ; but there is another 
way by which both stimulation and coordination are effected. 
An irritable cell will respond to other stimuli than nervous 
impulses; among these are a sharp blow, sudden heating, 
make or break of an electric current, and exposure to the 
action of certain substances. The last is generally spoken 
of as chemical stimulation, and we shall meet with examples 
of this in our subsequent study. One will suffice for the 
present. After the food has undergone a preliminary diges- 
tion in the stomach by the add gastric juice, it is passed 
into the small intestine, where its digestion is completed. 
The first requisite for this purpose is the secretion of pan- 
creatic juice, and this is secured as follows: the acid of the 
stomach contents liberates from the lining cells of the first 
part of the intestine a substance known as secretin, which 
enters the blood and chemically excites the cells of the pan- 
creas to secrete pancreatic juice. By this means the pancre- 
atic juice is secreted into the intestine at precisely the time 
that it is needed there ; that is, as each consignment of acid 
food is discharged from the stomach (see Chap. VIII, p. 113). 
A substance thus liberated in one organ and stimulating 
another organ to activity at the time when such activity is 
needed is known as a hormone (Greek hormao, " I arouse " ). 

The action of secretin evidently presents, hi addition to its 
feature of stimulation, an element of purposeful coordination, 
since it insures the proper cooperation of the stomach and 

increas in the work of digestion ; and other examples of the 
e thing might be cited. We have, however, only to refer 
student to the case of adrenaline, already described in 
Chapter VI, for the most striking example of coordination 
produced by chemical means. 



90 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Cooperation, adjustment, and coordination are thus brought 
about in the body by two means : first, through the chemical 
action of hormones ; and, second, through the mechanisms of 
the central nervous system. The first provides for situations 
where no great delicacy of adjustment is required ; in the 
secretion of the pancreatic juice, for example, it is not neces- 
sary that a definite quantity, no more and no less, be secreted ; 
in such a muscular movement as writing, on the other hand, 
it is necessary that each muscle taking part shall act in a very 
exact manner. For such coordinations the action of the nerv- 
ous system is generally necessary. Finally, as suggested by 
our consideration of the conditioned reflex, the nervous system 
is the chief means whereby we can acquire new mechanisms 
of coordination, thereby increasing our power of adjustment 
to new conditions of life. 



CHAPTER VIII 
ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 

A. THE SUPPLY OF MATTER AND POWER TO THE 
HUMAN MACHINE 

1. Power and the materials, for repair supplied separately 
to lifeless machines. Living and lifeless machines are alike 
in that worn-out parts must be renewed and that power 
must be supplied to do work. In the lifeless machine these 
two requirements are supplied separately. A factory and 
its equipment of machinery are kept in repair and enlarged 
(grow) by means of bricks, lumber, steel, belting, new pieces 
of machinery, etc., which are brought into the building, 
while the power which runs the machinery comes in quite 
separately as fuel, or water power, or electric power. 

2. Power and the materials for growth and repair supplied 
to the human machine in the one form of foods. With the 
human mechanism this is not so. Materials for growth and 
repair, and power for running, are introduced from without 
not separately, but together, both being supplied in the one 
form of food. As it does its life work the human mechanism, 
like a lifeless machine, not only consumes power but its parts 
deteriorate, and it is the double function of the food we eat 
to make good this double loss. Some foods possibly serve 
only as means of power; others merely make good the loss 
of essential parts of the mechanism; while still others may 
serve both purposes, 

3. Food as a source of power. Experiment and experience 
alike prove that foods are the source of power for work. 
Bread, butter, starch, sugar, beef, and the like may be dried 

91 



92 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

and then burned as fuel, giving power to an engine. The 
occasional use of Indian corn or wheat for fuel, in the West, 
the employment of hams and bacon as fuel by steamers short 
of coal, the explosion of flour dust in mills, and similar phe- 
nomena further illustrate by the teachings of experience the 
fact that these foods are rich in energy, or power. 

When we say that the food must supply power to the 
body, we mean that the power which it contains must be 
available to the body. A lump of coal may be a source of 
power, as is shown by its use in a locomotive; but a lump 
of coal would be of no use as foo'd, because the body has 
no such means of burning it as has the engine. Again, 
nitroglycerin contains chemical elements needed in the food; 
but although when exploded in a dynamite cartridge it 
may furnish power enough to shatter heavy armor plate, 
its energy is not available to the body. 

Thus, to recapitulate, (CL) food makes good the loss of 
living substance in the body; (5) it supplies material for 
growth and for the manufacture of the secretions of the 
body ; and (c) it supplies power for the work which the body 
is to do. It also performs one more important function, 
which will be more clearly understood hereafter; for (d) by 
its oxidation food provides the heat usually required to keep 
up the body temperature. The detailed consideration of this 
subject, however, must be postponed to Chapter XII. 

4. Chemical composition of foods ; nutrients. The human 
race has learned by long experience that certain things meet 
the demands of the body for food, and that other things 
do not. Perhaps no animal uses so many different materials 
as man in satisfying sensations of hunger and thirst. Some 
foods are taken from the animal and some from the vegetable 
kingdom, and their variety is greatly increased by special 
modes of preparation. But however numerous the foods 
from which we prepare the dishes served at different meals, 
chemical analysis shows that the essential constituents of all 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 93 

foods belong to a comparatively small number of chemical 
groups. These classes, or groups, may be called nutrients-, 
and as all the members of the same group undergo practi- 
cally the same processes of digestion and perform similar 
functions in nourishing the body, it will be equally accurate 
and more convenient, in treating of this part of physiology, 
to speak of the different nutrients, and not of beef, mutton, 
fish, eggs, bread, milk, butter, etc. 

From the point of view of digestion the most important 
nutrients are the proteins, the carbohydrates, the fats, the 
inorganic salts, and water", and the student must at this 
point become thoroughly familiar with what is meant by 
these fundamental terms. 

5. The group of proteins. We may obtain a working idea 
of what a protein is by recalling some of the foods in which 
protein preponderates or is easily seen. Such foods are the 
white of egg, the lean of tender meat (muscle fibers), the 
curd of milk, the tenacious gluten of wheat. Proteins also 
exist in relatively large quantities, though not so readily 
seen, in yolk of egg, beans, peas, oats, and other grains. 

Proteins contain carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and 
sulphur. Some contain phosphorus and some contain iron. 
Chemically they are exceedingly complex substances. It 
should be noted that the proteins are the most important 
nutrients which contain nitrogen and sulphur. 

Many proteins readily become insoluble. Examples of this 
are the hardening of the white of egg or the lean of meat 
by cooking and of the casein or curd of milk by rennet or 
"junket tablets." This change is known as coagulation, and 
most of our protein food is eaten after having been coagulated 
in the process of cooking. 

Proteins occur only within the living cells of plants and 
animals or as the products of these living cells. They form, 
as we shall more clearly see later, an essential part of the 
basis of the living cell and are constantly disintegrating 



94 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

within the cell into simpler substances. Hence there is a 
constant cellular loss of protein, which in the animal body 
can be made good only from protein in the food. Plants, on 
the other hand, have the power of manufacturing proteins 
from sugars and certain mineral salts, the latter supplying 
the needed nitrogen and sulphur. The plant kingdom is, 
therefore, in the long run the sole source of protein food for 
animals ; for while some animals (carnivores) get their pro- 
tein entirely by eating the flesh of other animals, the latter 
(herbivorous animals) in turn have obtained their protein 
from plants. 

Unlike fats and carbohydrates, protein is an absolute 
essential of animal diet ; that is to say, protein food per- 
forms certain functions in the animal body which cannot be 
performed by fats or carbohydrates, while the two latter 
nutrients perform no functions which cannot also, when 
necessary, be met by proteins. Some proteins, however, are 
incapable of meeting all the protein requirements of the 
organism, although they may meet some of them. Of these 
the most important in use as food is the fibrous connective 
tissue (pp. 7, 8), whose fibers in the uncooked state consist 
of the insoluble protein substance collagen, which by heating 
in the presence of water is converted into the closely related 
but soluble gelatin. Collagen and gelatin belong to the 
albuminoids, one of the subclasses of proteins. The chief 
protein of Indian corn is similarly incapable of meeting all 
the protein requirements of the organism. 

6. The group of carbohydrates ; the plant cell as a food 
factory. The carbohydrates constitute a very large chemical 
group, although comparatively few members of it (starch 
and sugars) are of importance as food. They are all com- 
pounds of the elements carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and 
contain no nitrogen or sulphur; those used as food are 
manufactured in the cells of green plants. This production 
of carbohydrates by the plant cell is another example of the 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 95 

work of cells as chemical factories, which we studied in 
Chapter IV. The cells of the green parts of plants, espe- 
cially of the leaves, take in carbon dioxide from the air and 
water from the soil, and from these plant foods, with the 
aid of sunlight, manufacture sugar, which is transported in 
the sap from one part of the plant to the other and is used 
as a source of power for plant work. The excess of sugar 
is converted by certain cells into starch and is stored in the 
form of small granules in the cytoplasm for future use. 
A potato or a grain of wheat consists of cells loaded with 
these starch granules. When the plant is not manufacturing 
sugar directly from carbon dioxide and water, its cells again 
transform the starch granules into sugar. The presence of 
sugar in sugar beets, apples, pears, and peaches and in the sap 
of sugar maples are familiar examples of this manufacture 
and transport of sugar by plants. 

It will be noticed that only green plants have this power 
of manufacturing carbohydrates from carbon dioxide and 
water; hence we do not find large quantities of sugar and 
starch in mushrooms and other fungi. The cells of green 
plants, in short, are the starch factories of the world, the 
factories from which we purchase our supplies of starch be- 
ing only refineries, that is, places where starch is separated 
from other constituents of plant cells. 

All plants, however, possess the power of manufacturing 
proteins from carbohydrates and certain salts, which salts 
they get from the soil. The carbohydrates furnish carbon, 
hydrogen, and some of the oxygen, while the salts furnish 
nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, etc. One great difference 
between plants and animals is this power of protein manu- 
facture by the cells from material which is not protein. The " 
animal cell can manufacture protein only from protein itself 
or from certain decomposition products of protein. 

7. The group of fats. Fats are familiar to us in such 
forms as butter, lard, olive oil, and the fat of meat. Like 



96 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

the carbohydrates they are compounds of carbon, hydrogen, 
and oxygen, although the oxygen is always present in small 
quantities. The formula for one of the fats is C 61 H 98 O 6 , and 
this composition is typical of all of them. 

Fats may be split up into certain acids (fatty acids) and 
glycerin, and when treated with alkalies, like caustic soda or 
caustic potash, they form soaps. They are insoluble in water. 
Like the carbohydrates they contain no nitrogen. 

8. Oxidizable and nonoxidizable nutrients. All the above 
nutrients may and do combine with oxygen within the cells 
of the body, although the way in which this chemical union is 
brought about is one of the unsolved problems of physiology. 
While all the nutrients may be burned after being dried, 
such combustion requires a high temperature. Within the 
body they are not only burned (that is, combined with oxy- 
gen) at a temperature rarely exceeding 39 C. (100 F.), but 
they undergo oxidation while in a moist state or even in 
solution. However this oxidation may be effected within the 
cell, there can be no doubt that it yields the heat for keeping 
the body warm and possibly the power for its work. 

The remaining groups of nutrients the inorganic salts 
and water are, for the most part, not oxidized in the body. 

9. The groups of inorganic salts and water. These nutrients 
are absolutely necessary for the proper nourishment of the 
body, their presence in the blood and lymph and in the liv- 
ing cells being indispensable to the processes of life. The 
salts are taken in small quantities, partly as salt itself, partly 
as portions of the various foods we eat. During growth they 
furnish much of the mineral matter of bones, and since the 
body is daily losing salt, it is necessary that salt be supplied 
in the food. Salts, however, are not acted on to any large 
extent in the alimentary canal by the processes of digestion; 
they are largely absorbed in the same form as eaten. Hence 
they do not concern us at present to the same extent as do the 
oxidizable nutrients, which generally have to be chemically 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



97 



changed, or digested, before they can be absorbed for use in 
the body. The same thing is true of water. 

10. Composition of some common foods. The following table 
gives the percentage composition of some of the more common 
foods (see also p. 238). 





WATER 


PROTEIN 


STARCH 


SUGAR 


FAT 


SALTS 


Bread 


37 


8 


47 


3 


1 


2 


Wheat flour .... 
Oatmeal 


15 
15 


11 
12.6 


66 

58 


4.2 
5 4 


2 
5 6 


1.7 
3 


Rice 


13 


6 


79 


0.4 


0.7 


0.5 


Peas 


15 


23 


55 


2 


2 


2 


Potatoes 


75 


2 


18 


3 


2 


7 


Milk 


86 


4 




5 


4 


0.8 


Cheese .... 


37 


33 






24 


5 


Lean beef 


72 


19 






3 


1 


Fat beef 


51 


14 






29 


1 


Mutton . . . 


72 


18 






5 


1 


Veal 


63 


16 






16 


1 


White fish . . . . 


78 


18 






3 


1 




77 


16 






5.5 


1.5 


Effsr . 


74 


14 






10.5 


1.5 


Butter 


15 








83 


3 

















11. Indigestible material in food. When we say that a food 
is digestible we generally mean that when taken into the 
alimentary canal, if not already in solution, it is chemically 
acted upon by the digestive juices so as to be dissolved and 
made capable of being absorbed into the blood. The greater 
part of the food we eat consists in this sense of digestible sub- 
stances, but many foods contain a certain amount of indigest- 
ible material, and some contain a very considerable amount. 

The most conspicuous example of such material is cellu- 
lose, a member of the same group of carbohydrates to which 
starch belongs. It occurs in almost all vegetable foods ; and 
since, in the human alimentary canal, cellulose is for the 
most part unaffected, it cannot be absorbed and necessarily 



98 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



forms an important part of the feces. Other indigestible 
substances are the outer skin of animals (for example, the 
skin of fowls), and certain portions of the connective tissue 
of meat. 

12. Animal and vegetable foods. The classification of foods 
into animal and vegetable not only describes the origin of 
foods from the two great kingdoms of living things, but 
also defines important differences between them with refer- 
ence to digestion. These differences may be summed up as 
follows : Animal foods are generally rich in proteins and poor 





FIG. 61. Part of the seed of the bean 

Showing the larger starch granules and 

the finer protein granules inclosed 

within the cellulose cell walls 



FIG. 52. Section of potato 

Showing starch granules inclosed 
within the cellulose cell walls 



in carbohydrates, while vegetable foods are generally poor in 
proteins and very rich in carbohydrates, especially starch. 
In the second place, animal foods contain relatively little 
indigestible material, while vegetable foods, as they occur 
in nature, contain large amounts of indigestible cellulose. 
In the third place, the digestible materials of vegetable 
foods (the proteins, carbohydrates, and fats) are often con- 
tained within a plant cell which is surrounded by a cellu- 
lose membrane impermeable to the digestive juices; before 
they can be digested this membrane must be ruptured in 
one way or another. In the case of many animal foods, on 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 99 

the other hand, especially meat and fat, the cells (muscle 
fibers and fat cells) which contain the essential nutrients 
are held together by connective tissue made up largely of 
fibers of an albuminoid nature. These fibers are soluble in 
the juices of the stomach, in which the cellulose which 
holds together the vegetable foods is insoluble. The full 
importance of these differences will be evident before we 
have finished the study of digestion. 

13. The process of alimentation. Before corn, wheat, meat, 
vegetables, and other food materials can be taken into the 
body and made to yield up to it the material and power 
which they contain, they must, in most cases, undergo 
various preparatory or preliminary processes or treatments 
which shall make them easier or better to eat or more 
attractive. The most familiar of these processes is cooking, 
but it is by no means the only one. In the case of animal 
food the animal must be captured, if wild, or raised, if 
domesticated. It must be killed, skinned, dressed, cut up, 
and the meat in many cases " ripened " by keeping, or 
" cured " b}^ smoking, salting, drying, or corning. So, also, 
with plant food, such as cereals, vegetables, fruits, nuts, 
and the like ; these must first be found, if wild, or grown, 
if domesticated. They must then be separated from the 
rest of the plant threshed, if wheat, rye, oats, or barley; 
husked and shelled, if corn ; dug up or removed from the 
earth, if vegetables like potatoes, celery, radishes, or lettuce. 
Fruits and nuts must be separated or picked from vine or 
tree ; milk must be drawn from animals ; and even salt, water, 
and condiments like mustard and pepper must be separated 
from the earth or the sea or from plants. After collection 
and further preparation by winnowing, grinding, or cleaning, 
elaborate cooking is applied to many forms of food before it 
is put upon the table; and even then, at the last moment 
before it is eaten, a further separation, as of meat from bone, 
must be made either by the carver or by the eater himself. 



100 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



To this entire process of the supply and preparation of 
food for eating, the term "alimentation" may be conveniently 
applied. Reflection will show that it is largely a process of 
food refining, the principal result being a concentration of the 
nutrients at every step. It is also a separation of the com- 
paratively useful from the comparatively worthless (as food) ; 
and just here, and in these points, concentration and the 
separation of good from poor materials, we may recognize a 
true process of digestion, but one external rather than in- 
ternal: a refining in the field, the mill, and the kitchen 
rather than in the stomach ; in the environment rather than 
within the organism. 

14. The ends accomplished by digestion. The processes of 
digestion accomplish three chief results : First, they separate 
the nutritious and therefore important part of the food from 
the innutritious and therefore useless. This process, so con- 
spicuous in the case of external digestion, is continued within 
the alimentary canal. Second, digestion brings the solid part 
of the food into solution by changing insoluble into soluble 
substances. This is necessary, since food is received into the 
body proper (that is, into the blood) through the lining 
membranes of the alimentary canal, and in order that it may 
pass through these membranes it must be dissolved. In the 
third place, digestion transforms the food as eaten into corn- 
pounds which can be used by the cells of the body. Common 
cane sugar, for example, is very soluble and can be absorbed 
into the blood, but the cells of the body cannot use it. In 
the intestine it is split into grape sugar and fruit sugar, both 
of which can be used. Similarly, the white of egg (a protein), 
though soluble, would be of little, if any, use if injected 
unchanged into the blood ; in the alimentary canal it is 
transformed into available compounds. It will be helpful to 
acquire at this time a general idea of the chemical structure 
of two of our most important foods and of the chemical 
changes which they undergo in the alimentary canal. 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



101 



15. The chemical structure of the starch and protein mole- 
cules ; cleavage changes during digestion. The huge molecules 
of starch and protein are believed by chemists to consist of 
a large number of much smaller molecules linked together 




Starch 




FIG. 53. Diagram of the structure of molecules of starch and protein 

Starch is represented as formed by the chemical linking together of many like 
molecules of dextrose; protein, by the linking together of many unlike mole- 
cules of amino-acids. Some of these chemical links (indicated by the arrows) 
are broken by cleavage more easily than others. Hence cleavage first forms 
smaller molecules of dextrines from starch and of polypeptids from proteins. 
Ultimately each may be broken up into its constituent molecules of dextrose or 
amino-acids respectively 

in chemical combination (see Fig. 53). By boiling in water 
containing acid, these large molecules undergo a very simple 
cleavage into their component molecules. Starch treated in 
this manner yields only one substance, namely dextrose 
(glucose, or grape sugar (C 6 H 12 O 6 )). Protein, on the other 
hand, yields a much greater variety of compounds, some 



102 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

twenty or more in number, which, though differing greatly 
from one another in most respects, have in common one 
point of structure in virtue of which they are known as 
amino-acids. In the chemical laboratory amino-acids are 
readily bound together to form peptids, and we speak of 
dipeptids, tripeptids, tetrapeptids, and polypeptids accord- 
ing as two, three, four, or many amino-acids enter into their 
formation. It is now thought that protein, as it occurs in 
nature, is essentially a very complex polypeptid. 

In the body the enzymes of the digestive juices produce 
virtually the same cleavage in starch and protein as that 
caused by boiling with acids, and the chemical action upon 
the food within the stomach and intestine consists essentially 
in breaking up the starch and protein into their component 
molecules dextrose in the one case, amino-acids or small 
peptids in the other. We accordingly find that as the result 
of digestion the starch we eat supplies the blood (and so the 
body cells) with only one substance, namely dextrose (grape 
sugar), and the value of starch in nutrition is limited to the 
nutritional value of this single substance, dextrose, of which 
it is composed. Protein, on the other hand, yields twenty 
or more different chemical compounds, each with its own 
possibilities of chemical action in the cell. Moreover, indi- 
vidual proteins differ in their constituent amino-acids; a given 
protein may be entirely lacking in one or more amino-acids, 
or it may have one or more present in very small or very 
large proportions. The nutritional value of the protein is con- 
sequently determined by the possibilities of chemical action 
of its constituent amino-acids and by the quantity of each 
amino-acid yielded by the digestive cleavage. From this we 
can readily understand why protein food meets a wider variety 
of nutritional requirements than does starch or fat, which also 
yields only a few cleavage products upon digestion. 

16. Digestion a chain of events. Before entering upon the 
study of the details of digestion in the different parts of the 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 103 

alimentary canal, a suggestion as to the proper point of view 
will be helpful. While it is true that each part of the diges- 
tive system performs functions of its own, it is also true that 
what takes place in one part is dependent on what takes 
place in others ; digestion in the mouth has reference largely 
to subsequent work in the stomach ; gastric digestion, in 
turn, carries one step further the refinement of the food, 
which it thereby prepares for what is to take place in the 
small intestine; finally, the digestive processes of the large 
intestine are carried out normally only when preceded by the 
proper completion of those of the small intestine. Digestion 
is a chain of events, each one depending upon those which have 
gone before and, to a large extent, upon others which are tak- 
ing place at the same time. The student is urged to keep 
this in view in the study of all the digestive processes. 

B. DIGESTION IN THE MOUTH. ENZYMES 

17. Stimulation of the sense of taste a reflex excitant of 
the flow of gastric juice. Digestion in the mouth prepares for 
digestion in the stomach, in the first place, by stimulating 
the sense of taste through the flavor of the food, for the 

Perent impulses thus aroused play a very important role in 
evoking the secretion of gastric juice. This point will be 

lore fully discussed in our studies of gastric digestion. It 
referred to here that the student may understand that far 
more is to be accomplished by the stay of food in the mouth 

lan its mastication and mixture with saliva preparatory to 

le act of swallowing. We might imagine a meal composed 
)f food already well moistened and requiring no chewing, 
that it could be swallowed immediately. Such a meal 

light have all the nutrients in the proper proportions, and 
ret, from the very fact that it stays so short a time in the 

louth, it may not sufficiently arouse sensations of taste to 
ivoke an adequate reflex secretion of gastric juice. It is 



104 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

perhaps here that we have the strongest argument against 
hasty eating. 

18. Mastication. Digestion in the mouth prepares for 
digestion in the stomach, in the second place, by the com- 
minution, or grinding down, of the food in the act of chew- 
ing. When this is properly done the larger food masses are 
broken up into smaller ones, so that the whole is made more 
readily accessible to the subsequent action of digestive secre- 
tions. The small intestine has almost no means of accom- 
plishing this subdivision of the food; the stomach can do it 
for some foods easily, for others with difficulty, while against 
others it is virtually powerless. Only in the mouth can all 
foods be thoroughly comminuted. For this purpose it is 
necessary to keep the teeth sound. 1 

19. Chemical action of saliva. Digestion in the mouth 
presents a feature which is characteristic of all the digestive 
processes ; namely, a combination of the mechanical action of 
some form of muscular movement with the physical and 
chemical action of some digestive juice. The muscular act 
of chewing and the secretion of saliva, which moistens and 
acts chemically upon the food, cooperate to reduce the food 
to smaller particles and to change part of it into other sub- 
stances. Neither mastication nor insalivation, acting alone, 
would be as effective as are both when acting together. 
We shall see the same thing more strikingly illustrated in 
our studies of gastric and intestinal digestion. 

The chemical action of saliva is much less important than 
that of other digestive juices, but it is typical of the charac- 
ter of all of them, so that it is profitable to consider it at 
some length. Upon proteins and fats saliva has no action 
whatever, but upon starch it exerts a striking and readily 
demonstrable influence. To demonstrate the effect in ques- 
tion some starch paste should be prepared. This is not a 

1 The structure and care of the teeth will be described in Part II, 
Chap. XXIII. 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 105 

clear solution, like salt or sugar, but an opalescent liquid, 
which does not become clear by passing through ordinary 
filter paper. A characteristic test for starch the blue color 
produced when a few drops of a solution of iodine 1 are 
added to it may be used to detect its presence in the 
following experiments: 

EXPERIMENT I 

Two test tubes or small beakers containing starch paste are prepared. 
Collect some saliva and boil half of it. To one portion of the starch 
paste add the boiled saliva (after it has again cooled to the room tem- 
perature) ; to the other add the unboiled saliva. Mere observation will 
show that while the first test tube remains opalescent, the second soon 
becomes clear. A few minutes after this change has occurred, a little 
of the second starch-saliva mixture may be removed, diluted with water, 
and tested with iodine ; the color produced is no longer pure blue, but 
purplish ; that is, a mixture of red and blue. Some minutes later the 
iodine test gives a port-wine red color, and still later no color at all. 
This change of reaction is due to the fact that the saliva has changed 
the starch into dextrine, which gives the red color, and then has changed 
the dextrine into a substance which gives no color with iodine. 2 Mean- 
while the starch in the first test tube shows no change either in its 
opalescent appearance or in its original blue reaction with iodine. 

Boiling the saliva has destroyed its power of acting on 
starch, and it is known that this is due to the fact that 
the heat has destroyed the enzyme, known as ptyalin, or 
salivary diastase, which has the power of changing starch 
to sugar. 

1 Made by dissolving a few flakes of iodine in alcohol or in an aqueous 
solution of potassium iodide. 

2 The cleavage of the starch molecule does not take place by splitting off 
successive molecules of dextrose, but by splitting into two molecules, each, 
let us say, approximately half as large as the original molecule. By some 
such process first one, then another, dextrine successively appears. Con- 
tinuation of the cleavage ultimately gives a substance, maltose, which 
consists of two molecules of dextrose bound together. Finally, the maltose 
is split into two molecules of grape sugar. We speak of the dextrines and 
maltose as intermediate products, and of the dextrose as the end product, of 
the cleavage. 



106 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

EXPERIMENT II 

Let us now inquire what has become of the starch in the second test 
tube. The solution is clear and has a sweetish taste. Moreover, if boiled 
with a mixture of sodium hydroxide and a few drops of copper sulphate, 
it gives a red precipitate, indicating the presence of sugar. These sim- 
ple tests then prove that saliva first changes starch into dextrine and 
subsequently changes dextrine into sugar. 

EXPERIMENT III 

Dilute some starch paste with an equal volume of 0.4 per cent 
hydrochloric acid (which will, of course, make a 0.2 per cent solution 
of the acid). Now add a few drops of saliva. It will be found that no 
reaction takes place. Saliva will not act in an acid medium of this 
strength, and it can be easily shown that it acts most vigorously in a 
neutral or faintly alkaline medium. This result is of much practical 
importance, because the gastric juice contains approximately 0.2 per 
cent of hydrochloric acid and may therefore be expected to interfere 
with salivary digestion. 

EXPERIMENT IV 

Prepare five or more small beakers of starch paste and add (best 
with a medicine dropper) to the first a drop of filtered saliva, to the sec- 
ond two drops, to the third three drops, and so on; then observe the 
time required in each case for the disappearance of the opalescence 
and also of the iodine reaction. This experiment will show that while 
a very small amount of saliva will transform an indefinite amount of 
starch into sugar, the more saliva there is present the more rapidly will 
the transformation occur; and the same thing is true of all enzymes. 
If the result is not perfectly clear with the undiluted saliva, repeat, 
but use saliva diluted two or three times with water. 

While we are eating, the food obviously stays too short 
a time in the mouth to allow the conversion of any large 
amount of its starch into sugar before it is swallowed. 
Whatever actual work the saliva may do in bringing about 
this chemical change must evidently be done chiefly in the 
stomach, and this will be studied in the next section. 

We have dwelt at length upon the enzyme action of saliva 
not merely for its own sake but rather because the behavior 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 107 

of the salivary juice is typical of the action of other of the 
digestive juices and of enzyme action in general. All the 
other juices of the alimentary canal, with the single excep- 
tion of the bile, contain enzymes, and it will greatly help 
our understanding of the digestive action of these enzymes 
if that of the salivary enzyme be first mastered. 

Digestion in the mouth, then, consists first, of a mechanical 
process of chewing, by which food is crushed or comminuted ; 
second, of a physical process of moistening, by which dry 
foods are prepared for the act of swallowing ; and third, of 
a chemical process, the chief part of which is the conversion 
of starch into sugar by enzyme action. In addition to this 
the stimulation of the sense of taste reflexly starts the 
secretion of the gastric juice, which now becomes the main 
chemical agent in carrying on the work of digestion. To 
the consideration of the digestive processes in the stomach 
we may now devote our attention. 

C. DIGESTION IN THE STOMACH 

According to popular ideas the stomach is the chief organ 
of digestion ; in fact, however, it is an organ in which the 
food which has been swallowed is temporarily stored while 
undergoing a preliminary preparation for the more impor- 
tant changes which are to take place in the intestine. In this 
preparatory process, to be sure, some of the food is inciden- 
tally changed into those forms in which it passes into the 
blood, but this action is incidental and subordinate to the 
main function. 

20. Form and structure of the stomach. The stomach is a 
large pouch into which open two tubes the oesophagus 
(gullet) toward the left side and the intestine on the right 
(see Fig. 54). The two regions into which these tubes open 
are different in structure and are known as the cardiac (left) 
and pyloric (right) portions of the stomach; the cardiac 



108 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



portion differs from the pyloric portion in having greater di- 
ameter and thinner walls. The entire inner surface is lined by 
the mucous membrane some three or more millimeters in thick- 
ness, crowded with comparatively simple glands which pour 
their secretion, the gastric juice, into the stomach very much as 
sweat glands discharge perspiration on the skin (see Fig. 55). 

(Esophagus E 

Cardiac ^% 
Muscle' 
Gall_ 
Bladder 




Intestine 



'Pancreatic Duct 



FIG. 54. Stomach, beginning of small intestine, and entrance of bile and 

pancreatic ducts 

During digestion the bile flows directly from the liver into the intestine ; at other 

times the opening of the bile duct is closed and the bile passes into the gall 

bladder, where it is stored 

The glandular membrane is one of the two principal 
components of the stomach wall ; the other is the muscular 
or contractile tissue, which forms a second coat outside the 
other, and closely united to it by connective tissue con- 
taining the larger blood vessels, lymphatics, nerves, etc. 1 
The muscular coat is comparatively thin in the cardiac region 



1 Fig. 63 (large intestine) shows in cross section somewhat the same 
arrangement of mucous and muscular coats as in the wall of the stomach. 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



109 



and comparatively thick in the pyloric, the thickening in the 
latter region being caused chiefly by muscle fibers circularly 
arranged. 

21. The gastric juice. The gastric juice is a clear, thin, 
colorless liquid which contains, among other things, about 
0.2-0.3 per cent of hydrochloric 
acid and certain enzymes. Upon 
starch it has no action whatever, 
nor has it any action on fats, unless 
the fat is in the form of an emulsion 
(that is, very fine drops of oil sus- 
pended in water, as in milk or may- 
onnaise dressing) ; indeed, the very 
limited power of gastric juice to at- 
tack fat is a matter of considerable 
importance in dietetics. Its main 
chemical action is upon the proteins, 
which under its influence undergo 
cleavage into proteases and peptones. 
The proteoses and peptones, like 

the original protein, are polypeptids (p. 102), but of smaller 
molecular size. They are not coagulated by heat, and most 
of them are soluble. 




FIG. 55. The inner surface of 

the stomach (magnified about 

20 diameters) 

Showing the openings of the 
glands. The lining glandular 
membrane is thrown into folds 



EXPERIMENTS 

Prepare some artificial gastric juice as follows : To one quart of water 
add 7 or 8 cc. of concentrated hydrochloric acid and to this a little active 
pepsin, which may be obtained at any drug store. Pepsin is extracted 
from the stomach and is the most important of its enzymes. A solution 
of pepsin in the given strength of hydrochloric acid is virtually gastric 
juice. Try the effect of this on the following substances by placing each 
in a half tumblerful of the juice. To get the complete effect the mixture 
should be set aside for twenty-four hours and tests made the next day. 
Observations should be made during the first hour or two. If the digest- 
ing mixture can be kept in a warm place (90-100 F.), the action will 
be more rapid and the results more satisfactory. The digestions can 
best be carried out in corked 4-ounce bottles, which should be shaken 



110 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

occasionally to secure better contact of the digestive juice with the 
material undergoing digestion. 

1. The white of soft-boiled (3-4 minutes) egg. This is composed 
mostly of protein; it will be dissolved. Into what is the egg white 
changed ? 

2. A piece of tendon, which can be obtained from any butcher. 
This is composed of the kind of fibers which are found in the con- 
nective tissues holding the cells together (see Chap. III). The tendon 
first swells, then gradually disintegrates, its protein (albuminoid, p. 94) 
fibers going into solution. A small residue will be left. 

3. A piece of the lean of rare meat cut or chopped into small pieces. 
The meat will disintegrate, owing to the solution of its connective tissue 
fibers ; then the protein muscle fibers will go into solution, being changed 
into soluble peptids. 

4. A piece of lean of well-cooked meat. The result will be much like 
that in (3) except that it will probably take longer to bring the muscle 
fibers into solution. 

5. Some jelly (made from gelatin) which has set. This will be 
gradually dissolved. 

6. Some fat (not gristle) of beef. The mass will disintegrate for the 
same reason as in the case of meat. The fat itself will be unacted on, 
but will rise to the top, where it may form a layer of fat or oil. 

7. A piece of bread. This consists of starch, fat, etc. held together 
by the tenacious gluten (a protein). As the gluten is dissolved by the 
gastric juice the undissolved starch, fat, etc. is set free. 

8. Some starch paste. No action. 

9. Some fried steak. Note the prolongation of the period of digestion. 

Instructive experiments may also be made with cheese, 
sweetbreads, potatoes, peas, etc. They would all bring out 
the main points in the action of the gastric juice. These 
may be summed up as follows : Gastric juice has no effect 
upon pure fats (although it plays an important part in the 
digestion of adipose tissue *), nor upon carbohydrates, such 
as starch or sugar. Its part in digestion consists in its action 

1 The fat of meat consists of connective tissue whose cells are greatly 
swollen with drops of fat. In typical adipose tissue the connective-tissue 
cell becomes one large fat droplet surrounded by the thin layer of the cell 
cytoplasm with its nucleus. These pf fat cells," like the muscle fibers of 
meat, are thus held together by the fibers of connective tissue and are set 
free when the latter are digested and dissolved away by the gastric juice 
(see Figs. 90-92). 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



111 



upon the proteins of the food and especially upon those 
proteins (albuminoids) which make up the connective tissue 
of animal foods. By dissolving this connective tissue, which 
holds together the muscle fibers, fat cells, etc., animal food 
is considerably subdivided and made to present a greatly in- 
creased surface to the further action of digestive juices. It 
is also well to remember that the gastric juice dissolves con- 
nective tissue much more rapidly than does any other of the 
digestive juices and that this action upon connective tissue 
is really more important than that upon other proteins, al- 
though the latter is usually more emphasized. Other proteins 
not acted on in the stomach are rapidly digested by the 
pancreatic juice in the intestine ; connective tissue, on the 
contrary, escaping solution in the stomach, is dissolved but 
slowly in the intestine. 

The student is, however, warned against supposing that 
because gastric juice is able to transform the proteins of the 
food to peptids, it actually does exert this action upon all 
the protein eaten. In point of fact, as protein foods are 
divided into smaller and smaller particles in the stomach, 
they are discharged into the intestine, where their digestion 
is completed by the pancreatic juice. In man the pancreatic, 
and not the gastric, juice is the main agent of protein digestion. 

22. The stomach at work. Having now gained a general 
idea of the chemical changes which occur in the stomach, we 
may proceed to consider what actually happens when food 
enters that organ. And here our knowledge has been gained 
partly by examining the gastric contents at different periods 
of digestion, partly by observing the movements of the 
stomach by the aid of the Rbntgen rays, and partly by 
other means. 

As soon as. food enters the stomach, and even while it is 
still in the mouth, the gastric glands begin to discharge the 
gastric juice, and continue to do so during the four or more 
hours of gastric digestion. When the meal is fluid or is small 



112 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



in amount, this gastric juice is thoroughly mixed with it ; 
when, however, the food is more or less solid and bulky, only 
the outer layers, which are in immediate contact with the 
walls of the stomach, are mixed with the juice. At least this 

is true at the cardiac end; the 
cavity of the pyloric portion is so 
small and the amount of move- 
ment there so great that all por- 
tions of the pyloric contents are 
thoroughly mixed with gastric 
juice ; in the much larger cardiac 
portion the central mass of the 
food may receive no gastric juice 
and thus remain, for an hour or 
more after the meal, neutral or 
alkaline in reaction. Under these 
circumstances very considerable 
amounts of starch may continue 
to undergo the salivary digestion 
begun in the mouth. 

Any chemical action is aided by 
agitation, since the reacting com- 
pounds are thus brought into more 
intimate union; and observation 
of the working stomach shows 
that while the cardiac portion 
makes no movements, but merely 
keeps up a steady contraction 
and thereby exerts a moderate 
pressure upon its contents, the pyloric portion executes, from 
a very early stage of digestion and throughout the whole proc- 
ess, a series of contractions which gradually bring about a 
thorough mixture of the contents and rub down the softened 
food into smaller and smaller masses. These contractions 
consist of rings of constriction which arise at the beginning 




FIG. 56. Outline of the contents 

of the stomach of a cat at three 

stages of the digestion of a meal 

taken about 11 A.M. 

Showing the peristaltic constric- 
tions which pass over the pyloric 
portion and the diminution of the 
quantity of food in the cardiac 
end. (Full description given in 
sect. 22) 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 113 

of the pyloric portion and pass onward to the pylorus itself, 
a new ring beginning about once every ten seconds and con- 
suming from thirty to forty seconds in passing to the pylorus. 
Consequently there are always two or more slowly moving 
rings in the pyloric end of the stomach at one time. 1 

The pyloric end of the stomach is thus the seat of a combined 
chemical and mechanical action on the food. The vegetable 
foods are softened, while the connective tissue of the animal 
foods is dissolved away ; in addition, the food is mixed with 
a considerable amount of liquid supplied by the secretion of 
gastric juice. The contents of the pyloric end of the stomach 
thus ultimately come to consist of minute solid masses sus- 
pended in a liquid, the consistency of the whole being that 
of moderately thick pea soup. This product of the work of 
the stomach is known as chyme. 

23. The expulsion of chyme into the intestine. The open- 
ings of the oesophagus and intestine into the stomach are 
usually closed ; the former is opened normally only during 
the act of swallowing, while the latter opens at irregular 
intervals during the process of gastric digestion. The open- 
ing of the pylorus allows the rings of constriction moving 
over that region of the stomach to discharge the semifluid 
chyme into the intestine. If, however, a large mass of solid 
food arrives and is driven against the walls, the pylorus 
reflexly closes, thus guarding the entrance of the intestine 
from the passage of food not yet ready for intestinal diges- 
tion. The pressure exerted by the sustained contraction of 
the walls of the cardiac end of the stomach adds to the 
food in the pyloric region new portions from time to time, 
and the same combined chemical and mechanical process 
already described is continued until the whole mass is 
reduced to chyme and driven into the intestine. 

1 These movements of the stomach and intestine are well shown in 
zoetrope figures, which may be obtained from the Harvard Apparatus 
Company, Back Bay Post Office, Boston. 



114 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



This brief sketch of the working of the stomach shows 
that this organ serves the two main functions of storing the 
food and of making it more accessible to the digestive fluids 
of the intestine. When the chyme is delivered to the intes- 
tine, the mechanical difficulties in the way of absorption are 
practically gone; the surface of the food exposed to diges- 
tive action is now immensely increased by its subdivision, 
and the work remaining for the intestine is almost wholly 
the chemical duty of changing the constituents of the chyme 
into substances which are soluble and ready for absorption. 

Serious troubles arise when, for one reason or another, 
gastric digestion goes wrong, because the subsequent proc- 
esses of digestion are largely dependent upon the preparation 
which the food receives in the stomach. Gastric digestion 
may be impaired in one of three ways: first, the gastric 
juice may not be secreted in proper amount or proper 
strength; second, the stomach may not execute its move- 
ments efficiently; third, the gastric juice secreted may not 
be able to get at the food readily, owing to improper cook- 
ing or insufficient mastication. The study of the conditions 
which produce these troubles which taken together consti- 
tute one form of indigestion, or dyspepsia will be postponed 
to the chapter on the Hygiene of Feeding (Part II). 

24. The stimulus to the secretion of the gastric juice. The 
first requirement for the work of the stomach is the secre- 
tion of sufficient gastric juice. Of late years the brilliant 
researches of physiologists have shown that the secretion of 
gastric juice is called forth in three ways : 

1. The "psychic" secretion. When agreeable or appetizing 
food is offered to an animal, and especially when such food 
is taken into the mouth, a secretion of gastric juice follows, 
which may continue for fifteen minutes or more. This secre- 
tion occurs when the food has been in the mouth only ten 
or fifteen seconds and even when it is merely offered to a 
hungry animal and not taken into the mouth at all. Again, 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



115 



2 3 



678 9 10 



it occurs only when the animal is conscious; for if food be 
introduced into the stomach of a sleeping dog, it evokes only 
the most scanty secretion of gastric juice after the animal 
has awakened. Moreover, both the amount and the efficiency 
of the juice secreted vary directly with the enjoyment of the 
meal. When meat is given to a dog which is not hungry, 
no such abundant secretion of 
gastric juice occurs as during 
hunger. 

It is clear that we have here 
to deal with a nervous process 
more complicated than the sim- 
ple reflex, and that the efferent 
discharge to the stomach occurs 
as the result of nervous proc- 
esses taking place in the brain 
in connection with the enjoy- 
ment of food. In other words, 
the more the food is desired 
or enjoyed, the more efficient 
will be this secretion of the 
gastric juice. 

It is known that this " psy- 
chic" secretion will continue 
for several hours after an ordi- 
nary meal, increasing in amount during the first hour or more 
and gradually diminishing from that time onward (Fig. 57). 

2. Stimulation of the stomach by constituents of certain foods. 
We have seen that the direct introduction of food into the 
stomach (for example, into the stomach of a sleeping animal) 
does not of itself evoke a secretion of gastric juice. Some 
foods, however, contain substances which do evoke such a 
secretion, the most important of these being certain con- 
stituents of meat. Bouillon, for example, which is an extract 
of meat, directly excites the wall of the stomach to secrete. 



FIG. 57. The curve of the "psychic" 
secretion of gastric juice 

Vertical lines represent half-hour pe- 
riods after taking the meal ; horizon- 
tal lines, relative amounts of gastric 
juice secreted 



116 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

This is a reason for introducing the soup early at a course 
dinner. Meat extracts and meat juices are the most effective 
food constituents for this purpose ; milk and water are far 
less effective, while most foods, notably bread, white of eggs, 
etc., have no such effect at all. 

3. Stimulation of the stomach itself by the products of protein 
digestion. Although the mere contact of most foods with- the 
lining of the stomach does not evoke a secretion of gastric 
juice, yet it is known that after digestion has been begun 
by the action of the " psychic " secretion, certain of the 
products of protein digestion arouse a second secretion by 
acting directly on the lining of the stomach. This second 
secretion increases in amount as the first (or " psychic " ) 
secretion diminishes, and continues throughout the remaining 
period of gastric digestion. 

To sum up : The secretion of the gastric juice is initiated 
by a complicated series of nervous processes connected with 
the enjoyment of the food while it is being taken and masti- 
cated ; this is aided to some extent by direct stimulation of 
the lining of the stomach by a few food constituents, notably 
the extractives of meat. The gastric juice thus secreted acts 
upon the proteins of the food and produces from them diges- 
tive products which directly stimulate the stomach to secrete 
and, in fact, maintain the secretion to the end of the period 
of gastric digestion. Without the " psychic " secretion pro- 
teins are not digested fast enough to induce sufficient sub- 
sequent secretion ; without the stimulus of the products of 
protein digestion the " psychic " secretion does not suffice to 
complete the digestion of a hearty meal a labor which may 
require four or five hours. 1 

1 What we have called the " psychic " secretion is probably an uncondi- 
tioned reflex from the mouth, reenf orced by a conditioned reflex involving the 
action of the cerebrum ; the stimulation by the products of protein digestion 
and possibly that by meat extracts, on the other hand, is probably due to 
a hormone (p. 89) liberated in the mucous membrane of the pyloric region, 
thence passing into the blood, and so stimulating the gastric glands to secrete. 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



117 



D. DIGESTION AND ABSORPTION IN THE SMALL INTESTINE 

AND IN THE LARGE INTESTINE 

Every few minutes during the process of gastric digestion 
the pylorus opens and the stomach forces a few cubic centi- 
meters of chyme into the intestine. Chyme, which consists 
of water holding in solution certain products of digestion, 
and carrying in suspension larger quantities of undissolved 
matter, has the consistency of moderately thick pea soup. 
The suspended matter consists, among other things, of small 
bundles of muscle fibers (from meat), fat melted by the 
heat of the body and set free from adipose tissue by the 
digestion of its connective tissue, bits of coagulated protein, 
such as casein from milk or the white of egg, together with 
starches, fats, and proteins of animal or vegetable foods. 
Thus far the digestive processes in the mouth and stomach 
have been essentially preparatory to the main chemical work 
of digestion, which takes place in the small intestine. The finely 
subdivided food is now attacked by the digestive juices of 
the small intestine brought into solution, and otherwise made 
ready for absorption into the blood. 

25. The general structure of the intestine ; the pancreas 
and the liver. The main functions of the intestine, like those 
of the stomach, are indicated in the structure of two of its 
coats, the muscular coat and the glandular mucous mem- 
brane. The fibers of the former are arranged in two layers 
an inner layer in which they are circularly disposed around 
the mucous membrane (see Fig. 58), and a much thinner 
outer layer in which they run lengthwise. The contraction, 
or shortening, of the circular fibers constricts the bore, or 
lumen, of the tube, and this constriction of the intestinal 
tube is the most important work of the muscular coat. 
Sometimes the constriction is confined to one place ; at other 
times it moves along the tube, pushing before it the contents. 
(See under Peristalsis, p. 125.) 



118 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

In the structure of the inner or mucous membrane two 
points are of importance to us. In the first place, numerous 
simple tubular glands discharge into the intestinal tube an 
important digestive juice, the intestinal juice ; in the second 
place, fingerlike processes, or villi (0.5-0.7 mm. long by 
0.1 mm. thick), arise from its surface and project into the 
intestinal cavity. These are important organs of absorp- 
tion. The entire surface of the villi, the glands, and the 
plane surface of the intestine between these structures is 
lined with a continuous membrane composed of colum- 
nar cells, which separates blood vessels and lymphatics in 
the intestinal wall from the cavity of the intestine (see 
Fig. 59). The products of digestion must therefore pass either 
through these cells or between them to enter the blood 
or lymph. 

The intestine is some twenty or twenty-five feet in length, 
and the intestinal glands (Fig. 58) constantly secrete intes- 
tinal juice upon the contents as they are slowly moved along 
the tube. Two other juices are added to the intestinal con- 
tents almost immediately after their entrance to the upper 
part of the small intestine. These are the pancreatic juice 
and the bile, which are secreted, respectively, by the pancreas 
and the liver. The entrance of the ducts of these glands is 
shown in Fig. 54. It is not necessary for our present purpose 
to describe the minute structure of these organs; it is enough 
for the student to understand that they are glands (p. 29) 
which pour their secretions through ducts into the intestine 
very much as the salivary glands pour their secretions into 
the mouth. 

26. The mechanism of secretion of pancreatic juice, bile, 
and intestinal juice. The mechanism which evokes the secre- 
tion of the pancreatic juice has already been described 
(p. 89). It will be recalled that the lining cells of the 
intestine immediately beyond the pylorus (duodenum) con- 
tain a material which when acted upon by the hydrochloric 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



119 



acid of the chyme is transformed into the hormone secretin. 
This is absorbed into the blood and chemically excites the 
pancreas to secrete. 

The secretion of bile by the liver is continuous, although 
it is greater at one time than at another. Circular muscle 
fibers at the mouth of the 
bile duct close the opening 
into the intestine when bile 
is not needed there ; at such 
times the bile secreted accu- 
mulates in the gall bladder. 
During active digestion the 
mouth of the bile duct re- 
mains open and the bile flows 
immediately into the intestine. 

Little is known of the fac- 
tors determining the secretion 
of intestinal juipe, but it prob- 
ably is continuously secreted, 
at least so long as food is in 
the intestine. Thus each con- 
signment of chyme from the 
stomach receives its share of 
pancreatic juice and bile soon 
after it enters the duodenum, 
and then subsequently re- 
ceives continuous additions of 
intestinal juice as it is passed 
along the intestinal tube by 
the action of the muscular 
coat presently to be described. 

27. The pancreatic juice is a strongly alkaline liquid and 
consequently, when mixed with the acid chyme, neutralizes 
most, if not all, of the hydrochloric acid of the chyme. Thus it 
happens that while the food in the stomach is strongly acid, 




FIG. 58. Longitudinal section of the 
small intestine 

The submucous coat consists of con- 
nective tissue and contains the larger 
blood vessels from which the mucous 
and muscular coats are supplied with 
blood 



120 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



A 



B 



in the intestine it becomes at once more nearly neutral or 
even alkaline. Since pepsin acts only in an acid medium, 
the gastric juice now becomes inactive and is soon de- 
stroyed by the pancreatic juice, so that it plays no further 

r61e in protein digestion. This 
is henceforward carried on by 
an enzyme of the pancreatic 
juice, trypsin, which acts most 
vigorously in a neutral or 
slightly alkaline medium. It 
forms from the proteins of the 
food the same general class of 
peptone-like substances pro- 
duced by the action of the 
gastric juice, but carries this 
cleavage further into smaller 
peptids and even to some ex- 
tent to the constituent ammo- 
acids. Trypsin continues the 
digestion of proteins begun by 
pepsin. Indeed, in some cases 
the preliminary action of pep- 
sin is necessary, since trypsin 
does not act so readily upon 
the original protein as it does 
upon the earlier products of 
peptic digestion ; upon these 
cleavage products, however, its 
action is most vigorous. 




FIG. 59. Longitudinal section of 
the tip of a villus 

Showing the columnar lining cells 
B through which the products of 
digestion must pass on their way to 
the blood vessels and lymphatics. 
The connective tissue between the 
columnar cells and the vessels is in- 
dicated diagrammatically and with- 
out showing its structure. A, cell 
which manufactures mucus ; C, cap- 
illaries ; D, lacteal, or lymphatic 



In addition to trypsin the pancreatic juice contains at least 
two other important enzymes. One of them, amylopsin, is 
practically identical with the ptyalin of the saliva and 
changes starch into sugar much as happens in salivary diges- 
tion. The other enzyme, lipase, acts upon fats, changing 
them into fatty acids and glycerin. We cannot go into the 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 121 

details of the somewhat complicated digestion of fats. The 
change, like that of proteins into peptones and of starches 
into sugar, involves the formation of a smaller molecule, 
either of fatty acids or soaps, or both, and it is probably 
in these forms that fats are received from the intestine by 
the villi. 

The pancreatic juice thus contains a special enzyme for 
each of the three great classes of nutrients proteins, fats, 
and carbohydrates and thoroughly completes their diges- 
tion after they have undergone the preparatory processes 
effected by cooking, mastication, and gastric digestion. 
Pancreatic juice is by far the most important of the digestive 
juices in producing the chemical changes of digestion. In this 
respect, also, we may say it is of primary importance in the 
work of intestinal digestion, the other two juices, the bile 
and the intestinal juice, acting as aids in its work. 

28. The bile contains no enzymes of importance in diges- 
tion. It is in fact partly an excretion, some of its con- 
stituents being waste products which are poured into the 
intestine only to be ultimately discharged from the rectum. 
Other constituents of the bile play an important r61e in the 
digestion and absorption of fats, as is shown by the fact that 
if bile be prevented from entering the intestine, from forty 
to sixty per cent of the fat eaten fails of absorption and is 
discharged with the feces. It is probable that this is because 
certain soaps formed in pancreatic digestion are not soluble 
unless bile is present. When these soaps are not dissolved, 
they are not only themselves not absorbed, but, by being 
precipitated and adhering to other still undigested food, pre- 
vent ready access of enzymes and so greatly retard digestion. 

29. The intestinal juice contains two kinds of enzymes, one 
acting on protein, the other on carbohydrate material. The 
former class, represented by the single enzyme erepsin, has 
no action on the proteins of the food, but splits peptones and 
other products of gastric and pancreatic digestion into very 



122 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

small peptids and amino-acids. A similar thing is true of the 
carbohydrate enzymes they have no action on starch nor on 
dextrines (p. 105), but disaccharides (that is, sugars formed 
by the chemical combination of two simple sugars, as dipep- 
tids are combinations of two amino-acids) are readily split 
into their component simple sugars. Cane sugar (sucrose) 
and milk sugar (lactose) are two carbohydrate foods which 
belong to the disaccharides ; a third is maltose, which is the 
stage in the cleavage of starch preceding the final separation 
into its component molecules of grape sugar (dextrose). 
These inverting enzymes insure the complete cleavage of the 
larger carbohydrate molecules into their component sugars, 
precisely as erepsin insures the complete cleavage of the 
large protein molecule into its component amino-acids or 
smaller peptids. 

Another most important character of the intestinal juice 
is its large content of alkaline salts, especially sodium car- 
bonate (soda). Two processes constantly occurring in the 
intestine produce acid ; these are (1) the splitting of the 
fats into fatty acids and glycerin by lipase and (2) the bac- 
terial decomposition of carbohydrates and (to some extent) 
of proteins. The sodium carbonate of the intestinal juice, 
which, it will be remembered, is being secreted along the 
entire length of the intestine, neutralizes these acids and so 
maintains the reaction of the contents at an approximately 
neutral point. This reaction is most favorable for the action 
of the enzymes present. The combination of sodium carbon- 
ate with fatty acids, moreover, forms soaps, which are more 
readily soluble than the fatty acids. In this way no doubt 
the products of fat digestion are more promptly absorbed 
than would otherwise be the case. 

30. Action of the muscular coat of the small intestine. 
The object of the movements of the intestine is not the 
grinding down of the food into smaller masses, but, in the 
first place, the agitation of the digesting mixture so that, on 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



123 





ill 


CO 

S 


|| 







O ^ ^ 





_, , 


p '3 




J* ffl 


CO 1 

rQ 




- e3 




rf ^ ^ 


5 .S 


co co co co 


t^ ^ Oj 




S (S 


& a 


S 888 









! ' 


"e3 ^ ^ s 




to 






o o o 


' v ' 




H 








& 


^S H 05 








o 

^M 


w O H 

4 6 


02 _- 






P 


W CI D 

? ^ Q 


i 


S 




PN 

c 


w 

K i-3 ^ 
H O PH 


<D O .2 


ca 

'S 




CO 


,5 


PH PH PH 


OS 




^ 




v ^ 


p 




CO 




y 






CO 










H 


>: 




/> * \ 









o 
5 * 




"S 







o S 




fl 




PH 


*** >H 


Jl _ 


<U o 




J 

^ 


{I 


|ll 


-g 1 1 a S | 


1 




1 1 

H 


fa 


M O O 

111 


^ ^ C G C G 


p 
t 1 


W 










O 










H 


B w 




co 




W 

H 


gg 

Z N 




1 




PH 
O 

h 

P3 
< 


ORGANS i 
ING EN 


g II 

a S | 

2 i ^ 

CO PH 5 


^ O Q} O 

P o .a .2 .s 
1 1 1 1 

dill 


a 



o 

PH 


S 


















S 






S S 8" 




1 






s a a 






05 




N N N 




PS 


II 




p p d a 




BULA 


J 

M 


S .a 

.5 02 *co 


g 03 

d PH Q) bC &C 

.5 ^o c c g 

^ b '-S '~S ''S 


j 


g 




n . c-i r-ri 

HH C^ rH 


v Y J hH HH M 


1 






O 








Q 




O 


f?n ^ 








| 


-p o | 1 








2 


e3 ^ ^ 13 


d 






PH 


CO O ^ S 






124 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



the one hand, good contact is secured between food particles 
and digestive juices, while, on the other hand, the products 
of digestion are quickly brought into contact with the villi for 
absorption ; and, in the second place, the slow movement 
of the food onwards in the intestinal tube. To accomplish 
these ends there are two kinds of intestinal movements. 






/ V V/ \ 




WWW 



FIG. 60. The divisive, or segmenting, movements of the small intestine 

A, surface view of a portion of the intestine, showing six constrictions which 
divide the contents into five segments, as shown in B ; as these constrictions 
pass away, new ones come in between them and divide each segment of the con- 
tents into two, the adjoining halves of neighboring segments fusing to make the 
new segments shown in (7. Repetition of this process results in the condition 

shown in D 

31. Divisive, or segmenting, movements. The food is not 
distributed continuously along the entire length of the intes- 
tine, but is subdivided into a number of separate portions 
which lie in different loops of the tube. This is partly ex- 
plained by the intermittent character of the discharge of the 
chyme from the stomach. The number of these portions 
varies at different times, but may be as many as twenty 
or even more. A certain number, sometimes all, of these 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 125 

masses of food will be seen to undergo division into small 
segments, obviously produced by a series of constrictions of 
the walls, as shown in Fig. 60. The next moment these are 
replaced by a second series of constrictions between the first. 
Each segment is thus divided into two, and the neighboring 
halves of these segments fuse. The next moment the second 
series of constrictions is replaced by the first, and this process 
continues at times for many minutes with no change in the 
general position of the food mass. These divisive, or segment- 
ing, movements occur from twenty to thirty times a minute, 
and it has been estimated " that a slender string of food 
may commonly undergo division into small particles more 
than a thousand times while scarcely changing its position 
in the intestine." 

32. Peristalsis. Every now and then a ring of constriction, 
instead of being confined to one place, moves onward, push- 
ing the contents of the tube before it for a short distance 
(two or more inches). A contraction of this kind is called 
peristaltic. The effect produced is much the same as when 
the contents of a rubber tube are emptied by squeezing it 
along between the thumb and finger. 

Thus each consignment of chyme delivered from the 
stomach immediately receives its share of pancreatic juice 
and of bile, and the final transformation of the digestible 
foods takes place as the whole is driven from time to time 
along the intestine by peristaltic contractions, the efficiency 
of the contact of the food with the digestive juices, as well 
as its exposure to the absorbing surfaces, being greatly 
enhanced by the agitation produced by the movements of 
constrictive division carried out by the circular muscles be- 
tween periods of peristaltic activity. The efficiency of digestion 
and absorption depends as much on the movements carried out 
by the muscular coat as on the chemical processes effected by 
enzymes and other constituents of the digestive juices. Digestion 
is always a cooperation of chemical and mechanical work. 



126 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



So far as is known, these movements are aroused by the 
distention of the intestine with food and possibly by chemical 
stimulation of the muscular coat by substances formed within 

the tube. The presence of solid in- 
digestible material also favors the 
movements. 

33. Absorption is the name given 
to the passage of digested food 
materials from the cavity of the 
intestine into the blood. The word 
itself perhaps suggests that the 
products of digestion are received 
into the blood without change, as 
a sponge might absorb a mixture 
of peptids, amino-acids, sugar, fatty 
acids, soaps, and inorganic salts. 
Such, however, is by no means the 
case, and the actual physical and 
chemical processes of absorption are 
complicated far too complicated 
to be discussed here. Suffice it to 
say that the intestine is not lined 
by a dead membrane but by living 
cells, and through these guardian 
cells the products of digestion must 
pass to enter the blood (see Fig. 59). 
In their passage through these cells 
some of the digestive products are 
acted upon chemically so that they 
enter the blood in forms more 
available to the tissues of the 
body. The object of the whole process of alimentation, 
digestion, and absorption would seem to be that of sup- 
plying food to the muscle fiber, the gland cell, the nerve 
cell, etc., through the blood as an internal medium or 




FIG. 61. The intestinal struc- 
tures concerned in absorp- 
tion 

In one villus is shown the close 
network of blood vessels im- 
mediately under the lining 
membrane ; in the other villus, 
the central lymphatic, or lac- 
teal. Observe that the products 
of digestion must first be ex- 
posed to absorption by the 
blood vessels before they can 
enter the lacteal 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



127 



middleman, in that form which is best fitted for the use 
of the tissues. 

34. Digestion in the large intestine. The large intestine 
contains no villi, and its glands secrete an intestinal juice 
characterized by a large content of mucin (p. 44). 

In the small intestine the amount of water added by secre- 
tion balances that absorbed, so that the consistency of the 
contents undergoes but little change from the stomach to the 
beginning of the large intestine. This consistency, it will be 




FIG. 62. The paths by which the products of digestion enter the general 

circulation 

Those which are absorbed by the blood vessels ((7) of the intestine pass by the 
portal vein (P. V.) to the liver before they can enter the right auricle (R.A.) through 
the hepatic vein (H. V.) and the inferior vena cava (/. V.C.) Those products which 
are absorbed by the lacteals pass directly to the superior vena cava (S. V.C.) 
through the thoracic duct 

jmembered, was (approximately) that of moderately thick 
soup. During the passage through the small intestine 
the digested portions of the food are being removed by 
absorption, while the indigestible elements are left behind. 
Among the indigestible elements of food are certain connec- 
tive tissues of the animal foods, but especially the cellulose 
(p. 97), which forms the cell wall of plant tissues. The large 
intestine receives from the small this indigestible material, 
together with a certain variable but usually comparatively 
small proportion of the proteins, fats, and carbohydrates 



128 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



which have thus far escaped digestion ; in addition there are 
certain constituents of the digestive juices which are not 
absorbed and some (for example, certain constituents of the 
bile) which are distinctly excretory products. 

Special provision seems to be made to insure the approxi- 
mately complete digestion and absorption of proteins, carbo- 
hydrates, and fats before the food enters the large intestine. 
The opening from the small into the large intestine is guarded 

by a circular muscle, the ileo- 
colic sphincter, which ordinarily 
prevents the passage of food out 
of the small intestine much as 
the passage of food from the 
stomach is regulated at the 
pylorus (p. 113). In this man- 
ner considerable accumulations 
of material may occur at the 
end of the small intestine and 
remain there for two hours or 
more while the combined ac- 
tion of enzymes and segmenting 
movements completes the diges- 

FIG. 63. Longitudinal section of tion and absorption of the nu- 
the large intestine trientg> Recent WQrk indicates 

that this material is discharged 

periodically into the large intestine by a relaxation of the 
ileocolic sphincter and a vigorous peristalsis in the terminal 
portion of the small intestine. It would also seem that this 
discharge is especially apt to occur when food is taken into 
the stomach, as if there is a reflex to this discharging 
mechanism. Obviously the end attained is the more complete 
digestion of the food in the small intestine. 

Reference to Fig. 154 will show that the large intestine 
consists of four parts, the ascending, transverse, and de- 
scending colons and the rectum, there being an S-like bend 





FIG. 64. Action of the muscular coat of the large intestine, as shown by 
the X-rays. After Hertz 

The lower border of the ribs and the upper border of the pelvis are sketched. 
Black shadows are the food masses in the lower small and the large intestine. 
Breakfast about 7 A.M. For some time before noon the food shadows showed 
no change (12 M). Shortly after 12 luncheon was taken. At 12.20 the food 
accumulated in the lower small intestine had been discharged into the ascend- 
ing colon, which it distends. At 12.23 the distal end of this food mass was con- 
stricted off and later (12.25) passed along the transverse colon, where divisive 
movements take place (12.26) ; but at 12.31 the distal part of this mass is sepa- 
rated and rapidly passed through the descending colon (12.31 +) to the sigmoid 
flexure (12.31++) 



129 



130 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

(sigmoid flexure) between the descending colon and the 
rectum. The ascending colon is always filled, while the rest 
of the tube may be empty. It is chiefly in this first part of 
the tube that the abstraction of water occurs. When, as the 
result of the disqharge of new material from the small intes- 
tine into the large, the ascending colon becomes distended, 
some of its contents are pushed into the transverse colon, 
and this material is rather rapidly passed by peristalsis 
through the descending colon, in the lower part of which it 
accumulates, being prevented from entering the rectum by 
the sigmoid flexure. Finally, with sufficient accumulation of 
this more solid material at the sigmoid flexure, stronger peri- 
staltic contractions move the mass on into the rectum, which 
thereby becomes distended, and this gives the desire to empty 
the bowels. From this it will be seen why the bowels are 
more readily emptied after meals. It is also highly advisable 
to empty the bowels when this desire comes on, since other- 
wise the distending stimulus loses its effectiveness and the 
continued abstraction of water hardens the feces. 

35. Microbic life in the intestine. Occurring simultaneously 
with the chemical changes produced by the digestive juices 
are others produced by microbes (Part II), which are always 
found in the intestine in large quantities. The acidity of the 
gastric juice keeps down the numbers of these germs in the 
stomach and, under healthy conditions, greatly limits their 
activity in that organ. We have seen, however, that some 
portions of the contents of the stomach are not acid in reac- 
tion during certain periods of digestion, and it not infre- 
quently happens for this reason that unhealthy living and, 
especially, improper feeding may result in serious gastric 
indigestion with excessive bacterial decomposition of the food. 
The production of gas, leading to flatulence or belching, is 
one of the most familiar results of such bacterial action. 

In the intestine the less strongly acid (or even neutral or 
slightly alkaline) reaction is much more favorable to bacterial 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 



131 



life and growth, and we accordingly find that the number of 
microbes is much greater in the small and large intestines. 
It is not the microbe itself, however, which is of importance 
to the organism as a whole, but the substances which it pro- 
duces from the foods. Most of these substances are either 
harmless themselves or else are readily changed into harm- 
less substances either before or soon after entering the 
blood; others are poisons, but are normally present in such 
minute quantities as to be entirely negligible ; more rarely 
they are produced in large quantities and may cause various 
ill effects either locally or upon the body as a whole. 

The production of undue quantities of such harmful sub- 
stances, most of which are derived from proteins, is chiefly 
dependent upon the food supply of the bacteria. This is 
normally kept low by the speedy and efficient removal of the 
peptones. Native 1 proteins are acted on comparatively slowly 
by bacteria and, in any case, must first be changed into pep- 
tones or simpler peptids before they can be further, broken 
down into harmful bodies. If, however, the processes of absorp- 
tion quickly and efficiently remove the digestive products, sub- 
sequent harmful decomposition of the food is prevented, for 
there are normally no bacteria in the blood. It is therefore of 
great importance to maintain the efficiency of absorption. This 
can be done in general only by leading a normal life by tak- 
ing sufficient muscular exercise, by proper habits of sleep and 
rest, by proper feeding, and so on. The hygienic conduct of 
life tends to maintain all functions of the body in proper work- 
ing condition, those of the digestive organs included ; and 
nothing else can be depended on, in the long run, to do this. 
To this subject we shall return in the chapters on hygiene, 
when dealing directly with the personal conduct of life. 

1 A "native" protein is a protein as it occurs in nature before being 
changed by digestion or other chemical action. The proteins in food are 
largely native proteins or else, what amounts to the same thing, as far 

the action of bacteria is concerned, native proteins coagulated by heat. 



132 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The chief seat of the putrefactive decomposition of pro- 
teins is in the large intestine, where conditions are favorable 
for the activity of the special bacteria responsible for this 
food change. The reader will recall the provisions for com- 
pleting the digestion of proteins and carbohydrates in the 
small intestine, and these certainly play a very important 
role in limiting harmful microbic action in the large intestine. 
It often happens, especially in middle life, that the quantity 
of food eaten, and of protein food in particular, must be con- 
siderably diminished to insure complete digestion of these 
nutrients in the small intestine and thus deprive the putre- 
factive bacteria of the large intestine of the material out of 
which to make deleterious substances. 

We have thus far been dealing only with those microbes 
commonly found in the intestine. At times foreign microbes 
find entrance, some of which cause such diseases as typhoid 
fever, dysentery, cholera, etc. The action of these occasional 
intruders will be more fully dealt with in Part II. 

36. The elimination of intestinal waste. Those who are 
" blessed with a good digestion " sometimes find it hard to 
realize that the preparation of food for absorption through the 
delicate membranes lining the alimentary canal is a difficult 
and complex process, requiring much delicate physical and 
physiological apparatus and involving various and important 
chemical reactions. Even when they realize this, they rarely 
appreciate the indispensable cooperation and fine adjustment 
of the several parts and processes concerned. It is just here, 
however, that a clear understanding is important, for without 
this it is not easy to see how disorders of digestion arise. 

Let us then remember that the efficient handling of the food 
in the stomach is aided by the preparatory crushing it -receives 
in the process of mastication ; that in the stomach an adequate 
and efficient secretion of gastric juice must take place, and that 
this begins as the result of nervous events connected with 
our enjoyment of the food when eaten; that the continued 



ALIMENTATION AND DIGESTION 133 

secretion of gastric juice is secured, in turn, by stimulation of 
the mucous membrane of the stomach by the peptones which 
the psychic secretion has formed from the proteins of the food ; 
and, finally, that the chemical action of the gastric juice is 
aided by the peculiar contractions of the muscular coat of the 
stomach. All these agencies working together deliver the food 
to the intestine in a finely divided state, well adapted and in- 
deed absolutely necessary to secure the proper contact of the 
food with the pancreatic juice, the bile, and the intestinal juice. 

The flow of pancreatic juice, in turn, is partly the result 
of the action of the hydrochloric acid of the chyme on the 
walls of the intestine, while the efficiency of the action of the 
pancreatic enzymes depends upon the simultaneous action of 
the bile and the intestinal juice ; lastly, the chemical action 
of these juices, as well as the final act of absorption, requires 
the cooperation of the muscular coat. Healthy conditions 
with respect to bacterial action similarly depend upon all 
else occurring as it should. Digestion, in short, is a chain of 
events, each depending upon those which have gone before 
and, to a large extent, upon those which are taking place at 
the same time. 

Keeping these facts in mind, it is easy to appreciate the 
possibility of diarrhea or constipation, the latter consisting 
in the retention of wastes, the poisonous constituents of which 
may be absorbed into the body and cause discomfort, headr 
aches, and malaise. When all the digestive processes work 
together properly there should be a perfectly natural and 
regular evacuation of the bowels. The frequency of such 
evacuation varies somewhat and is largely a matter of habit ; 
with some people it is twice a day, with others once every 
other day, hut with the vast majority it is normally once every 
day and at about the same time. Where this is not the case 
there is reason to believe that some part of the work of diges- 
tion is not being properly performed. The trouble is not 
ordinarily in the mechanism governing the actual discharge 



134 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of the feces from the rectum, but in a derangement some- 
where else ; it may be entirely the fault of the mechanism 
of peristalsis, or it may be due to imperfect secretion. In all 
cases it means that something is wrong, and the remedy should 
be sought not in drugs or pills but in search for and removal 
of the cause. A moment's consideration will show the reason- 
ableness of this position. If a watch loses time because it 
needs cleaning, we do not seek a remedy in drugs, but in its 
cleaning, better adjustment, and good care ; and the remedy 
for diarrhea or constipation should in all cases be sought for 
in the better conduct of life. Is enough muscular exercise 
being taken? Is the diet properly chosen? Are we drinking 
enough water? Especially, is the food of sufficient bulk and 
does it contain enough laxative material (such as fruit)? 
Above all, are we getting enough sleep? Are we over- 
working, or do we work too long at a time without resting? 
Is our clothing warm enough, or are we overclad? Such are 
the questions which should be seriously asked. The student 
of personal hygiene cannot lay to heart too seriously the 
truth that the man who goes from day to day, from week 
to week, from year to year, neglecting the warnings of diar- 
rhea or constipation, only reaps the harvest of his folly when 
in later years he suffers loss of health and at times bodily 
discomfort; and it is nothing short of impiety to marvel 
under such circumstances at the "mysterious" ways of a 
Providence which so " afflicts " his creatures. It is no ex- 
aggeration to say that the regular discharge of the wastes is 
quite as important as the regular feeding of the body and 
that no less pains should be taken to form good habits in the 
one case than in the other. Many of the headaches, many of 
the bad feelings, and many of the bad tempers of the world 
are due to neglect of this simple fact. No city, however well 
fed or beautiful, the drains of which are choked with filth, 
can long remain either wholesome or attractive and the 
body is essentially a city teeming with living cells. 



CHAPTER IX 

THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 
A. BLOOD AND LYMPH 

1. The blood as a common carrier. In previous chapters 
some of the more general features of the circulation have 
already been touched upon. In studying the parts of the 
body the student has become somewhat acquainted with the 
heart, the arteries, and the veins; in considering the typical 
structure of the organs (Chap. Ill) he has seen how the 
arteries are connected with the veins by a system of com- 
municating tubes, the capillaries, through the thin walls of 
which interchange takes place between the lymph and the 
blood ; and in studying the interdependence and cooperation 
of the cells and organs (Chap. VI) he has learned how the 
blood leaving each organ returns to the heart, there to be 
mixed with that coming from all other organs and thence 
pumped first to the lungs and then to the rest of the body. 
The need of a circulation is obvious, for the food received 
from the alimentary canal and the oxygen received from the 
lungs must somehow be carried to the muscle fibers, the 
nerve cells, the gland cells; the cellular wastes must be 
taken away to the organs of excretion; and the internal 
secretions of the body must be transported from the organs 
in which they are made to those in which they are to be 
used. In other words, it is a necessary corollary to the fact 
that no cell or organ " liveth unto itself " that there should 
be some common carrier of matter and of energy from one 
organ to another. Such a common carrier is the blood. The 
analogy of the blood system of the body with the railway 

135 



136 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



system of a country is instructive. As different persons and 
different communities in any country make different prod- 
ucts and have different needs, it becomes more and more 
necessary that the means of communication between them 

be extensive and efficient. 
Hence the remarkable 
growth of the railroads, 
or " common carriers," of 
any country in which in- 
dustrial development pro- 
duces increasing division 
of labor. 

The blood, which is thus 
the common carrier first 
between the various or- 
gans and second between 
each organ and the outer 
environment, is the net 
product of the united 
work of all the organs: 
from the alimentary canal 
it receives water and the 
products of digestion ; 
from the lungs it receives 
oxygen ; each organ con- 
tributes its share of waste 
products or of internal 
secretion, while some in- 
fluence the composition of 




FIG. 65. Structure of a drop of blood as 
seen under the microscope 

Above are shown nine red corpuscles highly 
magnified; below, less highly magnified, 
the appearance of the blood soon after being 
drawn. Two white corpuscles are shown, 
and the red corpuscles stick together, form- 
ing "rouleaux." Size of red corpuscle, 7.7 M 
wide, 2-4 /* thick. Diameter of white cor- 
puscle, 5-10 n. Number of red corpuscles, 
4,500,000-5,000,000 per cubic millimeter; 
number of white corpuscles, 4500-13,000 
per cubic millimeter, according to the state 
of digestion, etc. Surface area of all the 
red corpuscles of the blood, 3000 square 
meters (30,000 square feet or approximately 
four times the size of a baseball diamond). 
(!M, or micron = 0.001 millimeter) 



the blood by removing 
from it certain things that it contains. 

2. The microscopic structure of the blood. Examined under 
the microscope the blood is seen to consist of a liquid portion, 
the plasma, crowded with small solid bodies, the corpuscles. 
These are of two kinds : the red corpuscles biconcave disks 



THE CIRCULATION 07 THE BLOOD 



137 



containing a pigment, hemoglobin, which gives the red color 
to the blood ; and the white corpuscles, which are colorless, 
nucleated cells. 

Important data on the number, size, and surface area of 
the corpuscles will be found in connection with Fig. 65. 

3. The white blood corpuscles. The white blood corpuscles 
really comprise several different kinds of cells, having differ- 
ent functions, the study and explanation of which belong to 
advanced rather than to 
elementary physiology. It 
is enough for our purpose 
to state that these cells are 
not confined to the blood, 
but work their way out of 
the blood vessels between 
the cells of the capillary 
walls and are often found 
in the lymph spaces of the 
tissues as wandering cells. 
The latter term refers to 
their movement from place F IG . 66: Amoeboid movement of a white 





to place. The cytoplasm of 



corpuscle 



the white corpuscle is a Showing four consecutive positions among 
. ,. , . a -i -,-, a group of red corpuscles 

thick, viscous fluid without 

constant or definite form. In locomotion the cytoplasm flows 
slowly from some part of the surface in the direction of 
motion, forming what is known as a pseudopodium (from the 
Greek, meaning a false foot), as shown in Fig. 66 ; the rest 
of the body of the corpuscle then flows into the pseudo- 
podium. By the continuation of this process the white cor- 
puscles make their way through the spaces of the connective 
tissue. Locomotion by means of pseudopodia is frequently 
spoken of as amoeboid, from the amoeba, a unicellular animal 
which moves in the same manner. (See Chapter XXIII for 
examples of the functions of white blood corpuscles.) 



138 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

4. The red blood corpuscles. The red corpuscles are pig- 
mented, biconcave disks with no nucleus ; they are normally 
confined to the blood vessels and are carried around passively 
in the blood current without active movements of their own. 
The main function of these corpuscles is to carry oxygen 
from the lungs to the tissues, a function which will be fur- 
ther studied in connection with respiration. They contain a 
pigment, hemoglobin, which gives to the blood its red color 
and carries the oxygen. 

5. The blood plasma is an exceedingly complex fluid 
whose general composition is represented as follows: water, 
90 parts; solids, 10 parts (proteins, 8 parts; inorganic salts, 
1 part; extractives, 1 part). 

Under the extractives are included a very large number 
of substances which, though present in small quantities, are 
interesting to the physiologist because they are largely prod- 
ucts of the chemical activities of the body and as such 
give information about the nature of the chemical changes 
occurring in the organs. 

Finally, it should be remembered that the cells of the 
body generally are bathed with lymph, not with blood ; 
in other words, that the lymph and not the blood is the 
immediate environment of the cells. Lymph is sometimes 
described as blood minus its red corpuscles ; but this state- 
ment, though convenient, is not strictly correct, since the 
amount of waste products in lymph must be greater than 
in blood, while the amount of food material must be less 
(see Chap. IV). Much as the blood is a product of the 
united chemical activity of all the organs of the body, so 
the lymph of each organ is derived from the cells of that 
organ and from the blood flowing through -it. Lymph thus 
has a double origin and of course shows very considerable 
differences "of composition in different organs. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



139 



B. MECHANICS OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 

AND OF THE FLOW OF LYMPH 

The greatest discovery ever made in physiology was that 
of the circulation of the blood. As late as the settlement of 
the earliest English colonies in America it was thought that 
the blood moved back and forth in the blood vessels, as the 
waters in the sea ebb and flow ; but of any circulation, in the 
sense of a steady stream returning to its source, there was 
no idea; and it was not until 1621 that William Harvey, an 
English physician, proved be- 
yond the shadow of a doubt 
that the blood in the body of 
all the higher animals flows like 
a stream always in one direc- 
tion, ultimately returning to its 
source. 

Tests made upon various 
animals have shown that this 
circulation is accomplished in FIG. 67. The circulation of the 
the surprisingly short time of Wood as seen in the small arteries 
, , . , T and capillaries of the web of a 

from twenty to thirty seconds ; frog's foot 

which means that the whole 

mass of the blood (in man about twelve pints) passes between 
three and four thousand times a day through the various 
organs of the body, bringing to them their food, carrying 
away their wastes, and in general helping to maintain normal 
conditions. By what hydraulic machinery is this marvelous 
work done ? 

6. The motive power of the circulation as a whole ; the beat 
of the heart. Whenever a mass of liquid is kept in motion 
we naturally look first for the motive power. In answering 
the question, What makes the blood circulate ? we shall 
find that while there are several causes, one of these, namely 
the beat of the heart, is vastly more important than all the 




140 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

others combined. This fact is now so familiar that it is hard 
to realize that we owe to Harvey not only the discovery of 
the circulation but also the discovery of the meaning of the 
heart beat. 'Before his time, to be sure, the living heart had 
been seen at work, alternately shrinking in size and then 
swelling, the shrinking being called systole and the swelling 
diastole ; but these changes in size were regarded as the 
results of the contraction and expansion of certain " vital 
spirits " which the arterial blood was then supposed to contain, 
and not as muscular contractions and relaxations. Harvey 
showed that the heart is a powerful muscle and that its systole 
is a muscular contraction ; that during systole it becomes 
hard, just as the biceps muscle does when it shortens, and 
during diastole soft and flabby; he also proved that with 
each systole the heart drives or spouts blood into the large 
arteries (the aorta and the pulmonary artery), and that this 
blood is prevented from flowing back into the heart during 
diastole by membranous valves at the very beginning of the 
large arteries in question. 

7. The heart a muscular force pump. The beat of the 
heart, even to its most minute detail, is one of the most 
important as well as one of the most interesting subjects in 
physiology; everything in the body hangs on its proper effi- 
ciency and regulation, and it cannot be too thoroughly 
studied. For our present purposes it will suffice to describe 
the heart as composed essentially of a pair of muscular force 
pumps. Dissection shows that it is divided into right and 
left halves (see Fig. 70), completely separated from each 
other, and that each half consists of two chambers an 
auricle and a ventricle. The auricles, into which the great 
veins open, have thin muscular walls and are comparatively 
small in size; the ventricles, on the other hand, from which 
the great arteries arise, have thick muscular walls, especially 
the left ventricle. The ventricles, indeed, constitute the prin- 
cipal part of the force pump; the auricles merely facilitate 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



141 



the work of the ventricles and for purposes of elementary 
study may be mostly neglected. The student should, if pos- 
sible, examine for himself and actually handle the auricles, 
ventricles, and great blood vessels of a sheep's heart, which 
in size and structure sufficiently resembles the human heart. 
Figs. 15 and 162 should also be consulted. 

8. The mechanics of the heart beat. All force pumps con- 
sist of two indispensable parts some device for pressing 
upon a liquid within a chamber, and valves at the openings 
of the chamber so arranged as to allow the passage of the 
liquid in one direction 
only. Each ventricle of 
the heart is really such 
a pump and is pro- 
vided with two sets of 
valves one set at the 
inlet, between the auri- 
cles and the ventricles, 
and the other at the 
arterial outlet. These 
valves permit blood to 
pass only from the 
great veins through the 

auricles and on through the ventricles to the great arteries. 
The contraction of the muscular wall of the ventricles pro- 
duces pressure on the blood within their cavities ; this 
pressure quickly and easily closes the auriculo-ventricular 
valves and finally forces open the shut valves at the open- 
ings of the great arteries. In this way the right ventricle 
drives venous blood into the pulmonary artery, and the left 
ventricle arterial blood into the aorta. With the relaxa- 
tion of the ventricles (diastole) pressure falls within their 
cavities, and were it not for the valves at the mouths of 
the aorta and the pulmonary artery, blood would regurgitate, 
or flow back, into the heart; but this "slip" (as it is 




FIG. 68. Diagram of the action of 
a force pump 



142 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



called in hydraulics) the valves prevent, and the ventricles 
again fill through the only open channel, that is, the one 
leading from the great veins and the auricles. Thus by 
contractions rhythmically repeated the heart continues to 
spout or deliver blood from the two sets of great veins into 
the two sets of great arteries. It is plainly a double force 
pump or, better, a pair of force pumps lying and working 
side by side. 

9. The arterial and the venous reservoirs. To understand 
the exact nature and result of the work of the heart we must 

now consider the rela- 
tion of this living pump 
to the pipe system (ar- 
teries, capillaries, and 
veins) with which it 
is connected. The stu- 
dent should first trace 
the general course of 
the circulation in the 
simple diagrammatic 
representation given in 

FIG. 69. The force-pump action of a ventricle Fig. 70. This shows 
of the heart that the blood which 

enters the aorta from 
the left ventricle must 
return to the right side of the heart and pass through the 
lungs before it can again reach the aorta. As the physical 
principles of the circulation are the same for the systemic 
and the pulmonary vessels, we shall confine our attention 
to the former. 

In the first place, we may observe that the heart pumps the 
blood into what is practically a large reservoir (the larger 
arteries) and that the blood flows from this reservoir to a sec- 
ond reservoir (the larger veins) by various routes ; for the ves- 
sels of the different organs represent many alternative courses 




On the left is shown the condition during dias- 
tole ; on the right, during systole 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



143 



which the blood may take 
in flowing from the arte- 
rial to the venous reser- 
voir. The blood stream, 
indeed, may be compared 
with a stream supplying 
water power to a series of 
mills in a manufacturing 
town. The larger arteries 
from the main source of 
pressure (the heart) cor- 
respond to the headrace 
from above the dam, while 
the larger veins correspond 
to the tailrace. The water 
flows from the one into 
the other only through the 
smaller sluices, or pen- 
stocks, which supply the 
mills. So in the vascular 
system a part of the blood 
pumped into the arterial 
reservoir, or aorta, finds 
its way into the venous 
reservoir by way of the 
skin, another part by way 
of the digestive organs, 
another by way of the 
brain, still another by 
way of the kidneys, and 
so on; but the flow in 
every case is essentially 
the same, namely from a 
reservoir of high pressure 
to one of lower pressure. 




PIG. 70. 

Diagram 

of the organs 

of the circulation 

L, pulmonary circulation; M, circulation 
through the organs suspended by the mes- 
entery, the blood being carried to the liver 
P before it returns to the heart. The circu- 
lation through other organs, such as brain, 
muscles, skin, and kidneys, is indicated. 
Lymphatics are represented by dotted lines 



144 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

10. The driving force for the flow of blood from the aorta ; 
pressure in arteries and veins. The hydraulic conditions in 
the aorta may be illustrated by means of the following sim- 
ple piece of apparatus : To an ordinary rubber syringe attach 
a piece of elastic rubber tubing, the other end of which is 
closed by a detachable nozzle. If now the nozzle be removed 
and water pumped into the tube, it will be found that the 
flow from the open end consists of squirts or spouts and 
continues only during the stroke of the pump ; if, however, 
we attach the nozzle and again pump water into the tube, 
the resistance caused by the small orifice of the nozzle pre- 
vents the water from flowing out of the tube as fast as the 
syringe pumps it in. The tubing becomes distended with water. 
Since, however, the tube is elastic, 1 and so tends to return 
to its original size, it forces the liquid out through the 
nozzle even between the strokes of the pump. The imme- 
diate cause of the steady flow from the nozzle is therefore 
the elastic squeeze of the rubber tube. The intermittent 
stroke of the pump produces distention of the tube, and the 
elasticity of the distended tube constantly forces the water 
out of the nozzle. 

Closely similar conditions obtain in the arterial reservoir. 
Here the outlet is also through very small tubes, the small 
arteries, whose bore is not greater than -^ or T ^ of an inch ; 
which fact introduces the same condition as does the nozzle 
of our apparatus, that is, a resistance to the outward flow of 
the blood. Consequently the blood cannot flow out of the 
aorta as rapidly as it is driven in, and the extensible and 
elastic walls are necessarily stretched. The immediate effect 

1 An elastic body is one which returns to its original shape when it has 
been stretched, compressed, or otherwise deformed. Elasticity must not be 
confounded with "extensibility," or the property of allowing stretching. 
Thus when we "pull" taffy we deal with a body which is very extensible 
but which is practically inelastic. A body, indeed, may be extensible only 
with difficulty, but possess a very high degree of elasticity ; ivory is a good 
example of this kind. 



(Esophagus 




To head and 
neck 

To shoulder and 
arm 



To stomach, 
intestine, etc. 

To kidney 



To leg 



FIG. 71. The aorta and its main branches 

At the beginning are shown the three pocket valves which prevent regurgitation 
of blood during diastole 



145 



146 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of the heart beat is to keep the arterial reservoir overfilled 
or distended, so that the elastic reaction of its walls is brought 
into play ; and it is this elastic reaction of the arterial walls 
which is the immediate cause of the steady outflow through 
the small arteries and capillaries. 

The force of compression, or pressure, exerted by the 
elastic arterial walls is primarily exerted upon the blood 
within them ; and the more the arteries are distended the 
greater will be the pressure exerted on the blood. A liquid 
thus under pressure tends to find an outlet; should any 
part of the arterial wall be weak, as sometimes happens in 
diseased conditions, it is bulged outward ; and, for the same 
reason, a flow of blood will take place through such outlets as 
are presented by the smaller arteries and capillaries. More- 
over, the greater the pressure of the blood in the arteries, the 
more rapid will be the flow into the capillaries. Hence it is 
customary to use the arterial blood pressure as a measure of 
the force of elasticity exerted by the distended arterial wall. 

The veins, on the other hand, are less elastic than the 
arteries; they are, indeed, more like mere conducting tubes 
through which the blood can flow back to the heart. They 
are not overfilled (since, for one reason, there is no resistance 
to the flow of blood out of them into the heart) and hence 
venous blood pressure is low. 

Thus we have the conditions favorable for the flow from 
the aorta to the great veins a high pressure in the arte- 
rial reservoir and a low pressure in the venous reservoir. 
It is the function of the heart, by continually pumping the 
blood from the veins into the arteries, to keep the arterial 
reservoir distended, thus maintaining a difference of pressure 
in the two reservoirs. It is this difference of pressure which 
drives the blood through the organs. 

11. The distribution of the blood among the organs. Some 
organs require more blood than others, and the same organ 
often requires more blood at one time than at another. Thus 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 147 

muscles and glands, the seat of very active chemical changes, 
require more blood than a tendon ; and a gland requires 
more blood during the process of secretion than during rest. 
How is the supply of blood to the organs regulated to meet 
their varying needs ? In the first place, some organs are 
more vascular than others; those requiring a larger supply 
of blood receive a greater number of arteries from the arte- 
rial reservoir and have a closer network of capillaries. But 
in addition to this, these smaller arteries contain circular 
muscle fibers whose contraction diminishes the bore of the 
tube. When an organ needs more blood the muscle fibers of 
its small arteries relax, thus permitting the arterial tubes to 
widen or dilate just as when we want the water to flow 
faster from a faucet, we widen the outlet from the pipe by 
turning the spigot a little further. When less blood is needed 
the small arteries are caused to constrict, just as a spigot 
may be partially turned off (see sects. 25-27). In this way 
the flow of blood to any organ is regulated to meet the 
varying needs of the organ in question. 1 

12. Secondary aids to the circulation. In the preceding 
discussion we have seen that the cause of the flow of blood 
through the organs is the difference of pressure in the two 
reservoirs. We have further seen that this difference of 
pressure is maintained by the heart beat in pumping blood 
from the venous into the arterial reservoir. A moment's 
consideration will show that anything which hastens the flow 
of blood from the veins into the heart and so lowers pres- 
sure within the veins would similarly aid the circulation, 

1 In order that the student may become more familiar with these funda- 
mental hydraulic principles of the circulation, such questions as the follow- 
ing should be answered : (1) What are the two principal factors whose 
variations change the amount of arterial pressure ? Illustrate by an example 
or model. (2) How would the dilation of all the arteries of the intestine 
affect the general arterial pressure ? (3) What would be the effect upon the 
amount of blood flowing through the skin under this condition ? (4) How 
would dilation of the arteries of the skin affect the blood flow through 
the brain? 



148 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



since, with the same arterial pressure, more blood will flow 

into an empty vein than into one which is partially filled. 

1. The breathing movements. There are two factors which 

thus tend to empty the veins. The first is the suction exerted 

on the blood within the veins 
by breathing movements. The 
exact mechanism by which 
this is accomplished must 
be left for consideration in 
the chapter on respiration. 
Suffice it to say here that 
just as the enlargement of 
the thorax, when we take 
in a breath, sucks air into 
the lungs, so it also sucks 
blood from the large veins 
outside the thorax into those 
which lie within it ; because 
of the thickness of the 
walls of the arteries the 
same effect occurs to only 
a very slight extent in the 
arterial reservoir. During 
expiration, on the other 
hand, the reduction in size 
of the thorax forces air out 
of the lungs, arid we might 
expect that it would simi- 
larly force blood from the 

veins within the thorax into those without. And this it cer- 
tainly would do if the veins were not provided with valves 
which allow the blood to flow only toward the heart. In 
general, therefore, both inspiration and expiration aid the cir- 
culation, the former by sucking blood into the thoracic veins 
and so emptying those outside, the latter by making this 




- v -Tx A^^-^^^-^^^^E^T- ^7** 



FIG. 72. Cross sections of portions of 

the wall of a smaller artery (a) and a 

smaller vein (u) 

A, internal coat; B, middle coat, with 
muscle fibers ; C, outer coat of connective 
tissue. The contraction of the circularly 
disposed muscle fibers narrows the bore 
of the tube 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



149 






blood in the intrathoracic veins flow on more rapidly to the 
heart, whence it is pumped into the arteries. In a word, 
deep breathing greatly promotes a good circulation. 

2. Intermittent compression of the veins. The other second- 
ary factor of the circulation is intermittent compression of the 
veins, and in ordinary life this is brought about in two ways : 
(1) Whenever a muscle contracts it thickens and hardens; 
the veins and capilla- 
ries which are between 
the fibers and fiber bun- 
dles, or in the con- 
nective tissue between 
two contracting mus- 
cles, will thus have the 
blood squeezed out of 
them into the large 
veins; when the mus- 
cle relaxes, the empty 
veins and capillaries 
will readily fill from 
the arteries, since the valves of the veins will prevent any 
backward flow of the blood from the larger veins. Alternate 
contractions and relaxations of muscles therefore aid the 
flow of blood through this so-called " pumping " action on 
the veins. (2) A similar pumping action on the veins is ex- 
erted by alternate flexions (bendings) and extensions at any 
joint. In general, flexions force the blood out of the veins, 
while extensions allow them to fill. When we remember how 
largely most of our usual muscular actions consist of alter- 
nate flexions and extensions of joints and alternate contrac- 
tions and relaxations of muscles (for example, in walking 
and running), we can at once appreciate how greatly mus- 
cular activities must aid the circulation. When to the effect 
of these we add the suction action of the deepened breathing 
movements, the effect upon the circulation becomes very great. 



FIG. 73. The pocket valves in the veins 

On the right is shown the external appearance 
of the vein at the valves when the latter are 
closed ; on the left, a vein slit lengthwise and 
opened ; in the middle, a longitudinal section 
of a vein 



150 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

13. Massage. The action of massage is only another illus- 
tration of the same principle. By rubbing the legs and arms 
in the direction of the heart, the blood contained in their 
veins is forced onward and the circulation aided, precisely 
as when a muscle contracts or one member of a limb is 
flexed upon another. 

14. The lymphatics. Important as are the suction action 
of the breathing movements and the pumping action of con- 
tracting muscles as aids to the circulation of the blood, they 
are even more important as causes of the flow of lymph along 
the greater lymphatic trunks toward the heart. Reference to 
the general method of origin of lymphatics, as described in 
Chapter III, will show that the lymph in the lymph spaces, 
unlike the blood in the capillaries, has not behind it a high- 
pressure reservoir ; there is no such force from behind to send 
it onward, since the lymphatics arise blindly in the tissues. 
What, then, makes the lymph flow along the lymphatics 
toward the heart? 

The lymphatics resemble the veins in structure, having 
thin walls and pocket valves; like the veins, most of them 
originate in extrathoracic organs and join or combine to 
form larger trunks as they proceed toward the thorax. All 
of them finally unite in two large lymphatics within the 
thoracic cavity, and these open into the great veins near the 
heart. (Figs. 30 and 70 should be consulted in this con- 
nection.) It is at once clear that the breathing movements 
must exert on the lymph within these thin-walled vessels 
exactly the same suction action as they exert on the blood 
in the veins, and anything which increases this suction action, 
such as the deepened breathing movements during muscular 
activity, must necessarily increase the flow of lymph from 
every organ of the body. On the other hand, a pumping 
action on the lymph in the organs results from all rhythmic 
movements of parts of the body with reference to one another, 
since each change of position carries with it some change of 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 151 

external pressure on lymphatics. Familiar examples are the 
movements of arms and legs in locomotion, of the diaphragm 
in breathing, and of the lungs in respiration. 

It has also been supposed that a third cause of the 
lymph flow is the passage of waves of constriction (peri- 
stalsis, cf. p. 125) over the larger lymphatics. This, however, 
probably plays only a minor part. 

Finally, in the formation of lymph from the blood, more 
water generally passes from the capillaries to the lymph 
spaces than from the lymph spaces into the capillaries. 
Under these circumstances, at least at certain times, the 
lymph spaces become distended and a certain low pressure 
obtains in them. This we may speak of as the " active 
force " of lymph formation, and it constitutes a fourth factor 
in causing the lymph flow. 

We have already pointed out the importance of the lymph 
flow in maintaining the lymph currents about the living 
cells ; we are now able to appreciate the importance of those 
agents which secure this flow. As enumerated above, they 
are four in number: (1) suction action of the breathing 
movements ; (2) pumping action of muscular or passive 
movements ; (3) active force of lymph formation ; (4) peri- 
staltic contractions of the large lymphatics. 

Of these the fourth is at least doubtful and in no case of 
great importance ; the other three may therefore be regarded 
as the chief causes of the lymph flow, and of these the first 
and second are brought into most effective action by mus- 
cular activity ; this deepens the breathing movements and 
so increases their suction action on the lymph, while the 
movements of the body exert on the lymphatics a pumping 
action which is largely lacking during complete inactivity. 
The great practical importance of this aspect of the subject 
will be discussed beyond in those chapters which deal with 
the hygiene of muscular activity (Part II). 



152 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

(7. THE ADJUSTMENT OF THE CIRCULATION TO THE 
NEEDS OF EVERYDAY LIFE 

The total quantity of blood in the body (ten to fourteen 
pints) is not enough to furnish a working supply to all 
organs at the same time ; and since, in general, whenever 
an organ works it receives more blood, and when it is at rest 
it receives less, our daily life with its changes of activity 
among the organs makes necessary frequent adjustments of 
the circulation to the needs of the organs at various times. 

Some of these adjustments are matters of familiar expe- 
rience. The increased flow of blood to the skin on a warm 
day makes the veins stand out and the face red, and we are 
conscious of the more rapid heart beat during muscular 
activity, even in an act so simple as running upstairs. Other 
adjustments are not so evident, but betray themselves by 
their results, as happens after a hearty meal when the 
demand of the digestive organs for blood lessens the supply 
to the brain and we feel disinclined to hard mental work. 
We may begin our study of these adjustments by learning 
what occurs in the circulation during some of the more 
common activities and events of daily life. 

15. The circulation during exposure to heat and cold. When 
the skin is exposed to cold its blood supply is greatly dimin- 
ished ; the veins no longer stand out prominently on the hand, 
and if a small area of skin be made pale by pressing upon it 
(thus driving the blood out of its capillaries), the pallor passes 
off very slowly. This simple experiment shows that blood is 
flowing but slowly from the arterial reservoir into the skin. 
Conversely, on a warm day the veins stand out prominently 
and the red color instantly returns upon the removal of pres- 
sure. These variations in the supply to the skin are due, as 
we have already seen (p. 147), to changes in the diameter of 
the arteries of the skin, which changes serve, like the spigot 
of an ordinary water faucet, to regulate the flow of liquid. 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 153 

The changes in the blood flow through the skin are 
accompanied by corresponding but inverse changes in the 
internal organs. On a cold day the stomach and intestines, 
the pancreas, the liver, the kidneys, etc. are richly supplied 
with blood, while on a warm day their blood supply is 
diminished. In the former case the blood withheld from the 
skin finds its way into the internal organs ; in the latter case 
the skin draws upon these organs for its needed supply. 
The circulation in the internal organs compensates for that 
in the skin. 

16. The reason for compensatory changes. We have seen 
that it is the function of the heart to keep the arterial reser- 
voir adequately distended with blood, thus supplying a steady 
driving force for the flow of blood through the organs. When 
the small arteries of the skin widen on a warm day, blood 
escapes more rapidly into the skin from the arterial reservoir. 
This alone would diminish the amount of blood in the reser- 
voir unless the heart pumped more blood or unless the dila- 
tion or widening of the cutaneous arterioles were compensated 
by a constriction elsewhere, so that the total drain on the 
reservoir remained the same. In the case in question it is 
the latter of these alternatives which is adopted, and the 
reservoir is kept filled without calling on the heart to pump 
more blood. 

Conversely, on a cold day the diminution of the outflow 
into the skin would lead to a backing up or accumulation 
of blood in the great arteries, and so to their increased and 
perhaps undesirable distention, if the dilation of the arte- 
rioles of internal organs did not provide an outlet for the 
surplus blood. 

Nowhere, perhaps, is this principle of compensatory dila- 
tion or constriction of arteries in one region, to allow for the 
effect of the opposite change in some other region, so highly 
developed or so fully applied as in the reactions of the body 
to changes in external temperature. 



154 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

17. The circulation during muscular activity. During mus 
cular activity the arterioles of the muscles and of the skin 
are dilated, the former in order to supply more blood to the 
working organ, the latter to aid in the discharge of the ex- 
cess of heat produced by the contracting muscles. The heavy 
drain upon the arterial reservoir by these two large areas 
(among the largest in the body) is compensated to some 
extent by the constriction of the arteries of the digestive and 
other internal organs. This alone, however, would not suffice 
to keep the arterial reservoir filled ; and we accordingly find 
that the heart beats more rapidly and more powerfully, 
pumping more blood into the aorta in a given time. 

It is very important to remember that muscular activity 
is the one condition of life which materially increases the 
work of the heart; at other times the greater demand of 
blood for the working organ is met more or less success- 
fully by withdrawing blood from a resting organ, while the 
supply to the whole arterial system, and hence the work 
of the heart, remains approximately unchanged. During 
muscular exercise, and then only, is the heart called upon 
for decidedly increased work ; and, as with skeletal muscles, 
its strength, its ability to meet strain and emergencies and 
to withstand fatigue, depend to a great extent upon the 
training given it in this way. 

Muscular activity also influences the circulation indirectly 
by increasing the action of its secondary driving forces 
the suction action of the respiratory movements and the 
pumping action of the contracting muscles on the veins. 
These are among the most important effects of this agent 
upon the flow of blood, but they are too complicated for 
detailed discussion here. 

It is sometimes stated that muscular exercise " quickens " 
the circulation. This is true in the sense that the heart 
pumps more blood into the pulmonary artery and the aorta 
than during rest. From this it follows that during exercise 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 



155 



more blood flows through the lungs and that blood flows 
more rapidly out of the arterial reservoir, but it does not 
mean that blood flows more rapidly through all organs, for 
the digestive and other internal organs at such times actually 
receive less blood. Indeed, we may say that the quickening 




FIG. 74. Simple apparatus to illustrate the relation between the output of 
the heart, the peripheral resistance, and the general arterial pressure 

The amount delivered by the faucet represents the output of the heart, and is one 
factor in keeping up arterial pressure ; two alternative routes of outflow, each 
capable of regulation, represent the arterioles to different organs. Compensatory 
constrictions and dilations and other hydraulic conditions described in the text 
may readily be imitated 

of the circulation during exercise is chiefly confined to three 
important organs the muscles, the skin, and the lungs ; in 
other organs the change is relatively slight, as, for example, in 
the brain ; while in still others, notably those of the digestive 
system and the kidneys, the speed is diminished. 

18. The circulation during sleep. An adequate blood sup- 
ply is necessary to the full activity of the brain ; when the 



156 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



circulation in this organ is seriously interfered with, imperfect 
mental action or even unconsciousness is a result. Thus 
when all the arterioles of the body dilate, or the heart beat 
is slowed down, in consequence of some sudden " shock," so 

that pressure in the arterial 
reservoir falls too far, the 
driving force for the flow 
of blood through the brain, 
as well as through other or- 
gans, is diminished, and the 
person loses consciousness, 
or faints. Most cases of 
fainting are traceable to 
one or the other of these 
causes. 

The most familiar and 
most common example of 
unconsciousness, however, 
is that of sleep, which in 
so many respects resembles 
fainting as to suggest that 
the unconsciousness in both 
cases is due to the same 
FIG. 75. Showing the relation between cauge> name l y a lessened 
general arterial tone and the supply of _ _ 1 ' ,11. 

blood to the brain blood ^pply to the brain. 

In A the arterioles of the organs m, n, s Unquestionably, the amount 

are constricted, raising general arterial of blood flowing through 

pressure, which forces a large amount of , i , ,-, -, i 

blood through the brain 6. In B the ar- the bram 1S greatly lessened 

terioles of m, n, and s are dilated, general during sleep. The evidence 

arterial pressure is low, and less blood is /. -, . 

forced through the brain. H, heart or tnis Statement cannot 

be given here in full, but it 

is known that where accident has destroyed a part of the 
rigid bone of the skull, and the wound has been covered 
over by connective tissue and skin, the scar sinks in dur- 
ing sleep indicating less blood in the brain and returns 




THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 157 

to the level of the general surface of the head when the 
subject awakens. 

Upon this point of diminished blood supply to the brain 
during sleep almost all physiologists are agreed; there is also 
general agreement that the arm and the leg increase in vol- 
ume when we go to sleep, and this is thought to be due to 
a dilation of the arteries of the skin. It is very significant, 
on the other hand, that the arm shrinks in volume when the 
brain is active in mental work, and especially in mental work 
involving the personal interest or mental concentration of the 
subject of the experiment. 

It is thought by some that other vascular areas that of 
the abdominal cavity, for example behave in this respect in 
the same way as the skin, but on this point the evidence is 
not conclusive. It is, indeed, not improbable that these other 
vascular areas play some part in the regulation of the flow 
to the brain, but it is not likely that they stand in the same 
intimate relation to it as does the skin. 

The fact is clear, however, that a close relation exists 
between cutaneous circulation and the maintenance of proper 
vascular conditions in the brain. Mental work, for example, 
is more difficult for most people in very warm weather 
because at that time the cutaneous arterioles are widely 
dilated ; and, on the other hand, it is easy to understand 
why the constriction of the vessels of the skin by cold makes 
it difficult to go to sleep without sufficient bedclothing. 

19. The circulation during the digestion of a meal. After 
eating a meal more blood is needed in the secreting diges- 
tive glands (especially the stomach and pancreas) and also 
in the intestinal organs of absorption, the villi. This need 
is greatest during the first hour or two, when there is the 
largest amount of food to be worked upon. We find, accord- 
ingly, that the arteries of these organs then dilate to such 
an extent that the mucous membrane of the stomach and 
intestine, which is pale pink while those organs are at rest, 



158 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

now becomes very red on account of the large amount of 
blood flowing through them. 

There is probably some compensation for this in other 
organs, but it is an imperfect compensation. The drowsiness 
which is apt to come on after a hearty meal is probably an 
indication that these compensations are not complete and 
that owing to the fall of arterial pressure the brain is not 
receiving its normal blood supply. 

20. Some practical applications. We may pause here to 
consider some important practical applications of these facts. 
While the most active secretion is in progress nothing should 
be done which will take blood away in large quantities from 
the stomach. Muscular exercise; for example, then as always, 
dilates the arterioles of the muscles and skin and constricts 
those of the digestive organs ; this is obviously an unfavorable 
vascular condition for the act of secretion. If the meal be a 
light one, so that comparatively little of the digestive juices 
are required, no harm may be done by taking exercise after 
a meal ; but where the meal is heavier it is almost always 
unwise, especially in warm weather. Similar considerations, 
which are likewise in full accord with experience, indicate 
that it is unwise to eat as large meals in very warm weather 
as in cooler weather. The larger the meal, the greater the 
amount of gastric juice required to start its digestion ; but 
in warm weather the arteries of the stomach and intestine 
tend to be constricted (see p. 152), so that it is difficult to 
secure an adequate blood flow through these organs, and 
their efficiency is to this extent impaired. 

It is sometimes stated that mental work immediately after 
meals causes indigestion by taking blood away from th< 
digestive organs and sending it to the brain. It is vei 
doubtful, however, whether the increased blood flow to th< 
brain is secured largely at the expense of that to the diges 
tive organs. While instances might be cited of indigestioi 
among people who do mental work upon a " full stomach,' 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 159 

it must be remembered that these are usually people who 
fail to take proper exercise or sufficient sleep and rest; the 
indigestion from which they too frequently suffer is more 
often attributable to these causes than to the fact that the 
digestive organs are deprived of their proper blood supply. 

21. The mechanism of the regulation of the flow of blood. 
Having thus considered exactly what takes place in the circu- 
lation during some of the more important events of daily life, 
we may next inquire briefly into the physiological mechanism 
by which these adjustments are secured. Its most important 
features are the regulation of the inflow from the heart into 
the arterial reservoir and the regulation of the outflow 
through the arterioles and capillaries of the organs. These 
two must be adjusted to each other in order that the reser- 
voir may remain full and thus the driving force for the flow 
through the organs be maintained. We shall go into the de- 
tails of this very beautiful but complicated mechanism only 
far enough to enable the student to appreciate certain prin- 
ciples of fundamental importance in the practical conduct 
of life. 

22. The regulation of the pumping action of the heart. The 
amount of blood which the heart pumps varies considerably 

>m time to time. At times it may be as low as three 
Riarts a minute and at other times as high as twelve quarts, 
le quantity being largely determined by the drain made at 
the time upon the arterial reservoir. It will be seen at once 
that this involves a wide range of adjustment. 

The beat of the heart is primarily due to events which 
take place within the heart itself. We have seen that this 
beat is a muscular contraction. But the cardiac muscle dif- 
fers from the skeletal muscle in that it does not require an 
impulse from the central nervous system to throw it into 
itivity. When the heart is cut off from connection with 
the rest of the body, it continues to beat for a time and, if 
supplied with warm blood, it may be kept beating for hours. 



160 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



We express this by saying that the heart beat is automatic, 
by which we mean that the heart contains within itself a 
complete mechanism for doing its own work. 

23. The augmentor and the inhibitory nerves of the heart. 
Nevertheless the heart receives from the central nervous 
system two pairs of nerves which are able to influence the 
rate and the force of the automatic beats. One pair of these 
nerves carries from the spinal cord to the heart impulses 
which stimulate that organ to beat more rapidly or more 
forcibly, or both. Hence these are known as the augmentor, 
or accelerator, nerves. 

The fibers of the other pair of nerves produce exactly 
the opposite effect. Running from the lower part of the 
brain, they carry to the heart impulses which slow the beat 
or lessen its force, or they may produce both effects at the 
same time. They act, as it were, like a brake on a wheel, 
checking the activity of the automatic beat. These fibers 
are known as inhibitory fibers, and their action is a case of 
inhibition. 

24. Inhibition. In the examples of nervous action which 
we have thus far studied, the nervous impulse has uniformly 
thrown* some cell into activity. The stimulation of muscle 
fibers to contract, of gland cells to secrete, and of nerve cells 
in the execution of reflexes will be readily recalled. To this 
same class of nervous actions must now be added that of 
the augmentor nerves of the heart, for they excite the heart 
to greater activity. 

In the inhibitory nerves, on the other hand, the nervous 
impulse produces exactly the opposite result. Instead of set- 
ting organs to work or stimulating them to more vigorous 
action, they diminish activity and in extreme cases check or 
stop it altogether. In our subsequent studies we shall meet 
with many examples of this effect; but we may say at once 
that inhibition is as characteristic and as important a feature 
of the nervous system as is excitation (see p. 281). 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 161 

25. The regulation of the outflow from the arterial reservoir; 
arterial tone. Wound around the walls of the arterial tubes, 
especially the smaller arteries (arterioles) which deliver blood 
from the arterial reservoir to the organs, are peculiar muscle 
fibers. Their contraction diminishes the size and bore of the 
tube, and, when they relax, the tube and its lumen become 
wider. As a usual thing these smaller arteries are kept some- 
where midway between extreme constriction and extreme 
dilation. On a day of moderate temperature, for example, 
the arterioles of the skin are moderately narrowed by this 
action of their muscle fibers. During colder weather these 
fibers contract more than usual and so lessen the size of the 
tube, while during warm weather they relax somewhat and 
widen it; but ordinarily they are never contracted to their 
utmost nor are they often completely relaxed. 

This condition of sustained activity of the arterial muscles 
is known as arterial tone, and in general any sustained activity 
of a living cell is spoken of as tonic activity, or tone. Since, 
as we have seen, the total quantity of blood in the body is 
not enough to fill completely and distend all the blood ves- 
sels when they are widened to their utmost, it follows that 
the maintenance of arterial tone is essential to that overfilling 
of the great arteries which supplies the driving force for the 
flow of blood through the organs. If every arteriole were to 
lose its tone, blood would flow out of the reservoir more 
rapidly than the heart could possibly pump it in ; we should 
have somewhat the same condition of affairs as if, in our arti- 
ficial model (p. 144), the small nozzle which affords resist- 
ance to the outflow were removed. Arterial pressure would 
fall and, the driving force being thus removed, the blood 
would remain at rest in the capillaries and veins of the 
organs ; the circulation would cease because blood would 
not return to the heart to be pumped. The maintenance 
of arterial tone is consequently no less essential to the 
circulation than is the beat of the heart itself. 



162 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Two means are known by which the contraction of the 
circular muscle fibers of the arterioles is regulated: first, 
impulses from the central nervous system over the vasomotor 
nerves ; and, second, direct excitation of the arterioles by 
hormones in the circulating blood. The vasomotor nerves 
are of two kinds, the vasoconstrictors and the vasodilators; 
the best-known hormone acting on the arterioles is adre- 
naline, the action of which has already been referred to in 
Chapters VI and VII. 

26. Vasoconstrictor nerves. The muscle fibers of the arter- 
ies receive nerves which stimulate them to contract, for if 
these nerves are cut, the arteries lose their tone (dilate). 
We conclude, therefore, that the ordinary maintenance of 
arterial tone is, in part at least, a function of the nervous 
system. The muscle fibers of the arteries, in other words, 
remain in tonic activity because the neurones which supply 
them with nerve fibers are in tonic activity; and we can 
understand how general arterial tone may be increased or 
decreased by the condition of the central nervous system, by 
reflexes, by the nervous " shock " of surgical operations, etc. 

Neurones which maintain the proper amount of arterial 
tone are known as vasoconstrictor neurones. They obviously do 
for the muscles of the arteries what the motor nerves do for 
the skeletal muscles, and the augmentors do for the heart. 

27. Vasodilator nerves. Many arteries, however, receive a 
second set of nerves, which have exactly the opposite func- 
tion, that is, to make their muscle fibers relax and so lead to 
a widening or dilation of the artery. These nerves do for the 
tonic contraction of the arteries what the inhibitory nerves of 
the heart do for the heart beat they diminish or abolish 
an existing activity and thus give us our second example 
of inhibitory nerves. They are known as the vasodilators. 

The vasodilators are not regularly in tonic activity like 
the vasoconstrictors. They are called into action, reflexly or 
otherwise, when it is necessary that an organ receive more 



THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD 163 

blood than usual; at other times the vasoconstrictors are 
free to exert their tonic stimulation and so regulate the flow 
of blood to the organs. 

28. The regulation of arterial tone by hormones ; adrenaline. 
This has already been described on page 65. It will be 
recalled that the presence of adrenaline in the circulating 
blood directly excites the arterioles to constrict; that this 
action on the arterioles is greater in some regions (for ex- 
ample, the abdominal organs) than in others (for example, 
the skeletal muscles and skin) ; that the rate and force of 
the heart beat are influenced ; that the adrenal glands are 
excited to secrete by nervous impulses which are dispatched 
from the central nervous system during states of emotional 
excitement (fear and anger) and, we may now add, when- 
ever the blood is deficient in oxygen. There are also reasons 
for thinking that the internal secretion of the pituitary body 
(p. 67) may likewise play some r61e in regulating arterial 
tone and possibly in the distribution of the blood among the 

)rgans. This is a new field of physiology arid the present 
state of our knowledge justifies only this brief reference 
to it. Enough is known, however, to show that hormones 
>operate with the vasomotor nerves in regulating the flow 

)f blood to the organs. 

29. Importance of the vascular adjustments in daily life. 
[t is not possible within the limits of the present work to 

iter further into the mode of action of these factors of vas- 
tlar coordination. Our main purpose is to show the student 
lat proper coordination is as important in adapting the work 
)f the heart and blood vessels to the hourly needs of daily 
ife as it is in producing purposeful movements of the skeletal 
mscles. Every change of occupation and activity, every 
}hange of surrounding conditions of temperature, moisture, 
rind, etc., necessitates some special adjustment of the vas- 
system; and this adjustment is dependent upon the 
sort of coordinating action which we have already 



164 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

compared with the operations of a large army. In spite of 
the fact that we are for the most part unconscious of it, it is 
none the less a part of our daily life ; and the fatigue induced 
within these vasomotor and hormone mechanisms by their 
continued activity probably contributes a large share to that 
general bodily fatigue which leads us to seek recuperation 
in rest and sleep. 

The apparatus, the operation, and the regulation of the 
flow of blood and lymph afford an excellent illustration of 
the fact that the human body, at least in this particular, is 
a complex machine. But while we of to-day look upon it 
with somewhat less of awe than did our ancestors, and 
while there is for us less of mystery and more of mechanism 
in it, we gain, on the other hand, a wholly new revelation 
of its intricacy and a fresh sense of its marvelous delicacy, 
beauty, and perfection of adjustment. The mere fact that 
everyone of us carries in his bosom a powerful double 
force-pump of remarkable design, original construction, and 
extraordinary power, capable in many instances of success- 
ful and unremitting service for more than three quarters of 
a century, should be, in itself alone, enough to excite admi- 
ration and respect for the entire mechanism of which it is 
only one part and to awaken within us a desire to use that 
mechanism " as not abusing it." 



CHAPTER X 
RESPIRATION 

1. The fundamental act of respiration. We have found in 
studying the chemical changes which underlie cellular activity 
(Chap. IV) that muscle fibers and gland cells and, we may 
now add, nerve cells take in oxygen and give out carbon 
dioxide. This cell breathing is the essential act of respiration, 
for respiration is only another name for the oxidative proc- 
esses of the living body. Respiration of this kind (and of 
this kind only) is universal among living things. The one- 
celled animal, for example, takes its oxygen directly from 
the free oxygen of the water in which it lives, and discharges 
its carbon dioxide into the same surrounding medium. Every 
one of the thousands of cells of which the human body is 
composed repeats this same process, taking its oxygen from 
and discharging its carbon dioxide into its surrounding 
medium in this case the lymph. The breathing move- 
ments, which renew the air in the lungs, and the circulation 
of blood, which affords the channel of communication between 
the lungs and the tissues, are merely accessory mechanisms 
rendered necessary by the distance of the cells and the lymph 
from the surface of the body. Their principal function is to 
keep the lymph supplied with oxygen and to remove from it 
the carbon dioxide. In other words, breathing, though minis- 
tering to respiration, is not respiration itself. 

2. The quantity of oxygen and of carbon dioxide in the 
lymph surrounding the cells of the body. The cell is the true 
seat of oxidation. Within its imperfectly understood mecha- 
nism are found the conditions which lead to the union of 

165 



166 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

oxygen with the proteins, the carbohydrates, and the fats 
of the food. 

The cell draws oxygen from the surrounding lymph very 
much as a burning match draws oxygen from the surround- 
ing air. Consequently the amount of oxygen dissolved in 
the lymph is generally comparatively small and would be 
removed altogether were it not constantly renewed from 
the blood. 

For similar reasons the lymph must be relatively rich in 
carbon dioxide, since it is this fluid which directly receives 
the gas (in solution) from its source of manufacture, the 
working cell. 1 

3. The quantity of oxygen and of carbon dioxide in arterial 
blood. It is through the lungs that the body as a whole 
receives its oxygen and discharges its excess of carbon 
dioxide. Consequently arterial blood contains more oxygen 
and less carbon dioxide than venous blood. The actual 
figures are as follows: 

OXYGEN CARBON DIOXIDE NITROGEN 

100 cc. of arterial blood contain 20 cc. 38 cc. 1-2 cc. 

100 cc. of venous blood contain 8-12 cc. 45-50 cc. 1-2 cc. 

These figures apply to the whole blood, that is, to plasma 
and corpuscles; but what is true of the whole blood is true 
in a general way also of the circulating plasma, which con- 
sequently enters the capillaries 2 relatively rich in oxygen 
and poor in carbon dioxide, thus presenting exactly the 
reverse composition, in respect to these gases, of that found 
in the lymph surrounding the living cells. 

1 The gases oxygen and carbon dioxide are, of course, dissolved in the 
liquid lymph and blood plasma. A liquid exposed to a gas absorbs or dis- 
solves the gas. Thus 100 cc. of water when exposed to atmospheric air at 
0C. dissolves 4 cc. of oxygen and 2 cc. of nitrogen. 

2 The total time consumed by the blood in passing from the capillaries of 
the lungs through the heart to those of the rest of the body seldom exceeds 
five or six seconds. Hence the amount of the gases in the blood entering 
the capillaries, for example, of a muscle is practically the same as in the 
blood leaving the lungs. 



RESPIRATION 



167 



4. The exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the 
lymph and the blood plasma. In the capillary regions of all 
parts of the body except the lungs we have two fluids, the 
lymph and the blood plasma, containing very different amounts 
of oxygen and carbon dioxide and separated from each other 
by the exceedingly thin membrane of the capillary wall. Under 
such conditions both gases will tend to equalize, and each gas 
will pass through the membrane from that liquid in which it 
is more abundant to that 

in which it is less abun- 
dant; that is to say, the 
oxygen will pass from the 
blood plasma in which it 
abounds to the lymph in 
which it is scarce ; and 
the carbon dioxide, in the 
other direction, from the 
lymph to the blood plasma 
(see Fig. 76). Hence the 
blood enters the veins 
richer in carbon dioxide 
and poorer in oxygen than 
it left the arteries. 

5. The red corpuscle as a carrier of oxygen. The blood 
plasma under the conditions of temperature and pressure to 
which it is exposed can hold only a small amount of oxygen, 
too little to meet satisfactorily the demands of the resting 
tissues and utterly inadequate for the much greater needs 
of the working tissues. This difficulty is met and the oxygen- 
carrying capacity of the blood vastly increased by the peculiar 
properties of the coloring matter, or pigment, of the red cor- 
puscles. This substance, known as hemoglobin, readily forms 
with oxygen a compound (oxyhemoglolin) whenever the amount 
of oxygen is high in the medium surrounding it; if, however, 
much oxygen is removed from its surrounding medium, the 




FIG. 76. The exchange of oxygen and 

carbon dioxide between the blood and 

the lymph in the tissues 



168 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

oxyhemoglobin breaks up or dissociates into hemoglobin and 
free oxygen. Applying this to the conditions in the capil- 
laries, we find that 100 cc. of arterial blood contain less than 
1 cc. of free oxygen in the plasma, but about 19 cc. of oxy- 
gen combined in the oxyhemoglobin of the red corpuscles. 
When the blood enters the capillaries of living tissues, oxy- 
gen passes, as we have seen, from the plasma into the lymph, 
so that the oxygen content of the plasma is reduced. When 
this reduction goes below a point which is quickly reached, 
dissociation of the oxyhemoglobin occurs, and the oxygen 
thus set free in the plasma is drawn away by the lymph, 
from which it is in turn drawn by the cell, the real seat 
of oxidation. 

The amount of oxygen given above (20 cc. to 100 cc. of 
blood) is all that the blood can hold under the usual con- 
ditions of atmospheric pressure and at the temperature of the 
body. Moreover, the oxygen content of the blood leaving 
the lungs (arterial blood) is usually kept remarkably con- 
stant by the accurate adjustment of the breathing movements 
to the needs of the body. Neither by deeper nor by more 
rapid breathing is it possible to increase appreciably the 
amount of oxygen absorbed by the same volume of blood 
flowing through the lungs. Only by increasing the quantity 
of blood pumped through the lungs can we increase the 
amount of oxygen carried to the organs and tissues; and, 
for the same reason, only by increasing the quantity of 
blood flowing through an organ can we increase the oxygen 
supplied to that organ. 

6. The consumption of oxygen in the tissues. The quantity 
of material oxidized in the cells of the body depends chiefly, 
indeed under ordinary conditions of life it depends entirely, 
on the amount of work these cells are doing. To put the 
matter in another way, the cells always contain a certain 
quantity of oxidizable material formed by the chemical 
changes going on within them; during work, or activity, 



KESPIRATION 169 

there is a marked increase of oxidizable material (possibly 
the result of the cleavages described in Chapter IV), and 
for this reason there is a corresponding increase of oxidation 
in the cell. It follows that, in general, cell oxidation can 
be increased only by increasing cell work; it cannot be in- 
creased by the mere act of deep breathing. " We may lead 
a horse to water or fetch water to a horse, but we cannot 
make him drink." The assertion, too frequently heard, that 
some special form of breathing movement leads to more 
efficient oxidation of wastes throughout 
the body betrays lamentable ignorance of 
this fundamental fact of physiology. This, 
however, is not denying that one type of 
breathing movement may still be prefer- 
able to another, nor affirming that deep- 
ened breathing may not sometimes be 
desirable. Breathing movements accom- FlG 77 Two 
plish other things than oxygeriation of the cent alveoli of the 
blood, and we may now proceed to study lun 

their physiology. * Showin s the air cells 

7. Structure of the lungs. In Chapter II the anatomical 
relations of the air passages (trachea, bronchi, etc.) and lungs 
have been described. The student at this point should con- 
sult especially Fig. 5 (p. 13) in order to obtain a clear idea 
of the structure of the lungs. The bronchi which enter the 
lungs branch, much as the ducts of a gland, and their ulti- 
mate branches end in the alveoli, which, like those of a gland, 
consist of a single layer of cells, but in this case of very thin, 
flattened cells. Fig. 77 shows two of these alveoli dissected, 
and Fig. 78 a section taken lengthwise through the same. 
Connective tissue binds together the alveoli and bronchial 
tubes, thus forming the lobes of the lungs. In this connective 
tissue and hence between the alveoli are the larger blood 
vessels, branches of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary 
veins. The arterioles supply an exceedingly close network 




170 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



of capillaries (Fig. 159), which are in direct contact with the 
lining cells of the alveolus, so that the blood in these capil- 
laries is separated from the air in the alveolus only by the 
thin capillary wall and the equally thin layer of flattened 
alveolar cells. Under these circumstances the exchange of 
oxygen and carbon dioxide takes place readily between the 

air in the lungs 
and the blood 
in the capillaries. 
Finally, the ab- 
sorbing surface 
of the alveolar 
wall is greatly 
increased by be- 
ing arranged in 
the form of pits, 
or air cells, 1 as 
shown in Figs. 5, 
77, 78, and 159. 
8. Purpose of 
breathing move- 
ments. As the 
blood is con- 
stantly giving up 
carbon dioxide to, 
and_taking oxy- 




gen from, the air 



FIG. 78. Diagram of a longitudinal section of two 
alveoli with their common bronchiole, and show- 
ing, in black, the larger blood vessels in the con- 
nective tissue 

The capillary network belonging to these vessels is 
shown in Fig. 159 

of the lungs, this air would soon cease to be of use in 
purifying the blood were it not for the breathing move- 
ments, whose function is to replace the vitiated air within the 
lung with pure air from without. Breathing is, accordingly, 
an act of ventilation of the lungs, and it is the stoppage of 
this ventilation which produces suffocation, or asphyxia. 

1 The word "cell" is here used to represent a hollow space and not 
with its usual histological meaning. 



EESPIRATION 



171 



9. Mechanics of the breathing movements. A knowledge of 
the mechanism of the breathing movements is of much practi- 
cal importance, especially in hygiene, and may be understood 
without great difficulty by the study of the model shown in 
Fig. 79. The trachea and the bronchi are represented by the 
glass tube, and the lungs by an elastic bag, Z, at the end of 
the tube. The lungs lie in the large air-tight thorax, which in- 
closes the pleural, or thoracic, cavity (p. 10). This thoracic wall 
is represented in the model by a glass bell jar closed beneath 
by a sheet of thick rubber, D. The cavity 
of the bell jar represents the pleural 
cavity, and the rubber represents the dia- 
phragm (see Fig. 154). The condition of 
the lung in the pleural cavity may be 
still further imitated in the model by fas- 
tening the inflated rubber bag tightly into 
the jar. 1 The rubber bag remains moder- 
ately inflated within the air-tight cavity 
of the bell jar. In the body the distended 
lungs virtually fill those portions of the 
thoracic cavity not occupied by the heart, 
great blood vessels, and other organs. 2 

Now enlarge the "thoracic cavity" of the model by pulling 
downwards on the sheet of rubber which represents the dia- 
phragm. The " lungs " within will expand while air is sucked 
through the glass " trachea " and mixes with that in the model 
" lungs." When the pull is released, the " diaphragm " rises, 
thus diminishing the size of the " thorax " and so forcing air 
out of the " lungs." In this way the mechanism of the venti- 
lation of. the lungs may be imitated in essential particulars. 

1 Loosen the rubber stopper and, while the neck of the bell jar is open, 
inflate the rubber bag through the tube ; while the bag is thus inflated, 
push the rubber stopper down into the neck of the bottle. 

2 The student is again warned against supposing that the pleural cavity 
is a large space filled with air ; in this respect the model is misleading, since 
the lungs and other organs completely fill the thoracic cavity. 




FIG. 79. Model of the 
action of the thoracic 
walls and lungs in res- 
piration (see sect. 9) 



172 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



In life the pleural cavity is enlarged during inspiration by 
the contraction of the diaphragm and the elevation of the 
ribs. Both of these are movements effected by the action of 
skeletal muscles. The understanding of the elevation of the 
ribs need give no difficulty; muscles, some of which are 
shown in Fig. 12, pull upwards on the ribs; and the attach- 
ment of the ribs to the vertebral column and the breastbone 
(sternum) is such that when they are raised the diameter of 
the thorax is increased dorsoventrally and from side to side. 
The diaphragm, on the other hand, is a kind of circular mus- 
cle with a central fibrous or tendinous portion from which 
the bundles of muscle fibers radiate outwards to its edges. 
Any shortening of these fibers evidently diminishes the 
diameter of the diaphragm ; and because of its form (that 
of a dome directed upwards into the thoracic cavity), 
contraction of this muscle must increase the size of the 
lower thorax. 1 

There are three typical modes of breathing : (1) The pre- 
dominantly costal, or " rib" breathing. Here the diaphragm 
is but little used. It is the type characteristic of those who 
impede movements of the lower ribs and abdomen with 
constricting clothing, such as tight corsets. (2) The pre- 
dominantly abdominal. Here the ribs are little used, while 
the diaphragm does most of the work, the abdominal mus- 
cles being relaxed so that the belly wall lias its maximum 
of movement. This type of breathing involves great relax- 
ation of tone of the abdominal muscles, which is a serious 

1 The action of the diaphragm is often described as increasing the antero- 
posterior (head to foot) dimension of the thorax ; but this can happen only 
when the diaphragm is free to descend, and it can descend only when, by 
displacing downwards the contents of the abdominal cavity, it causes the 
well-known respiratory movements of the abdominal walls. These "abdomi- 
nal movements" may, however, be prevented by the simultaneous contrac- 
tion of the abdominal muscles. In this case the diaphragm cannot descend, 
and its contraction can only raise the lower ribs to which it is attached. 
The mechanism in these two methods of using the diaphragm is clear 
from Fig. 80. 



RESPIRATION 



173 



disadvantage. (3) The lateral costal. Here the abdominal 
muscles act at the same time as the ribs and the diaphragm. 
This form of breathing produces the highest pressures 
on the contents of the abdominal cavity and maintains the 
tone of the abdominal walls without diminishing the effi- 
ciency of the oxygenation of the blood. It also forces the 








FIG. 80. Action of the diaphragm in abdominal and in lateral 
costal breathing 

Solid lines represent position of body wall, diaphragm, and ribs during expira- 
tion; dotted lines, the same during inspiration. The left-hand figure represents 
abdominal breathing, the diaphragm becoming more convex, displacing down- 
ward the abdominal viscera and forcing outward the abdominal body wall. In 
the lateral costal type the diaphragm raises the lower ribs, and the abdominal 
walls may actually move inward, owing to the contraction of their muscles 

use of the upper ribs to a much greater extent than does 
the predominantly abdominal type of breathing (Fig. 80). 

It is seldom that one or another of these types is used 
in .its entirety, and the advantages of one form over another 
are often greatly exaggerated. The following statements 
may, however, be taken as summing up the essential 
practical points. 



174 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

1. The breathing movements should be such as to use all 
portions of the lungs. In the abdominal type there is little 
or no movement of the upper thorax. The result is that 
the apical, or upper, lobes of the lungs do not share in the 
enlargement and contraction of the lungs ; they are poorly 
ventilated, their lymph current which largely depends 
upon these movements becomes sluggish, and because of 
these unfavorable physiological conditions there is greater 
liability to disease. More than 60 per cent (some observers 
claim, as many as 80 per cent) of the beginnings of the 
lung ravages of pulmonary consumption are found in this 
portion of the lung, and this is believed to be due to the 
lack of movement which results from the failure to use 
the upper thorax. 

2. Actual study of the breathing movements in people 
who have not worn constricting clothing indicates that the 
enlargement of the thorax in inspiration is effected by 
the approximately equal action of the diaphragm and of 
the muscles which elevate the ribs. 

3. The abdominal muscles should to some extent contract 
with the diaphragm. This is especially important in those 
whose occupation is more or less sedentary, as it is the most 
convenient means of giving to these muscles the use which 
is essential to the maintenance of their strength and the 
consequent prevention of that loss of tone which takes away 
from the organs of the abdominal cavity one of their chief 
supports (consult Part II, Chap. XVIII). 

4. There are good reasons for thinking that it is important 
to develop properly the muscles of the upper thorax and 
especially those which lie in the triangle between the root 
of the neck, the collar bone, and the shoulder blade. When 
these muscles are not developed, especially in thin people, 
the wall of the thorax in this region sinks inward during 
inspiration ; under these circumstances this portion of the 
thorax is not enlarged during inspiration, the apical lobes no 



RESPIRATION 175 

longer share in the expansions and contractions of the lungs, 
and imperfect ventilation of this part of the lung results. 

10. Secondary effects of the breathing movements. The 
student will now be better able to understand the part 
taken by the breathing movements in facilitating the return 
of blood and lymph to the heart. The enlargement of the 
thorax during inspiration sucks blood and lymph in toward 
the great veins by the same process that it sucks air into 
the lungs. Especially in the case of the lymph flow is this 
a most important factor. Moreover, in the lymphatics of the 
lungs, situated as they are entirely within the thorax, the 
movements of the lungs during respiration pump the lymph 
onwards and are of special importance in this respect. Much 
of the invigorating effect of muscular exercise, popularly 
ascribed to better oxygenation of the blood and tissues, is 
really attributable to the greatly improved lymph flow from 
all organs which results from the deepened respiration in 
muscular activity. 

11. The automatic respiratory center and its regulation by 
the carbon dioxide of the blood. The muscles of the dia- 
phragm and those of the ribs, like the biceps and other 
muscles which act upon the skeleton, are stimulated to con- 
traction by nervous impulses from the brain and spinal cord. 
Every movement of respiration is called forth and regulated, 
in accordance with the needs of the body at the time, by the 
coordinated action of a number of nerve cells. Those which 
are most intimately concerned with respiration are found in 
different parts of the central nervous system, from the lower 
portion of the brain to the end of the first half of the spinal 
cord, inclusive; and there is good reason for thinking that 
a group of nerve cells, usually known as the respiratory center, 
in the lower portion of the brain, send out stimuli to those 
of the cord and through them excite the muscles to contract. 

The respiratory center, like the heart (see p. 159), is auto- 
matic. This means that its nerve cells periodically (usually 



176 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

eight to twenty times a minute) discharge impulses to the 
respiratory muscles independently of any stimulation either 
by afferent nerves or by other means. Like the beat of the 
heart, however, this automatic action is regulated in various 
ways. A dash of cold water on the skin reflexly changes 
the character of respiration ; coughing and sneezing are simi- 
larly examples of reflex modification of the breathing move- 
ments ; during vigorous muscular activity the change in 
composition of the blood by the addition of waste products 
deepens and quickens the breathing; last, but not least, one 
of the most important discoveries of recent years has shown 
that the carbon dioxide of the arterial blood going to the 
respiratory center is a most important agent in regulating 
the automatic activity of the center. No sooner does the 
carbon dioxide of the blood increase than the center dis- 
charges more powerfully, thus deepening the breathing. An 
increase of from 3 to 4 per cent in the carbon dioxide 
of the arterial blood doubles the quantity of air breathed 
per minute. From this it is evident that the high content 
of this gas in arterial blood (see p. 166) serves the very 
important function of adjusting the work of the center to 
the needs of the body. Whenever, for any cause, the respira- 
tory movements no longer adequately ventilate the lungs 
so that carbon dioxide discharged upon the blood in its 
course through the body is not completely removed in the 
lungs the consequent increase of this gas in the arterial 
blood excites the center to greater activity, with a resulting 
increase of breathing and more efficient ventilation of the 
lungs. We may recall, in this connection, the warning given 
in Chapter VI against supposing that a " waste product " 
of the activity of one organ is necessarily harmful, for 
carbon dioxide is the chief waste of the body; yet it is 
most important that the amount usually present in arterial 
blood be maintained. Only the excess above this amount 
is injurious. 



RESPIRATION 



177 



12. The circulation as an essential part of the mechanism 
of respiration. The consumption of oxygen and the produc- 
tion of carbon dioxide thus involve an interchange of these 
gases between the blood and the tissues (internal respiration) 
on the one hand, and between the blood and the air in the 
lungs (external respiration) on the other. But to carry out 
these gaseous exchanges a third factor is obviously necessary, 
namely, a means of communication between the two, so that 
the oxygen absorbed in the lungs may be carried to the 
tissues, and the carbon dioxide produced in the tissues be 
carried back to the lungs. This communication is provided, 
as has been shown in earlier chapters, by the circulation, 
which thus becomes an essential part of the respiratory 
mechanism. 

We have already seen that under the most varying con- 
ditions 100 cc. of arterial blood always contain approxi- 
mately 20 cc. of oxygen and 38 cc. of carbon dioxide and 
that this is practically all the oxygen this amount of blood 
can hold. From this it follows that so long as the amount 
of blood pumped by the heart in a given time remains con- 
stant, no more oxygen will be carried to the tissues, even 
if we breathe more deeply. In other words, increased ventila- 
tion of the lungs without any accompanying increase in the rate 
and force of the heart beat will not supply more oxygen to the 
tissues. The beat of the heart is as important to proper tis- 
sue respiration as are the breathing movements ; and we find 
accordingly that these two events are closely coordinated. 
Greatly increased tissue respiration invariably carries along 
with it increased work on the part of the heart. 

A large number of measurements of the respiratory ex- 
changes 1 under different conditions and activities of our 
life has shown that these are increased by the taking of 
food, by exposure to cold, by awaking from sleep, and, 
above all, by muscular activity. Exposure to cold acts by 

1 That is, oxygen absorbed and carbon dioxide discharged in a given time. 



178 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

causing us to move about more briskly, or, if we do not, 
by causing us to shiver, so that this really becomes a case 
of muscular activity. The same thing is true of awakening 
from sleep. We may therefore make the general statement 
that muscular activity is the one important agent of life 
which increases tissue respiration. 

And this increase is at times very great. Even the mus- 
cular activity necessary to maintain the erect position in 
sitting and standing, as compared with the complete relax- 
ation of sleep, doubles the gaseous exchange ; gentle exercise 
(a walk of three miles an hour) more than doubles that of 
rest; and vigorous, yet by no means excessive, exercise will 
increase it tenfold. These increases mean corresponding, 
though not absolutely proportionate, demands on the heart 
and emphasize the importance of keeping that organ in an 
efficient working condition. Breathlessness, for example, 
usually indicates, in part at least, that the heart fails to 
respond properly to the demands made upon it, these de- 
mands being greater than it can meet without undue fatigue; 
it is a warning that we are pushing the heart too hard, a 
warning which we will do well to heed. Generally it is 
also a warning that we are not getting sufficient muscular 
activity; the heart fails to meet the emergency of some 
unusual exertion because all along it has not been kept in 
proper training; so that while we should, as stated, heed 
the warning not to push the heart so hard for the time 
being, we should also act upon the equally important warn- 
ing that it needs practice or training a training which can 
be given only by reasonable, regular, muscular activity. 

The training of muscular activity is therefore not only a 
training of the muscles but also of the heart. But this is 
not all. The work of the circulatory and respiratory mecha- 
nisms must be adjusted or coordinated, the one to the other. 
When, for example, the deepened breathing movements 
accompanying muscular activity rush the blood back more 



RESPIRATION 



179 



rapidly to the heart (p. 148), it becomes necessary for the 
heart to adjust the character of its beat to the new condi- 
tions; and this adjustment is the work of the nervous sys- 
tem. Time is, however, required to make the adjustment, so 
that it is wise to " warm up " gradually to more vigorous 
work. We can also understand how by physical training 
this process of adjustment comes to be shortened, for we 
have not only trained the heart by giving it more work to 
do but we have also trained those portions of the nervous 
system which regulate its beat. 



CHAPTER XI 

EXCRETION 

1. The organs of excretion. The student now realizes that 
the work of the body is accompanied by the production of 
wastes and also understands the necessity for their removal. 
The most abundant waste product of the body, carbon dioxide, 
is a gas and is excreted by the lungs ; others, notably urea 
and other waste products of the proteins, are dissolved solids 
and are removed from the blood to some extent by the 
intestine and the sweat glands of the skin, but chiefly by 
the kidneys. 

A number of organs thus perform the work of excretion, 
but four of them namely, the lungs, the kidneys, the in- 
testine, and the skin are of greater importance than all 
others. Of these four the lungs and kidneys are far more 
important than the intestine, and all three of these are more 
important than the skin. 

2. Essential and incidental excretion by organs. An organ 
may be essential to the proper removal of a given waste, or 
it may remove the waste product only incidentally in per- 
forming its essential functions. Thus the skin removes a 
small amount of carbon dioxide from the body merely be- 
cause a certain amount of this gas diffuses from the bl< 

as it flows through the skin. It is not necessary to 
health of the body that the skin should excrete this carbon 
dioxide, for the lungs are quite capable of doing the worl 
and would do so if for any reason such excretion throuj 
the skin were prevented. Without the lungs, on the oth( 
hand, the carbon dioxide would rapidly accumulate in 

180 



EXCRETION 181 

blood and cause death. The lungs are essential to the re-, 
moval of this waste ; the skin is not. Similarly, the perspi- 
ration contains small amounts of urea and other wastes 
which are removed in large quantities by the kidneys. It is 
not necessary that the skin should remove any of these, for 
the healthy kidney can and does, when necessary, remove 
them. Small quantities of them appear in the perspiration 
because they are in the blood from which the perspiration 
is formed and because the cells of the sweat glands allow 
them to pass through, just as the skin allows the passage 
of carbon dioxide. 

These considerations are of practical importance in the 
hygiene of the skin. It is not necessary to induce perspi- 
ration merely to remove waste products from the body. If 
the human skin, like that of the cat and the dog, contained 
no sweat glands, the waste products would be thoroughly 
removed; and in cold weather, when no perspiration is 
secreted, the excretion of waste is as complete as when in 
warm weather perspiration is abundantly secreted. On the 
other hand, perspiration, though not secreted to rid the body 
of wastes, nevertheless contains wastes which accumulate 
upon the skin. Hence the need of bathing, both as a matter 
of health and of decency. 

The chief wastes leaving the body and their main chan- 
nels of excretion are given in the following table, incidental 
excretions being given in italics: 

Lungs : carbon dioxide, water. 

Kidneys : urea, uric acid, and other compounds, salts, water. 
Intestine : bile pigments, nitrogenous compounds, etc. 
Skin : urea, etc., salts, water. 

The structure and action of the lungs and intestine have 
already been described, so that we have left for study the 
kidneys and the skin. 

3. Structure of the kidneys. Each kidney is a bean-shaped 
gland whose duct, the ureter, runs to the urinary bladder. As 



182 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Vena Cava 
Ureter 



the ureter enters the kidney at the center of the depression 
in that organ it expands to form a basin, known as the pelvis 
of the ureter. Into this basin open the hundreds of glandular 
tubules of which the bulk of the kidney is composed. Each 
tubule, like the alveolus and ducts of the gland described in 
Chapter III, consists of a single layer of cells, which separate 
the blood and lymph from the lumen of the tubule ; and the 

formation of urine by the kidney 
is essentially an act of secretion. 
4. The secretion of urine. 
The urine is secreted continu- 
ously from the blood, at one 
time more rapidly than at an- 
other, but under normal condi- 
tions never ceasing altogether. 
Passing down the tubules, it 
collects in the upper portion of 
the ureter, and successive peri- 
staltic waves carry it from this 
point to the urinary bladder, an 
organ with muscular walls in 
which the urine accumulates 
and from which it is from time 
to time discharged. 

In one very important re- 
spect, however, secretion by the 
kidney presents a sharp contrast to secretion by the stomach 
and the submaxillary gland. While an adequate blood supply 
to the two latter glands accompanies secretion and, indeed, 
is necessary to maintain the secretion for any length of time, 
yet these glands secrete only as they are stimulated to ac- 
tivity by their nerves ; merely increasing their blood supply 
does not produce increased secretion. In the case of the 
kidney there seem to be no secretory nerves, and the activity 
of the gland seems to be determined to a large extent by the 




FIG. 81. Dorsal aspect of the kid- 
neys, ureter, urinary bladder, and 
abdominal aorta and vena cava 



EXCRETION 



183 



quantity of blood flowing through it. Anything which increases 
this quantity of blood increases the quantity of urine secreted; 
anything which diminishes it lessens the amount of urine 
secreted. 

In the everyday experience of healthy people the activity 
of the kidneys is chiefly affected by three things ; namely, 
(1) external temperature more 
urine is secreted on a cold than on 
a warm day ; (2) the quantity of 
water drunk ; and (3) the quantity 
of food, and especially of protein 
food, eaten. All three of these 
agents, however, produce their re- 
sults, largely if not entirely, because 
of their influence upon the blood 
flow through the kidney. Thus ex- 
posure of the skin to cold causes a 
constriction of the arterioles of the 
skin and a compensating dilation of 
those of internal organs, the kid- 
neys included. More blood flows 
through the kidneys and more urine 
is secreted. Much the same thing 
is true of the absorption of water 
and of protein food, for both these conditions cause a widen- 
ing of the arterioles of the kidney. 

Changes in the quantity of the urine secreted are, generally 
speaking, only changes in the amount of water rather than in 
the amount of urea and other dissolved wastes. Certain con- 
stituents of the urine, however, are not very soluble, so that it 
is not .well to have water, the only solvent of these substances 
in the urine, unduly diminished. A scanty secretion of urine 
during the day is, in general, a distinct indication, especially 
in warm weather, that insufficient water is being taken. Many 
persons drink too little water rather than too much. 




FIG. 82. Vertical section of 
the kidney. Diagrammatic 

The tubules (A) of the gland 
open, on the papillae (B,B}, into 
the pelvis (C) of the ureter (D) 



184 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



5. The structure of the skin. The skin is an organ which 
performs several functions, the most important being (1) that 
of protecting the underlying structures 
from drying and mechanical injury ; 
(2) that of assisting in maintaining the 
constant internal temperature of the 
body; and (3) that of receiving the ex- 
ternal stimuli of pressure, heat, and cold. 
Incidentally, as we have seen, the skin 
is an organ of excretion. We may there- 
fore describe its structure and excretory 
function in this connection, reserving 
the study of its other functions for 
Chapters XII and XIV. 

The skin consists of an outer layer, 
the epidermis, and an inner layer, the 
dermis, cutis, or corium. The dermis 
consists of connective tissue richly sup- 
plied with blood vessels, lymphatics, 
and nerve fibers, together with sense 
organs of touch. The fiber bundles of 
the connective tissue are most dense 
near the epidermis; in the deeper por- 
tions the network is loose and the lymph 
FIG. 83. Cross section spaces larger, the connective tissue of 
of skin the dermis passing insensibly into that of 

A, horny layer of epi- the subcutaneous connective tissue. 

dermis; B, deeper layer ._., ,, ,, ,, ,. 

of epidermis; c, duct of The cells of the more open portions 
sweat gland; D, dermis; o f the dermal network, and especially 

E, subcutaneous connec- . . , .'', 

tive tissue (p. 7). The those of the subcutaneous tissue, store 

blood vessels are injected up more or l ess fat within their CVtO- 
to show black. Cf . Fig. 89 f . , J , 

plasm. The subcutaneous tissue, indeed, 

is one of the most important organs in the body for the 
storage of fat. Connective tissue in which large amounts of 
fat are stored is known as adipose tissue (see p. 223). 




EXCBETION 



185 




The outer surface of the derails is not flat, but contains 
moundlike projections known as papillce, which project into 
the overlying epidermis. Some of these papillae contain nerve 
endings of the sense of touch, while others contain capillaries, 
which are found also in other portions of the dermis. The 
dermis is the vascular organ of the skin, blood vessels being 
entirely absent from the epider- 
mis (see Figs. 86, 89). 

The epidermis consists of 
many layers of cells, the num- 
ber of layers being very great 
a hundred or more on the palms 
of the hands and the soles of 
the feet; in other places less 
exposed to pressure or friction 
they may not exceed twenty. 
The deeper cells (that is, those 
nearer the dermis) are alive and 
in process of active growth and 
multiplication. The outer layers, 
which are further from the der- 
mis with its blood supply and 
nearer the surface with its ex- 
posure to drying, degenerate and 
are gradually transformed into 
dead, flattened horny scales 
which, packed together, form the 
horny layer. These scales are 
being constantly rubbed off and their loss made good by the 
growth and multiplication of the living cells beneath. Such a 
covering or lining is well fitted for surfaces which are exposed 
to friction or drying, and we accordingly find that the mouth, 
the part of the pharynx, used in swallowing, the oesophagus, 
and the rectum are lined with the same tissue. The endings 
of nerve fibers are found in the lower layers of the epidermis. 



E 



FIG. 84. Hair and hair follicle 

A, horny layer of epidermis. B, 
layer of living, growing cells ex- 
tending (B') into the hair follicle, at 
the bottom of which it forms the 
mass of growing cells E over the 
papilla (P) with its knot of capil- 
laries; the growth, multiplication, 
and transformation of these cells 
into horny fibers forms the shaft of 
the hair, D. C, capillaries in the 
dermis. S, a sebaceous gland dis- 
charging its oily secretion (0) into 
the follicle to lubricate the hair and 
the horny layer of the skin 



186 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 




The hairs, the sweat glands, and the nails are modified 
portions of the epidermis. Of these the hairs and the sweat 
glands are of sufficient importance to merit some description. 

6. Structure of a hair and a hair follicle. A hair grows from 
the bottom of a pit, the hair follicle, which extends downward 

into the dermis or even into the 
subcutaneous tissue. Microscopic 
examination shows that this fol- 
licle is lined with a continuation 
of the epidermis, just as a gland 
of the stomach or intestine is 
lined by an ingrowth of the cells 
of its surface. At the bottom of 
the follicle is a papilla, and the 
hair which grows out from this 
papilla to the surface bears to 
the cells of the papilla the same 
relation that the horny layer of 
the epidermis bears to the similar 
underlying cells. We accord- 
ingly find that the hair is com- 
posed of horny scales closely 
pressed together into the well- 
known threadlike structure. 

Opening into the hair follicle, 
one or more sebaceous glands dis- 
charge an oily secretion which 
lubricates the hair and the horny layer of the epidermis, and 
so prevents drying and chapping (Figs. 84 and 85). 

7. The sweat glands are tubular prolongations of the epi- 
dermis through the dermis into the subcutaneous tissue. Here 
the tube becomes much coiled, forming the secreting recess, 
which is richly supplied with blood vessels and also receives 
nerves. It is a simple tubular gland formed as an ingrowth 
from the epidermis (see Figs. 86 and 89). 



FIG. 85. Magnified section of the 

lower portion of a hair and hair 

follicle 

A, membrane of the hair follicle, 
cells with nuclei and pigmentary 
granules ; B, external lining of the 
root sheath; C, internal lining of 
the root sheath; D, cortical or 
fibrous portion of the hair shaft; 
E, medullary portion (pith) of 
shaft; F, hair bulb, showing its 
development from cells from A 



EXCRETION 



1ST 



8. The secretion of the perspiration, like the secretion of 
the gastric juice, is under the control of the nervous system. 
When the nerves going to the sweat glands of a given 
area of skin are cut or otherwise injured, the secretion of 
perspiration ceases over that area; and the appearance of 
cold beads of perspiration as the result of fright shows 
how events taking place in the nervous _4-s5^i5s^s=ss. 
system may excite these glands to activity JR 

apart from the presence of their usual 
stimuli the application of heat to the 
skin and the liberation of heat within the 
body by muscular and other activities. 
The distinction should be made between 
the so-called " sensible " and " insensible " 
perspiration, the latter name being given 
to the perspiration the water of which 
evaporates as fast as secreted ; the former 
to that which does not evaporate so rapidly 
and hence remains for a time on the sur- 
face of the skin. When the water evapo- 
rates, the dissolved solids (salts, urea, and 
other compounds) remain behind on the 
skin. 

9. Value of profuse perspiration in the FIG. 86. Sweat gland 
care of the skin. While the skin is not (slightly ma s nified ) 

., ,. ,-, Note the coiled form 

primarily an organ of excretion, the per- of the tube in the 




subcutaneous 
Of. Fig. 



tissue. 




spiration contains a certain amount of 
waste substances and salts, which are left 
by the evaporation of the water upon the surface and, to 
some extent, in the mouths of the ducts of the sweat glands ; 
this is especially the case when evaporation takes place about 
as rapidly as the perspiration is discharged. When the secre- 
tion of perspiration is more abundant, as during muscular 
work, or at very high temperatures, or, in general, where it 
does not evaporate as rapidly as discharged, the accumulation 



188 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of solids in the ducts of the glands is washed out. For this 
reason a vigorous perspiration followed by a bath is a useful 
hygienic measure in the care of the skin, although it is not 
necessary, as is sometimes supposed, in order to secure the 
efficient elimination of wastes from the blood. 

10. The skin as an organ of absorption. While it is true 
that water as perspiration may readily find its way out 
through the skin, such escape is effected chiefly by the 
sweat glands, which are under the strict control of the nerv- 
ous system. Apart from this the skin is virtually water- 
tight; and, oiled as it is by the secretion of the sebaceous 
glands, it serves both to keep in the water, which forms so 
important a part of the tissues, and also to keep out water 
which might otherwise soak into the body, as, for example, 
during bathing. This waterproof characteristic also makes it 
next to impossible for us to absorb food materials by way of 
the skin. A " milk bath" may be at times useful in the care 
of the skin, because the fat or oil of the milk may supply 
any deficiency in the sebaceous secretion and so insure 
lubrication of the epidermis ; but it cannot be regarded as 
a means of supplying food to the body. 



CHAPTER XII 

THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 
A. THE CONSTANT TEMPERATURE 

1. The normal temperature. No characteristic of the 
human mechanism is more remarkable than its constant 
temperature. Whether we are awake or asleep, by night or 
by day, at work or at rest, at home or abroad, in summer 
or in winter, in the tropics or in the polar regions, in subter- 
ranean caves or on lofty mountain peaks, the temperature of 
healthy human beings is always nearly the same. So steady 
is this temperature that an increase or decrease of two or 
three degrees gives just cause for anxiety, and a change of 
seven or eight degrees is looked upon with alarm. 

In many modern laboratories constant temperatures are 
obtained by the use of a thermostat, the apparatus of which 
is visible and easily understood ; but no such special appa- 
ratus regulates the constant temperature of the human body, 
and we have rather to seek an explanation in the coordi- 
nated activities of organs already familiar, such as muscles, 
skin, blood vessels, and especially the all-controlling nervous 
system. 

2. Temperature and chemical changes. Every chemical 
reaction takes place more readily under some external 
physical conditions than under others, and among these 
conditions none is more important than temperature. This 
fact is illustrated in the case of the enzymes. At the freez- 
ing point saliva exerts no action upon starch paste ; as the 
temperature rises, the activity of the enzyme increases up 
to a certain point and then diminishes more or less rapidly 

189 



190 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

until a point is finally reached at which its peculiar chemi- 
cal properties are destroyed. 

3. Temperature and vital activities. When we come to 
the activities of living cells activities which, it will be 
recalled, depend on chemical changes precisely the same 
thing holds true and in so striking a manner as to create a 
widespread but erroneous impression that this dependence 
upon temperature is peculiarly characteristic of living things. 
The one-celled animal, amoeba, moves about more actively 
and digests more food at 20 C. than at 10 C. ; bacteria 
grow more rapidly at the room temperature than near the 
freezing point; the pitch of the note made by a cricket rises 
with the temperature, indicating that the movements of the 
wing covers which produce the sound are being made more 
rapidly ; and in the winter sleep of hibernating animals we 
have a beautiful example of the decline of vital activities 
with the fall of external temperature. 

Nor are the living cells of the human body exceptions to 
this rule. The rate of the heart beat varies directly with the 
temperature of the blood, and the character of the breathing 
movements is influenced by the same cause; a cooled muscle 
contracts more slowly, a cooled gland secretes less abun- 
dantly. If the temperature of the body itself falls, every 
vital activity is depressed, and death itself may result from 
undue cooling. 

4. The constant temperature of the body. This depression 
of nervous, muscular, and glandular activity results, how- 
ever, only from a fall of the temperature of the body, not of 
that of the surrounding air or other medium. These two 
things are by no means the same, as may be readily seen 
from the fact that a thermometer placed in the mouth indi- 
cates almost the same temperature of the body on warm and 
on cold days ; even while we are shivering with cold the 
thermometer gives about the same reading as when we are 
enjoying the warmest summer weather. The temperature of 



THEEMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 191 

the body remains nearly constant, regardless of changes in 
the temperature of the air around it. 

We have only to appeal to experience to see that this is 
not the way in which lifeless matter generally behaves; a 
stone, the earth, a piece of iron is warmer on a warm day 
and colder on a cold day; in general, lifeless things take the 
temperature of the medium in which they are placed, and this 
is one of the fundamental principles of physics. Nor do most 
living things act differently ; the temperature of a plant or 
a tree, of an earthworm, a frog, a turtle, a snake, does not 
differ greatly from that of its surroundings. It is only birds 
and mammals which show this remarkable power of maintain- 
ing an approximately constant body temperature notwith- 
standing wide limits of change in that of the surrounding air. 
Such animals are known as warm-Hooded because they are 
usually warmer than surrounding objects; those animals 
which do not thus maintain a constant temperature, on the 
other hand, are known as cold-blooded. 1 

It is clear that the power to maintain a constant body 
temperature is of the utmost importance in enabling an ani- 
mal to counteract the varying conditions of climate. Were 
it not for this power, man would be a hibernating animal; 
with the coming of winter all his activities would gradually 
be slowed down and, long before our rivers and ponds had 
begun to freeze, all business, industrial life, and intellectual 
life would come to a standstill ; it would not be possible 
for the human race to people every zone of the earth the 
shores of Alaska or Iceland as well as the banks of the 
Ganges or the Amazon. 

5. The temperature of the body not absolutely constant. 
The term " constant " as applied to the temperature of 

1 A cold-blooded animal exposed to a temperature of 99 F. is as warm 
as a warm-blooded animal. Such animals are so called because they usually 
feel colder when handled than do warm-blooded animals ; but this is merely 
because the temperature of the air (which is also their temperature) is usually 
lower than the temperature of warm-blooded animals. 



192 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

warm-blooded animals is not, however, to be taken too literally. 
No animal has an absolutely constant temperature. In the first 
place, there are slight variations from time to time under the 
changing conditions of life. The temperature is higher by 
from one to four degrees during muscular activity than 
during rest; it varies during the day, being highest in the 
afternoon and lowest in the small hours of the morning; it 
is often raised half a degree or more by taking food, and 
marked changes of surrounding temperature may cause a 
change of one degree or even more in that of the body. 
These changes between 97.5 and 99.5 F. are of everyday 
occurrence and are entirely normal; so that when we speak 
of the temperature of the body being constant we mean that 
it varies only within narrow limits or that it is constant in 
comparison with that observed in cold-blooded animals. 

6. The temperature of different organs. Nor is this all ; 
some parts of the body have a higher temperature than 
others. Thus the temperature of the liver is often as high 
as 107 F. ; that of the muscles varies between 99 and 
105 F. ; that of the blood in the right side of the heart is 
usually a degree or so higher than that of the blood in the 
left side. But it is in the skin that we meet with the widest 
variations from the general average. Everyone knows that 
on a very cold day the temperature of the skin may be far 
below 98.6 F. ; indeed, the experience of " frosted " ears or 
feet shows that at times cutaneous temperature may descend 
to, or even below, the freezing point itself; and it is very 
exceptional indeed when the skin temperature is above 92 
or 93 F., even on very hot summer days. These variations 
are due to the fact that the skin is the organ which is 
immediately exposed to the changing environment and 
hence peculiarly subject to cooling influences. It is there- 
fore customary to distinguish between an outer body zone 
of variable temperature and the more constant temperature 
of internal organs. 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 193 

7. Measurement of the body temperature. The great equal- 
izer of the body temperature is the blood. Blood which has 
flowed through the skin comes away cooled ; that which 
comes from an organ like the liver or a working muscle, in 
which active oxidations or other chemical changes have taken 
place, is heated. In the great veins and in the heart the 
warmer blood is mixed with the cooler, and an average 
temperature of the arterial blood results. It is this average 
temperature of the arterial blood flowing to the organs that 
is approximately constant. 

When this blood flows for a time through an organ which 
is itself not producing heat and is at the same time protected 
from loss of heat, the organ ultimately takes on the tempera- 
ture of the blood; so that by measuring the temperature of 
such an organ we get the temperature of the blood itself. 
It is customary to take the temperature in the mouth, the 
bulb of the thermometer being placed under the tongue and 
the lips kept closed. Subject to the variations mentioned 
above, the temperature of the mouth is 98.6 F. 

8. The feeling of cold or warmth not a true test of the 
body temperature. It is well at this point to warn the stu- 
dent against confusing the body temperature with sensations 
of cold or warmth. Just as visual sensations are aroused 
only by that light which falls upon the sense organ espe- 
cially adapted to respond to its stimulation, namely the eye, 
while light falling upon the skin arouses no such sensation, 
so heat and cold can excite the corresponding sensations 
only when they act on special end organs adapted to receive 
these stimuli, and these end organs are found only in the 
skin, the mouth, and perhaps the nose, pharynx, and upper 
oesophagus. We are therefore conscious only of the tempera- 
ture of these organs ; we are not and cannot be conscious of 
the temperature of the blood or of internal organs generally. 
It is therefore clear that our feelings give us no reliable in- 
formation as to the temperature of the internal parts of the 



194 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

body. This fact is strikingly illustrated in the case of a " chill/' 
when the internal temperature is almost always really above, 
and not below, the normal, and the feeling of warmth pro- 
duced by muscular activity or by warming one's self at a fire 
merely indicates a higher temperature of the skin, not a higher 
temperature of internal organs. 

Having now learned the more obvious facts about the 
constant temperature of the body, we have next to inquire 
by what means this constant temperature is maintained. 

9. The production and the loss of heat. We must first 
remember that the body produces or liberates heat. The 
chemical changes, largely oxidative in character, which are 
at the basis of the work of its muscles, glands, nerve cells, 
etc., liberate heat just as truly as the burning of coal in the 
furnace of an engine liberates heat. Heat production is there- 
fore an indispensable result of cellular and organic activity, 
and it is greatest in those organs, like the muscles and liver, 
which carry out the most active chemical processes. The 
body is warm for the same reason that a stove is warm; 
that is, because heat-producing chemical changes, largely of 
an oxidative character, are going on within it. In the second 
place, the body is always losing heat, and this in two ways: 
(1) by the transfer of heat by conduction, convection, and 
radiation 1 to colder objects or to the colder air with which 
the body is surrounded, and (2) by the evaporation of water 
from the surfaces of the body especially by the evaporation 
of water of perspiration. 

Everyone knows in a general way that when a warm 
body is brought near a colder one, the former becomes colder 
and the latter warmer; heat is transferred from the warmer 
body to the colder. In this way the clothing is warmed by 

1 Those not familiar with the meaning of the terms "conduction," "con- 
vection," and "radiation" will find them explained in section 26 of this 
chapter (p. 211). In the following discussion we have arbitrarily adopted 
the term "heat transfer" to include these three means of heat loss, in order 
to distinguish them from the loss of heat by evaporation. 



THEEMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 195 

contact with the body; so is the air in immediate contact 
with the skin ; and conversely the body may be warmed by 
contact with anything warmer than itself, a hot- water bottle, 
for example. It is not, however, necessary that two solid 
bodies be in actual contact in order that heat may pass from 
one to the other. A stove warms all the objects in a room, 
although few of them are touching it ; and the human body 
may lose heat to, or gain heat from, objects at a greater or 
less distance. The heating of the body by the sun, millions 
of miles away, clearly shows this fact. 

The loss of heat by evaporation of water or other liquid 
from the skin may be readily illustrated by the simple experi- 
ment of blowing a gentle current of cool, dry. air over the 
dry hand and comparing the cooling thus produced with 
that which results from blowing a similar current against 
the moistened hand. In the latter case the cooling will be 
much greater than in the former. Liquids, like ether, which 
evaporate more rapidly than water will produce even greater 
feeling of cold on the skin. 

10. The heat account of the body. The body is therefore 
constantly receiving and constantly giving out heat, just as 
a bank is constantly receiving and paying out cash. In the 
bank a cash account is kept, on one side of which is entered 
the cash received and on the other the cash paid out. The 
difference between the two sides, known in business as the 
balance of the account, shows how much cash is on hand at 
the time of taking the balance. Should the cash unduly 
accumulate, efforts are made to keep down the balance by 
increasing loans ; should the cash on hand fall below a 
desired level, active efforts to encourage loans are lessened 
and the normal desired balance is restored; finally, should 
there be an unusual demand for cash at the window of the 
paying teller, for example, a " run on the bank," the bank 
will borrow from other banks and in this way keep income 
and outgo of cash approximately equal. 



196 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

In what follows the student will learn that this is precisely 
what the body is doing with regard to heat. We may, in- 
deed, imagine a heat account of the body, the two sides of 
which would be as follows: 

DEBIT CREDIT 

(Heat received) (Output of heat) 

1. Heat produced within the body. 1. Heat transferred to surround- 

2. Heat transferred to the body ing objects colder than the 

from warmer objects without body (by conduction, convec- 

(by conduction, convection, tion, and radiation), 

and radiation). 2. Heat lost in evaporating water 

of perspiration, etc. 

The balance of this heat account at any one time is the 
amount of heat in the body, and this determines the temper- 
ature of the body. When the output of heat exactly equals 
the heat received, the balance of the account remains the 
same ; that/ is to say, the temperature is constant. A con- 
stant temperature, therefore, means that the two sides of 
the heat account are being kept equal to each other. If 
the balance increases, either by the production of more heat 
or by the loss of less, the temperature of the body rises, 
and we have fever. 

11. Transfer of heat dependent upon the nature of the 
vehicle of transfer. The rate at which heat may be trans- 
ferred depends upon the nature of the substance through 
which the transfer occurs and which we may speak of as the 
vehicle of transfer. We cannot go minutely into the factors 
here concerned, but would call attention to the following 
points, which will be readily verified from experience: 

1. A gas is in general a poorer vehicle of heat transfer than 
a liquid or a solid. We make use of this fact in the manu- 
facture of fabrics for our warmer clothing, for these fabrics 
are warm according to the quantity of air within their meshes. 
A woolen garment is warmer than a cotton garment because 
it contains within the fabric so large a quantity of the poorly 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 197 

conducting air;' or, of two woolen garments of the same 
thickness, one of which is rather loosely and the other tightly 
woven, the loosely woven garment will be much the warmer 
because so large a proportion of its thickness consists of the 
poorly conducting air rather than of the rather rapidly 
conducting solid woolen fibers (see p. 423). Or, again, 
air of 70 F. is very comfortable ; it feels neither cold nor 
warm to the skin ; but water of 70 F. feels distinctly cool. 
This is because heat is conducted away from the skin more 
rapidly by water than by air. For this reason we may feel 
chilly when our clothing has become drenched with rain. 

2. Moist air is a letter vehicle of heat transfer than dry air. 
This becomes obvious when one is exposed to damp air at a 
temperature of less than 70, and the familiar difference be- 
tween dry and damp winds in winter illustrates the same fact, 
for a damp wind at 50 F. chills the skin more than a dry 
wind at 40 F. The student is cautioned, however, against 
supposing that dampness always favors the output of heat 
from the body ; it favors only one method of heat output, 
namely the transfer of heat. On the other hand, dampness 
hinders the output of heat by evaporation. Hence at those 
temperatures (above 80) where the output is chiefly by 
evaporation, a damp atmosphere is close, warm, and muggy ; 
where the output is chiefly by heat transfer (below 70), a 
damp atmosphere is chilly. 

12. The evaporation and not the secretion of perspiration 
cools the body. The student should understand clearly that 
it is the evaporation of the perspiration, not the secretion of 
it, which abstracts heat from the body. Perspiration may be 
secreted in large quantities, but if it does not evaporate, 
as happens on a very moist, humid, muggy day, when the 
atmosphere already contains about as much aqueous vapor as 
it can hold, it takes little or no heat from the skin. Nor 
is the efficiency of the perspiration as a cooling agent meas- 
ured by the amount of visible or " sensible " perspiration, for 



198 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

this is only the perspiration which has not evaporated ; the 
true measure of the cooling effect would be the perspiration 
which has evaporated and of which we are not conscious. 

It is important to note that the evaporation of perspira- 
tion (or of water from the lungs and air passages) is the 
only means of cooling the body when objects around it are 
warmer than the body itself. In this case the agents of heat 
transfer only add heat to the body, but even their combined 
action may often be overcome by an abundant evaporation 
of perspiration. Men have remained for some time in rooms 
whose temperature was as high as 260 F., or 48 above the 
boiling point of water, without any marked rise of the body 
temperature and without severe discomfort, the temperature 
of the body being kept down solely by the evaporation of 
perspiration from the skin. In order to make this means of 
cooling possible, it is absolutely essential that the air be dry 
and capable of taking up moisture. No one can survive long 
at such temperatures in moist air. 

13. The effect of stagnant versus moving air ; the aerial 
blanket. On a perfectly still day the layer of air about the 
body becomes warmed by the skin and, so long as it is not 
removed, forms an air-blanket which goes far to keep the 
skin warm; for air is a poor conductor of heat. As soon, 
however, as a breeze springs up, convection comes into play 
and the skin is cooled more rapidly. In stagnant air, more- 
over, the evaporation of the perspiration tends to saturate 
this air-blanket with water vapor, so that further evaporation 
is rendered difficult. Accordingly, when perspiration is not 
being secreted, moving air cools the body by increasing con- 
vection ; and when the skin is moist it cools the body both 
by increasing convection and by facilitating the evaporation 
of perspiration. The breeze which in winter is an unwhole- 
some draft, in summer is often absolutely essential to working 
power as well as to bodily comfort, for without it we are 
clothed in this aerial blanket. 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 199 

B. THE REGULATION OF THE BODY TEMPERATURE 

14. How the balance of the heat account may be disturbed. 

Events both within the body and in its immediate surround- 
ings tend to change the balance of the heat account ; that is, 
to upset the equilibrium previously existing between heat 
loss and heat production. The most important of these 
events are (1) muscular activity and the digestion of food 
within, and (2) changes of atmospheric or weather condi- 
tions without. Let us consider how each of these acts. 

Muscular activity, by producing more heat within the body, 
would tend to increase the heat balance ; and, unless measures 
were taken at the same time to increase heat output, the tem- 
perature of the body would rise. Muscular activity may double 
or even treble the heat produced. The digestion of a meal 
similarly liberates heat within the body and so tends to raise 
its temperature, but the heat produced in this case is far less 
in amount than that produced during muscular activity. 

Changes of atmospheric or weather conditions act by changing 
the ease with which heat is lost ; and, remembering that heat 
is lost in two ways, by transfer to colder surroundings and 
by evaporation of perspiration, we must inquire how various 
weather conditions influence each of these agents of heat out- 
put. The three main weather conditions are the temperature, 
movement, and moisture of the air, and the following tabular 
form will aid in understanding the relation of each of these 
conditions to the heat output of the body. 

I. TEMPERATURE OF AIR 

A. INFLUENCE ON HEAT B. INFLUENCE ON EVAPO- 

TRANSFER RATION 

Heat is transferred more rapidly The warmer the air, the more 

to colder surroundings than to water vapor it can take up. This 
surroundings which are near the facilitates the evaporation of per- 
temperature of the body. spiration on a warm day, when 

this is most needed to cool the body. 



200 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



II. MOVEMENT OF AIR 



A. INFLUENCE ON HEAT 
TRANSFER 

Movement of air increases heat 
transfer to the atmosphere by re- 
placing the " aerial blanket " of 
warmed air with colder air, to 
which heat is transferred more 
rapidly. 



B. INFLUENCE ON EVAPO- 
RATION 

When perspiration is evapo- 
rating into stagnant air in contact 
with the skin, this air becomes 
more nearly saturated with water 
vapor, and its power of absorbing 
water vapor is lessened. By re- 
placing the "aerial blanket" of 
muggy air with dry air, the out- 
put of heat by evaporation is 
greatly favored. 



III. HUMIDITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE 



A. INFLUENCE ON HEAT 
TRANSFER 

Humidity increases the rate of 
transfer of heat, as explained on 
page 197. This is of little impor- 
tance on warm days, because little 
heat is then transferred either by 
dry or by moist air. On cooler 
days it is of great importance. 



B. INFLUENCE ON EVAPO- 
RATION 

Humidity diminishes the out- 
put of heat by evaporation, because 
the water vapor which the atmos- 
phere can take up is limited and 
a humid atmosphere is one already 
largely saturated. This influence 
of humidity is of no consequence 
unless perspiration is being se- 
creted, but it is a very important 
matter on warm days. 



15. How the heat balance when disturbed is restored by 
the body. In these ways changes in the activities of daily 
life and changes of weather tend to change the heat balance 
of the body that is to say, they tend to change the tem- 
perature of the body. And they would do this, did not the 
body possess tne power, within certain limits, of changing 
both its rate of heat loss and its rate of heat production. 

The rate of heat loss may be changed in two ways: 
(1) by changing the quantity of blood flowing through the 
skin. Obviously the more the warmed blood is kept within 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 201 

the internal organs, the smaller will be the amount of heat 
transferred from the surface of the body to surrounding 
objects. The student now understands the reason for the 
reactions of the circulation to changes of surrounding tem- 
perature. The entire vasomotor mechanism with its vaso- 
constrictor and vasodilator nerves thus forms part of the 
mechanism of temperature regulation. The rate of heat loss 
may also be changed (2) by producing a secretion of per- 
spiration. This secretion begins at about 68 or 70 F. in 
the body at rest and increases in amount as the external 
temperature rises. The sweat glands are thrown into action 
by nervous impulses. Hence the nervous system through its 
nerves to the arterioles and the sweat glands controls the 
output of heat from the body. 

The nervous system also controls the rate of heat produc- 
tion, for this is changed by increasing or diminishing the 
activity of the skeletal muscles. We are more active on cold 
than on warm days, and this apart from any conscious adjust- 
ment of muscular activity to the temperature needs of the 
body. We shall return to several interesting features of this 
part of our subject in later paragraphs. 

16. Reactions of the body at rest and lightly clad to changes 
of external temperature. Having learned the more important 
principles concerned in maintaining the constant heat balance, 
let us now observe the actual behavior of the body as the 
external temperature changes, assuming that the air remains 
of moderate humidity and that there is little or no wind. 1 
To do this let us suppose that the body at rest and lightly 
clad is exposed, to begin with, to a temperature of 90 F. 
At this point but little heat is transferred by conduction, con- 
vection, and radiation from the skin to surrounding objects, 
since both are so nearly of the same temperature. Hence the 
main reliance for getting rid of the heat constantly being 
liberated is upon the evaporation of the perspiration, which 
1 Consult Fig. 87 when reading this section. 



202 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



is abundantly secreted; the cutaneous arterioles are also 
widely dilated. Let us now suppose the day becomes cooler 
and the temperature falls to 80 F. Heat production remains 
unchanged ; but more heat is now transferred to the cooler 
surrounding objects, and less is lost by evaporation because 
less perspiration is secreted. As the external temperature 
falls further, still more heat is transferred to colder objects 

















o 

N 


|E 
fc 




























1 

i 




DANGER 


( 

*5 
j 


t* 


i* 














1 
1 

1 












I 




^ 


I 


























1 








1 


























1 


































1 
































1 


1 
































1 
































1 


1 


1 






























1 


1 


1 














i 






i 







100 90^80 7: 72 70. 68 64 GO 50 40 30 20 10* -10* 
Heat loss 
checked 



Problem is to get 
rid of the heat 



solely by 
vasomotor 

means 
= Heat production 



Problem is to produce heat 



enough to compensate for 
the rapid loss 



= Heat lost by transfer (conduction, convection, radiation) 
..-. = Heat lost by evaporation of perspiration 



FIG. 87. Production and output of heat at different temperatures 

and correspondingly less is lost by evaporation of the per- 
spiration until, somewhere about 68 to 70 F., exactly the 
same amount of heat is lost by conduction, convection, and 
radiation as is produced. At Ms point the secretion of the 
perspiration ceases. 

Thus far the difficulty in maintaining a constant tempera- 
ture has been that of getting rid of heat under atmospheric 
conditions which are unfavorable for the ready conduction, 
convection, and radiation of heat from the skin. Blood is 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 203 

brought in large quantities to the skin and correspondingly 
drawn away from internal organs, and the evaporation of 
perspiration becomes increasingly important as the external 
temperature rises from 70 F. to 90 and 100 F. The 
organism is striving against a rise of its body temperature. 

About 68 or 70 F., however, the situation changes ; for, 
as the external temperature continues to fall, heat begins to 
be transferred to surrounding objects more rapidly than it is 
produced. The temperature of the body would fall if no 
means were taken to prevent the result. Even during the 
fall from 90 to 70 the cutaneous arterioles, widely dilated 
at the higher temperature, have been gradually increasing 
their tone and so sending diminishing quantities of blood 
through the skin. Below 68 to 70 this tone rapidly increases ; 
the veins are no longer conspicuous on the hand and arm ; 
if the blood is forced out of a portion of the skin by gentle 
compression with the finger, the color returns slowly, indi- 
cating considerable constriction of the cutaneous arterioles. 
At the same time the arterioles of internal organs are dilat- 
ing (see p. 152) so that the liver, the kidneys, the mucous 
membranes of the alimentary canal and of the air passages 
contain an increasing quantity of blood. The body is now 
striving against a fall of its internal temperature by driving the 
blood from the skin back upon internal organs. 

By the time the temperature has fallen to 60 F., or there- 
abouts, the cutaneous arterioles have constricted to their 
utmost, the blood flow through the skin has nearly ceased, 
and the organism has no means at command by which to 
restrict the further output of heat. If in this emergency 
heat production were to remain constant while external tem- 
perature continued to fall, the temperature of the body would 
be lowered, for the transfer of heat would not only continue 
but increase. That it is not usually lowered is due solely 
to the fact that more heat is then produced within the body ; 
the oxidations (and hence heat production) which have 



204 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



remained fairly constant in amount between 90 F. and 65 F. 
now increase to compensate the inevitable loss, and continue to 
increase as the atmospheric temperature continues to fall. The 
body is now striving against the effects of a rapid and inevitable 
loss of heat by producing more heat, and continues to do so until 
somewhere near the freezing point (32 F.) it can no longer pro- 
duce enough heat to balance the loss ; the temperature of the 
body then falls and the man ultimately freezes to death. 1 

Briefly, then, at an external temperature somewhere be- 
tween 65 and 70 heat production exactly equals heat trans- 
fer, and it is not necessary that the body make any special 
effort to get rid of heat or to compensate for heat loss. 
The blood is properly distributed between the skin and internal 
organs, and there is no excess in either. This we may call the 
ideal or optimum temperature, for the given conditions. 
Above this point measures must be taken to provide for an 
adequate heat output by sending a larger quantity of blood 
to the skin and by the secretion of perspiration ; below this 
point measures of the opposite kind must be taken to check 
heat loss or even to increase heat production. 

17. Changes of the optimum temperature with high humid- 
ity, with wind, and with muscular activity. High humidity, 
by facilitating the transfer of heat from the body, raises the 
optimum temperature a few degrees ; a room is comfortable 
at 65 when the air is dry; it is too cool when the air is 
moist. Wind may raise the optimum temperature still more, 
and for the same reason; it may be safe to sit in a breeze 
at 75 when it is decidedly unsafe to do so at 65 or 70. 

Muscular activity on the other hand, because of the produc- 
tion of larger quantities of heat, lowers the optimum tem- 
perature, for at the lower temperature the agencies of heat 
transfer can get rid of the excess of heat without a large 
blood flow to the skin and without inducing perspiration. 

1 In all this it must be remembered that the body is still lightly clad and 
at rest. 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 205 



In all cases, rest or muscular activity, high or low 
humidity, wind or calm, wherever the point of optimum 
external temperature may be, we always find above this 
point the region of active measures for heat dissipation, 
and below it the region of active heat production. This is 
graphically shown in Fig. 88. 

18. The " danger zone " of atmospheric temperature. We have 
seen that, as the temperature falls from 70 to 60, the main 
agency employed for temperature regulation is the diminution 
of the blood flow through the skin, with its compensating in- 
crease of the blood flow within internal organs, thereby retaining 



100 90 80 70 60 50 40' 



-m i 



Rest, normal humidity, 

no wind 
Rest, high humidity 

Rest, wind 
Muscular activity 



= Optimum temperature 

I = Point at which increased heat production begins 

Blank space between the two indicates region of the " danger zone" 

FIG. 88. Variations in the optimum temperature 

as far as possible the heat within the body. This threatens 
serious congestions and other unhealthful conditions, which 
we shall consider at length in our study of hygiene (see 
Chap. XXI). It is because the temperature of a room may 
fall from 66 to 60 so gradually that we do not notice it 
until the internal damage is done, whereas it could not fall 
to 50 or 40 without our noticing it and correcting the 
trouble, that more colds are taken in the former case than 
in the latter. In other words, as the temperature goes below 
65 the body seems at first to rely wholly on the vascular 
mechanism of temperature regulation, and does not begin to 
produce more heat until this resource has been utilized not 
only to its utmost, but even to an extent inconsistent with 
health. The "danger zone" temperature may then be defined 



206 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

as beginning a degree or two below the ideal or optimum 
temperature and extending about five degrees below this 
point. Like the optimum temperature, its exact position 
varies with atmospheric conditions and with the amount 
of muscular activity. 

19. The influence of clothing. In the discussion above we 
have assumed that the clothing has not been changed with 
the change of external temperature, etc. Clothing, however, 
may modify greatly the figures given above, for it interferes 
with the loss of heat from the skin, and the obvious effect 
of increasing its weight is to lower the optimum temperature 
and the region of dangerous temperature. By changes of 
clothing, by muscular activity, and by the use of fans, man 
has it in his power to supplement the unconscious reflex 
adjustments which we have thus far been studying by a 
conscious adaptation to changing conditions of climate or 
weather. The hygienic use of clothing will be discussed 
in Chapter XXVI. 

20. Temperature regulation and muscular activity. The 
reactions of the body to maintain its constant temperature 
during muscular activity are familiar to everyone, and it 
is only necessary to sum them up and to point out some 
practical applications. The arterioles of the skin are dilated 
(while those of internal organs are constricted) and perspi- 
ration is secreted. These are the same reactions which are 
noticed when the body is exposed to external warmth, and 
their purpose is the same in both cases to facilitate the 
escape of heat. But in the one case they are made necessary 
by the fact that climatic conditions interfere with the out- 
put of heat, in the other by the fact that more heat is being 
liberated and hence more must be got rid of. 

Seldom indeed is so severe a strain imposed upon the 
mechanism of heat dissipation as during vigorous muscular 
exertion, and especially when the external conditions are not 
favorable for the output of heat. Caution is then urgently 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 207 

indicated lest we make the strain too great. It is a practical 
point to remember in this connection that some forms of 
muscular exertion introduce conditions for getting rid of the 
surplus heat much more readily than others ; this is especially 
true of those which involve movement of the body as a 
whole. Bicycle or horseback riding, by creating a breeze, 
renders the cooling of the body a much easier matter than 
does sawing wood, or swinging Indian clubs, or gymnastic 
work in general ; again, a particular form of exercise on a 
dry day, when the perspiration can evaporate readily, may 
be safe, while it would be decidedly inadvisable on a muggy 
day, even though the temperature were somewhat lower. 
Indeed, by this time the student must have learned that 
the thermometer alone is no safe indicator of the difficulty 
of heat elimination in warm weather. 

21. Relations of climatic conditions to mental work and 
sleep. During mental work the brain requires an increased 
supply of blood, and this is obtained partly by diminishing 
the supply to the skin (constriction of cutaneous arteries) ; 
during sleep, on the other hand, the supply to the brain is 
diminished, and this is ordinarily effected by dilating the 
arteries of the skin (see p. 155). Mental work is difficult 
on very warm days, partly because it is difficult to bring 
about cutaneous constriction ; and it is especially difficult 
on warm, muggy days, since the maintenance of the constant 
temperature then requires an excessive cutaneous dilation, and 
the brain is quite unable to command its needed blood supply. 

It is also clear that since the arterioles of the skin should 
dilate during sleep, and since they cannot readily do this 
when the skin is exposed to cold, to " sleep warm " is good 
advice, based on sound physiological principles. 

22. Digestion and the maintenance of the constant temper- 
ature. During digestion, and especially during its earlier 
stages, when secretion is at its maximum, a large supply 
of blood is needed in the stomach, the pancreas, and the 



208 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

intestine. This cannot readily be secured when blood is 
being sent in large quantities to the skin in order to cool 
the body. We have seen all along that the two great vas- 
cular areas of the skin and digestive organs are more or less 
antagonistic or compensating in their vasomotor reactions. 
When the blood is present in large quantities in the skin, 
it is present in smaller quantities in the stomach, the intes- 
tine, the pancreas, the liver; and, vice versa, these organs 
can best obtain an adequate blood supply when the de- 
mands of the skin are not excessive. Consequently diges- 
tion is more difficult in warm than in cold weather, and we 
should then eat less at a time, even if we have to eat 
somewhat more frequently. 

During the digestion of a meal the chemical activities of 
secretion, the peristaltic muscular movements, etc., somewhat 
increase heat production in the body; and this increase, 
though not great, is at times great enough to make us feel 
distinctly warmer. When one is slightly chilly, for example, 
he often feels warmer after eating something, even though 
the meal be cold ; and on a very warm, muggy day, when 
the blood flow through the skin is already excessive and its 
temperature unduly high, the digestion of a meal often adds 
to the discomfort, because the larger production of heat leads 
to further dilation of the skin vessels. 

23. The mechanism of temperature regulation. The pre- 
ceding pages have shown us that temperature regulation 
depends chiefly on three physiological mechanisms: (1) the 
vasomotor system, which controls the distribution of blood 
between the skin and the internal organs ; (2) the sweat 
glands ; (3) the mechanism of heat production. The first 
of these has already been described in the study of the 
circulation. The heating of the skin stimulates afferent 
nerves which reflexly dilate the arteries of the skin and 
also simultaneously constrict those of internal organs. This 
reflex, then, is dependent on the temperature of the skin ; 



THEEMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 209 

anything which heats the skin causes a reflex dilation of its 
arterioles and lessens the supply of blood to internal organs. 
The secretion of perspiration is also under the control 
of the nervous system. The sweat glands, like the salivary 
glands, receive nerves, and secrete only in response to their 
stimulation. When the nerves going to the sweat glands of 
any region are injured, exposure of these glands to external 



353^ Nerve Endings affected 
by Warmth 




FIG. 89. Diagram of the cutaneous reflexes of temperature regulation 

Showing the epidermis, blood vessels of the dermis, a sweat gland, and the 
nervous mechanism governing blood vessels and sweat glands 

warmth produces no perspiration ; stimulation of their nerves, 
however, produces a copious secretion. 

24. The skeletal muscles the main organs in the regulation 
of heat production. The third mechanism of heat regulation 
is that whereby the amount of heat produced is increased 
as it is needed. The main organs here concerned are the 
skeletal muscles. As the afferent impulses started in the 
skin by the stimulation of cold become stronger, they ulti- 
mately stimulate reflexly the skeletal muscles to contraction, 
and so to the production of heat. This contraction does not 



210 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

ordinarily produce motion, because antagonistic muscles are 
stimulated equally ; but in another way we are often con- 
scious of this increased muscular action. Everyone knows 
the difference between the " bracing " effects of a cool or 
cold day and the " relaxed," " slack-twisted " feeling on a 
warm day ; and this is largely traceable to the sensations 
which come from the contracting muscles in the former case 
and to the absence of such sensations from the inactive 
muscles in the latter. To put it in another way, cold 
increases the tone of the skeletal muscles (see p. 161). A 
skeletal muscle on a cold day is never completely relaxed ; 
like the unstriped muscles of the arteries, it is in a con- 
dition somewhere between extreme contraction and extreme 
relaxation. 

This muscular reflex also betrays itself in shivering. 
Ordinarily the reflex contraction consists of an even, steady 
tone, but at times it becomes more or less incoordinated, 
and shivering results. 

25. The regulation of the body temperature a function of the 
nervous system. We may close this brief account of thermal 
phenomena of the body by recalling to the attention of the 
student what must now be obvious at a glance ; namely, that 
a constant temperature is maintained by the coordinating 
action of very many nervous reflexes. The action of the 
vasomotors of the skin and of the internal organs, of the 
nerves of the sweat glands and of the motor nerves of 
the skeletal muscles must all be so adjusted with regard 
to one another that exactly the right balance is preserved 
amid all the variations of heat production and of climatic 
conditions which affect heat loss. Success in this adjustment 
depends upon the skill with which the coordinating nervous 
system does its part. With the single exception of muscular 
exertion, no condition of life makes such far-reaching or 
such imperious demands upon the system as a whole as does 
the maintenance of the proper internal temperature. Mental 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 211 

work and the efficiency of digestion are examples we have 
already studied and more could easily be cited of func- 
tions which, important as they are, are subordinated, even 
sacrificed, to prevent a marked rise or fall in the temperature 
of the blood. 

To such an extent is the nervous system as a whole 
adapted to maintain the constant temperature, that the failure 
to do this, as shown by the presence of fever or by the even 
more serious subnormal temperature, becomes one of the 
most important indications that something has gone wrong. 
We know already how the nervous system intervenes in 
every function of our lives, and how the well-being of the 
body as a whole depends upon the adjustments which it 
brings about. It is for these reasons that, when it is no 
longer able to exercise that firm control of the constant tem- 
perature which is one of its most characteristic features in 
health, the physician's orders usually are to " go to bed and 
be perfectly quiet." The body is then in no condition to 
make demands on the nervous system for action ; and a per- 
son who refuses to heed the plain warning which his tempera- 
ture holds out has nothing but his own foolishness to blame 
if he suffers serious consequences. 

26. Definitions. Those not familiar with the exact meaning 
of the terms " conduction," " convection," and " radiation " 
will find the following helpful. 

Conduction. Whenever heat is transferred directly from one 
mass of matter to another with which it is in contact, such 
transfer is known as conduction. A good example is the heating 
of a poker in a fire ; the heat of burning coal is communicated 
directly to the outer particles of iron and then from one particle 
of the iron to another. The particles of iron do not move up and 
down the length of the poker ; each one simply passes on to the 
next the heat it has received, and finally those of the handle com- 
municate their heat to the hand. All transfer of heat along solid 
objects, or from one mass of matter to another with which it is in 
immediate contact, is by means of conduction. 



212 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Solids and liquids are much better conductors of heat than 
gases, and air when perfectly still is one of the poorest con- 
ductors of heat with which we have to deal. It is a familiar 
fact that the skin is chilled much more rapidly by water than 
by air of the same temperature (why?); and we shall learn in 
hygiene that warm fabrics owe their warmth mainly to the 
amount of poor-conducting air stagnant within their meshes. 

Convection. When a warm body is surrounded by a fluid such 
as water or air, heat is similarly conducted to the adjacent layer 
of water or air, which thus becomes warmer ; but, unlike the case 
of the solid, this heated layer now moves off, carrying its heat 
with it to other parts of the gas or liquid, and so communicating 
it to other matter with which it subsequently comes in contact. 
This method of heat transfer is known as convection, which, it 
will be seen, depends at bottom upon conduction, but which is at 
the same time conduction modified by the movement of a heated 
gas or liquid. So long as the air around us is at rest, it does not 
remove heat readily from the skin, since air is a poor conductor. 
Air in motion, on the other hand (as in fanning), cools the skin 
more rapidly, because as each part of the air is heated, it is moved 
away and replaced by colder air. In this case the air cools the 
skin by convection (Latin con, w with" ; vekere, "to carry " ). 

The transfer of heat from the internal heat-producing organs 
to the skin affords an excellent example of the difference between 
conduction and convection, for some of this heat passes by direct 
conduction through the subcutaneous tissue to the overlying skin, 
while some of it is carried to the surface by convection in the blood 
stream. When the arterioles of the skin are dilated, convection is 
an important means of heat transfer to the surface ; when, in the 
reverse case, the cutaneous arterioles are constricted to their 
utmost, convection becomes relatively unimportant and direct 
conduction alone remains as the chief means of heat transfer to 
the skin. Moreover, when the subcutaneous tissue contains large 
amounts of fat, it is a poor conductor of heat, and for this reason 
fat people when sitting still on cold days often feel colder than 
lean people do. 

Radiation. Heat is thus removed from the skin by conduction, 
and at times to an even greater extent by convection. But there 
is still a third method of heat loss, known as radiation, by which 



THERMAL PHENOMENA OF THE BODY 213 

heat can be transferred across a space in which there is neither 
solid, liquid, nor gas, and in which conduction and convection are 
consequently impossible. The most familiar and striking example 
of radiation is the transfer of heat from the sun to the earth, since 
there is no atmosphere in the greater part of the more than ninety 
millions of miles of space which separate us from that intensely 
heated body. 

Any detailed consideration of radiation belongs to the domain 
of physics rather than physiology and would be out of place 
here. It is enough for our present purposes to understand that, 
whether a solid body be in an atmosphere of air, or in a trans- 
parent liquid, or even in a vacuum, it transfers or loses heat by 
direct radiation to colder objects about it. From an open fire heat 
may be transferred by conduction to andirons or walls in direct 
contact with it; or by convection through heated air currents to 
the chimney top ; or, finally, by radiation to persons standing in 
front of it. In the latter case the heating is chiefly by radiation, 
since there is no contact with the fire, and such air currents as 
exist are mostly composed of cool air sucked towards and into 
the chimney by its draft. It is for these reasons that open fires 
are said to " roast people in front and freeze them behind." Con- 
versely, the human body, if warmer than its surroundings, may 
lose heat by conduction, convection, and radiation to cooler objects 
in the vicinity. 

The practical importance of these facts is seldom realized. It 
often happens that the air in contact with the skin is of the proper 
room temperature ; and yet, if one is sitting too near a cold wall 
or window, enough heat may be lost by radiation from the skin 
to the cold wall, through the warm air, to chill the skin materially, 
causing a loss of heat and a " cold." 

Laws of conduction and radiation. For our purposes the two 
most important factors which determine the loss of heat by con- 
duction and radiation are (1) the difference in the temperature of 
the two objects and (2) the distance between them. In general, 
the greater the difference of temperature, the more heat will be 
lost from the warmer to the colder object; thus the skin loses 
heat rapidly by these means when surrounding objects are at 
F., but only slowly when they are at 90. It is also clear that 
as soon as the temperature of surrounding objects and of the 



214 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

atmosphere is as high as that of the body (98.6 F.), no further 
heat can be lost by conduction and radiation; and that above 
98.6 F. heat is conducted and radiated to the body, not from it. 
Furthermore, the greater the distance of the colder object from 
the body, the less heat will the body lose to it. Here heat loss 
takes place inversely as the square of the distance ; that is, when 
we are twice as far away from a cold (closed) window, we lose 
only one fourth as much heat through it by radiation ; if we are 
three times as far away, we lose only one ninth as much, and 
so on. Consequently we rapidly diminish radiation from our 
bodies by sitting farther away from the walls of a room ; and it 
is important to have our living rooms large enough to make it 
unnecessary to sit near the windows or near a cold outer wall 
in very cold weather. 



CHAPTER XIII 

NUTRITION 

A. THE SOURCES OF POWER AND HEAT FOR THE 
HUMAN MECHANISM 

1. Food and nutrition. In general food must meet the 
following fundamental needs of the body: first, it must 
supply power for the work of muscles, heart, etc. ; second, 
it must give, through oxidative or other chemical change, 
the heat necessary to maintain the body temperature ; third, 
it must supply all the material needed for the manufacture 
of everything that enters into the structure of the living 
cell (growth and repair) and also of the secretions, internal 
and external, the hormones, and all other special compounds 
which play any role in the working of the human machine. 
Since the first two of these functions are met by the same 
food material and in much the same way, we may consider 
first this aspect of nutrition. 

2. The fuel value of food. In any locomotive engine the 
same amount of a given fuel will enable the engine to pull 
a train of the same weight for the same distance over the 
same track, provided, of course, the engine itself, the bear- 
ings of the wheels, etc., are in the same condition. When a 
ton of coal is put into the tender, it is with the expectation 
that it will move the train a certain distance. Thus there is 
a definite relation between the fuel burned and the work 
done. Every engineer knows also that the same weight 
of different fuels will carry the train different distances; 
a thousand pounds of wood, of bituminous coal, and of 
anthracite coal have different fuel values. 

215 



216 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The same weight of a given fuel when burned will always 
yield exactly the same amount of heat, as is proved by 
burning the fuel under conditions which enable us to meas- 
ure the heat given off. The simplest means of doing this is 
perhaps with the ice calorimeter a metal box within which 
the fuel is burned, the box being everywhere surrounded 
by a thick layer of ice. The heat produced in burning the 
fuel is measured by the amount of ice melted. 

In this way we may find the relative amounts of work 
which can be done with two different fuels, for it has been 
discovered by actual experiment that if one kind of fuel 
produces twice as much heat as another, it will also do 
twice as much work. 

Now food is the fuel for the muscular work of the body 
and also for the liberation of heat. Consequently, if we 
determine how much heat is liberated when a certain amount 
of protein, or fat, or carbohydrate is burned in a calorimeter, 
we know how much work it may do in the body ; or at least 
we know that it can do no more than the amount indicated 
by the calorimetric experiment. 

3. Units of heat and work. In order to measure we must 
have units of measurement. Common units of length are the 
inch or centimeter; units of area are the square yard, the 
square meter, or the acre ; units of volume, the quart or 
peck; units of weight, the pound or kilogram. We express 
the results of these measurements by saying that a thing is 
so many inches long or of so many pounds weight. What are 
the units of heat and work ? 

Like all units, these are arbitrarily chosen. The unit of 
heat, known as the calorie, is the amount of heat necessary 
to raise one kilogram of water one degree Centigrade. The 
unit of work is the amount of work done in lifting a kilogram 
(2.2 Ib.) to the height of one meter (39.37 in.) from the 
surface of the earth against the attraction of gravitation. 
This is known as the kilogrammeter. Thus, when a man 



NUTRITION 



217 



weighing sixty kilograms goes up a flight of stairs ten meters 
high, his muscles do 600 kilogrammeters of work. 1 

Finally, it has been found that the same fuel which when 
burned will liberate one calorie of heat will supply the power 
to do 423.985 kilogrammeters of work. By this we mean 
that not more than 423.985 kilogrammeters of work can be 
obtained from it. Not every engine is so perfectly con- 
structed as to get from a certain fuel its full working 
capacity; indeed, most engines transform only a small frac- 
tion of the power of their fuel into work, the rest escaping 
as heat in the smoke, or by radiation, conduction, and 
convection from the furnace, boiler, etc. But by the method 
above outlined it is possible to find the maximum amount 
of work which can be obtained from a given weight of fuel. 

Applying the same methods to food, we find that 

1 gram of dried protein yields 4.1 calories. 

1 gram of dried carbohydrate yields 4.1 calories. 

1 gram of fat yields 9.3 calories. 

These figures are known as the fuel values of proteins, 
carbohydrates, and fats. 

But the total possible power which may be obtained by 
actually burning a certain substance under the most favor- 
able conditions is one thing, and the amount of power which 
the muscles may obtain from it is quite another. When coal 
is burned in an engine it does work, but the human body 
would get no energy for its muscular work from eating coal. 
So that we have now to inquire from what nutrients the 
muscles get their energy for work and from what nutrients 
the body derives its heat. 

4. The power for muscular work. Few questions in physi- 
ology have been more thoroughly investigated than this. 
In the first half of the nineteenth century many investi- 
gators, impressed with the fact that the muscle fiber yields, 

1 Work may also be expressed in foot-pounds. (How many foot-pounds 
equal one kilogrammeter ?) 



218 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

on chemical analysis, large quantities of protein and only 
traces of carbohydrates and fats, believed that the energy 
for muscular contraction comes entirely from the consump- 
tion of the protein of the muscle substance. If this were 
true, it would necessarily follow that protein is the proper 
food to yield the energy for muscular contraction, while fats 
and carbohydrates would simply be oxidized to give heat. 

This view was disproved by the following epoch-making 
experiment of physiology: Two observers determined for 
three successive days the nitrogen excreted by themselves; 
since almost all this nitrogen comes from protein, this gave 
the amount of protein consumed by the body. On the first 
and third days no vigorous muscular work was done ; on the 
second day they climbed a mountain 1956 meters (6415 ft.) 
high. As one man weighed 66 kilograms and the other 
76 kilograms, the work done in lifting the body to the top 
of the mountain in the two cases was 129,096 and 148,656 
kilogrammeters respectively. The protein which was oxidized 
in this time could in the two cases have yielded power for 
only 68,690 and 68,376 kilogrammeters of work. In other 
words, the protein did not begin to yield sufficient power 
for the muscular work done in lifting the body to the top 
of the mountain ; something else than protein must have 
been oxidized for that purpose, and that something must 
evidently have been carbohydrate or fat, or both. 

Again, it was noticed that there was no increase of pro- 
tein disintegration on the day of work ; this remained 
practically unaffected by muscular contraction. Numerous 
other experiments made since that time have shown the 
same thing. Muscular exercise does not necessarily increase 
protein disintegration, and the power for it can be obtained 
from fats and carbohydrates. 

In the experiment above referred to no determinations 
were made of the excretion of carbon dioxide. Since then 
numerous experiments have been made in which, on an 



NUTRITION 219 

abundant mixed diet, both the nitrogen and the carbon of 
the excretions were accurately determined. These have 
shown that while muscular exercise does not necessarily increase 
protein disintegration, it invariably increases the production of 
carbon dioxide. If the carbon of the carbon dioxide came 
from protein, it would be accompanied by increased excretion 
of nitrogen derived from the broken-down protein. The fact 
that it is not so accompanied can only mean that it came 
from the oxidation of something which did not contain 
nitrogen, that is, from fat or carbohydrate, or both. 

But while muscular work does not necessarily or even 
usually increase protein decomposition, and the power for 
the same may be derived largely, if not entirely, from car- 
bohydrates and fats, it has been shown conclusively that 
under certain conditions this power may come entirely from 
protein. In one experiment a large and very lean dog was 
fed for several weeks on an abundant diet of lean meat, 
containing practically no carbohydrate or fat ; during this 
time the dog did large amounts of work in a treadmill and 
in other ways; and since it was found that this work could 
be done for weeks at a time on the meat diet, we conclude 
that the protein must have been the sole source of power 
for the work ; it must also have served as the source of 
heat production, for the normal temperature of the animal 
was maintained. 

5. Summary of considerations on the supply of power for 
work. These and other experiments show (1) that the 
animal body can get its energy for mechanical work and for 
the production of heat from protein, or from carbohydrate, 
or from fat; (2) that when the animal is on an abundant 
mixed diet, even vigorous muscular work does not increase 
the oxidation of protein, 1 but does enormously increase that 

1 Under the abnormal conditions of excessive muscular work (for ex- 
ample, six-day walking matches or bicycle races) the protein oxidation is 
often increased. 



220 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of carbohydrates and fats. The probable meaning of this is 
to be sought in the fact that protein decomposition depends 
primarily not on muscular work but, as we shall see later, 
on the amount of protein eaten ; while the oxidation of fats 
and carbohydrates depends almost entirely on the demands of 
the body for energy and is largely independent of the amount 
of these foods eaten. 

6. The supply of energy for heat production; " heating " 
foods. In studying the phenomena of heat production in the 
body we found that when the body needs more heat in order 
to maintain its normal temperature, this heat is supplied 
chiefly by greater chemical activity in the muscles (p. 209). 
The contraction or tone of the muscles increases in response 
to stimuli from the same motor nerves which stimulate them 
to activity when they do external mechanical work. Heat 
production in the body, from the standpoint of nutrition, is 
therefore, as far as we know, largely a case of increased 
muscular activity; and here, as in the case of mechanical 
work, the energy can be obtained from one kind of food as 
well as from another. Contrary to popular ideas we have 
no conclusive evidence that one kind of food supplies heat 
more readily than another. What is required in cold weather 
is more food, whether protein or carbohydrate or fat. We 
shall see that there are good reasons for not unduly increas- 
ing the protein of the diet under any conditions, and hence 
in this special case it is probably better to increase the non- 
nitrogenous foods to a greater extent than the proteins, 
though not because they are better "heating" foods. 

7. The daily requirement of the body for power and heat. 
How many calories must be furnished the body to cover its 
daily needs for work and for the maintenance of its temper- 
ature ? This question has been studied by several methods, 
but we must content ourselves with a statement of some of 
the most important results. Healthy people whose choice 
of food is not restricted by financial considerations, but is 



NUTRITION 221 

determined solely by appetite and the feeding customs of 
their home or community, usually consume each day food 
of a fuel value of 20 calories per pound of body weight. 
It is exceptional to find less than 16 calories or more than 
24 so long as only moderate amounts of exercise are taken ; 
and many students of this subject have assumed that one 
requirement of diet is that the daily intake of food should 
have approximately this fuel value. 

This view has, however, been seriously questioned by 
careful and competent observers, and their work seems to 
show that a fuel value of 13.5 calories per pound of body 
weight more nearly represents the actual needs of the body. 
In other words, the usual diet, with its three hearty meals a day, 
has a fuel value one and one half times as great as the minimum 
requirement of the body. Whether the excess is or is not 
harmful to the body will be discussed later (see p. 239). 

The chief factor which influences the amount of this 
minimum fuel value is the amount of muscular exercise 
taken. Men at hard labor require from 20 to 25 calories per 
pound of body weight, or even more; on the other hand, 
during the marked muscular relaxation of sleep the require- 
ment is reduced to from 10 to 11 calories. Exposure to cold, 
when not counteracted by warm clothing, similarly increases 
the fuel requirement. 

If, then, we generally eat more food than the fuel needs 
of the body require, what becomes of the excess ? This 
question can be answered only incompletely in the present 
state of our knowledge. A portion of the food eaten leaves 
the body undigested in the f eces ; and the more abundant 
the diet, the greater is the amount lost in this way. Part 
of the food also is destroyed in the alimentary canal, es- 
pecially in the large intestine, by microbic action, and this 
similarly increases with the diet. This microbic food destruc- 
tion involves the liberation of heat within the body but does 
not yield power for work, the excess of heat being dissipated 



222 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

from the skin. Again, the absorption of some foods, notably 
proteins or their cleavage products, the amino-acids, leads to 
then- increased destruction in the cells of the body, just as 
an open fire burns more vigorously when new fuel is added. 
Finally, food may be stored within the body. That this is 
true is shown by the histories of prolonged fasts in which 
men and women have abstained entirely from food for more 
than a month. Such f asters steadily lose weight, showing 
that the body is consuming its own substance. We may 
therefore pass to the consideration of the storage of material 
capable of meeting future nutritional needs. 

B. THE FOOD RESERVE OF THE BODY. FAT. 
GLYCOGEN. CELL PROTEINS 

8. The hoarding of inactive food material. I. The storage 
of fat. The most obvious reserve food stored in the animal 
body is fat, which may appear as drops of oil in the cyto- 
plasm of any cell. Muscle fibers, for example, contain at 
times large quantities of this substance, and are then said 
to have undergone fatty degeneration. Under normal condi- 
tions, however, the presence of considerable quantities of fat 
in muscle fibers or nerve cells or most gland cells is unusual. 
In the cells of connective tissue, on the other hand, fat is 
readily stored under normal conditions, and the adipose tis- 
sue or fat of the body is simply connective tissue whose cells 
are loaded with droplets of fat. Figs. 90-92, with their ex- 
planation, will show how this takes place. But while fat 
may be normally stored in any of the more open connective 
tissues, it is especially in the subcutaneous tissue, the great 
omentum, the mesentery, and some other situations that its 
chief storage takes place. From these storehouses it is drawn 
upon as a reserve food material when the immediate supply 
of food from the alimentary canal becomes inadequate for 
the work of the body. The exact mechanism by which it is 



NUTRITION 



223 




FIG. 90 




FIG. 91 



stored in a cell at one time and 
discharged at another is not 
fully understood. Some of the 
conditions under which it is 
accumulated, and some of those 
under which it disappears, are 
known; but we do not know 
the whole story. Some 
people lay up fat in 
larger quantities than 
others on the same diet 
and apparently while do- 
ing the same amount of 
work, and some keep 
lean under conditions ap- 
parently the most favor- 
able for growing fat. 

It was formerly be- 
lieved, and is still some- 
times supposed, that the 
animal body forms fat 
only from the fat of the 
food; that to get fat we 
must eat fat. This was 
disproved by a number 
of experiments, especially 
one by Liebig, who kept 
account over a long period 

of the fat in the food FlGS - 90 ~ 92 - Three successive stages in 

-, . -, , the transformation of ordinary connective 

supplied to a cow, and tissue into adipose tissue 

found that the fat given A portion of the capillarv netw ork is shown, 

off in the COW'S milk surrounded by the fibers, among which are 

f j j , several cells. The accumulation of fat droplets 

tar exceeded that in her in the cell cytoplasm is shown in Fig. 91, and 

food. In another experi- tne fusion of tnese u P n their increase in size 

. ^ and number to form one large droplet, sur- 

ment lour pigs OUt Oi a rounded by the cytoplasm, is seen in Fig. 92 




FIG. 92 



224 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

litter of eight were killed and the total amount of fat in 
their bodies determined. The other four pigs were fattened 
for a time, then killed, and the fat in their bodies eventually 
determined. Assuming that the second set of four pigs 
originally had the same quantity of fat as the first four, the 
difference between the two quantities of fat found would 
give the quantity of fat the last four had stored up. Mean- 
time, strict account had been kept of the fat supplied in the 
food of the last four, and it was shown that for every 100 
parts of fat fed to them these pigs had laid up 472 parts of 
fat. They had evidently manufactured fat from some substance 
other than the fat in their food. 

9. Fats can be stored from fats and carbohydrates in food. 
There is no doubt that fat may be both stored away and 
manufactured from the fats in the food. There is also no 
doubt that large quantities of fat may be and often are 
manufactured and stored from the carbohydrates (sugars, 
starches, etc.) of the food; so that, while there is some 
truth in the idea that one may get fat by eating fat, it is 
equally true that we can get fat by eating other foods. 

10. Are proteins a source of fat? Whether fats are nor- 
mally made in the body from proteins is a more difficult 
question. There is no undisputed case on record of such 
manufacture and storage ; and while the facts do not yet 
justify us in denying the possibility, it is very doubtful 
whether such transformation takes place to any great ex- 
tent, and it is possible that in the mammalian body it does 
not normally occur at all. 

Fats, then, are manufactured readily from fats and car- 
bohydrates and sparingly, if at all, from proteins. Their 
disappearance during starvation, when they are drawn upon 
to supply power and heat for the body, shows that they 
serve as a true reserve food material. They are a kind 
of food capital or hoard, saved and laid up by the body 
against a rainy day. 



NUTRITION 225 

11. The hoarding of inactive food material. II. The storage 
of glycogen. In many cells of the body, but especially in 
those of the liver and to a less extent in those of the skeletal 
muscles, there is found a carbohydrate substance known as 
glycogen. This substance belongs to the same group of car- 
bohydrates as starch and dextrines (see Chap. VIII), and is 
sometimes called animal starch. Like them it is changed into 
sugar by the action of saliva and pancreatic juice, whence its 
name (7X1^9, "sweet"; -7^?, "former"). The same change 
occurs on the death of the cells in which it is contained, 
the sugar thus formed giving to such tissues a sweetish 
taste. This is often noticed, for example, in liver and in 
scallops (the shell muscle of Pecteri). The total amount 
of glycogen in the human body may exceed 700 grams 
(13 ounces), one half of which is concentrated in the 
liver and the other half scattered about in the other tissues 
of the body. 

Experiments have shown that glycogen is not formed from 
the fat in food ; that it is formed in small quantities from pro- 
tein ; while its chief source is the carbohydrates of the food. 

The blood may be said to be always sweet, its constant 
percentage of sugar (1 to 2 grams per 1000 cubic centimeters 
or 0.05 ounce per quart of blood plasma) being a striking 
fact, and one that we should hardly have anticipated. One 
might suppose that the sugar in the blood would increase, 
as does the amount of fat, during active digestion and ab- 
sorption, and that after digestion had ended, it would 
diminish. As a matter of fact the amount of sugar in the 
blood remains practically constant both during and after 
the completion of digestion, and this despite the fact that 
the tissues are constantly abstracting sugar from the blood. 
Evidently the blood must be supplied with sugar from some 
other source than the alimentary canal, and there must be 
somewhere in the body a compensating mechanism controlling 
the sugar supply of the blood. 



226 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Experiments have shown that sugar is absorbed from the 
alimentary canal entirely by the intestinal blood vessels. It 
must pass, therefore, through the liver by the portal vein 
(see Fig. 62) before going to the rest of the body. The 
liver, thus standing at this great gateway to the circulation, 
would seem to act as the carbohydrate storehouse, or savings 
bank, of the body. Any excess of sugar in the portal blood 
is there transformed into glycogen and deposited, saved until 
it is needed, and then " paid out," as sugar, when the ready 
supply is exhausted. Other tissues doubtless aid in prevent- 
ing an undue richness of sugar in the blood, acting likewise 
as temporary storehouses for this form of food. 

12. Protein a source of sugar to the body. It has been 
stated that glycogen may be formed from protein. This is 
because the body can and does constantly form sugar 
(dextrose) from protein. Experiments have shown that 
about half of the protein may in this way be transformed 
into sugar, the greater part of which is ordinarily oxidized 
as fuel; but in case there is an excess over and above fuel 
needs, this excess of sugar is stored as glycogen by the liver 
and other organs, just as the excess of sugar absorbed from 
the alimentary canal is so stored. The formation of sugar, 
and consequently of glycogen from fat, on the other hand, 
is negligible. 

In this formation of sugar from protein the body obviously 
has an additional means of supplying its carbohydrate needs 
when the sugar delivered to the blood by absorption from 
the alimentary canal is inadequate. 

13. The protein reserve. Provision is thus made for a 
continuous supply of fat and carbohydrate (sugar) between 
periods of absorption of these foods and even during starva- 
tion. How are the protein needs of the body met under 
similar conditions? There is no visible supply of inactive 
protein in the body similar to fat or glycogen. It is true 
that analysis of the lifeless cell shows that proteins make 



NUTRITION 227 

up by far its largest constituent, l but there is no ground 
for thinking that this cell protein exists in any other form 
than as an active constituent of the cell substance. There 
is no evidence of protein stored simply as reserve to meet 
future possible protein needs. 

And yet, during starvation, protein is steadily lost from 
the body, as is shown by the fact that urea and other protein 
derivatives continue to be eliminated by the kidneys. Nor 
can this loss of protein be checked by feeding carbohydrates 
and fats; these may be provided in the food in amounts 
abundantly sufficient to meet the fuel demands of the body, 
but without checking the loss of protein. We can only con- 
clude that the disintegration of protein within the body is 
an inevitable part of the chemical activity of the cells, and 
that in the absence of a supply of the protein products of 
digestion the body takes protein from its own living sub- 
stance. Hence protein becomes an indispensable article of 
diet. The student will, moreover, recall the fact that while 
carbohydrates and possibly fats may be made from pro- 
tein, protein cannot be manufactured from the non-protein 
nutrients. This obviously follows from the fact that fats 
and carbohydrates are lacking in nitrogen and sulphur, two 
essential elements of the protein molecule. 

14. Increase of protein in the food increases protein destruc- 
tion by the body. One peculiarity of the behavior of protein 
in the body of itself limits the accumulation of any large 
amount of storage protein. As soon as we increase the protein 
of the food, there is an increase of protein disintegration in 
the body, and in a few days protein disintegration equals 

1 The following analysis of muscle cells (lean of meat) is typical : 

Water 75 parts 

Solids 25 parts 

Protein 21 parts 

Salts . Ipart 

Fat, connective tissue, etc 2 parts 

Other extractives 1 part 



228 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

the greater protein consumption. Instead of storing the 
additional food protein or even part of it over any great 
length of time, the body soon comes to destroy all the pro- 
tein eaten. It is for this reason that while animals may be 
fattened to a remarkable extent by proper feeding, it is not 
possible to secure a corresponding increase of protein material 
of the muscle, or lean meat. The accumulation of protein is 
self-limited. 

In two physiological states the increase of protein is much 
more marked ; namely, during growth and during convales- 
cence from wasting disease (or after a period of prolonged 
fasting). It would seem that there is a certain maximum 
content of protein-like substances in the cell, and that it is 
not possible by the most abundant feeding to increase 
this amount. 

It follows from the above that very abundant protein 
feeding must result in the production of increased protein 
waste within the body. In the first place, the greater the 
quantity of protein fed, the greater will be the microbic 
destruction of protein within the intestine and especially in 
the large intestine. Not only is the protein so destroyed 
largely useless to the body, but, in so far as its microbic 
destruction involves putrefactive changes, harmful products 
may be formed from it. In the second place, that portion of 
the protein which escapes microbic action and is absorbed 
into the blood in the form of digestive products (amino-acids 
and peptids) disintegrates in the cells with the formation of 
wastes. Both these processes increase the amount of waste 
to be eliminated, chiefly by the kidneys. It has been urged 
that this overburdens the kidneys and causes disease of 
these organs. While convincing proof has perhaps not been 
given that a healthy kidney may be injured in this way, 
it is certain that a diseased or even a temporarily impaired 
kidney may suffer when such excessive work is thrown 
upon it. 



NUTEITION 229 

C. FOOD AS THE MATERIAL FOR GROWTH, REPAIR, AND 

THE MANUFACTURE OF SPECIAL PRODUCTS OF 

CELL ACTIVITY 

15. Complexity of the chemical composition of living cells 
and of the products of their manufacture. In the first sub- 
division of this chapter we have considered food as fuel. 
We are now in a position to consider some of the more 
important features of the other great function of food, 
namely as the material for the growth and repair of living 
cells and for the manufacture of the special products of 
cell life the secretions (internal and external), the hor- 
mones, and -all other substances produced by the body for 
special purposes. 

The living cell is an extremely complex machine into the 
construction of which enter numerous compounds of diverse 
chemical nature. Formerly there was a tendency to regard 
the cell as composed essentially of protein ; but the increase 
of our knowledge has shown that there are other essential 
constituents, notably (in addition to water and inorganic 
salts) a group of compounds known as lipoids, or lipins, 
substances which more or less resemble fats in their physi- 
cal characters, although not always in chemical structure. 
The cell nucleus also contains special material of still dif- 
ferent chemical composition. The chemical properties and 
the physiological significance of these cell components are 
far too complicated subjects for discussion in this work ; we 
merely wish to emphasize the complexity of the mixture and 
the variety of chemical compounds concerned. (See p. 42.) 

We are impressed with the same diversity of chemical 
structure in the secretions, hormones, and other material 
manufactured by the body for special purposes. The stu- 
dent has only to recall the examples of these already men- 
tioned the enzymes of the digestive juices ; the internal 
secretions of the adrenals, thyroids, pituitary, and pancreas ; 



230 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

secretin and other hormones; mucin; hemoglobin to realize 
that the food must furnish material out of which to manu- 
facture compounds of the greatest variety of chemical struc- 
ture ; and for this purpose the greatest variety of material 
must be furnished in the food. 

16. The unique position of protein. Considerations such as 
the above give a glimpse into the unique value of protein 
food. While all forms of carbohydrate yield the body, for 
the greater part, only dextrose, and the fats yield only fatty 
acids and soaps, all of them closely similar in structure, pro- 
tein yields amino-acids of the greatest diversity of chemical 
structure. The possibilities of chemical construction, or syn- 
thesis (as it is generally called), are thereby greatly increased. 
Only a chemically complex food like protein could serve for 
the construction of the proteins of the living cell and for the 
formation of the varied products of cell manufacture. Review 
in this connection section 15 of Chapter VIII. 

Protein is also unique among the nutrients in the fact 
that the body can make other nutrients from it. It is a well- 
established fact that large quantities of sugar (dextrose) may 
be made from protein, and we can therefore understand how 
a dog living on fat and the leanest sort of meat (protein) 
can do without carbohydrate in the diet. It is also possible 
that at least small amounts of fat may be derived from pro- 
tein through this intermediate stage of sugar, for fat may be 
made from sugar. 

17. Variations in the nutritional value of individual pro- 
teins. Until comparatively recent times all food proteins 
were regarded as having equal value in nutrition, with the 
single exception of gelatin, which has long been known to 
be incapable of meeting the protein needs of the body. The 
discovery that some food proteins are lacking in one or more 
of the amino-acids, and that the same amino-acid may occur 
in very small amounts in one protein and very large amounts 
in another, suggested to two American physiologists, Mendel 



NUTRITION 231 

and Osborne, the idea that different proteins may have very 
different values in nutrition. They therefore fed rats and 
mice on diets of abundant fuel value and containing all the 
non-protein constituents of the diet, but containing only one 
protein. It was found that some proteins failed entirely to 
nourish the animal, as shown by the steady loss of weight ; 
others would keep an adult animal in good condition with 
no loss of weight, but did not provide the material for the 
normal growth of young animals; other proteins not only 
maintained the normal weight of the adult but a young 
animal fed on them would grow in a perfectly normal man- 
ner. We must therefore distinguish between (1) proteins 
which may provide for both growth and maintenance, (2) pro- 
teins which will provide for maintenance but not for growth, 
and (3) proteins which will provide for neither maintenance 
nor growth. 

Further study showed that the nutritional limitations of 
the last two classes of proteins are due to the fact that they 
are lacking in certain amino-acids or else contain them in 
very small amounts; for if these amino-acids were added to 
the diet, growth and maintenance became normal. The rea- 
son for this becomes clear on the assumption already made 
in our discussions of digestion and nutrition, that the value 
of protein as food lies in the fact that it yields a great 
variety of amino-acids, each necessary to some chemical 
manufacturing process of the living cell. 

18. The value of the mixed diet. As a matter of fact no 
one tries to live on a single protein. Meat contains at least 
two ; eggs, three or more ; milk, two ; the cereals, two or 
more each. By taking a mixture of these in our food, the 
deficiency of one protein in amino-acids is made up by the 
excess of the same acid in another. For this reason we can 
completely meet the protein needs of the body on a mixed 
diet with a far smaller total intake of protein than if the 
diet contained only one protein. 



232 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The same consideration applies in a larger way to the food 
as a whole. Some foods, like meat, are chiefly protein; 
others, like the cereals, have an excess of starch, while 
others, like butter or olive oil, are chiefly fat. A diet com- 
posed of several kinds of food, that is, a mixed diet, is more 
likely to avoid an excess of any one nutrient than when 
any one food unduly preponderates. 

19. Other indispensable constituents of the food. I. Inor- 
ganic salts. In addition to the proteins, fats, and carbo- 
hydrates, which together make up almost the whole (96 to 98 
per cent or even more) of the food we eat, two other groups 
of substances are required in much smaller quantities, but 
they are none the less absolutely indispensable. The first 
of these is the group of inorganic salts. In the body are 
found chlorides, carbonates, and phosphates of sodium, potas- 
sium, calcium, and magnesium. These occur both in the 
living cells and in the blood and lymph, and they are con- 
stantly being removed from the blood in the urine and per- 
spiration. This loss must be made good by the food. Most 
foods contain salts, and our usual food contains most of the 
inorganic salt necessary for making good the loss. The table 
salt used in cooking and to develop the flavor of food at 
table is for the greater part in excess of the actual needs of 
the body, the excess being promptly excreted by the kidneys. 
The addition of some salt, however, seems to be necessary. 
The craving of herbivorous animals for salt in which their 
food is deficient is well known, and in parts of India salt 
famines have occurred during which the price of salt was 
higher than that of gold. 

20. Other indispensable constituents of the food. II. "Vita- 
mines." Finally, it is known that certain other compounds, 
found in small quantities in many foods, are necessary 
for adequate nourishment. The exact chemical nature of 
these substances is still a matter of investigation, but it is 
known that they are neither protein, fat, carbohydrate, nor 



NUTRITION 233 

inorganic salts. They occur in the outer layers of cereal 
grains, such as wheat, rice, oats, etc. ; they are also present 
in most fresh vegetables and, in smaller quantities, in meats, 
eggs, and milk; and they are produced by the yeast plant 
during its active growth. Hence they may be extracted from 
yeast cakes. To them the general name of vitamines has 
been given. 

In many E'astern countries, where rice forms the chief 
article of diet, a severe disease known as beriberi is more 
or less common. It is characterized by grave disorders of 
nutrition, and in severe forms the nerve fibers undergo 
degeneration, so that paralysis of the skeletal muscles 
develops. It was 4 found that beriberi occurred chiefly among 
those who used polished rice, that is, rice from which the 
dark outer portion of the grain had been removed in the 
process of milling, in order to give a whiter rice grain; 
it seldom developed in those using the whole rice grain 
(that is, the unpolished rice). It was furthermore found 
that from the rice polishings something could be extracted 
which when administered in very small quantities would 
cure the disease. Finally, it was found that a similar disease 
(polyneuritis) could easily be induced in fowls by feeding 
them on a diet consisting solely of polished rice, but that 
it did not develop when the extract of rice polishings was 
administered to the fowls even though then? food other- 
wise consisted wholly of polished rice. This extract would, 
moreover, cure the disease when it had once developed. 

Whether one group or more than one group of compounds 
is concerned here is not known. It is clear, however, that 
we have in the above facts proof of some essential constitu- 
ent or constituents of the diet other than the usual nutrients. 
These vitamines seem to occur abundantly in most fresh 
fruits and freshly cooked vegetables and in the outer por- 
tion of most cereal grains. They are destroyed by very high 
temperatures, especially those used in sterilizing canned 



234 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

foods, and they are largely removed from the cereal grains 
in the attempt of the miller to produce the whitest possible 
flour or rice, for this means the removal of the outer por- 
tion (bran) of the grain with its vitamines. It follows that 
" whole wheat " flour or graham flour contains these sub- 
stances, while very white flour is deficient in them; and 
we accordingly find that the same disease (beriberi) has 
occurred in Newfoundland, where a community was shut 
off during winter from its usual food supply and white bread 
constituted for too long a time the chief food. A similar 
and probably identical disease has been found among people 
living exclusively upon canned goods, the sterilization by 
high temperatures having destroyed the vitamines. 

In the days of sailing vessels, scurvy, a disease of mal- 
nutrition, often developed on long voyages, despite a diet 
which contained an abundance of protein, fat, carbohydrate, 
and salt; and it was found that this disease could be pre- 
vented by the use of fresh limes or freshly cooked vege- 
tables. There is little doubt that here again we are dealing 
with a disease analogous to beriberi. 

In all the above cases it must be clearly understood that 
there is no harmful constituent in the foods mentioned 
canned foods, polished rice, white bread, and the like. The 
trouble lies in the absence from the food of an essential con- 
stituent of the diet. No harm would result, for example, 
from a diet of canned meat, white bread, and fresh vege- 
tables; for the fresh vegetables would supply the necessary 
vitamines. It is only when the diet consists almost exclu- 
sively of foods deficient in vitamines that trouble results. 

The physiological action of these vitamines is not yet clear, 
but we are probably not far from the truth if we regard them 
as furnishing the body with some material indispensable for 
carrying out the processes of chemical manufacture. Though 
required in much smaller quantities, they are as necessary to 
these processes as the ammo-acids themselves. 



NUTRITION 235 

D. THE PROPER DAILY INTAKE OF PROTEIN 

21. The economic and the physiological question. The 
proper amount of protein in the diet is both economically 
and physiologically important. Since foods rich in protein 
meats, eggs, dairy products, etc. are among the more ex- 
pensive foods, it is often for a family with limited income 
a practical question how much of these foods must be used 
to assure proper nourishment of the body. In this work we 
are more directly concerned with the physiological effects of 
low, moderate, and abundant protein diet, but the answer 
to this question also gives the answer to the economic ques- 
tion, since the problem in the latter case is to keep down 
the consumption of the more expensive foods to the level 
which is consistent with adequate nutrition. 

It is comparatively easy to determine whether the fuel 
value of the diet is adequate. If it is insufficient, loss of 
weight inevitably results ; if it is excessive, and especially 
if it is excessive in fat and carbohydrate, there is apt to be 
increase of weight. An equilibrium of total intake and out- 
put for months usually indicates that the fuel needs of the 
body are being met. Equality of intake and output of pro- 
tein, on the other hand, does not prove that the protein of 
the diet is what it should be, for the body breaks down all 
the protein it consumes whether the amount be excessive or 
not. We can, however, determine by dietary studies what 
is the usual consumption of protein by different classes of 
people and also what is the lowest intake upon which 
protein equilibrium may be maintained in the body. 

22. The usual and the minimum intake of protein. When 
the choice of food is not restricted by economic or other 
consideration, but is determined solely by appetite or the 
feeding customs of one's home or community, the protein 
intake of an adult healthy man usually varies between 100 
and 150 grams daily. This is equivalent to from 500 to 



236 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

750 grams (1 to 1| pounds) of lean meat, although of course 
the protein is not all taken in the form of meat. On the 
other hand, experiments have shown that men may live for 
years in good health on a protein intake of from 40 to 
50 grams daily without loss of protein from the body. 

If then an adult man can maintain protein equilibrium on 
from 40 to 50 grams of protein daily, but ordinarily con- 
sumes two to three times this quantity, the question arises 
whether the additional 50 to 100 grams are in any way 
harmful. Many students of this subject have strongly taken 
the position that such is the case, and there can be no 
question that the health of many people, especially when 
leading sedentary lives, has been greatly improved by re- 
ducing the consumption of protein to 60 or 70 grams, or 
even to 40 or 50 grams daily. To w r hat is this improvement 
due ? Is it because the handling of so much protein by the 
adult is necessarily harmful ? (See p. 239.) 

23. Possible harm and possible advantage in an abundant 
protein diet. We can readily see at least two ways in which 
the greater protein intake may be harmful. In the first place, 
it involves greater danger of incomplete protein digestion in 
the small intestine and the consequent delivery by peristalsis 
of excessive amounts of protein to undergo microbic putre- 
faction in the large intestine. In general the presence of a 
decidedly offensive odor to the feces suggests that more pro- 
tein l is being eaten than can be properly digested, and justi- 
fies at least an experimental reduction in the protein of the 
food. It must, however, be remembered that putrefactive 
odors may be due to other causes than excessive protein 
diet (impaired digestion of fats, for example) and, on the 
other hand, there may be excessive putrefaction and yet the 
feces have no very offensive odor because the compounds 
responsible therefor have been destroyed within the body. 

1 The substances responsible for the offensive odor are almost entirely 
derivatives of protein. 



NUTRITION 237 

In the second place, the larger protein diet with its in- 
crease of protein wastes in the body itself (as contrasted 
with the alimentary canal) involves a greater burden on the 
organs of excretion. This burden may fall not alone on the 
kidneys, which finally discharge these wastes from the body, 
but also upon other organs in which the waste products are 
prepared for final removal from the blood by the kidneys. 
Convincing proof has, however, not been given that these 
organs, when in a healthy condition, are injured by the work 
of caring for more than the waste of a low protein diet. 
A somewhat analogous case is that of muscular activity. 
This, too, must be limited or even given up altogether in 
some diseased conditions lest some undue burden be placed 
upon the organism ; but in health the body is actually bene- 
fited by the " burden " of even vigorous muscular activity. 

The further question then arises whether there is any 
possible advantage in a liberal protein diet. It is certainly 
not needed for power or for fuel ; it may, however, be plau- 
sibly urged that thereby we insure an abundance of each 
amino-acid needed for the formation of the innumerable 
products of chemical manufacture in the body. When an 
engineer builds a bridge, he does not build it just strong 
enough to sustain the expected load; he allows a liberal 
" margin of safety." Similarly, it is not a desirable economic 
condition when one's income each week is just enough to 
meet necessary expenses, for this does not allow for the 
unexpected emergency which we cannot foresee. So it has 
been urged and, it would seem, reasonably urged that it is 
better not to diminish protein intake, as a rule, to the irre- 
ducible minimum of 40 to 50 grams daily. While 100 to 150 
grams is almost certainly far more than is necessary to secure 
the proper margin of safety, it may well be wiser to use 20 
or more grams above the minimum ; that is to say, a protein 
intake of 70 grams corresponds with what, in the present state 
of our knowledge, may be regarded as a conservative estimate. 



238 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Infants and rapidly growing children need relatively more 
protein than adults. The protein of the usual adult diet 
makes about 13 to 15 per cent of the total fuel value of the 
food ; in milk, the sole diet of a baby, it makes 20 to 25 per 
cent. A similar thing is true of the diet during convalescence 
from wasting diseases; such a diet should be as rich in pro- 
tein as is consistent with its proper digestion and utilization 
by the body. 

24. Food values of some common foods. The following 
table (from Joslin) will be found useful in forming an esti- 
mate of the content of certain foods in protein, fat, and 
carbohydrate, and also of the fuel value of these foods. 



30 GRAMS (OR 1 OUNCE) CONTAIN 
APPROXIMATELY 


PROTEIN 


FAT 


CARBOHY- 
DRATE 


CALORIES 


Oatmeal, dry weight .... 
Cream, 40 per cent .... 
Cream, 20 per cent .... 
Milk 


Grams 
5 
1 
1 
1 


Grams 
2 
12 
6 
1 


Grams 
20 
1 
1 
1 5 


120 
120 
60 
20 


Brazil nuts ....... 


5 


20 


2 


210 


Oysters (six) 


6 


1 


4 


50 


Meat (uncooked, lean) . . . 
Meat (cooked, lean) .... 
Bacon 


6 
8 
5 


3 
5 
15 





o 


50 
75 
155 


Eerff (one^ . 


6 


6 


o 


75 


Vegetables (5 and 10 per cent 
groups^ . 


5 





1 or 2 


6 or 10 


Potato 


1 


o 


6 


25 


Bread 


3 





18 


90 


Butter 





25 





225 


Fish 


5 








20 


Broth 


7 


o 


o 


3 


Small orange or half a grape- 
fruit 








10 


40 













An individual "at rest" requires about 25 calories per kilogram 
(2.2 Ib.) body weight per 24 hours, equivalent to approximately 1 calorie 
per kilogram per hour. 



NUTRITION 



239 



25. Example of a diet of moderately low protein and fuel 
value. The following table gives an example of three meals 
which would give the moderate protein intake referred to on 
page 237. The fuel value also corresponds approximately, 
for a man of 150 to 160 pounds, to the fuel value of 13.5 
calories per pound of body weight referred to on page 221. 

Breakfast. Bread, 38.7 grams ; tea, 146 grams. 

Lunch. Bread, 97.5 grams ; butter, 31.5 grams ; sweet potato, 108.7 grams ; 

spaghetti, 82.5 grams ; peaches, 89.4 grams ; coffee, 210 grams ; sugar, 

21 grams. 
Dinner. Bread, 75 grams ; butter, 21.5 grams ; roast beef, 116 grams ; 

lemon pie, 188.5 grams ; coffee, 210 grams ; sugar, 21 grams. 

Protein in food 70 grams 

Fuel value 2334 calories 

30 grams = 1 ounce, or ^ pint. 



CHAPTER XIV 
SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 

1. The human mechanism a conscious mechanism. Thus 
far we have repeatedly compared the human mechanism 
with lifeless mechanisms, and the points of similarity are 
most interesting and instructive. In the supply of power, 
the elimination of wastes, the interdependence and coopera- 
tion of parts, the adjustment to the changing conditions 
of work, and in many other respects the resemblance holds 
good. But iii one respect there is no likeness whatever. 
When a human mechanism is not in good working order or 
is tired, it may be aware of the fact ; when an engine is 
damaged in any way, the engine does not know it. Events 
taking place in the living animal body arouse in it, and in 
it only, conscious sensations. 

Sensations are always called forth by the condition of 
some organ or by the condition of the body as a whole. 
When several hours have passed since the taking of food, 
we feel hungry ; or of drink, we feel thirsty ; when any- 
thing touches the skin a sensation of touch is aroused ; if 
it presses very hard, that part of the skin feels painful ; if 
the tongue is acted upon by sugar or salt, we get a sensa- 
tion of taste ; if light enters the eye, it produces conditions 
in that organ which arouse in us sensations of color. In all 
these cases the conscious sensation is due to the condition of 
some part of the body. 

2. The reference of sensations. Sometimes we refer the 
sensation to the part of the body which is first affected, 
or to the body as a whole, and sometimes we refer it to 

240 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 241 

external objects. Thus, if in driving a nail the hammer 
misses the nail and hits a finger, we refer the pain to the 
finger and not to the hammer ; and we similarly refer sensa- 
tions of hunger and thirst to the body and not to external 
objects. If, on the other hand, the skin is cooled by a 
piece of ice, we do not say that the skin is cold, but that 
the ice is cold; we refer the sensation to the external object 
which causes it, not to the skin in which it actually origi- 
nates. In the case of the sense of sight, this reference of 
the sensation to the external object which sends light into 
the eye is so complete that unless we stop and reflect upon 
it we do not realize that it is the condition of the eye of 
which we are conscious rather than the condition of the 
external object at which we are looking. 

3. Sense organs. A few sensations, like pain, are aroused 
by the condition of most, if not all, parts of the body; 
there is no one organ set apart to produce them. Some, like 
hunger, although at times more or less general in origin ^ 
are commonly aroused by the condition of some one organ 1 
which ordinarily performs other functions. Other sensations 
arise in organs set apart for the purpose and constructed to 
react to only one kind of stimulus (special sense organs, or 
organs of special sensation). To this latter class belong the 
eye, the ear, the olfactory mucous membrane of the nose, 
the touch organs in the skin, etc. We therefore speak of 
general sensations and special senses, although no sharp line 
of division can be drawn between the two. 

4. The brain the seat of sensation. In all cases, however, 
the sensation, although originating elsewhere, is developed 
in the brain and not in the sense organ. If the optic nerve 
be cut, blindness ensues, although light falling on the retina 
produces the same effect in the eye itself as when the nerve 
is intact ; it even starts nervous impulses toward the brain ; 
but, since these impulses go no farther than the cut, they 

1 In the case of hunger, the stomach. 



242 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

excite no sensation of light. And the same thing is true of 
other sensations. Conversely, after the amputation of a limb 
it often happens that sensations are felt, as if they came 
from the lost member. In this case the stump of the cut 
nerve is stimulated in some way, and the impulses thus 
sent to the brain excite the same sensations as if they came 
from the usual endings of the nerve. When one hits his 
" funny " or " crazy " bone (that is, directly stimulates the 
ulnar nerve) the sensations developed in the brain may be 
referred to the fingers in which the nerve originates. 

In the development of every sensation, therefore, we have 
to distinguish between (1) what takes place in the sense 
organ or end organ, (2) the passage of a nervous impulse 
from this organ to the central nervous system, and (3) the 
events which the arrival of the nervous impulse excites in 
the brain. It is only the last (3) that, strictly speaking, we 
can call sensation. The sense organs and their afferent fibers 
are merely tributary mechanisms which serve to excite the 
sensations in the brain. We are not aware that it is the 
brain which is thus active, for we refer the sensation either 
to the organ or to some external object. 

5. The sense of sight ; the eye. Sight is one of the most 
highly specialized of the senses. The eye is the only organ 
in which originate sensations of light or color, and it is a 
wonderfully constructed apparatus, the function of which is 
to stimulate the optic nerve by rays of light. It is essen- 
tially a living camera in which, by means of a lens, an 
image of things around us is formed upon the retina; just 
as in the photographer's camera the lens forms an image on 
the ground glass or on the sensitive plate or film. 

6. Structure of the eye. The eyeball consists of three 
concentric coats surrounding and inclosing transparent sub- 
stances through which rays of light pass to the retina. The 
outer, or sclerotic, coat (the white of the eye) is composed of 
very tough, dense connective tissue, and forms the protecting 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 243 

covering of the eye. Over a small area in front this coat is 
transparent, and this part of it is known as the cornea. In- 
side the sclerotic is the middle coat, or choroid, richly sup- 
plied with blood vessels and containing in its connective 
tissue large quantities of black pigment, which prevents the 
passage of light into the eyeball except through the cornea. 
The choroid lines the sclerotic everywhere except in front, 
where in the region of the cornea it leaves the sclerotic and 
projects toward the long axis of the eye as a kind of cur- 
tain, the iris that part of the eye which is black or gray 
or blue. The pupil is the dark round opening, or hole, in 
the iris. Immediately inside the choroid is the third and 
innermost coat, the retina. This is a thin membrane, not 
more than one eightieth of an inch in thickness, and lining 
the chamber of the vitreous humor as far forward as the 
ciliary region (Fig. 93). The retina is the part of the eye 
sensitive to the stimulation of light. Here also begin the 
fibers of the optic nerve, which passes through and perforates 
the choroid and sclerotic coats behind on its way from the 
retina to the brain. These and other parts of the eye may 
be easily seen by dissecting the eye of an ox or sheep. 

7. The lens and the muscle of accommodation. Immedi- 
ately behind the pupil is the lens, a biconvex, transparent, 
compressible, and elastic body fastened by a circular liga- 
mentous sheet to the choroid coat immediately above and 
behind the iris. The lens and its suspensory ligamentous 
sheet thus divide the eye into two distinct chambers: the 
one, in front of the lens and behind the cornea, filled with 
a watery fluid, the aqueous humor; the other, behind the 
lens and surrounded by the retina, filled with a jellylike, 
transparent substance, the vitreous humor (Figs. 93, 96). 

The elastic choroid coat is not long enough to reach 
around and inclose the vitreous humor without stretching, 
and hence it constantly exerts a steady, elastic pull or ten- 
sion on the ligament of the lens. This tension flattens the 



244 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



compressible lens (that is, makes it less convex), and 
the lens is always in this flattened condition in the resting 
eye; for example, when one is asleep. The same condition 
should obtain, as we shall learn, whenever we are looking 
at distant objects. 

The pull of the tense choroid on the lens is, however, 
overcome at times by the action of the sheetlike ciliary 

muscle. The fibers of this pe- 
culiar muscle originate in the 
sclerotic coat around and just 
outside the cornea, and diverge 
radially outward and backward 
to end in the choroid beyond 
the attachment of the suspen- 
sory ligament of the lens. 
Fig. 94 shows how the con- 
traction of this muscle, fixed 
as it is near the cornea, must 
draw the choroid forward and 
so ease the pull of the latter 
on the ligament of the lens. 
When this happens, the lens, 
owing to its own elasticity, 
assumes its independent (more 
convex) shape. 

The curvature of the lens is 
thus variable, and is determined by the action of this muscle 
of accommodation. When the ciliary muscle is relaxed, the 
lens is kept flattened by the pull of the choroid on the liga- 
ment ; when the muscle contracts, this pull is eased off (or 
slacked) and the lens becomes more convex. The entire 
operation is known as accommodation, and we may now 
inquire what part accommodation plays hi vision. 

8. The formation of an image by a lens. The eye is a 
camera, in that it forms on the retina an image of objects 




Suspensory 
Ligament 



FIG. 93. Vertical section through 
the ciliary region of the eye 

Showing the structures concerned in 
accommodation (see sect. 7). This 
should be compared with the perspec- 
tive view into the hemisphere of the 
eyeball, shown in Fig. 167 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 



245 



in front of the cornea ; and it is the first essential of clear 
vision, just as it is the first essential of photography, that 
this image be sharp, or at least distinct. A simple experi- 
ment will show that clear vision of near and of distant ob- 
jects cannot be had by the eye at the same time. Hold up 
a pencil or a pen about ten inches from the eye and look 
first at it and then at some object far away. Both can be 
seen, but only one at a time clearly, 
and often an effort is required to shift 
from the far to the near object. 

The change which occurs in the 
eye in the act of accommodation is 
illustrated in the following experi- 
ment: A wooden or pasteboard box 
(approximately 8 by 5 by 4 inches) 
is fitted with a piece of ground glass 
on one side and provided with a con- 
vex lens on the opposite side. This 
is a rude camera, and some object is 
now placed at such a distance that 
the lens forms an image of it on the FIG. 94. Diagram of the 
ground glass, which is now in focus mechanism of accommoda- 
for the object. If, later, the object 

J J 

be moved nearer to the lens, the 




The ciliary muscle is repre- 
sented as three fibers passing 



focus is changed; the image on the obli <i uel y from the sclerotic 

f . to the choroid 

glass becomes blurred, and in order 

to make it distinct it will be found necessary to use a 

more convex lens. 

Essentially the same change occurs in the eye in accom- 
modating for near objects: the lens must be made more con- 
vex; and this, it will be remembered, involves work on the 
part of the muscle of accommodation (see p. 244). We can 
thus understand why, in general, it is too much of "near 
work," and especially near work necessitating very distinct 
vision, that tires the eye. The ideal condition of the eye, 



246 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

regarded merely as a camera, is that in which distant objects 
are focused on the retina when the muscle of accommoda- 
tion is completely relaxed and the lens is thus flattened to 
its utmost by the elastic pull of the choroid coat (p. 243), 
for iii this case the eye is rested by looking at distant ob- 
jects, and works only when looking at near objects. Such 
an 'eye is known as an emmetropic eye (Fig. 97, E}. 

Unfortunately, not all eyes meet this requirement. The 
eyeball may be either too short or too long ; so that, with 
the muscle of accommodation relaxed, the position of the 




FIG. 95. Action of a convex lens in bringing to a focus the rays of light 
diverging from a single point 

The rays from A are focused at a ; those from B, at b 

perfect focus for distant objects is either before or behind 
the retina; the eye no longer sees distant objects distinctly 
when it is at rest, because then the retinal image is blurred. 
To understand more fully the undesirable consequences of 
this condition, we must learn how convex lenses produce 
images of objects. 

9. The action of a convex lens on rays of light. The rays 
of light diverging from a single point and entering a convex 
lens are bent so that all come together again in a point be- 
hind the lens, or, as it is said, are brought to a focus. This 
is shown in Fig. 95, as is also the fact that rays of light 
diverging from more distant points come to a focus behind 
the lens sooner than those diverging from nearer points. 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 



247 



Now a lens forms an image of an object because all the 
rays of light from each point of the object are focused in 
corresponding points behind the lens. This is shown in 
Fig. 96, where all the rays diverging from 1 are focused 
at 1', all those from 2 at 2', and those from intermediate 
points of the object at intermediate points of the image. 

If the rays from each point meet in front of the retina and 
then diverge before reaching the retina, the retinal image is 
blurred ; and the image is also blurred if the retina is so 



ch 




FIG. 96. Diagram showing the formation of an image on the retina 

1, 2, the object ; 1', 2', the image of the object ; c, cornea ; i, iris; I, lens ; v, vitreous 
humor; w, sclerotic; ch, choroid; o. n., optic nerve 

near the lens that the rays from each point have not yet 
come to a focus. The more convex the lens, the more will 
the rays of light be bent; consequently we use the muscle 
of accommodation (which makes the lens more convex) to 
get clear images of near objects (see Fig. 95). 

10. Myopia, hyper metropia, and presbyopia. In the em- 
metropic eye (Fig. 97, E) the distance between the retina 
and the lens is such that light from distant points comes 
to a focus on the retina without any active muscular ac- 
commodation ; to see near objects the lens is made more 
convex. 



248 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



When the retina is so far away from the lens that, with 
the muscle of accommodation completely relaxed and there- 
fore the lens flattened to its utmost, light from distant 
points comes to a focus in front of the retina, the retinal 
image is blurred, and it is impossible for such an eye to see 
distant objects clearly. To correct such vision it would IDC 

necessary to make the 
lens still fess convex, 
and this the eye is un- 
able to do. (Why ?) 
Such an eye is known 
as myopic, or near- 
sighted, and its defect 
must be corrected by 
the use of concave 
glasses, which act as 
if the lens were made 
flatter, and so throw 
the focus farther back 
upon the retina. A 
myopic eye generally 
has clear sight for 
very near objects be- 
cause, as stated above, 
the nearer the object 




FIG. 97. Course of the rays of light from a 
distant point 



Through the emmetropic(^), the myopic (M), and 
the hypermetropic (H) eye, the muscle of accom- 
modation being relaxed. (The rays diverging 
from a distant point would enter the eye practi- 
cally parallel) 



the farther back is the 
image formed. 

On the other hand, 
the eyeball may be 

too short, fore and aft .(Fig. 97, .#"), so that, when the ciliary 
muscle is relaxed, light from distant points has not yet been 
brought to a focus when it reaches the retina (Tiypermetropia). 
Such an eye must accommodate not only for near but also 
for distant objects, and its muscle of accommodation can 
never rest so long as the eye is being used. Moreover, to see 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 249 

near objects the ciliary muscle must work much harder 
than in the normal eye, and it often happens that, even 
with its utmost effort, the rays are not sufficiently bent to 
focus them on the retina ; so that a book, for example, must 
be held at arm's length to be read. Persons having such 
eyes form one class of those said to be " far-sighted," and 
their trouble can be corrected by the use of convex glasses. 

As old age ap- 
proaches, changes oc- 
cur in the lens ; in 
consequence, it no 
longer becomes as 
convex as formerly 
in response to the ac- 
tion of the muscle 
of accommodation 
(presbyopia, from 
irp^a-ffv:, "old"). 
Some, though not 
all, results of this 
condition resemble 

those of hyperme- 

! ,1 FIG. 98. A test for astigmatism 

tropia; but the two 

differ in cause. Hypermetropia is due to shortness of eyeball ; 
presbyopia, to failure of accommodation. 

11. Astigmatism. We have thus far been dealing with 
those optical imperfections due to improper distance between 
the lens and the retina. Another and frequently more seri- 
ous trouble, known as astigmatism, results when the cur- 
vature of the cornea (and sometimes of the lens) is not 
perfectly regular; that is, when these surfaces are not seg- 
ments of perfect spheres, but resemble in curvature the 
side of a lemon. In this case the rays of light from a point 
are not brought to a focus again in a point behind the 
lens ; and remembering the importance of sharp focusing in 




250 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

securing distinct retinal images, the student will see that this 
defect must seriously interfere with clear vision. The optics 
of astigmatism are too complicated to be explained in an 
elementary work, but the defect reveals itself generally in 
an inability to see with equal clearness lines running in dif- 
ferent directions. Thus some of the lines in Fig. 98 will be 
sharply defined and black while one is looking with one 
eye at the white center, and others will be blurred and 
lighter in color. 

Astigmatism is of special importance in reading, because 
the lines of printed letters run in different directions. The 
effort to see clearly the printed page is often severe, and 
results in headaches and other general disturbances of health, 
the true cause of which is often unsuspected. The trouble 
ma}^ usually be corrected by the use of so-called " cylindri- 
cal " glasses ; that is, glasses which compensate the defects 
of curvature in lens and cornea. 

12. Accommodation and "near" work. The above-described 
defects of the eye as an optical instrument may usually be 
successfully corrected by the use of proper glasses, which 
should, generally speaking, be prescribed by a good oculist 
and not by an optician. Glasses may be used for various 
reasons as a matter of convenience, as where a person 
with slight myopia wears them merely to see distant objects 
clearly ; or of necessity, as when the myopia is more pro- 
nounced; or they may serve the much more important pur- 
pose of relieving the muscle of accommodation of undue 
work in reading or sewing, and thus of avoiding " eye- 
strain." A hypermetropic eye should always be provided 
with glasses, since otherwise its muscle of accommodation 
cannot be rested by looking at distant objects. But since it 
is near work which requires the greatest effort of accom- 
modation, it is in reading, writing, drawing, sewing, etc. 
that the eyestrain is apt to be greatest. As this kind of 
work is constantly increasing in modern life, the need for 






SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 251 

the complete correction of such defects becomes more and 
more necessary. Those whose occupations require long- 
continued use of the eyes should see to it that these 
precious organs are used only under the most favorable 
conditions and that all strain is as far as possible relieved. 
13. Accommodation involves nervous as well as muscular 
work; the importance of sharp contrast. The work of the 
muscle of accommodation is controlled by the nervous sys- 
tem, and accurate accommodation involves 'an unusually high 
degree of nervous coordination. The strain thus imposed 
may be lessened not only by the use of proper lenses and 
by giving the mechanism of accommodation periods of rest 
(by looking for a time at distant objects) but also by using 
the eyes in near work under the most favorable conditions. 
Perhaps the most important principle involved here is to 
secure the greatest possible contrast between the light and 
dark parts of objects at which we are looking. When the 
contrast is marked, the objects can be seen easily and recog- 
nized even though the accommodation is not absolutely per- 
fect. When, on the other hand, the contrast is not great, 
very accurate accommodation is necessary. Important means 
of securing the maximum contrast are the following: 

1. The avoidance of too little and of too great illumination 
of the object. Let the student examine any printed page with 
different degrees of illumination. The contrast of white and 
black will be poor in dim and in very bright lights, and 
greatest with a certain moderate illumination. Hence read- 
ing in twilight or with sunlight falling directly on the page 
means greater eyestrain. 

2. The avoidance of a flickering light. A steady light 
one free from flicker is of the highest importance for near 
work. In this respect a good kerosene lamp (student's lamp 
or Rochester burner) is perhaps the best of all lights for 
reading, provided the heat which it gives off is not too 
great. Electric lights are good if steady, but too frequently 



252 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

they are not. Gas from an ordinary fishtail burner is one 
of the poorest lights for reading and sewing. The flicker of 
gas lights may, however, be largely avoided by the use of 
mantles. 

3. If the printed matter is not held steady, the effort of 
accommodation becomes much more difficult. Consequently 
it is in general a bad thing to read, and especially to read 
fine or poorly printed matter, on any but the steadiest 
railroad train. 

4. The use of very fine type should be reduced to a mini- 
mum. When such printed matter is held at the ordinary 
distance of eighteen inches from the eye, very accurate 
accommodation is needed, and this, we have just seen, 
involves nervous strain ; if it is held closer to the eye (so as 
to make a larger image on the retina) the lens must be made 
much more convex to focus it, and this means excessive 
work on the part of the muscle of accommodation. This is 
very undesirable, and especially so in youth, since then the 
tissues of the eye are more plastic, and excessive strain of 
the muscle of accommodation, pulling as it does on the scle- 
rotic and the choroid coats, may lead to permanent deforma- 
tion of the curved surfaces. The marked increase of myopia 
within the past forty or fifty years is generally explained in 
this way. 

5. Highly calendered paper objectionable. Closely connected 
with the size of the type is the character of the paper on 
which it is printed. This should be as dull as possible in 
order to avoid the confusing effect of a glossy surface. The 
use of highly calendered paper in many books and serial 
publications, because such paper lends itself more readily 
to the reproduction of pictures in half tone, is a sacrifice 
of hygienic considerations to cheapness. 

14. Visual sensations. We have shown (p. 241) that the 
sensation of sight does not develop in the eye, but in the 
brain, as the result of nervous impulses sent thither over 






SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 253 

the fibers of the optic nerve from the retina. Just how the 
light falling upon the retina originates these impulses cannot 
be discussed here ; suffice it to say that the character of the 
impulse differs according to the color of the light 1 stimulat- 
ing the retina ; the lens focuses upon the retina a flat, colored 
picture of the objects at which it is looking, just as a pho- 
tographic camera does, or as the painter represents a scene 
on canvas. One part of the retina is thus stimulated by light 
of one color, and another part by light of another color or 
by another shade of the same color ; and the different kinds 
of impulses started in the fibers of the optic nerve ultimately, 
upon their arrival in the brain, excite in consciousness what 
we know as visual sensations. The sensations which we get 
from the retina are therefore primarily sensations of color. 

15. Visual judgments. But when we look at an object we 
get more than mere sensations of color. The world does 
not appear to us as a flat surface, of different colors, like 
the painter's canvas. When we look at the wall of a room 
we know that it is a flat surface, and when we look at a box 
we know that it has not only length and breadth but also 
thickness. If we were dependent entirely upon the retinal 
image for our idea of the box, it would look as flat as the 
wall ; that it does not appear so is because we receive other 
information about the box than that which comes from the 
retina. We have to accommodate the lens differently for 
the near and the far edges, and we have learned by experi- 
ence that this necessity indicates depth, or different distances 
of different parts of the object. Again, we see the box with 
both eyes, and the images formed on the two retinas are not 
exactly the same. One eye sees more of one side, the other 
eye more of another side ; and while we are not conscious 
of this fact, we have really learned by experience and by 
the actual handling of objects that this slight difference in 

1 In this and the following paragraphs white, black, and gray are 
regarded as colors. 



254 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



sensations from the two eyes are produced only by solid 
objects. Again, when we look at any point on the near edge 
of a box the two eyes are converged by their muscles to a 
greater extent than when we look at a point on the far edge, 
and we have learned that these different pulls of muscles and 
positions of eyeballs indicate that the object is not flat, but 
has depth. The importance of binocular vision in the estima- 
tion of depth or distance from the eye is most strikingly 
illustrated by attempting, with one eye closed, to bring 
together the points of two pencils held in the hands and 
moved from side to side at arm's length. 

Consequently when we look at anything we get a number 
of sensations ; from the retina, those of color and the posi- 
tion of the color spots with 
reference to one another; from 
the muscular efforts of accom- 
modation and of convergence 
of the eyeballs, those which 
reveal the property of depth 
in what we see. And from 
all of these, fused together 
and interpreted in the light 
of experience, we construct a 



> 

t 

* ! 






ii mi m 









FIG. 99 



visual judgment of the nature 

of the object. 

16. Optical illusions. That 

our vision is essentially the 

result of unconscious judgments is strikingly shown by the 
fact that these sometimes deceive us. Thus the parallel 
vertical lines in Fig. 99, when crossed by the oblique lines, seem 
to be inclined toward each other. The retinal images of the 
lines are parallel, and we falsely judge them inclined, this 
error of judgment arising from the presence of the oblique 
lines. In other words, our final idea of the lines does not 
correspond to their image on the retina. 



SENSE OEGANS AND SENSATIONS 255 

Many other examples might be given showing that our 
visual idea of the world around us is not a simple sensa- 
tion or impression, but an unconscious inference, judgment, 
or conclusion built up from a number of simple sensations 
taken separately or blended together and compounded with 
results of lifelong experience. In looking at a piece of fine 
silk or cloth we seldom stop to think that its tissue may be 
resolved into many simple component threads ; and in quite 
the same way we fail to realize that even our quickly formed 
judgments of the size, distance, form, or color of objects are 
likewise tissues woven out of many threads, most of which we 
have been slowly and laboriously spinning since childhood's 
days in the hidden factory of individual experience. 

17. Sound and hearing. When the string of a violin, 
piano, or harp "sounds," one can observe that it is in rapid 
vibration ; and the same thing is true of all sounding bodies. 
These vibrations are imparted to the air, water, or other 
surrounding medium, and through this medium they are 
transmitted as waves of sound. It is these waves, or vibra- 
tions, which, on entering the ear, excite the sensation of sound. 
The more rapid the vibrations, the higher is the pitch of the 
note ; and the greater their amplitude, the louder the sound. 

The ear is an organ specially adapted to receive these vibra- 
tions of air and to transform them into nervous impulses. 
It is subdivided by anatomists into the outer ear, the middle 
ear, and the inner ear. 

18. The outer ear. The outer ear consists of the expanded 
pinna (or that part which we commonly call " the ear ") and 
a tube along which the vibrations of sound pass inward to 
the tympanic membrane, or drum. Glands along this canal 
secrete wax which guards the approach to the drum. It is a 
bad habit to pick at this wax, and especially to dig into the 
ear with any pointed instrument, for there is always danger 
of perforating the drum. If trouble is suspected, a physician 
should be consulted. 



256 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



19. The middle ear ; the Eustachian tube. The tympanic 
membrane separates the outer from the middle ear, or tym- 
panum^ a small cavity lying in the temporal bone of the 
skull and communicating with the throat or pharynx by 
means of the Eustachian tube. The air which it contains 
is consequently under the same pressure as that of the 




FIG. 100. Diagram of the ear 

-4, the auditory canal, leading to the tympanic membrane B- C, cavity of the 
tympanum, communicating by the Eustachian tube with the pharynx D ; E, semi- 
circular canals ; F, cochlea ; (?, auditory nerve 

atmosphere without, and the tympanic membrane is not 
normally bulged inward or outward by inequality of pres- 
sure on its two sides. The opening of the Eustachian tube 
into the pharynx is, however, closed except when one swal- 
lows, and hence swallowing often relieves the drum from 
undue pressure of air in the middle ear. 

The cavity of the tympanum also communicates with a 
network of spaces, or sinuses, in the temporal bone. Because 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 



257 



of these connections of the middle ear with the throat, on 
the one hand, and with the temporal sinuses on the other, 
inflammatory processes in the nose and throat during a cold 
sometimes extend into the Eustachian tube, the tympanum, 
and even into the temporal sinuses, causing serious trouble 
and occasionally deafness. 

Passing directly across the tympanum, from the drum on 
its outer side to the cochlea on its inner side, is a chain of 
three very small bones, the ear 
ossicles (hammer, anvil, and stir- 
rup). These bones are bound 
together and attached to the 
walls of the tympanum by liga- 
ments, and are so arranged that 
when sound waves set the tym- 
panic membrane in vibration 
this motion is transmitted by 
the ossicles to a portion of the 
inner ear known as the cochlea. 

20. The inner ear. The struc- 
tures of the inner ear lie in 
the temporal bone, on the side 
of the tympanum opposite the 
drum. They consist of a system 
of small bony spaces and tubes, 
the bony labyrinth, within which lies a corresponding membra- 
nous labyrinth. Forming part of the lining of the membranous 
labyrinth are very sensitive cells, and between these cells 
are the endings of the nerve fibers which connect the ear 
with the brain. The cells of the inner ear are sensitive to 
the vibrations which have been transmitted across the tym- 
panum by the ossicles, just as the retina is sensitive to 
light; and as the retina is the origin of the fibers of the 
optic nerve, so the inner ear is the origin of those of the 
auditory nerve. 




FIG. 101. The bony labyrinth, its 

actual size being shown in the 

smaller figure 

B, C, D, the semicircular canals; 
A, the oval window, by means of 
which the vibrations of the stirrup 
bone are transmitted to the cochlea ; 
E, F, G, the whorls of the cochlea. 
Cf . Fig. 102 



258 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Vestibule with Openings 
of Semicircular Canals 



ScalaVestibuli 



Cochlea 



21. Taste and smell. The end organs of taste are small 
rounded eminences, or papillce, on the dorsal surface of the 
tongue, and from these the fibers of the nerves of taste pass 
to the brain. The end organs of the nerve of smell are situ- 
ated in the upper portion of the nasal cavity and consist 
of delicate cells very sensitive to the presence of odors. 
Sensations of taste are frequently confounded with those of 
smell. An onion, for example, has little or no taste, as can 

be shown by placing 
a bit on the tongue 
when one is holding 
the breath ; none of 
the flavor of the 
onion is perceived. 
On the other hand, 
sour, sweet, Utter, 
Scaia'Tympani and salt are true 

sensations of taste. 
This unconscious 
blending of tastes 
with odors in form- 
ing our ideas of the 
nature of objects re- 
calls the formation of visual judgments by the combination 
of retinal sensations with those aroused by the muscular 
act of converging the eyeballs. 

22. Cutaneous sensations. The skin is the place of origin 
of at least three sensations touch, cold, and warmth. These 
sensations are distinct, as is shown by the observation that 
on certain points of the skin some of them may be felt, but 
not others. This fact is usually interpreted to mean that 
each sensation has its own set of end organs and nerve 
fibers. Especially striking is the fact that warmth and cold 
are not felt by the same spot of skin, which seems to prove 
conclusively that they are separate sensations. 




EustachianTube 



FIG. 102. Diagrammatic representation of the 

membranous labyrinth of the cochlea in relation 

to the structures shown in Figs. 100 and 101 

The scala vestibuli and scala tympani are the two 

portions of the bony cochlea which inclose the 

membranous cochlea 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 



259 



The afferent nerves of cold and warmth not only carry 
into the brain those impulses which give rise to the corre- 
sponding sensations but also serve as one important means 
of stimulating the reflexes which help to regulate heat 
production and heat output (see Chap. XII). 

23. The sense of position. The expression "the five senses" 
has become proverbial, and comes from the time when sight, 
hearing, taste, smell, and touch were the recognized special 
senses. To-day, however, we must add to 
these not only warmth and cold but still 
others, most conspicuous among which is the 
sense of position. When the eyes are closed 
we are aware of the position of the various 
parts of the body. We know whether the 
arm is bent at the elbow or straight ; whether 
the head is looking forward or is turned to 
one side or the other. And while we are 
aware of these things, partly from tactile 

. i . 

sensations, there is conclusive evidence that t ji e cor puscle in 
afferent impulses from the muscles, tendons, one of the papil- 
and joints also play an important part in 
the result. 

When one is blindfolded and lies flat on a 
revolving table which can be turned noiselessly in one direc- 
tion or the other, the subject of experiment can form fairly 
correct judgments as to the angle and direction through 
which the table is turned. Here there is no change of char- 
acter either in the tactile impulses or in those from the mus- 
cles, tendons, and joints, for the subject of experiment lies 
still and is only passively moved. It is believed that in this 
case the sensations in question come from the movements of 
the lymph in portions of the inner ear. One part of this, 
the cochlea, is undoubtedly concerned with the perception of 
sound ; but another part, the three semicircular canals, are 
now believed to be end organs of this sense of position. 




lee of the dermis ; 
an end organ of 
the sense of touch 



260 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The impulses which make us aware of the position of parts 
of our bodies also play a very important role in reflexly 
guiding our movements. Upon this we shall dwell at greater 
length in subsequent chapters (see especially Chap. XV). 

24. Sensations of pain. Most organs of the body may also 
give rise to impulses which, on their arrival in the brain, 
cause sensations of pain. It is still, perhaps, an open ques- 
tion whether this sensation, like sight, smell, and hearing, is 
aroused by its own mechanism of end organs and afferent 
nerves or whether it is called forth by the excessive stimu- 
lation of the nerves of the other senses, but for the discus- 
sion of this question the reader must consult more advanced 
works on physiology. 

Pain is a useful danger signal, since it effectively calls 
attention to abnormal conditions and incites us to the adop- 
tion of active remedial measures. Remedies, however, should 
not be confined to the abolition of unpleasant sensations, but 
should be directed to the removal of their cause. A tooth- 
ache from a decaying tooth may often be stopped, for a time 
at least, by the use of chloroform or other anesthetic drugs, 
but the drug only stops the pain ; it does not check the 
progress of decay or repair the. damage. Again, a bronchial 
cough may be unpleasant and even painful, but we should 
not rest content with the use of some drug or cough medicine 
which merely lessens the irritability of the inflamed surface 
of the air passages, and so, perhaps, stops the cough without 
curing the disease. 

Pain is a warning that some abnormal condition needs 
attention. Sometimes that attention may be supplied by the 
sufferer himself, or by his friends, but often skilled medical 
advice is needed. Too frequently, for the sake of economy 
or from feelings of modesty, or even because of an unwilling- 
ness to acknowledge illness either to the world or to one's self, 
the mistake is made of postponing the visit to the physician, 
the patient meanwhile bearing discomfort and perhaps actual 



SENSE ORGANS AND SENSATIONS 261 

suffering in the hope that he will soon be better and that the 
trouble will " cure itself." Sometimes, of course, it does cure 
itself; but sometimes it does not; and remediable disease 
has too frequently been allowed to run on in this way until 
some vital spot is attacked or the trouble has become too 
grave for medical skill to overcome. Many diseases, like a 
fire, may be extinguished at the start, but if not attended to, 
grow rapidly into a conflagration beyond control. Pain is 
one of the most trustworthy warnings that attention to the 
mechanism itself or to our operation of it is necessary; and 
we have no right, either for our own sake or that of our 
friends, to neglect its warnings. While there are times when 
it is an act of heroism to endure suffering and to keep the 
knowledge of it to one's self, there are other times when to 
do this is not only foolish but wrong. 

25. Hunger and thirst. No account of the physiology of 
sensations would be complete without some reference to 
those very common experiences of life hunger and thirst. 
We have already spoken of them as sensations which are 
referred to the body and never to external objects, thirst 
usually being referred to the mouth and throat, and hunger 
frequently to the stomach; but hunger and even thirst may 
sometimes affect us as sensations coming from the body as 
a whole, in which case they are usually indistinguishable 
from certain forms of general fatigue. 

Hunger is excited by automatic rhythmic contractions of 
the musculature of the cardiac end of the stomach. The 
stomach, like the heart, executes rhythmic contractions, and 
we may speak of the " beat " of the stomach just as we 
speak of the " beat " of the heart, although each stomach 
contraction is much slower than those of the heart. When 
food is in the stomach, these contractions or " beats " are 
inhibited in the cardiac end or else are reduced to very in- 
significant proportions, and we have the inactive condition 
of this portion of the stomach described in Chapter VIII ; 



262 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

but when the cardiac pouch is again empty, the inhibiting 
check is removed and the automatic " beats " become quite 
powerful. These contractions start impulses up the sensory 
nerves of the stomach, and these impulses excite in our con- 
sciousness sensations of hunger. Often the "beats" occur 
in rhythmic periods, a group of strong contractions alter- 
nating with groups of weak contractions or even total 
quiescence. In this case we have the "griping" hunger 
pangs coincident with the strong contractions. In certain 
abnormal conditions the presence of food in the stomach 
fails to exert its inhibiting effect ^and we have a continual 
" gnawing " hunger. 

Thirst is aroused by the dryness of the mouth and throat, 
probably by the reduction of the amount of water in cells 
and tissues of this organ. 

Hunger and thirst are definite sensations, as truly adapted 
to guide us in the choice of food as sight is adapted to 
picture to us the world in which we live. So long as the 
body is normally occupied and healthy they may usually 
be trusted ; but there are abnormal conditions of sedentary 
life, in the midst of a superabundance of tempting food, 
when they become less trustworthy, and in some forms of 
dyspepsia the sensation of hunger is never absent, no matter 
how often one eats. In such cases the very effort to satisfy 
hunger only aggravates disease. Conditions of this sort 
should not prevail if proper attention be paid to the general 
hygienic conduct of life. Broadly speaking, appetites, like 
fire and dynamite, are good servants but bad masters. 



CHAPTER XY 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 
A. ITS ANATOMICAL BASIS 

In the preceding chapter we have repeatedly emphasized 
the fact that sensations of all kinds are developed in the 
brain from nervous 
impulses coming 
from the sense or- 
gans, and in a pre- 
vious chapter (VII) 
we have seen that 
without reaching 
the brain, or at 
least without af- 
fecting conscious- 
ness, these affer- 
ent impulses may 
give rise to reflex 
action. A reflex ac- 
tion or a conscious 
sensation, or both a 
reflex action and 
a conscious sensa- 
tion, may therefore 
result from the en- 
trance of a nervous 
impulse into the central nervous system, and we have now 
to inquire what is known of the mechanism by which these 
results are brought about. 

263 




FIG. 104. The human brain viewed from above. 

The cerebral hemispheres completely cover the 

rest of the brain 



264 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Forebrain 

' Tweenbrain 
Midbrain 

Hindbrain 



1. Fundamental structure of the nervous system ; the brain 
of a frog. The human spinal cord and brain are so com- 
plicated that it is best to study first the nervous system 

of a simple verte- 
brate like the frog, 
for the fundamen- 
tal plan of struc- 
ture is the same in 
both. The spinal 
cord is a relatively 
thick-walled tube, 
the walls of which 
are composed of 
white and gray 
matter, the minute 
, K bore, or lumen, of 

3 

3 

j 

\ 



Spinal 
Cord 



I 



the tube being 
known as the cen- 
tral canal. The ar- 
rangement in the 
brain is similar, but 
here the central 
space is no longer 
a small tube of even 
bore, but consists 
for the greater part 
of irregular cavities 
known as the ven- 
tricles of the brain, 
while the walls 
consist of masses 
of gray and white 

matter varying in size, shape, and relation to each other. 
Fig. 105 will assist the student in understanding this plan 

of structure. Anteriorly the spinal cord is continued in the 



FIG. 105. The brain and spinal cord of the frog 

On the left is a longitudinal, right-to-left section, 
showing the central canal and the ventricles of the 
brain ; on the right the dorsal view of the brain and 
cord. A, the cerebral hemispheres ; B, the optic lobes ; 
(7, the cerebellum; D, the bulb; E, the spinal cord 



THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM 



265 



bulb, l whose central cavity is the fourth ventricle. Part of 
the dorsal wall of this ventricle forms the cerebellum, which 
in the frog is only slightly developed, but which in higher 
vertebrates (birds and mammals) becomes a large and con- 
spicuous organ. Anteriorly the fourth ventricle is connected 
with the third by a tube, the aqueduct of Sylvius. The thick 
walls of this aqueduct contain various masses of gray matter 
whose names need not detain us ; the walls of the third ven- 
tricle are similarly composed of large masses of gray matter 




FIG. 106. Diagrammatic median longitudinal section of a mammalian brain 

After Edinger 

For convenience the cerebrum, with its lateral ventricle, is represented as a single 

organ in the median plane instead of two hemispheres on either side of this 

plane and each with its own lateral ventricle. The division into forebrain, 

'tweenbrain, midbrain, and hindbrain is marked by the broken lines 

scattered among the fibers of the white matter. Still farther 
forward two openings from the third ventricle, one on the 
right and one on the left side, lead into the large lateral 
ventricles, the nervous tissue of whose walls is the cerebrum, 
or the cerebral hemispheres. It is convenient to divide the brain 
into the forebrain, surrounding the lateral ventricles ; the 
'tweenbrain, surrounding the third ventricle ; the midbrain, 
surrounding the aqueduct of Sylvius ; and the hindbrain, 
surrounding the fourth ventricle. 

1 The older term for the bulb is the medulla oblongata, to distinguish 
it from the medulla spinalis, or spinal cord. 



266 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



2. The brain of the mammal is built on the same funda- 
mental plan as that of the frog, and differs from it mainly 
in the greater number of neurones and in the complexity 




E 



FIG, 107. The base of the human brain, showing the cranial nerves 

A, the crus cerebri, composed largely of nerve fibers which connect the hind- 
brain with the 'tweenbrain and forebrain ; B, the pons Varolii, the anterior floor 
of the fourth ventricle, connected laterally with the cerebellum; C, the bulb; 
D, the cerebellum; E, the spinal cord 

of their connections with one another. This results in 
great thickening of the ventricular walls and the formation 
of a very complicated anatomical structure. Mammals are 
especially characterized by an enormous development of the 



THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 



267 



cerebral hemispheres, which in man grow to such proportions 
upwards and backwards as to overhang and completely cover 
the other structures on the dorsal side. But even these large 
masses of nervous tissue, no less than the smaller cerebrum 
of the frog, are composed entirely of the gray and white 
matter forming the walls of the lateral ventricles. 

By comparing the brain of a frog (Fig. 105) with those 
of the rabbit, cat, and monkey (Fig. 166), and finally with 




FIG. 108. Median longitudinal section of the human brain 

A, B, C, D, L, convolutions of the median surface of the cerebrum ; E, F, the 

cerebellum, showing in the plane of section the inner white matter and the outer 

gray matter ; H, the pons Varolii ; K, the bulb 

the human brain (Figs. 104, 107, 108), a fairly good idea 
may be had of the increasing complexity of the brain as we 
pass from the lower to the higher animals. Especially note- 
worthy is the greater relative prominence of the cerebrum. 
In the frog this organ is small and inconspicuous ; in the 
rabbit it is much larger, but its surface is smooth ; in the cat 
there is a further increase in size, and the surface is thrown 



268 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



into folds, or convolutions; and this increase in size and 
surface folding carried yet farther in the monkey reaches 

its highest development 
in the human brain. 

3. The cranial nerves. 
Nerves enter the 'tween- 
brain, midbrain, and hind- 
brain somewhat as they 
enter the spinal cord; 
and although their sepa- 
ration into dorsal and 
ventral roots is not ob- 
vious, the neurones to 
which their nerve fibers 
belong are in all respects 
analogous to the neu- 
rones of the spinal nerves. 
They may serve as the 
paths of reflexes (for ex- 
ample, a wink is a re- 
flex from the optic or the 
trigeminal nerve to the 
facial nerve), and their 
relation to the cells of 
the cerebrum and other 
higher portions of the 




brain is essentially the 
same as that of the spinal 
nerves. Fig. 107 will give 
the points of entrance or 
exit of these nerves from 
the human brain. 
4. Histological structure of the brain. Microscopic study 
of the brain shows an aggregation of neurones similar to 
that seen in the spinal cord. These neurones differ greatly 



FIG. 109. A portion of the gray matter 
(cortex) of the cerebrum (highly magni- 
fied). After Kolliker 

Note the large number of dendrites. The 

axons are the fibers of uniform diameter 

running lengthwise of the drawing. One of 

these cells is shown in Fig. 41, D 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 269 

in shape (see Chap. VII, p. 73), in the number of their 
dendrites, and in the abundance of their connections with 
other neurones. The regular arrangement in the cord of 
central gray matter surrounded by white matter is wanting ; 
instead, masses of gray matter occur here and there among 
the bundles of nerve fibers of which the white matter is 
composed. In the cerebrum and cerebellum the external 
surface consists of gray matter and is known as the cortex 
of the cerebrum and cerebellum respectively. These cortical 
structures form the most complicated system of nervous 
tissue in the body, and the cerebral cortex is intimately 
concerned with the highest functions of the brain. (See 
Figs. 109, 110, and 111.) 

The figures give some idea of the variety and complexity 
of the neurones of the brain. But however different, at first 
sight, the brain may be from the spinal cord, the anatomical 
plan of organization is the same in both; the brain as well 
as the cord does its work because the connections of its neu- 
rones with one another bring about coordinated action. The 
secret of the structure of the brain, as of the cord, lies in 
the nature of the connections of its units, the neurones, one 
with another. 

B. THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

Whenever through accident, disease, or otherwise, some 
portion of the nervous system is destroyed, functions depend- 
ent upon it are no longer performed, or at least are not per- 
formed normally. A very large number of observations have 
been made upon both animals and men in this condition, and 
these have made it possible for us to obtain some idea of the 
part played in normal life by each part of the brain and cord. 
We shall attempt here to sketch only a few of the more im- 
portant outlines of the picture, which the reader may com- 
plete by more extensive study of physiology and psychology. 



270 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



We shall choose for study the case of a single animal, the 
frog, the anatomical structure of whose brain has been given 
in this chapter. The phenomena shown by the frog are, 
however, as far as we shall describe them, in general true 
of higher vertebrate animals. 

We shall therefore study (1) the behavior of a frog whose 
brain has been destroyed, that is, a frog which possesses no 

part of its central 
nervous system ex- 
cept the spinal 
cord; (2) the be- 
havior of a frog 
with spinal cord 
and bulb intact, 
but destitute of 
midbrain, 'tween- 
brain, and cere- 
brum ; (3) the 
behavior of a frog 
with spinal cord, 
bulb, midbrain, and 
'tweenbrain, but 
destitute of the 
cerebrum. 

The behavior of 
these incomplete 
animals will each 




FIG. 110. Transverse section of a convolution of 
the cerebellum. After Ramon y Cajal 

The figure represents only a few of each kind of nerve 

cells and nerve endings. A, D, E, cells ; B, C, nerve 

endings (synapses) 



be compared with that of a normal frog, which, of course, 
possesses a complete nervous system. 

5. The behavior of a brainless frog ; that is, a frog which 
possesses of its nervous system only the spinal cord. Such 
a frog can carry out only reflex actions of a comparatively 
simple character. It lies flat upon its belly and, like the 
normal frog, bends its hind legs under its flank, but does 
not sit erect by supporting the head and upper trunk on the 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



271 



fore legs. There are no respiratory movements ; the vaso- 
constrictor tone of the blood vessels is impaired or absent, 
as are also many other of the most important reflexes. 

But if one leg be pulled gently backward, the animal will 
bend it again to its normal position under the body. If the 
toe be pinched, the leg will suddenly be drawn away ; and 
if the skin of the flank be irritated by a bit of filter paper 
moistened with acid, the paper will be kicked off by the leg 
of the same side. 

These are all pur- 
poseful 1 and coordi- 
nated actions, and 
make upon the inex- 
perienced observer 
the impression that 
the frog is aware 
of the stimulus and 
acts intelligently. 
But the mere fact 
that an act is pur- 
poseful and coordi- 
nated does not show 
that -it is a conscious 
act ; our movements 
of respiration, winking, coughing, and sneezing are purpose- 
ful and coordinated, but we know well enough that they, 
as well as more complicated actions, may and often do occur 
in the complete absence of consciousness. One of the first 
lessons that the student of animal behavior must learn is not 
to make the mistake of regarding an action as conscious 
merely because " it looks so" or is purposeful and more or 
less highly coordinated. 

1 The word " purposeful " is used here in the same sense as in Chapter VII 
(p. 70) and does not include conscious purpose in its meaning. We shall see 
that conscious purpose involves the cooperation of the cerebrum. 




FIG. 111. Section of the cortex of the cerebellum 

(at right angles to that shown in Fig. 110). After 

Ramon y Cajal 



272 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The spinal cord alone, then, and without the help of the 
brain, is capable of maintaining a small part of the normal 
posture of the resting frog and also of executing some of 
the simple reflexes, especially those involving movements 
of the hind legs, but it does not seem to be capable of 
originating actions or of doing any except reflex actions. 

6. The behavior of a frog with spinal cord and bulb only. 
In this case there is no new feature in the maintenance of 
posture; the frog lies on its belly and executes the same 
reflexes as before. The respiratory movements, however, go 
on in a normal manner; the vasomotor tone of the arteries 
is maintained, most vasomotor reflexes may be produced 
with ease, and the heart may be reflexly inhibited. As com- 
pared with the brainless frog, the number of actions which 
the animal can execute is increased, and the reflex move- 
ments become somewhat more complicated ; but the differ- 
ences are slight as compared with those seen in the animal 
which has the 'tweenbrain and midbrain in addition to the 
hindbrain and cord. 

7. The behavior of a frog with spinal cord, bulb, midbrain, 
and 'tweenbrain ; that is to say, a frog with the entire nerv- 
ous system exclusive of the forebrain, or cerebrum. The 
following points are especially noteworthy : (1) the sitting 
posture maintained at rest; (2) balancing movements; and 
(3) more complicated movements of locomotion. 

(1) Such a frog, unlike those already described, sits erect 
exactly like a normal frog; and this fact shows that com- 
plete maintenance of the normal posture requires the coopera- 
tion of higher portions of the nervous system than the bulb 
and spinal cord, but does not involve the cooperation of the 
cerebrum. 

(2) If the frog be placed on a rectangular block of wood, 
and the block slowly turned so that the frog tends to slip 
off backwards, it will crawl up and over the descending 
edge, keeping itself perfectly balanced. By continuing to 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 273 

turn the block the frog can be made to creep around it 
almost indefinitely. Thus it not only maintains the erect 
position but also corrects loss of equilibrium by appropriate 
balancing movements. 

(3) If the frog be stroked upon its belly, it will croak; 
if its lips be touched with a blunt pin, it will brush the pin 
away with its forefoot. Most important of all, if it be thrown 
into the water, it will swim ; and when it reaches a solid 
object it will crawl out upon it and come to rest. In short, 
the animal will carry out almost any movement of which a 
normal frog is capable, provided the proper stimulus is applied ; 
but without this it will do nothing, though capable of doing 
so much. 

The facts thus far brought forward show that the neurones 
of the 'tween, mid, and hind brains and of the spinal cord 
constitute nervous mechanisms which can maintain the nor- 
mal posture, correct loss of balance, and even carry out the 
usual acts of locomotion. The more of the nervous system 
which the animal retains, the more complicated are the move- 
ments, as we should expect when we remember the increase 
in the number of neurones and the greater complexity of 
coordination thereby rendered possible. 

8. Comparison with the normal frog. The behavior of a 
frog lacking only the forebrain, or cerebrum, differs from 
that of a normal frog in two most significant respects. In 
the first place, the animal rarely makes any movement with- 
out obvious external stimulation; if protected from drying, 
it will often sit motionless for days, or even weeks. Such is 
not the conduct of an animal which is aware of what is going 
on around it or of its own sensations or feelings, that is, of 
a conscious animal. In the second place, the frog shows the 
most remarkable regularity and persistency in making re- 
peatedly the same response to the same stimulus ; if its lips 
be touched thirty times with a blunt needle, it will brush 
at the offending object every time in the same way with the 



274 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

same forefoot. We should certainly not expect a conscious 
animal to do this ; for, after trying one plan of action a few 
times, it would realize that its efforts were unavailing, and 
would try something else, such as jumping away. This same 
peculiarity is met with in all animals deprived of the cere- 
brum. They act like mere complicated and faithful machines ; 
they do not act as if they were thoughtful, original, or wise. 

Especially striking is the avoidance of objects during 
locomotion. This fact looks at first sight as if the animal 
were aware of the presence of the obstacle in its path ; but a 
dog without a cerebrum, even when it has been without food 
for a day or more, will go to one side of a piece of meat and 
pass it by. He acts as if unaware of the nature of the object, 
of its use as food, etc. The image of the piece of meat 
formed on his retina seems to generate nervous impulses 
which pass to the brain by way of the optic nerve and re- 
flexly guide the movements of the dog, but these impulses 
do not inform the animal of the nature of the object, and 
we have no reason to believe that the dog is aware of the 
existence of the meat. 

When we consider our own experience we find that we 
too, as we walk along a crowded street, avoid objects, not 
only without noticing them but without even being aware 
of their presence. Here again the afferent impulses from 
the retina pass to the nervous system and reflexly guide our 
walking without affecting consciousness at all. And the 
wonderful feats of somnambulism, where the " eyes are 
open " but " their sense is shut," where the sleeper main- 
tains his balance and avoids stumbling in situations where 
he would almost inevitably fall if he were aware of his 
surroundings, show how perfect is this very complicated 
mechanism of locomotion, which seems to be complete even 
in the absence of the cerebrum. 

We are, indeed, so accustomed to regard our actions as 
volitional and conscious that we rarely consider the large 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 275 

part which reflexes from the eye, the ear, the skin, the 
muscles, and the joints play in guiding them. We will to 
do a certain thing, to walk to a certain point, for example ; 
perhaps the first step is a volitional act, but subsequent 
steps, the suiting of these steps to slight unevenness of the 
path, the avoidance of many obstacles, the maintenance of 
the balance of the body as a whole, for we walk not only 
with the legs but with the entire body, all these things 
take place apart from any exercise of the will and, for 
the greater part, in the entire absence of consciousness, 
although consciousness may, of course, at any time inter- 
vene. Reflex actions thus play a most important part 
even in the execution of those movements which we think 
of as distinctly conscious acts. 

9. Connections of the cerebrum with lower portions of the 
nervous system; "the way out." Granting that the nerv- 
ous events at the basis of consciousness occur within the 
cerebrum, how do these events influence the muscles, the 
glands, and other organs which do the bidding of the will? 
What is the way out from this seat of consciousness ? This 
path has already been referred to in Chapter VII (p. 81). 
Cells in the gray matter of the cerebrum give off axons 
which pass downward through the structures of the 'tween, 
mid, and hind brain into the white matter of the spinal cord. 
These axons give off along their course collaterals which end 
in arborizations around nerve cells of the lower portions of 
the nervous system and, by bringing groups of these cells 
into coordinated activity, produce definite volitional move- 
ments. The student should review carefully in this connec- 
tion what has already been said with reference to these 
neurones (see Fig. 165, v). 

10. Connections of the cerebrum with lower portions of the 
nervous system; "the way in." The fact that afferent 
impulses from our sense organs of sight, hearing, etc. may 
affect consciousness indicates that there must be some 



276 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

connection between afferent neurones and the cerebral hemi- 
spheres, since only when the latter are present does a nervous 
impulse produce a conscious sensation. The connection is not, 
however, so direct as in the case of efferent impulses. The 
neurone of the dorsal root may be traced as far as the bulb, 
but no farther ; from this point the impulse can find its way 
to the cerebrum only by new neurones, and of these it would 
seem that there are several. These relations are indicated in 
Fig. 165, where the efferent neurones are represented in black, 
and the afferent in red. 

This diagram brings out the fact of increasing complexity 
of reflexes as we proceed to the more anterior portions of 
the nervous system. In the spinal cord the collaterals of 
the afferent neurone act upon the efferent neurones ; in the 
structures of the midbrain and the 'tweenbrain the afferent 
tract makes connection with more and more complicated and 
extensive systems of these efferent neurones or motor mecha- 
nisms. The range of possible movement is increased to in- 
clude most of the usual actions of the animal, and some of 
these actions represent a very high degree of coordination. 
Finally, in the cerebrum the highest of all these connections 
is made; here take place those events of whose nature we 
have thus far been quite unable to form any conception, but 
which play some part in the genesis of conscious sensations 
and in the closely related dispatch of volitional impulses. 
We can now understand why it is that removing this high- 
est portion of the nervous system leaves untouched not only 
the simpler reflexes but even the more complicated reflexes 
of locomotion, of swimming, of flight, etc. 

11. The nervous factors in locomotion ; automatic and 
reflex elements. It is clear from the considerations given 
above that walking, running, and other forms of locomotion 
are essentially non volitional acts, and it is also clear that 
there must be a nervous mechanism capable of carrying 
them out without the aid of and in the complete absence 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 277 

of consciousness. What is the nature of this mechanism? 
In answer to this question we can only make a suggestion 
without pretending to give a final explanation. 

In the first place, walking obviously involves alternate 
steps, or forward thrusts of the body by the two legs ; that 
is, while one leg is pushing the body forward by straighten- 
ing at hip, knee, and ankle joints, the other leg is bending 
at these joints, the flexion of each leg at the hip joint bring- 
ing it forward in preparation for its next forward thrust. 
In each leg, then, we have an alternation of "forward swing" 
(flexion at hip, knee, and ankle) and of " extensor thrust " 
(extension at hip, knee, and ankle). In the same leg the 
flexors of the hip, knee, and ankle obviously contract at 
approximately the same time, and the extensors at the three 
joints similarly act together ; furthermore, the extensor action 
in one leg is simultaneous with the flexor action in the 
opposite leg. These actions may be represented in diagram 
as follows: 

I Hip Ex. Fl. Ex. Fl. 

Knee Ex. Fl. Ex. Fl. 
Ankle Ex. Fl. Ex. Fl. 
Toes 1 Fl. Ex. Fl. Ex. 

*? J 



rHip 


Fl. 


Ex. 


Fl. 


Ex. 


5 


I Knee 


Fl. 


Ex. 


Fl. 


Ex. 


? 


] Ankle 


Fl. 


Ex. 


Fl. 


Ex. 


'" 


[Toes 


Ex. 


Fl. 


Ex. 


Fl. 


> 



Now it has been shown that in an animal made unconscious 
by ether anesthesia, and in which no afferent impulses may 
enter the cord or brain, because of the depth of anesthesia 
or even because of cutting the dorsal nerve roots, similar 
movements of the hind legs spontaneously arise and may 

1 Flexion of the toes in each leg occurs simultaneously with extension at 
the other three joints, and vice versa. With most people, owing to the use 
of improperly shaped shoes, the toes are little used in walking. See Chapter 
XXIV on the Hygiene of the Feet. 



278 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

be kept up for long periods of time. Evidently there is 
a mechanism consisting entirely of motor or efferent neurones 
which by itself, independently of any afferent (that is, reflex) 
or volitional stimulation, can automatically carry out a large 
part of the act of locomotion. Locomotion becomes funda- 
mentally the act of an automatic mechanism and is com- 
parable to the alternate automatic contractions of inspiration 
and expiration. 

The parallel between the automatism of respiration and 
the automatism of locomotion becomes still more striking 
when we find in both cases that afferent impulses do actually 
intervene to guide and so make more exact and efficient 
the fundamental automatic movements. Thus we know that 
afferent impulses started by the expansion of the lungs 
during inspiration check the inspiratory effort then in prog- 
ress and so bring on the next expiration sooner than it would 
automatically occur. Similarly, the pressure upon the sole of 
the foot as it touches the ground reflexly guides and proba- 
bly strengthens the automatic extensor thrust ; and many 
other reflexes through the cord are known to serve similar 
functions. 

To sum up, then: The action of the legs in locomotion 
seems to be fundamentally an automatic action, but these 
automatic movements are guided by afferent impulses which 
stream in from skin, muscles, and joints as the act pro- 
gresses. Just as we can volitionally hold the breath, so we 
can volitionally start or stop walking; or just as we can 
volitionally change the depth and rhythm of respiration, 
so we can volitionally change the pace or length of stride ; 
or just as a dash of cold water on the skin or the presence 
of an irrespirable gas reflexly changes the character of the 
breathing movements, so unevenness of the path or visual 
impulses from an object in the way changes the character of 
the locomotion. In all cases reflex and volitional interference 
acts on a fundamental automatic nervous mechanism. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 279 

12. The maintenance of balance and the regulation of mus- 
cular tone. Walking, however, involves more than the action 
of the neuromuscular mechanisms of the legs ; for here, as 
well as in complicated volitional actions, the balance of the 
body must be preserved. For this reason we swing the arms 
and execute ever-changing contractions of the muscles of the 
trunk. Moreover, a proper state of tonic contraction in each 
muscle is necessary to the proper execution not only of the 
act of walking but of other acts as well, whether these are 
volitional or nonvolitional. Into the mechanism of this won- 
derfully perfect function of the body we cannot go within 
the limits of the present book; but there is good ground 
for thinking that, at least in the mammals, the cerebellum 
is a very important and probably the all-important organ 
concerned in effecting these coordinations. 

13. Actions resulting from nervous processes originating 
within the cerebrum. A very large part of the activities of 
the body are thus fundamentally reflex actions ; they do not 
require the aid of consciousness for their execution. And it 
is fortunate for us that this is the case; one has only to 
imagine a human being who has to give his attention, or 
"his mind," as we often say, to every adjustment of the 
digestive, respiratory, and vascular systems required to meet 
the changing necessities of life ; who has to keep his thoughts 
on every movement of walking or running; who has to be 
constantly on guard against loss of balance even when sitting 
still. Such a being is almost inconceivable ; he would " go 
crazy" in a single day; but we can in this way realize to 
what extent the reflex mechanisms of the body perform the 
menial offices of life, leaving the mind free for higher things. 

Speech is the result of movements in which the muscles 
of respiration, those of the larynx, those of the tongue, 
and those of the lips cooperate to produce articulate and 
intelligible sound. The act of writing also consists of a series 
of movements in which the muscles of the arm and hand 



280 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

cooperate to make thought visible; performing on a musical 
instrument, modeling a figure in clay or marble or bronze, 
painting a picture all these things occur to us as examples 
of movements which are fundamentally neither reflex nor 
automatic. Such are the highest actions of the body, and 
the movements of which these actions are made up are 
chosen and directed by the will. 

These higher actions, like consciousness, depend upon the 
presence of the forebrain. When a certain area of the cere- 
brum is destroyed by disease, the power of speech is lost; 
when another part is destroyed, the skilled use of the hand 
is lost ; destruction of other portions affects in the same way 
others of these skilled movements. In such cases locomotion, 
the maintenance of balance, the movements of respiration, 
etc. may be and usually are unaffected; the patient merely 
loses the power of doing one or more of those things which 
involve the selection of disconnected and to some extent 
independent movements giving expression to some original 
thought, sentiment, or idea. 

The neurones of the cerebrum and their connections thus 
constitute nervous mechanisms whose activity is essential to 
consciousness, to our seeing, our hearing, our smelling, and, 
more than this, to our understanding of what we see, or hear, 
or smell, nervous mechanisms whose activity is also neces- 
sary to the expression of our thought in action. It is because 
of this fact that, when the cerebrum is removed, the animal 
becomes merely a complicated reflex machine, acting only 
as it is immediately stimulated from without or by events 
taking place within its own body. 

14. Effects of anesthetics on the nervous system. When 
a person passes under the influence of an anesthetic, the 
first function to disappear is consciousness ; the ether or the 
chloroform first paralyzes this highest and most complex 
connection between the afferent and the efferent sides of 
the nervous system. In this condition the patient may groan 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



281 



and struggle, for he is in somewhat the same state as the 
animal without cerebral hemispheres. The use of the sur- 
geon's knife will still produce movements ; respiration may 
be affected so as to result in groans and other movements 
which the inexpert observer, perhaps in alarm, attributes to 
severe suffering; and yet when the patient awakes he tells 
us he knew nothing of what passed and felt no pain. It is 
important to realize that the signs of pain are never reliable 
evidence of its existence. 

If the anesthesia be pushed further, even these more 
complicated reflexes disappear. In the ordinary major opera- 
tions of surgery the ether or the chloroform is given until 
it interrupts not only the cerebral connections between the 
afferent and efferent paths but also those of the lower por- 
tions of the brain ; it is even administered until only a few 
reflexes are left, such as the wink when the cornea is touched, 
the contraction of the pupil when the eye is exposed to light, 
etc. these serving as useful tests of the condition of the 
patient. If, for example, the pupil no longer contracts to 
light, it is an indication that the anesthesia is going too far 
too near the point where the nervous mechanism of respi- 
ration, etc., will be paralyzed. The giving of ether is then 
suspended until these reflexes are again well established. 

After the operation, as the ether or chloroform is elimi- 
nated from the system, the reflexes return in the reverse 
order; and the unconscious movements, groans, incoherent, 
or even more or less coherent, talking (comparable with 
talking in one's sleep) are sometimes most harrowing to the 
feelings of those who do not understand that they are all 
unconscious acts. The physician and nurse who remain un- 
moved may even be wrongly charged with lack of feeling 
because they do not waste sympathy where they know there 
is neither suffering nor consciousness. 

15. Inhibitory phenomena in the nervous system. We have 
learned that some nerves excite organs to activity, while 



282 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

others diminish activity or abolish it altogether (p. 160). 
The beat of the heart is quickened by one set of nerves 
and slowed by another; the circular muscular fibers of the 
arterioles are excited to contract by vasomotor nerves, their 
tonic constriction is paralyzed or inhibited by vasodilators, 
and many other examples might be drawn from the action 
of neurones on peripheral organs of the body. 

Precisely the same thing is true in the brain and spinal 
cord. Afferent impulses may not only reflexly excite neu- 
rones to activity but may also inhibit the existing or threat- 
ened activity of other neurones, as when a sneeze is stopped 
by biting the upper lip or by pinching the nose; or an 
action may be inhibited by a volitional impulse from the 
cerebrum, as when the breathing movements are voluntarily 
stopped for a while, or when we similarly stop a wink or 
a sneeze. These are all examples of inhibition, not of the 
skeletal muscles concerned but of the neurones which inner- 
vate them in other ,words, of the inhibition of one neurone 
by another. 

It must be understood that inhibition is as essential a 
part of the activity of the nervous system as is excitation. 
Just as the driver of a team must urge on one horse while 
he restrains another, so in all more complicated actions, 
probably in all actions, reflex or volitional, the orderly 
movement is as much the result of holding one neurone in 
check as of stimulating another one to work, or to work 
harder. Consciousness proves its presence most conclusively 
by suppressing reflexes which would otherwise inevitably 
occur and by bringing about new movements to meet the 
desired end. Even in the highest processes of the most 
highly organized of nervous systems, namely, those in which 
human action originates, the man reveals his character and 
influences the world around him by what he does not do 
by what he refrains from doing, sometimes at the cost of 
severe struggle against impulse, instinct, or passion quite 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 283 

as much as by what he does. Education, even, has been 
partially defined as the "training of inhibitions and the 
control of reflexes." 

16. The cerebrum the chief organ for the acquisition of new 
coordinations and associations. It would, however, be taking 
too narrow a view of the functions of the cerebrum to regard 
it simply as the seat of consciousness and volition. In 
Chapter VII, 15, we saw that in addition to definite in- 
herited reflex mechanisms, such as those of winking, the 
so-called unconditioned reflexes, new paths of conduction 
from the afferent to the efferent side are acquired during 
life by the repeated association of two acts. Doubtless all 
parts of the brain and spinal cord possess in some degree 
this power of making new associations like those concerned 
in the conditioned reflexes ; but the cerebrum is certainly 
the organ in which they are made most readily, and there 
can be no doubt that one of its chief functions is the acqui- 
sition of such new paths of conduction as the experience 
and activities of life first blaze within its nervous substance 
and subsequently, by the repeated passage of nervous im- 
pulses over the " blazed trail," change to " beaten paths " of 
easy conduction. Here every act and experience of life may 
leave its record, and here good and bad habits are acquired. 

17. Use and disuse as factors in individual development, 
training, and efficiency. When we consider the marvelously 
complicated character of the nervous mechanisms which 
control our actions, we naturally wonder how this intricate 
machinery can be built and why it does not more frequently 
get out of order. We cannot say that a simple and compre- 
hensive answer will not some day be given to these ques- 
tions, but to-day we have no adequate answer whatever. 
The neurones with which we must work in life are born with 
us ; but in most cases efficient connections must subsequently 
be made between them, thus perfecting the mechanisms they 
compose ; 'and this perfecting of the nervous machine comes 



284 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

with use. The use of a nervous mechanism is generally 
essential to its proper development, just as the use of a 
muscle is essential to its strength. If the child never tried to 
walk, the neurones which carry out the movements of walk- 
ing would not develop; not only do the muscles of an arm 
strapped down to the side of the body waste away and be- 
come practically bands of connective tissue, but the neurones 
concerned in the actions which the arms should execute 
degenerate and may ultimately be irreparably injured. 

Provision is made from earliest life for the proper develop- 
ment of these neurones and the establishment of irritable 
connections between them by use; out of the first aimless 
movements of the head and eyes and hands and legs of the 
baby the simpler coordinating nervous mechanisms are one 
by one brought to perfection ; then comes the training of 
those reflexes which maintain the erect position and of those 
nervous mechanisms which govern locomotion ; then play 
comes in, with its ceaseless activity, increasing still further 
the number of movements which the nervous system can 
make and correspondingly enlarging the possibility of human 
achievement. As the child grows older the family calls 
upon him to contribute some share to its life or support; 
new activities, in the shape of chores about the house or the 
farm, now share with play the work of the nervous system; 
activity becomes less general, more special. Finally the 
youth settles down to some definite occupation or pursuit, 
and the more strictly this is adhered to, the narrower be- 
comes the range of activity ; the more constantly a few sys- 
tems of neurones are used, the more rarely are others called 
into play. 

18. The physical basis of habits. All this indelibly writes 
its history in the nervous system. No fact is more significant 
or of greater physical and moral import than that the doing 
of any act so affects the connections of neurones with one 
another as to make it easier to do the same act again under 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 285 

the same conditions; that refraining from doing something 
toward which we are inclined similarly renders more easy 
the inhibitory processes concerned when the same conditions 
impel us toward it again. We are largely what we make 
ourselves by the training which our actions give to the 
nervous system. 

And what activity thus does for the development of power 
it does also for the maintenance of power. An efficient nerv- 
ous mechanism of any kind once acquired does not remain 
efficient without use. The man who has developed a rugged 
constitution in colder climates and then lives for years in 
the tropics, constantly exposed to a warm climate, finds on 
return to the home of his youth that the mechanism of heat 
regulation does not readily adjust itself to cold damp winds 
and blizzards; the athlete who has learned to execute the 
greatest variety of "tricks" in the gymnasium and then 
settles down to a sedentary life finds after some years that 
he is almost as helpless as the man who gave no attention 
to such training. It is unnecessary to multiply examples. 
Efficiency in any direction is the result of continued use of 
organs and especially of continued training of the nervous 
system. As we fit ourselves to do some few things, and to 
do them well, we have not time to conserve by use the effi- 
ciency of all the nervous mechanisms we have acquired ; we 
must to some extent sacrifice the more general actions for 
those which are more special and useful. But it must not 
be forgotten that this can be carried too far; that a certain 
amount of general activity is a condition of healthy living and 
that one of the problems of life to solve, and to solve aright, 
is how to distribute our activity between the two. To the 
consideration of these questions we shall return in our study 
of personal hygiene. 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 
PART II 

THE HYGIENE OF THE HUMAN MECHANISM AND 
THE SANITATION OF ITS SURROUNDINGS 



PART II 

CHAPTER XVI 

INTEODUCTOEY 

1. Hygiene and sanitation: the right use and proper care 
of the human mechanism. The owner of a valuable lifeless 
mechanism, such as a watch or a piano, pays attention to its 
proper care and operation. So also does the owner of a valu- 
able living mechanism, such as a prize-winning dog, or horse, 
or cow. Yet men and women, owners of far more precious 
mechanisms than any of these, namely, human bodies, often 
neglect and sometimes abuse the invaluable machine com- 
mitted to their care. Sometimes, it is true, the human body 
seems able to endure neglect and even overcome abuse, for 
it has wonderful powers of recuperation and recovery ; but 
at other times we know that only constant care and favorable 
surroundings suffice to keep it alive. 

It is encouraging to observe that much of the best work 
of the world has come from persons in poor health. Darwin 
never enjoyed robust health ; Heine was an invalid in his 
later years ; Milton was blind ; Sir Walter Scott was lame ; 
Pasteur was partially paralyzed during his later life. On the 
other hand many, originally robust, have not only broken 
down and failed to do good work for themselves and their 
fellows but have become a burden to the world because 
they have refused to give to their bodies that care which 
they would freely bestow on a watch or an automobile. 

The proper management and operation of the human 
mechanism requires not only care, but intelligent care. 

289 



290 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

A locomotive is intrusted only to an engineer who knows its 
construction, who can detect the evidences that something 
is wrong, who knows how much steam to apply at different 
times, what to do on various grades, how to start his engine 
safely, and how to bring it to rest. In Part I we have en- 
deavored, by lessons on anatomy and physiology, to impart to 
the student the same preliminary knowledge of the construc- 
tion and workings of the human mechanism which anyone 
intending to be an engineer must have of machinery before 
he can master the practical operation of his engine. The 
chapters immediately following are concerned with the proper 
care and management of the mechanism under the various 
conditions of daily life. 

The principles governing the proper care and right use of 
the human mechanism and its surroundings form the subject 
matter of hygiene and sanitation; and practical hygiene and 
sanitation consist in the application of the principles of physi- 
ology and sanitary science to the conduct of physical life. 
Then- object is the preservation and promotion of health, the 
prevention of premature death, and the establishment and 
maintenance of the highest possible working efficiency of the 
human mechanism. 

2. Different attitudes assumed toward health and disease. 
Health is a condition of the human mechanism in which all 
important parts are sound and in good working order. Such 
a mechanism does its work without pain and with ease ; but 
when it becomes unsound or abnormal, pain and disease 
eventually appear, as in a toothache, a sore throat, a " rack- 
ing " cough, a " splitting " headache, or uneasiness of the 
stomach in dyspepsia. Disease is also a condition, but one in 
which one or more of the organs is unsound or abnormal or 
in such poor working order as to interfere seriously with the 
welfare of the entire mechanism. 

Various attitudes are assumed by different persons towards 
health and disease. One attitude, represented perhaps by the 



INTRODUCTORY 291 

practice of the majority of people, is to go about one's work, 
whatever that may be, giving no thought whatever either to 
the maintenance of health or to the avoidance of disease; 
in other words, to pay no attention to the mechanism and 
to do nothing to keep it in order; to wait until something 
happens, some breakdown occurs, some disease has clearly 
developed, and then hastily to take a dose of medicine or, 
finally, to call a physician. This we may call the attitude 
of heedlessness. 

A second attitude is that of neglecting any active cultiva- 
tion of health, but carefully attempting to avoid those things 
which are liable to produce disease. In this case persons 
often give great attention to the choice of diet, to protection 
against cold, to the purity of their drinking water, their food 
supplies, etc., fixing their attention wholly on the agents 
of disease and assuming that, if these be kept at a distance, 
the body will take care of itself. This may be called a 
half-hygienic attitude. 

A third attitude the reverse of the second consists in 
actively cultivating abounding health by attention to those 
things which are believed to build up a strong constitution, 
in the belief that no disease can attack a strong and vigor- 
ous body. Such persons concentrate attention on health and 
underestimate the possibilities of succumbing to attacks of 
disease. This also is a half-hygienic attitude, although in 
practice perhaps somewhat safer than the second; very many, 
perhaps all, diseases are less likely to appear in a strong and 
vigorous body than in one which is not in sound health. 
But if the experience of the race teaches anything, it is that 
strong men, seemingly in perfect health, often succumb to 
attacks of disease. It is not safe, even for a healthy man, 
to swallow the germs of Asiatic cholera ; it is not safe, even 
for a healthy man, to prick his finger with a knife which 
has been used in lancing a boil. Without in the least under- 
valuing the importance of maintaining health and physical 



292 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

vigor as preventives of disease, we cannot too strongly affirm 
that these are not absolute preventives, that they are not 
reliable preventives, and that in some cases they are not 
preventives 1 at all. 

A fourth (and the only rigM) attitude toward health and 
disease is that which actively seeks to maintain in the 
mechanism the highest possible degree of health under all 
conditions and at the same time constantly takes all reason- 
able precautions to ward off attacks of the external agents 
of disease. This is the true hygienic attitude, as indicated 
by reason and modern science ; and this attitude of mind 
we shall endeavor in the following pages to encourage, 
justify, and strengthen in students or readers of this work. 

3. The three great factors of disease. Keeping always in 
mind the truth that the human body is a machine or mecha- 
nism, and agreeing to regard any condition as one of disease 
in which the body does not do its work smoothly or with 
ease, we perceive that there are three great causes of disease 
of the body, just as there are three chief causes of trouble 
in the running of a locomotive. These are (1) imperfections 
in the mechanism itself ; (2) unskillful operation and care ; 
and (3) unfavorable external conditions. Let us consider 
carefully the part played by each of these in the maintenance 
of health and the prevention of disease. 

1. Imperfections in the mechanism. The wheels of an 
engine may not be perfectly true, some of its valves may 
leak, some bearing may be unduly exposed to dust. So is 

1 The truth of this fact is illustrated when there appears among a people 
some disease to which neither they nor their ancestors have regularly been 
exposed the ravages of epidemics of Asiatic cholera in Europe and America, 
and the history of the great plague in Europe in the seventeenth century, 
or of yellow fever in our own southern states, being cases in point (see 
Daniel Defoe, Journal of the Plague Tear ; James Ford Rhodes, History of 
the United States, I, 400). The North American Indians, who were pre- 
sumably strong and healthy, were decimated by measles a comparatively 
mild disease when this was brought among them by the early settlers of 
this country. 



INTRODUCTORY 293 

it with the human body. Wonderful as is the human 
mechanism, it is never perfect. A valve in the heart may 
leak and permit " regurgitation " of the blood ; a defect in 
the structure of the spine may make it hard to hold the 
trunk in its normal posture; the glands of the stomach or 
pancreas may be made of poor material and so secrete an 
ineffective digestive juice; in short, any organ may be of 
poor construction and so have imperfect capacity for work. 
Such constitutional defects may be born with us, or they 
may be acquired by some accident or other circumstance 
which leads to irreparable and permanent injury. Where 
they exist they must be recognized and reckoned with in 
what we attempt to do, although their cure or compensation 
is by no means hopeless. The deaf mute adapts himself to 
a lack of hearing and in spite of it communicates with his 
fellows; and men and women with serious organic troubles 
may often lead useful arid, on the whole, healthy lives. 

Again, every human body possesses as the outcome of its 
construction or constitution more or less capacity to endure 
hardship and to struggle for continued existence. In the 
strong this capacity, loosely called vital resistance, may be 
very great, and in the weak or feeble very small, but in 
order that life shall continue at all, every human body 
must have more or less of it. It is required to withstand 
heat and cold, underfeeding and overfeeding, the attacks 
of parasites, the work and the play of life, the infirmities 
of age. If it be very great, almost all hardships can be 
endured, almost all diseases avoided or overcome ; if it be 
very small, as it often is in old age, even the grasshopper 
may become a burden. 

As we pass middle life and old age creeps over us we 
find this power of vital resistance lessened. Of all people 
who enter their seventieth year, a much larger percentage 
die before reaching their next birthday than is the case 
with those entering their twentieth year. This can only 



294 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

mean that 'the ability to cope with unfavorable' conditions 
is lessened as age advances. The body shows by growing 
feebleness that it is wearing out, and ultimately succumbs 
to disease which in earlier life would have been a matter of 
small consequence. Hence it follows that old people must 
reckon with a poorer constitution and must give greater 
care, than the young to the bodily machine. 

2. Unskillful operation and care. The most perfect engine 
will behave badly in the hands of an ignorant, unskillful 
engineer or fireman. There is a proper method of firing, 
a proper method of starting; and when a grade is to be 
ascended it must be taken in the proper way. When these 
things are not done rightly, the engine is "very apt to suffer 
damage, even to acquire structural or constitutional 'defects ;- 
and in no such case can it be expected to do its best work, 
or to do any work, with perfect ease. Human life involves 
the operation of a much more delicate engine or mechanism. 
The human body is a machine calculated to do work, and 
when we say that it is alive, we mean that it makes use of 
the potential energy of foods to accomplish ends which no 
lifeless machine can accomplish; but it does not do this life 
work without management or operation. It is the faithful 
servant of an intelligent will, and it may be Worked or used 
wisely or unwisely, skillfully or unskillfully: This engineer- 
ing, management, direction, or operation of the human 
mechanism constitutes the physical conduct of life and is one 
of the most fundamental and important elements in the 
maintenance of health. 

3. Unfavorable external conditions. Again, the best work 
of an engine requires more than good construction and skill- 
ful operation ; it also requires favorable conditions and sur- 
roundings. If the roadbed be poorly ballasted or the rails 
rusty and uneven, if the weather be so cold as to make it im- 
possible to keep up full steam in the boiler, if. the water tanks 
be not kept supplied with water or the coaling stations with 



INTRODUCTORY 295 

fuel, then poor work and often actual injury to the mechanism 
itself constitutional injury is the result. Finally, if by 
chance a stone has rolled upon the track, or a signal has 
been wrongly set and a collision results, a good locomotive 
may be disabled or even ruined. 

So with the human mechanism. Like all other living 
things it cannot continue its work under certain external 
conditions. It cannot live without food in a desert; it can- 
not endure exposure to extreme cold without protection ; 
it cannot keep sound in a room with leaky gas fixtures or 
in a cell which admits no sunshine. It must have proper 
drink and proper food, and it must avoid exposure to the 
contagion of diseases against which it has no sure defense. 

4. Scope and subdivisions of hygiene and sanitation. The 
considerations dwelt upon in the foregoing pages indicate 
the scope and possibilities of the science of hygiene. Given 
the constitution of any individual as it is at any one time, 
we must seek to maintain or place that constitution in a con- 
dition of health, or efficient working order, in two ways : 
first, by the proper care and operation of the mechanism itself, 
including the proper direction of its activities ; and second, 
by providing for it favorable surroundings or environment. The 
former we call hygiene, the latter sanitation. Each of these 
efforts reacts on the constitution ; improper operation of the 
muscles in muscular work or improper use of the nervous 
system in mental work may " undermine " a strong constitu- 
tion and lower its vital resistance ; similarly, a bad climate, a 
neglect of the ventilation of living and sleeping rooms, the 
use of polluted water or milk or other food, exposure to 
the contagion of disease or to excessive cold without proper 
clothing, all such failures to provide a proper environ- 
ment may injuriously affect the constitution or structure 
of the body. 

It is impossible to draw any sharp line between the care, 
management, and operation of the body mechanism and the 



296 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

care and control of the environment, and it is neither neces- 
sary nor desirable to do so; but we shall begin our detailed 
study with those things which concern chiefly the care, use, 
and operation of the mechanism itself such, for example, 
as the proper direction of muscular and nervous activity ; 
alimentation or right feeding ; the use and abuse of stimu- 
lants, narcotics, and other drugs ; bathing, clothing, the care 
of the eyes and ears, etc. These matters which concern 
chiefly the individual or the person constitute that part of 
our subject known as personal hygiene. 

We shall then proceed to consider those matters of health 
which concern not only individuals but communities of indi- 
viduals, such as families, cities, states, and nations: for 
example, the site, ventilation, heating, and plumbing of the 
dwelling house; the control of food supplies, as to their 
purity ; public supplies of water and milk ; sewage disposal ; 
the infectious and contagious diseases. All these things re- 
quire the cooperation of many individuals, either as families 
or as citizens of an entire town, city, or nation. Hence they 
are classed under domestic hygiene and sanitation and public 
hygiene and sanitation. 



PERSONAL HYGIENE 

CHAPTER XVII 
MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 

A. THE MINISTRY OF MUSCULAR ACTIVITY TO THE 
BODY AS A WHOLE 

We know that it is through muscular activity that we do 
many necessary, useful, or otherwise desirable things, and 
also that muscular activity is required in order to build up 
strong muscles. But the effects of muscular activity on the 
body as a whole are not so obvious. A large number of 
people think that it is " a good thing," and a smaller num- 
ber are convinced that it is absolutely necessary to the best 
of health; yet we not infrequently hear men and women 
seriously question the latter proposition and even venture 
to doubt the truth of the former. 

Now there is nothing in hygiene more clearly established 
than that muscular activity is essential to healthy living. 
The effects of a sedentary life may not show themselves at 
once, but almost without exception they will assert them- 
selves in the end. Muscular work, in other words, not only 
enables us to influence our surroundings, not only builds 
up strong muscles, but in other and equally important 
though often unseen ways ministers to the health of the body 
as a whole. 

1. The present use of the term " muscular activity." In 
the present chapter the term " muscular activity " is used 
in a somewhat general sense and without attempting to set 

297 



298 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

sharp limitations upon it. Strictly speaking, of course, mus- 
cular activity would include all work done by the muscles 
of the body, and this is of various kinds. Even those per- 
sons who do no manual labor unconsciously perform muscu- 
lar work ; the heart works on, the breath comes and goes 
through orderly muscular contractions ; sitting and standing, 
speech, gestures, mastication, all these involve muscular 
activity and do, as a matter of fact, contribute something 
to the maintenance of the healthful conditions of the body. 
It is not improbable that they are the physical salvation 
of thousands of people leading sedentary lives. At the 
other extreme are those who perform severe manual labor 
or who engage in vigorous exercises or purposely cultivate 
exceptional physical strength. 

We are not, however, directly concerned at present with 
either of these extremes nor with those forms of muscular 
activity so common to-day in workshops, where, hour after 
hour, the workman performs the same task over and over 
again. We are concerned rather with those forms of mus- 
cular work which are seen in a lumber camp or on the 
farm ; which present the characteristic of variety and in- 
volve the use of the musculature of the body as a whole ; 
in short, those forms of activity by which until very recently 
the human race has supported itself in its daily life. Such 
things as brisk walking, running, rowing, wood chopping, 
swimming, tennis playing, would thus be placed in the same 
class, since they involve a use of the muscles similar to those 
which we have mentioned. 

2. How does general muscular activity contribute to health? 
The physiological effects of muscular activity. In the case of 
many measures which minister to health, it is comparatively 
easy to see what each contributes ; thus, clothing protects 
from undue loss of heat; proper feeding facilitates the sub- 
sequent performance of the digestive processes ; right habits 
with regard to sleep and rest remove the harmful effects of 



MUSCULAK ACTIVITY 299 

fatigue and insure restoration of working power. In the case 
of muscular activity, on the other hand, we are dealing with 
something which involves loss of stored power together with 
the production of fatigue or waste products ; and at first 
thought it may seem strange that the body as a whole should 
derive benefit from an activity which produces such results. 

To understand this apparent paradox we must learn what 
are the results (that is, the physiological effects) of muscu- 
lar activity and determine how each of these may contribute 
to health. The more important results are the following : 

1. Marked physical and chemical changes in the ivorking 
organs (muscles), which changes are far greater than those 
which accompany any other bodily activity. The output of car- 
bon dioxide by the body per minute is increased at once 
from three- to ten-fold with what would be termed moderate 
or vigorous exertion, while digestion seldom increases it more 
than one fifth, and mental work shows practically no effect 
upon it. Large quantities of heat are likewise liberated, and 
the temperature of the muscle rises several degrees. These 
physical and chemical changes are mentioned first because 
the hygienic effects upon the body as a whole are to be 
traced to them as the primary cause. 

2. As the result of these changes in the muscles new 
physical and chemical conditions are introduced into the blood 
and lymph. The excess of carbon dioxide is entirely excreted 
by the lungs, so that the blood carried to the other organs 
by the arteries shows no increase in this substance ; but other 
waste products (such as salts of lactic acid), whose elimina- 
tion requires the cooperation of other organs than the lungs, 
are found in the arterial blood in larger quantities than during 
rest. The chemical and physical characteristics of the immedi- 
ate environment of every cell of the body is thus changed, 
and profoundly changed. Let us now consider the reaction 
of other organs to these changes in the muscles and in the 
blood and lymph. 



300 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

3. Some of the most striking effects of muscular work are 
those which are connected with the heat-regulating mechanism. 
The large liberation of heat by the working muscle necessi- 
tates active measures to get rid of that heat and maintain 
the constant temperature. The small arteries of the skin 
dilate, while those of internal organs constrict, perspiration 
is secreted, and all these processes are carried out in a coordi- 
nated manner. The nervous mechanism of heat regulation 
is given a new form of activity and thus receives valuable 
training in adjusting itself to the changing conditions with 
which it has to cope in daily life. 

4. Closely connected with the foregoing is the (temporary) 
relief afforded to any congestion of blood in the internal organs. 
Sedentary occupations usually involve more or less over- 
filling of the blood vessels of the stomach and intestine, the 
pancreas, the liver, the spleen, and the kidneys ; they also 
involve the absence of those movements of the trunk whose 
pumping action affords a marked assistance to the flow of 
blood through the abdominal organs (p. 149). The conges- 
tion thus caused is not a good thing; it almost certainly 
renders the organs concerned more liable to inflammatory 
processes (see Chap. XXI), and if there has been established 
any tendency to catarrhal conditions (see p. 375), it aggra- 
vates that tendency. Popular experience has long associ- 
ated a good color of the skin with health ; and while it 
is not safe to make such an inference in all cases, pallor 
very frequently means internal congestion, unhealthy diges- 
tive functions, and greater liability to cold in the head or 
the chest. 

5. Muscular activity is the only thing which can be depended 
upon to increase the work of the heart. While this fact makes 
caution and moderation necessary for persons having certain 
forms of heart disease, yet for the vast majority of people 
it is of the greatest hygienic importance to accustom the 
heart to reasonably hard work. Only in this way does it 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 301 

receive the training necessary for its proper development 
and for the maintenance of its strength. Emergencies will 
arise when the heart is called upon for severe effort^brief 
or prolonged. The familiar example of the sudden " sprint " 
for a car is a case in point ; and there are times, as in pneu- 
monia, when the issue in sickness is largely determined by 
the endurance of the heart. In too many such cases, if the 
patient escapes the fatal issue, it is only with a heart 
permanently weakened. 

It is important not only that the heart should be kept 
ready for emergencies but also that it be kept in condition 
for vigorous work as a regular duty of daily life. One of 
the worst of "vicious circles," as physicians call them, is 
the acquirement of a cardiac weakness by abstention from 
proper muscular exertion and, in consequence of this cardiac 
weakness, increasing disinclination to exertion of any kind 
whatever. The failure to take proper exercise leads to 
deterioration in strength and endurance on the part of 
the heart; and this cardiac deterioration, with the resulting 
discomfort of breathlessness, leads in turn to avoidance of 
muscular activity. 

6. Muscular activity is the one agent which increases the 
depth and frequency of the respiratory movements. The hygi- 
enic importance of this does not lie in the better oxidation 
of wastes, since, so far as we have any accurate knowledge 
on the subject, it would seem that the processes of respira- 
tion during sedentary life more than supply the existing 
demands of the tissues for oxygen. The increased respiration 
is of importance rather because of the secondary effects of 
the respiratory movements in promoting the flow of blood 
and, especially, the flow of lymph (see p. 150). 

It is probable that the " freshening effects " of muscular 
exercise are to a very large extent attributable to the 
improved lymph circulation in the tissues, and this effect, 
it will be remembered, is felt in the immediate environment 



302 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of almost every cell in the body. The suction action of 
inspiration quickens the lymph flow from all organs outside 
the thorax (p. 151), and the increased pumping action of 
the respiratory movements themselves aids the lymph flow 
from the lungs and other organs within the thorax. Waste 
products are more completely removed from the lymph 
spaces surrounding all cells, arid thus one of the most im- 
portant of fatigue conditions is relieved (see p. 58). Where 
lymphatics are subject to the pumping action of contracting 
muscles and of the alternate flexion and extension of joints, 
the suction action of the respiratory movements is reenforced. 
This pumping action especially affects the lymphatics of the 
arms and legs and those of the abdominal cavity (through 
the action of the diaphragm and the trunk movements). 

The increased respiratory movements also contribute to 
greater mobility of the ribs and to the better ventilation 
of the lungs. During vigorous exercise all lobes of the 
lungs are used, and the dangers attendant upon disuse of 
the apical lobes (p. 174) are largely obviated. 

7. Moderate activity exerts a favorable effect upon the diges- 
tive organs, although the precise action involved is very 
complicated. Here also it improves the lymph flow, thus 
promoting absorption and producing better conditions in all 
digestive glands and in the muscular apparatus of the 
digestive tract; it prevents continued congestion and the 
unfavorable attendant conditions. It is probably also a direct 
stimulus to peristalsis, for unquestionably the exercises which 
involve movements of the trunk often prove a peculiarly 
efficient remedy for constipation. 

The above summary is very far from a complete enumer- 
ation of the effects of muscular activity upon the organism, 
but it will suffice to show how essential an element such 
activity is in the life of the body. The training of the heat- 
regulating mechanism, the training of the heart, the improved 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 303 

lymphatic environment of every cell resulting from iricreased- 
breathing movements and from the pumping action of mechan- 
ical motion, the relief of internal congestions and the favor- 
able influence upon digestive functions, all these things 
are fundamental to healthful cell life. 

3. Muscular activity a necessity for all. We often hear of 
men and women who live to old age and do large amounts 
of mental work with seemingly little or no muscular activity, 
and it is sometimes suggested that the experience of these 
people proves .that exercise is unnecessary. There are also 
on record a few cases of men who can drink large quantities 
of whisky without getting drunk, but it will not be con- 
tended that most men can do likewise. As to any line of 
right hygienic conduct there are some among the hundreds 
of millions inhabiting the earth who can do the reverse with 
impunity, but they are not to be taken as safe guides. The 
cases are very few indeed where abstinence from muscular 
activity persisted in as the rule of life is without disastrous 
results; the bad effects do not always come in a day or a 
week or a year, but sooner or later they almost invariably 
show themselves. We must never fail to distinguish care- 
fully between the immediate and remote effects of any line 
of conduct; and nowhere is this caution more needed than 
in observing the effects of a sedentary life, the evil results 
of which, though sometimes long postponed, usually appear 
sooner or later. 

Some muscular exercise is a hygienic necessity for every 
period of life ; it belongs to no one age. Youth is the time 
when athletic sports, games, and all kinds of activity are 
most agreeable, most necessary, and most enthusiastically 
pursued. In old age- the changes which take place in the 
arterial walls necessitate caution as to severe exertion. But 
these are only the extremes. Rarely indeed do we meet with 
people who would not be benefited by a walk of several 
miles a day, at a rate of three or four miles an hour ; and 



304 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

it cannot be too strongly insisted that the inability to do 
this with enjoyment and profit is in almost every case 
because the habit of taking exercise is not kept up. The 
heart is not so strong as it once was ; the connective-tissue 
elements of the muscles, the ligaments, etc. become sore 
upon taking exercise not because of any inevitable " old-age 
change" but because the ability to do the work easily has 
not been maintained by constant practice. 

It would be amusing, if it were not sad, to see how the 
average adult American will try almost everything which 
holds out the slightest promise of maintaining some sort 
of health rather than take muscular exercise, alcoholic 
drinks (to dilate cutaneous vessels), Turkish baths, mas- 
sage, patent medicines, anything, rather than a horseback 
or bicycle ride, or a brisk walk, or some other simple and 
perfect remedy which stands within easy reach. It is not to 
be expected that when these exercises are first tried after 
years of sedentary life, they will be enjoyed ; and too often 
the man or woman, instead of persisting patiently, draws 
the conclusion that the time for such things has gone and 
only resignation to old age is in order. When young men 
and women begin their work in life, it should be with a clear 
conception of the danger of falling into habits of muscular 
inactivity and with a conscious and strong determination 
to avoid this danger. 

4. The conservation of the enjoyment of muscular activity. 
Muscular activity is so necessary for health, for the enjoy- 
ment of life, and for usefulness that the ability to take and 
enjoy it should be conserved at all costs. We should not 
only keep " in practice " by making it as much a daily habit 
as eating or sleeping but we should also avoid those unfavor- 
able conditions which interfere with our enjoyment of it 
Some will not walk a step more than necessary because, by 
the use of improper shoes, they have acquired deformed 
feet unable to support the weight of the body; sometimes 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 305 

a sunstroke, following incautious exposure to the hot sun, 
leaves the heat-regulating mechanism so injured that muscu- 
lar exertion except in cool weather becomes unsafe or even 
dangerous; exposure to dampness often brings rheumatism 
an almost insuperable barrier to pleasurable movement of 
any kind ; some infectious diseases leave their trace in the 
form of an incurable organic weakness which makes muscu- 
lar activity inadvisable. These things should, of course, be 
avoided for their own sake; they should be avoided also 
because of their serious indirect effects on health. 

5. General character of the most useful exercises. To 
specify the exact forms or amounts of muscular exercise 
advisable would take us beyond the scope of the present 
work. Here, as elsewhere, the student must work out his 
own salvation. In the following sections we shall discuss, as 
far as possible, the characteristics of some special exercises ; 
for the present a few general suggestions may prove useful. 
The muscular activity which formed part of the life of our 
ancestors may be described as generally moderate, though 
at times vigorous or hard ; only exceptionally did it involve 
extreme endurance or great muscular strain. Our ancestors 
were not, as a rule, given to " tugs of war," or to putting 
up heavy dumbbells, or to making inordinately long runs, or 
to " giant swings " in the gymnasium ; nothing like a hundred- 
yard dash or a four-mile boat race was a common occurrence 
among them. Where work of this kind had to be done it 
was left to those who, by reason of exceptional strength, 
were especially fitted for it; mankind as a whole did no 
such work, and it is not necessary (or even advisable) for 
most of us. 

Nor can it be claimed that the cultivation of great mus- 
cular strength was a common practice. There was a much 
higher average of strength than among us, and we should 
probably be better off were our average higher than it is ; 
but if we can judge at all from the history of mankind, 



306 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

such training as that required to break some college strength 
test is not demanded for hygienic purposes. Nor does our 
own experience tell a different story. Very strong men are 
no healthier nor longer-lived than those of only average 
strength, and, in general, the athletic ideal is not the hygienic 
ideal. It is not necessarily unhygienic, but it is not required 
for purposes of health. 

It is not desirable that exercise taken for general hygienic 
purposes shall be unduly fatiguing. A moderate amount of 
fatigue is not unwholesome, since fatigue brings with it the 
desire for rest ; nor is fatiguing exercise necessarily harmful. 
But exercise need not necessarily be of this character, and, 
in view of the other work of life, it is certainly better to 
avoid undue fatigue, especially when we cannot rest well 
afterwards. A walk of six or eight miles will do more good 
than one of forty or fifty. 

6. Exercise for women. Muscular exercise is no less 
essential to the health of women than of men. Fortunately 
the day is past when false standards misinterpreted the 
truth that woman's most natural sphere in life is the home 
to mean that, tied down to the confining duties of house- 
hold life, she should never know the joy of movement 
except in dancing (and sometimes not even in that), and 
then proceeded to make sure of the result by clothing 
her in narrow, pointed, high-heeled shoes, heavy skirts, 
and tight corsets. The reaction from this state of affairs, at 
times going to the opposite and undesirable extreme, has 
unhappily now and then produced in women exhibitions of 
mannishness which once led a lady to speak of " that terrible 
thing called muscular exercise." But disgust with these 
grotesque but avoidable consequences should not be allowed 
to blind us to the fact that a reasonable enjoyment of 
daily muscular activity is as much a necessity for women 
as for men. 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 307 

B. GENERAL MUSCULAR EXERCISE 

The present section deals with the use of muscular ac- 
tivity for its hygienic effect upon the body as a whole ; the 
next section deals with its employment for special purposes. 
Exercises undertaken for their general good effect are fre- 
quently spoken of as " hygienic " ; the term is, however, ob- 
jectionable, and we shall speak of them as general muscular 
exercises. 

General muscular exercise is of hygienic value because it 
produces the physiological results which have been enumer- 
ated in the preceding section, results which have been 
shown to constitute essential elements of the normal inter- 
nal environment of the cells of the body. To review the 
separate offices of this ministry to the normal conditions of 
the body: 

1. General exercises should produce to a considerable 
extent those physical and chemical changes which accom- 
pany muscular contraction, with the resulting effects upon 
the physiological condition of the muscle itself and upon the 
general internal environment, the blood and lymph. 

2. They should exercise, and so train, the heat-regulating 
mechanism. 

3. They should tend to relieve vascular congestion in 
internal organs, bringing the blood in larger quantities to 
the skin. 

4. They should afford training to the heart. 

5. They should increase the ventilation of the lungs. 

6. They should increase the flow of lymph in the lym- 
phatics and thereby improve the environmental conditions 
of all the cells in the body (see Chap. IV). 

7. They should exert a favorable influence upon the 
digestive processes, promoting proper secretion and absorp- 
tion and tending to prevent unhealthful conditions leading 
to constipation. 



308 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Such being the physiological ends sought for, we may 
conclude, as to the character of such exercises: 

1. They should consist of rhythmic rather than of sustained 
contractions. These involve less fatigue, are more enjoyable, 
and especially facilitate the flow of blood and lymph. 

2. They should be vigorous, somewhat prolonged, and 
should usually be continuous. A brisk walk or a run meets 
most demands ; so do bicycling and many games. The 
strolls or saunters which are too frequently mistaken for 
exercise do not meet the reasonable hygienic demands 
of the body : they involve only an insignificant increase of 
chemical activity in the muscles, they hardly affect res- 
piration, they do not train the heart, in short, they do 
not produce adequate physiological effects to accomplish 
hygienic ends. 

3. They should involve considerable movement on the part of 
the trunk as well as the limbs. Many excellent forms of ex- 
ercise, such as bicycling, are somewhat deficient in this 
respect. It is not meant that sudden and violent trunk 
movements are called for, but that hygienic exercise should 
bring full change and relief from the constrained positions 
of the trunk imposed by the sedentary occupations of modern 
life. A vigorous walk, with its accompanying increase of 
breathing and trunk movements, fencing, and games which 
involve the throwing and catching of a ball, are especially 
good in this respect. 

4. They should be accompanied by full and free respiration. 
The importance of this requirement needs no comment. 
Constricting clothing should not be allowed to interfere, 
and, as far as possible, the trunk should be held erect, the 
neck and shoulders back, so as to permit the freest movement 
of the upper ribs. 

5. It is advisable not to confine one's self wholly to one form 
of exercise. Similar considerations to those which hold in 
the choice of food apply to some extent to exercise. At the 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 309 

same time it must be admitted that perfect health can 
frequently be maintained to old age by using only one 
kind of general exercise, such, for example, as walking. 

7. Considerations concerning fatigue. In the use of mus- 
cular exercise enough should be taken to secure the hygienic 
effects already described; but, on the other hand, the amount 
of work should not, as a rule, be so great as to produce 
marked fatigue. It is therefore desirable that we be able 
to measure with a fair degree of accuracy the amount and 
especially the intensity 1 of the work we are doing. 

The most obvious and a most important sign of the 
intensity of muscular work is the feeling of fatigue thereby 
produced. But this is not the only sign, nor is it always 
a reliable sign. Intense work also deepens the breathing 
movements and may lead to breathlessness often an indi- 
cation of the overburdening of the heart. Such work also 
leads to greater blood flow through the skin and to in- 
creased secretion of perspiration. Consequently we may use 
breathlessness and profuse sweating (except in hot weather) 
as signs supplementing the evidence of fatigue, when we try 
to measure the intensity of the work we are doing. 

With regard to the feeling of fatigue as a sign of the 
intensity of muscular effort two things should be remem- 
bered. In the first place, we may have decided feelings of 
fatigue when we are doing comparatively little muscular 
work ; in the second place, the feeling of fatigue is often 
absent, even though the work may be very intense indeed. 
This fact has already been brought out in the chapter 
on fatigue. 

8. Examples of marked feelings of fatigue with compara- 
tively little work. We may be made very tired by unpleasant 

1 By intensity is meant the amount of work in a given time. We may 
take ten times as long to do the same amount of work at one time as at 
another ; the total amount in the two cases would be the same, but the 
intensity of work (that is, the amount performed in one second or one 
minute) would be very different. 



310 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

sensations from the joints and tendons or by walking in 
shoes which do not permit free play to the bones, ligaments, 
and tendons of the foot, and this when the amount of mus- 
cular exertion involved may have been very slight. It is well 
known that merely standing on the feet for a time will often 
cause more fatigue than a longer time spent in walking. 

Again, some forms of exercise throw a relatively large 
share of the total work on some muscle or small group of 
muscles, while others distribute the total work more evenly 
over larger groups. Walking and running are very unlike 
in this respect ; in the former the weight of the body must 
1 be lifted from the ground with each step especially when 
we walk very erect by the extensor muscles of the leg 
and chiefly by the extensors of the ankle joint; running, on 
the other hand, consists in a continual falling forward and 
the restoration of equilibrium by a more general action of the 
muscles of the body as a whole. A walk of four and a half 
miles an hour is much more fatiguing to a person in good 
training than a -run of four and a half miles an hour, because 
in the former case a few muscles are thrown into very vigor- 
ous contraction and so give rise to severe local sensations 
of fatigue, sometimes accompanied by cramps in the muscles. 

9. Examples of slight feelings of fatigue with compara- 
tively large amounts of work; bicycling. Bicycle riding is 
remarkable for distributing the total work over large num- 
bers of strong muscles, so that the amount done by each is 
relatively small; consequently, where there is but little hill 
climbing or no strong head winds, local fatigue is but slight, 
although the total work done by the body is considerable. 
Actual measurements of the carbon dioxide excreted have 
shown that this is much greater per minute in a ride of eight 
miles an hour on a smooth, level track than in walking three 
and a half miles an hour ; in other words, the total work is 
greater. The well-known increase of perspiration brought 
about by such moderate riding points in the same direction : 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 311 

the chemical changes in the body are greater and so is the 
associated heat production, and yet any cyclist knows that 
the conscious fatigue of the ride is as nothing compared 
with that of the walk. Moreover, in wheeling the weight 
of the body is not supported on the feet and we are thus 
to a large extent relieved from the unpleasant sensations 
produced by pressure and jar in the ankle and knee joints. 
It is a characteristic of moderate or even fairly vigorous 
bicycle riding that it produces a maximum of chemical 
change in the muscles with a minimum of fatigue. This is 
of great practical importance. The larger production of car- 
bon dioxide involves deeper breathing and, as the student 
now well knows, increased work on the part of the heart. 

Within proper limits this is, of course, good for the 
heart ; there is some danger, however, that in the absence 
of conscious fatigue we may throw upon that organ more 
work than is good for it, and medical experience leaves no 
doubt that many cases of injury to the heart have resulted 
from injudicious cycling ; that is to say, from " scorching " 
against strong head winds and in " showing grit " by refus- 
ing to get off and walk up very steep hills. There are 
occasions when it is not wise to be too ambitious and when 
" discretion is the better part of valor." 

10. Games as examples of general exercises. Somewhat 
similar considerations apply to most of our more active 
games, such as basket ball, football, tether-ball, hockey, polo, 
etc. They are perfectly safe for healthy people when not 
played more vigorously than the training of the heart justi- 
fies; the fact that there is an element of danger in them is 
no reason why they should not be used, but it is a very 
good reason why they should not be worked to extremes; 
and especially why we should be sure, from competent 
medical advice, that there is in those who play them no 
organic trouble to begin with and that players are in good 
training when they play most intensely. 



312 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The choice of the kind of muscular work and exercise 
involves so many considerations other than those which 
are strictly physiological and hygienic that it is impossible 
to give in an elementary treatise like this any detailed 
discussion of the special merits and defects of each. We 
often have other aims in view besides the purely hygienic ; 
thus the group games, such as football, baseball, basket 
ball, hockey, etc., train the spirit of cooperation and may 
be made useful means of moral training. In camping in 
the woods canoeing is not simply a means of exercise, but 
also a means of transportation, and under other conditions 
the same thing is true of horseback riding, rowing, etc. 
Wood-chopping, digging, porterage, and plowing are valu- 
able means of livelihood. It is believed, however, that the 
principles here given will help the individual to form a cor- 
rect judgment as to whether his work in life supplies him 
incidentally or inevitably with the needed general muscular 
activity for hygienic purposes and, if it does not, to plan 
to meet the want intelligently. 

The combination of muscular exercise with some other 
pursuit is highly desirable, and when practicable often sim- 
plifies the hygienic conduct of life. But it is nothing short 
of a hygienic misfortune to lose the youthful love of activity 
for its own sake. It is well as we grow older to have golf, 
or a horse to be exercised (!), or a fishing preserve in the 
woods, to " take us out in the open air " and make us use 
our muscles; but a human being who is dependent upon 
something of this kind to drag him into activity cuts a sorry 
figure from a moral standpoint. Man's highest distinction is 
the fact that his actions may arise so largely from processes 
of psychic life within rather than from some immediate 
stimulus from without. The proper hygienic conduct of life 
involves moral fiber as well as physical fiber, and this is 
especially true of that absolutely essential part of hygienic 
conduct which depends upon the use of organs like the 



MUSCULAK ACTIVITY 313 

skeletal muscles, which are so largely subordinate to the 
commands of the will. 

11. Importance of walking as a means of exercise. In their 
enthusiasm for athletic games and outdoor sports in youth 
and for other outdoor activities in middle life, the American 
people are always in danger of losing their love for the vari- 
ous forms of walking such as tramping and mountain climb- 
ing. Walking is the one form of general exercise for sound 
people which can always be had for the taking. For this 
reason, if for no other, it should ever be a part of all sound 
physical training to conserve the love of tramping and the 
ability to walk. Apart from the obvious fact that it is in 
this way that we can get closest to nature and the real 
beauty of the world in which we live, the possession of the 
love of the activity involved is one of the most precious 
possessions of our hygienic life. The man or woman who 
does not keep and improve this power by use must look 
forward to the same fate as the servant in the parable who 
hid his talent in a napkin, only to have it taken from him 
in the end. 

12. Fresh air not a substitute for muscular activity. A 
word of warning is needed against the folly of supposing 
that fresh air is a substitute for muscular activity. Fresh 
air is one of our greatest hygienic blessings, and it is very 
desirable to live an outdoor life as far as possible. But too 
many think that lounging in the shade, or riding in the open 
air in an automobile, a carriage, or an electric car, does for 
them what muscular exercise alone can do. Especially as age 
creeps over us and the love of activity wanes from its dis- 
use, more and more does the idea grow upon us that " fresh 
air" is everything. To some the possession of a comfortable 
carriage or a high-power motor car is a misfortune. At one 
of our most beautiful summer resorts someone said to a 
local physician, " Medical practice at such a place as this 
must be very unremunerative." " By no means," replied 



314 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

the man of experience ; " people come here where they are 
tempted to overeat; in the place of exercise they lie back 
on the cushions of their carriages while they are driven 
about; their adipose tissue increases rapidly, and very soon 
it is true that to no class of people is the doctor so abso- 
lutely essential as to them." The student can easily make 
the application for himself. Indigestion, fatty degeneration, 
insomnia, loss of appetite, nervous prostration, and kindred 
ills rarely come to those who labor with their hands ; and 
these ills can be largely prevented, even in those who must 
engage in sedentary occupations, by a wise and intelligent 
conduct of the physical life and, especially, by the daily 
reservation of an hour or so for vigorous general muscular 
activity properly correlated with the other work of life. 

(7. MUSCULAR EXERCISES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES. 
CORRECTIVE WORK. THE GYMNASIUM 

The muscles may be used not only to produce those 
general influences which are necessary to the maintenance 
of health, but also to produce desirable special effects, 
among which the prevention and correction of faulty car- 
riage and action are of great importance. In considering 
the use of muscular work for this purpose our subject 
naturally groups itself under two main divisions: first, 
faults of form or carriage of the body at rest in other 
words, a bad figure; and second, faults of handling the 
body while it is in motion' in other words, awkwardness 
or clumsiness. 

13. The shape or " figure " of the body. The human body 
may be chiseled in marble or molded in bronze, and the 
statue thus formed may recall to the mind the shape or 
figure of the person it represents. But the shape of the 
living body is not rigidly fixed, as is that of the statue. 
The bony skeleton is sometimes called a framework, which 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 



315 



supports the muscles, viscera, skin, etc. 
While this is to some extent true, the or- 
gans are not rigidly supported by the skele- 
ton, as the canvas is supported by the poles 
and ropes which constitute the framework 
of a tent. In other words, the bones of the 
skeleton are not rigidly joined together; 
they do not of themselves make a self- 
supporting framework ; the strong ligaments 
which pass from one bone to another simply 
limit or guide the movement of the bones 
(p. 16) ; they do not, strictly speaking, bind 
them together. If all organs save the bones 
and ligaments were removed, the skeleton 
would collapse. It is itself held upright by 
the muscles, which determine what position 
the bones shall have with regard to one 
another ; and it is more correct to say that 
the muscles support the skeleton than that 
the skeleton supports the muscles. 

14. Round shoulders as a type of faulty 
carriage ; their cause. The carriage of the 
shoulders well illustrates the closing state- 
ment of the last paragraph. Some people 
have square, while others have sloping, 
shoulders; in some the shoulders are held 
back so that the upper portion of the back 
is approximately flat, while in others they 
droop forward, thus causing the upper chest 
to be more or less contracted and the back 
" round." To some extent these differences 
may be due to hereditary structure, but 
they result, for the most part, from causes 
which are largely, if not entirely, under 
individual control. There is little or no 



E- 



D- 



A 



FIG. 112. Diagram 
showing the action 
of antagonistic mus- 
cles which keep the 
body erect. After 
Huxley 

Arrows indicate the 
direction of the pull, 
the feet serving as 
a fixed hasis of sup- 
port. The muscles 
A,S, H, and C keep 
the body from fall- 
ing forward ; D, E, 
F, and G keep it from 
falling backward 



316 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

excuse for round shoulders in healthy people, and the 
marked effect of training is evident in the fine bearing of 
well-trained soldiers. The truth of this statement is seen 
when we consider how the deformity is usually acquired, 
the chief causes being the following: 

(1) Faulty posture. Round shoulders are uncommon among 
people whose work requires an erect carriage of the body ; 
for example, among those who carry things upon the head. 
With most, however, the occupations of daily life lead to 
bending forward over work ; writing, drawing, sewing, lift- 
ing, gardening, paving, machine and tool work at once occur 
as examples. The trunk is held in such a position that the 
shoulders tend to fall forward of their own weight. This 
tendency is aided by the wrongly curved backs of most 
chairs which seem as if planned especially to force the 
shoulders forward and in boys by the use of suspenders 
worn too short or too tight. 

(2) Improper balance in the play of antagonistic muscles. 
The position of the shoulders with reference to the ribs, 
vertebral column, and breastbone is largely dependent upon 
the action of several groups of antagonistic muscles, the 
most important of which are those of the breast and those 
of the back. Figs. 113 and 114 show the general antago- 
nistic action of these muscles. The contraction of the great 
breast (or pectoral) muscles pulls the shoulders forward and 
nearer the breastbone ; the contraction of the back muscles 
(rhomboideus, trapezius, and others) pulls them backwards 
and nearer the backbone. Both groups of muscles are kept 
in a state of sustained moderate contraction (or tone) by the 
nervous system ; but if the back muscles relax, while those 
of the pectoral group remain in tonic contraction, the shoulder 
will be pulled forward and the back will be round. Obviously 
the maintenance by the nervous system of the proper bal- 
ance in the action of these and other antagonistic groups of 
muscles is essential to correct carriage of the shoulders. 



MUSCULAB, ACTIVITY 317 

(3) Deficient use of the back muscles, with or without the 
excessive use of the breast muscles. Most occupations and 
activities involve greater use of the breast muscles than of 




FIG. 113. Some of the muscles of the back 

On the left side are shown the muscles immediately under the skin ; by dissecting 
away this first layer, there are exposed the muscles shown on the right side 

the back muscles. Striking a blow with a bat or an ax, 
throwing a ball, and similar actions are more usual than 
acts (like pulling taffy) which extend the arms and draw 



318 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



the shoulder blades closer together. Movements of the first 
kind obviously strengthen the breast and stretch the back 
muscles; those of the second kind have the opposite effect. 
Consequently any marked preponderance of pectoral action 
tends to elongate the back muscles ; and unless this is counter- 
acted by movements of the opposite character, which stretch 
the breast muscle, the pectoral and back groups become 
" set," as we may express it, in improper relative lengths. 
The result is round shoulders. Accordingly one of the most 

important things to have in 
view in gymnastic work is 
the use of movements which 
train the back muscles and 
'stretch the pectorals, thus 
counteracting the effect of 
the one-sided use of these 
two groups of muscles in 
ordinary occupations. 

15. The period of growth 
especially favorable for the 
acquisition of round shoulders 
and other deformities. The 
length of a growing muscle 
is determined largely by the distance between its origin and 
insertion 1 during the period of growth. The breast muscle 
will grow to be a longer muscle when the shoulders are held 
back by the back muscles than when they are habitually 
allowed to droop forward. In the former case the pectorals 
grow to sufficient length and do not tend to pull the shoulders 
forward and downward, and we avoid the excessive length 




FIG. 114. The skeleton of the trunk 
seen from above. After Demeny 

Showing the antagonistic play upon the 

shoulder of the muscles of the breast (a) 

and back (6) 



1 Where a muscle is attached by its two tendons, the point of attach- 
ment against which it usually pulls or is fixed is known as its origin, while 
the one it usually moves is known as its insertion. Thus the origin of the 
pectoral muscle is the breastbone and ribs, its insertion the shoulder and 
the upper arm. 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 



319 



of the back muscles, which makes it necessary for them to 
take up their own slack before they can keep the shoulders 
in position. 

The student can now appreciate the fact that it is in 
youth, during the period of growth, that deformities are 
most readily acquired and most easily corrected, for the 
muscles, the ligaments, the, bones, are then in their forma- 
tive stage. In the case in point, if the boy or girl holds 
the shoulders properly, the pectoral and back muscles of 
each side adjust themselves to their proper length, and the 
shoulders grow into the correct form, just as the sapling 




FIG. 115. Correct and incorrect positions of the shoulder girdle. 
After Demeny 

which is not bent nor deprived of proper sunlight grows 
into the symmetrical, beautiful tree. During the period of 
growth, then say up to at least the twentieth year we 
can hope to accomplish most in correcting and, especially, 
in preventing deformities. The correction and prevention of 
round shoulders evidently depend upon the proper training 
and use of the muscles which play upon the shoulder; 
it is therefore a legitimate part of gymnastic training, for 
gymnastic training is largely the art of learning to use the 
muscles properly. 

Where there is a special defect to remedy or prevent, 
special exercises are required. These are of the general 
character of the " setting-up " drill of the soldier ; in the 
case in point we accomplish our purpose by using move- 
ments which, in the first place, stretch the pectorals and 



320 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

even overextend them; in the second place, give to the 
back muscles the exercise which they fail to get in our 
ordinary occupations and so bring up their strength, their 
ability to withstand fatigue and to maintain the tonic contrac- 
tion demanded of them ; and, in the third place, give us the 
knowledge of the correct position of the shoulders. 

16. Education of the consciousness of correct posture. In 
explanation of the last- point we may say that when one 
habitually carries the shoulders properly he feels that he is 
taking an awkward position when he allows the shoulders 
to droop ; on the other hand, the man who habitually 
allows his shoulders to droop forward feels that he is in an 
unnatural position when he holds his shoulders back. The 
sensations which come from the muscles, tendons, joints, 
etc. during habitual posture have impressed themselves on 
the mind as signs of normal posture; to take another posi- 
tion is to experience the feeling of something unusual or 
abnormal. To correct faulty posture it is first necessary to 
know the muscular feeling of correct posture, something 
which can be learned only by taking the correct position 
and taking it frequently. The man who has 'never done this 
knows no more of correct posture than one who is blind 
from his birth knows of the color of a landscape, and under 
these conditions there is no impulse to correct faulty posture. 
On the other hand, the more frequently the man actually 
experiences the muscular sensations which come from correct 
carriage the better does he become acquainted with them and 
the more surely will this knowledge inform him whether he 
is carrying himself properly or not. 

17. The more important faults of form and carriage. We 
may now pass to the consideration of the more important 
deformities, which it is the aim of special muscular exercises 
to prevent or correct. 

(1) The failure to hold the neck erect (allowing it to bend 
forward). This results naturally from the fact that the 






MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 



321 



weight of the head bends the neck, provided the tendency 
is not corrected by the proper training of the muscles of the 
back of the neck and trunk. The position of the head usu- 
ally taken in reading, sewing, etc. is another cause of this 
bad habit. 

(2) Round or stoop shoulders. These defects have already 
been sufficiently dwelt upon (p. 315). 

(3) Too great backward (dorsal) convexity of the spine in 
the thoracic region and too great forward (ventral) convexity 
of the spine in the abdominal region. A 

certain amount of such curvature is 
normal in these regions (see Chap. II), 
but there is usually a tendency to ex- 
cessive curvature because of the weight 
of the parts of the body which the 
spine must support. Everyone knows 
that it is an effort to sit erect ; and 
this feeling, of effort comes from the 
fact that the spine is straightened, or, 
rather, its curvature kept normal, by 

the action of a somewhat complex group 

FIG. 116. The results ot 

of muscles the erectors of the spine, proper (1) and improper 
To sit or stand or walk erect involves ( 2 ) carriage of the ver- 
the activity of these muscles ; when 
they cease to act, the faulty curvature 
becomes more pronounced. Hence the value of all exercises 
which tend to straighten the spine exercises, for example, 
in which, while standing on the feet, we try by our own 
muscular effort to make ourselves as tall as possible. They 
train and strengthen the muscles in question ; they stretch 
their antagonists, just as throwing the shoulders back stretches 
the pectorals ; and they impart to us by actual experience 
the sensation of being erect. 

(4) Lateral curvature of the spine. When the spinal column 
and its attached ligaments and muscles are properly developed, 




tebral 



column. 
Demeny 



After 



322 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

there is little or no lateral curvature of the spine ; the two 
halves of the body are symmetrical with regard to the median 
plane of the body, although a considerable amount of bending 
of the spine as a whole to one side or the other is possible. 
It is, however, quite possible, by maintaining incorrect posi- 
tions, to acquire a more or less pronounced lateral curvature 
in which the muscles and ligaments of the concave side 
become shortened and those of the convex side lengthened. 
Perhaps nothing is so responsible for all these faults of 
curvature of the spinal column as improper positions at 
the school desk, and much can be done to prevent them by 
properly constructed school furniture and careful attention 
to correct position. But it is not wise to depend on these 
alone. No desk has been constructed in which correct pos- 
ture can be indefinitely maintained with ease, and we have 
still in any case to contend with the force of gravity. Active 
exercises which straighten the spine should supplement the 
other measures. Experience has well established the fact 
that the true preventive or remedy lies in movements 
which elongate the spine. 

(5) We have elsewhere (p. 174) pointed out the important 
action of the muscles of the abdominal wall in supporting 
the abdominal viscera, especially those, like the stomach, the 
spleen, and the intestine, which are suspended from the dorsal 
wall of the abdominal cavity. Fig. 157 will at once make 
clear how the relaxation or elongation of the abdominal 
muscles, by removing support from these viscera, permits 
their weight to pull unduly upon the mesentery and so to 
stretch this support. It is also not improbable that the tense 
mesentery at times, by pressing upon thin- walled veins and 
lymphatics, interferes with the circulation of blood and the 
flow of lymph in some organs, and so leads to trouble. 
A pot-belly is not a thing of beauty, and there is every 
reason for thinking it to be undesirable from the hygienic 
point of view. It is prevented, in the first place, by every 



MUSCULAR ACTIVITY 323 

movement which prevents undue lumbar curvature of the 
spine and, in the second place, by exercises of the abdomi- 
nal muscles, which result in their improved tone. These, 
however, like all corrective exercises, must be followed up by 
maintenance of the correct position of the trunk. 

18. Special exercise for the training of nervous coordination. 
A man or woman may possess none of the deformities noticed 
above the anatomical form of the body may conform to the 
best ideals and yet the movements of the body may be 
awkward, inexpert, ungraceful. In other words, the muscles 
may be well developed, but the nervous system may be defi- 
cient in the power of easily coordinating their action in the 
accomplishment of desired ends. 

This defect in the nervous system is sometimes due to 
inherited or other structural imperfections in the mechanism, 
but it is far more frequently the result of lack of proper 
training by use. It is an old saying that skill to do comes 
by doing, and we see this illustrated every day in countless 
ways. The man who writes little writes with difficulty not 
because he lacks the neurones necessary to coordinate the 
action of the muscles of the hand but because these neu- 
rones have not been drilled by practice. The student will 
recall the comparison made on page 88 between the train- 
ing of the neurones and the drilling of an army, and he may 
now make the application to the case in point ; for just as 
we learn to walk by trying to walk and keeping at it until 
every muscle works at its proper time and in its proper way, 
so, in general, the maintenance of the balance when the body 
is at rest and when it is in motion, no matter what we are 
doing, is the result of doing correctly the action we are try- 
ing to learn. The range of activities for which we can train 
is very extensive ; playing upon musical instruments, the 
execution of gymnastic feats on the parallel and horizontal 
bars, the traveling rings, or the trapeze are only a few 
examples of the training of the nervous system by practice. 



324 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

A large part of gymnasium work consists in this sort of 
training, and there is almost no limit to the forms of exer- 
cise to which we may train vaulting, jumping, balancing 
the body on one foot while various movements are made, 
the tricks of the parallel and horizontal bars, trapeze, etc. 
Is there any principle to guide us in the choice of what we 
shall do? In reply to this question we may say that the 
leading principle should undoubtedly be that of training for 
what will be useful, and while we need not discard all train- 
ing which cannot be justified on this ground, that which is 
useful should not be sacrificed to that which is not useful. 
A large amount of skill is required to walk upon the hands 
with the feet in the air, and the thing can be done very 
gracefully by training ; but it is certainly better to cultivate 
the habit of walking gracefully upon the feet. And yet one 
may see professional gymnasts who are extremely graceful 
while performing their tricks, but whose gait is clumsy 
and awkward. 

19. Balance exercises. It is evident that by far the greater 
number of our customary coordinated movements are made 
on the feet. Hence the value of so-called balance exercises 
in the widest sense, whether they consist in the execution 
of difficult movements while standing on one foot or on the 
" walking beam " or in making a proper landing from a jump 
or a vault; all of them afford training of those reflexes by 
which we retain control of the body in motion, thus securing 
grace of posture and carriage. 

The general purpose of training these reflexes is the same 
as the purpose of those exercises which correct deformities ; 
they do for the nervous mechanism of the movement what 
the others do for the skeletal parts and the muscles which 
play upon them ; they give the training of use and prevent 
atrophy from disuse. 

Both these ends, the corrective and the so-called coordi- 
native, are best secured by the use of gymnastic movements ; 



MUSCULAK ACTIVITY 325 

and the increasingly sedentary character of much of our 
modern life correspondingly increases the value of gymnastic 
work, especially in the period of youth. It is well to learn 
and understand the most useful exercises and, even in adult 
life, to have resort to them as often as may be necessary in 
order to hold fast what has been gained. 

20. The gymnasium as a means of general muscular exer- 
cise. Under the conditions of city life, especially in winter 
time, the gymnasium is also useful in supplying general 
exercise in the form of running, gymnastic games, etc. It is 
better to seek outdoor work as far as possible for this exer- 
cise, but there are times when those living in the heart of 
crowded cities cannot get to the country, and outdoor exer- 
cise in town is not all that is to be desired. While there is 
sometimes a tendency to extol unduly the value of gym- 
nastic work, there is equally marked ignorance in other 
quarters as to what the gymnasium may accomplish. Our 
cities are vastly better off for their Y. M. C. A. and other 
gymnasia, and we cannot afford to discourage any means of 
properly directed physical training. 

21. Hygienic value of corrective work. Before leaving the 
subject of corrective and coordinative work we may answer 
a question which is frequently asked: Has it, after all, any 
hygienic value ? All will readily grant that this part of 
physical training has an aesthetic value and that the culti- 
vation of the taste for correct form and carriage in one's 
own person is to be commended. But is a man less healthy 
for being round-shouldered ? The answer is that he may or 
may not be less healthy. The deformity of round shoulders 
carries with it the lessened use of the upper ribs in breath- 
ing; and while one man or woman may escape dangerous 
consequences, another may not, indeed, we know does not, 

and it is the part of wisdom to avoid the danger as far as 
possible. In one a pot-belly may be consistent with perfect 
health, while in others it is not. One may go through life 



326 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

with some faulty curvature of the spine and not suffer from 
it, but thousands of persons have to consult physicians every 
year because of such faults. Many a man wears improper 
shoes without bad results ; hundreds pay for them by flat 
foot and suffering which at times amounts to torture. There 
is not a single deformity enumerated above which may not 
prove a serious matter; and when it is so easy to avoid 
most of them, it would seem from a hygienic point of view 
well worth while to do so. 

The hygienic value of corrective and coordinative work 
is justified, however, still more effectively on another ground. 
The tendency to take general exercise is directly proportional 
to the excellence of the neuromuscular mechanism of the 
body. The man who is awkward and clumsy, who can make 
but few movements, does not enjoy general exercise as does 
the man who has good control of his muscles and can make 
many movements. It is probably not too much to say that 
a very large proportion of the people who settle down to a 
sedentary life with the coming of their thirty-fifth or fortieth 
year do this because they can do so little with the body 
and because exercise is consequently monotonous and dis- 
tasteful. We can undoubtedly preserve more readily the 
love of movement for its own sake when we have a body 
which can move freely and easily, skillfully and joyously, 
than when we have one which is never so much at home as 
in an easy-chair or upon a soft bed, and we have shown 
above (p. 304) how valuable is this joy of movement to the 
body as a whole. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

THE HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 
REST AND SLEEP 

In no respect do the conditions of modern life stand in 
more striking contrast to those of former times than in the 
increasing importance of mental work in contrast with mus- 
cular work as a means of livelihood. Not only are there 
more professional men such as lawyers, editors, physicians, 
teachers, and the like but the character of modern business 
life involves the ceaseless use of the nervous system both on 
the part of those who direct large enterprises and of those 
who occupy subordinate positions. The clerk in a bank, as 
well as the president or cashier, is " living by his wits " and 
is using his brain to an extent almost unknown until within 
the last century. Never was competition so keen ; never has 
it been so necessary to inform one's self minutely as to mar- 
ket conditions of demand and supply; never before has the 
margin of profits been so small; never before has it been 
so necessary to avoid waste ; and never before has it been 
so difficult to protect one's self against novel and unforeseen 
conditions. Truly the modern business man must be ever 
awake, ever alert. 

Nor is this all. With the introduction of the telegraph 
and telephone, communication between man and man is 
facilitated; the widespread employment of stenographers 
results in an increase of letters received and sent ; and 
in other ways the number of matters demanding attention 
is multiplied manyfold. Moreover, the increase of wealth 
has enlarged the possibilities of life ; concerts, art exhibitions, 

327 



328 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

books, crowd upon us; social engagements are multiplied; 
so that as a result we are kept ever on the alert, and the 
man or woman who does not firmly decline invitations, 
engagements, and efforts which would overcrowd life to no 
good purpose experiences elements of distraction or fatigue 
or worry which tell upon health and too often lead to what 
we call nervous prostration. 

For no student of the practical problems of hygiene 
can shut his eyes to the marked prevalence of nervous 
prostration and even insanity, or fail to recognize the 
evident connection between these things and the intensity, 
the hurry, the unrestful character of the lives we lead. 
Probably there is no more pressing problem of practical 
hygiene than that which is thus presented, for here, if any- 
where, "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." 

Even where there is no question of nervous prostration 
or insanity, a large number of people suffer from nervous 
troubles of one kind or another which interfere seriously 
with their work and with the legitimate enjoyment of life. 
We have seen how close is the connection between all 
parts of the nervous system and also how conditions of 
the nervous system may and must influence nutritive and 
other functions of the body. The two are most intimately 
bound together; and many a man or woman fails to secure 
the blessing of good health because intense, unremitting 
work is demanded of the nervous system such as would 
never be imposed on the muscles or the stomach or the 
skin. Consequently the avoidance of actual nervous pros- 
tration is but a small part of what must be accomplished by 
the hygienic conduct of life ; a far more pressing practical 
problem is the lessening of daily strain, worry, and fatigue, 
which are the precursors of the more serious troubles and 
the avoidance of which affords the only sure means of defense 
against the all too common and distressing breakdowns of 
useful lives. 



HYGIENE OF THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 329 

1. Nature of the impairment of nervous efficiency. The 

work of the central nervous system, unlike that of a muscle, 
does not require the expenditure of large amounts of power, 
nor does it, like that of a gland, involve considerable chemi- 
cal change. The brain and cord consist of innumerable 
units the neurones with very delicate and intricate con- 
nections between them. Just as we compare the muscle to 
an engine, and the gland to a chemical factory, so we find a 
similar comparison for the nervous system in a piece of deli- 
cate and intricate mechanism such as a fine watch. The 
danger is not so much that it will be strained by heavy 
work nor even that it will be unduly fatigued by the 
accumulation of the waste products of its own activity, but 
rather that its delicate connections will be injured, as a watch 
may fail to keep time when its bearings are not properly 
oiled or when particles of dust make their way into them. 
In the work of a muscle it is not so important if some of 
the fibers fail to do their work, since each fiber has only the 
function of exerting its own pull on the tendon, and if one 
fails it is only necessary for the others to pull harder; and 
somewhat similar considerations hold with regard to the 
gland. The living units of which these organs are composed 
work more or less independently of each other, and the work 
of one cell does not directly affect the work of another. 
The neurones, on the other hand, are interdependent units, 
and the failure of one synapse to convey the stimulus from 
one neurone to another may mean inefficient work on the 
part of the whole mechanism or even the failure of the 
mechanism to work at all. 

2. Means of repair in the nervous system. In a watch 
every precaution is taken to prevent such interference with 
the working of the mechanism. The axles of its wheels are 
made of the hardest steel, as also are most of its cogwheels 
and pinions ; jewels are also used in the bearings so as to 
reduce wear upon the parts to a minimum. Above all, the 



330 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

... ' . ' '#; 

mechanism is encased to prevent access of dust and moisture 
from without. Such is not the case with the nervous system. 
Its parts consist of living, irritable, unstable protoplasm 
liable to undergo change with changes in its surroundings. 
So far from being protected from the access of foreign 
matter, its cells are bathed by the blood common to all 
organs and are exposed to whatever unfavorable condition 
may obtain therein. 

But nerve cells have in common with all other living 
cells an advantage possessed by no lifeless mechanism, 
namely, the power of self-repair. A watchmaker must clean 
and put a watch in order. The nervous system repairs itself 
if given a chance to do so, and for this purpose requires 
only that the intensity of its work be lessened by rest and 
sleep. Recurring to our figure of the signal tower in the 
yard of a large railway station, the activity or " strain " 
of the nervous system during our waking hours may be 
compared to the work in the signal tower during the rush 
hours of the day, while our sleeping hours would correspond 
to that of the signal tower during the small hours of the 
morning, when trains are no longer entering and leaving 
every minute ; and just as it is then that tracks and switches 
may be most thoroughly inspected and repaired, so it is 
during sleep that the nerve cells can best attend to their 
injuries and restore the whole system to its highest degree 
of efficiency. 

It is, perhaps, the chief function of sleep to insure to the 
delicate and complicated mechanism of the nervous system 
this chance for repair. Indeed, sleep is the only means which 
insures to every neurone due rest from activity. With the 
changing demands of active life, first one and then another 
combination of neurones is called on for activity ; but it not 
infrequently happens that some neurones of the second com- 
bination belonged also to the first, and there are many which 
are constantly in action, such, for example, as those of the 



HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 331 

vasomotor system, which regulate the supply of blood to the 
organs. For this reason mere change of occupation, though 
affording partial relief, cannot insure perfect repair. Those 
who would define rest as " selected excitement " should bear 
this fact carefully in mind. 

3. The care of the nervous machinery ; rest and sleep. If a 
locomotive is to be kept in the state of high efficiency, it 
must not be worked without ceasing until something goes 
wrong. When a train is to be pulled five hundred miles it 
is customary to change engines two or three times on the 
run ; and these changes are made not because the first 
engine cannot pull the train to its destination on schedule 
time but because heating occurs, or dust finds its way into 
the bearings, or the strains and jars impair adjustment; and 
it prolongs the life of the machine and its good working to 
remove the dust, cool the parts, and otherwise frequently 
put the engine in perfect order. When an engine breaks 
down, it is usually because some one part has given way. 
With proper care a good machine should wear out but not 
break down. 

The central nervous system, although infinitely more com- 
plicated than a locomotive, is far less durable as a mechanism. 
Its bearings are not made of hard steel, but of living, irritable 
protoplasm keenly susceptible to injury. In the numerous 
connections between neurone and neurone there is far more 
chance than in the steam engine that some one part will fail 
to do its work ; and the main principle of its hygienic care is 
to oil the bearings and clean and repair the machinery, by repose 
and sleep, before the danger of a breakdown is imminent. Rest, 
and especially the rest of sleep, is the one preventive, the one 
sure cure, for these unfavorable conditions ; only in this way 
is the fatigued neurone withdrawn from work and given the 
chance to repair itself and to return to its normal condition. 

The cardinal principle in the care of the nervous system 
is thus the same as that in the care of the steam engine. 



332 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Do not often call upon it for activity of any kind when 
conditions of undue fatigue are likely to be present. Go to 
the performance of every physiological activity, to digestion, 
to study, to muscular work, to social life for all these mean 
nervous activity as far as may be with a rested nervous 
system. Of course to do this is not always possible ; there 
are times when we must drive the body, despite the fact that 
it is physically tired ; but this ought to be the exception, 
never the regular order of life. 

4. Examples. Let us suppose that someone, man or 
woman, after application at sedentary work for six or more 
hours, has some time free before the evening meal and that, 
tired and perhaps nervous, relaxation is sought in a brisk 
walk, which is almost immediately followed by dinner. The 
effort which the digestion of this, perhaps the heaviest meal 
of the day, costs the nervous system shows itself in the 
stupid, almost somnolent condition which often follows. The 
body is trying to do hard work with a tired nervous system 
some of whose bearings need oiling ; its owner is making the 
mistake of continued activity without opportunity for the 
rest and repair which a nap of fifteen or twenty minutes, 
or even absolute idleness and complete muscular relaxation 
without sleep, for half an hour or so before the meal, might 
have given him. 

Again, there are times in everyone's life when some 
unusual strain must be borne ; when, for example, after the 
day's work watch must be kept at a sick bed during the 
greater part of the night. Too often people will undertake 
this* strain, expecting to " make up " the loss of rest when 
it is over, even when it is possible to prepare for it by an 
hour or so of sleep beforehand. We seldom work steam 
engines in this way. Should we treat the nervous system 
less carefully than a steam engine ? 

These examples must suffice. The application must be 
made by each individual according to his work in life. If 



HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 333 

work is undertaken which requires constant activity from 
early morn until late at night, the case is hopeless and 
the only remedy is a change of occupation. Only gross 
ignorance of the plainest facts of human experience, as well 
as of physiological science, can excuse such conduct. 

5. How much sleep is advisable? Different people un- 
doubtedly require different amounts of sleep, but it seems 
safe to say that the majority of adults require from seven 
to eight hours a day; children and young people require 
more. It is, however, an interesting question whether all 
of this should be taken at one time or not. Since the nerv- 
ous life of to-day is more intense than was that of our ances- 
tors, it is all the more needful that we keep the nervous 
system in a continuous state of high efficiency. To go about 
the duties and pleasures of life from early morning until 
late at night without a moment's rest is a great mistake ; 
we are then doing what the engineer would do who should 
run his engine all day, feeding it with coal but without 
giving it a drop of oil, without tightening a nut, without 
cleaning a bearing. As the play of nervous activity goes on, 
calling now upon one combination of nerve cells, now upon 
another combination, those nerve cells which belong to more 
than one mechanism are called on for more than their share 
of work, and every mechanism to which they belong may 
be to that extent impaired. The stimulus of the will must 
be more vigorously applied, and as this becomes ineffective, 
the individual is tempted to use stimulants, as the whip 
is applied to tired and straining horses or as blows were 
showered upon galley slaves in time of battle. 

Contrast with this the benefit of brief sleep during the 
day in facilitating night work. Some persons, it is true, do 
not seem to be thus benefited, but the vast majority are. 
And the benefit is out of all proportion to the time spent 
asleep. We are tired, and work is difficult not so much 
because the whole nervous system is exhausted but because 



334 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

unfavorable conditions of fatigue, etc. have come in at 
important points; during even a short nap, with its marked 
muscular and nervous relaxation, normal conditions are re- 
stored and the whole mechanism then works on with less 
effort, less general fatigue, less local injury. ^ 

6. Nervous rest in change of work. Sleep is the very best 
means of insuring nervous repair, because it is the only con- 
dition which involves complete relaxation. There is, how- 
ever, some rest, or at least some refreshment, in mere change 
of employment; as when, for instance, we pass from mental 
work to physical exercise. Calling into play a new group 
of nerve cells gives a chance for rest to many cells which 
have previously been active. And at times we feel tired 
after mental work because we need muscular activity rather 
than sleep. The tired feeling may come not from tired nerve 
cells but from the want of what the muscles might furnish 
(see Chap. XVII). At such times muscular exercise to some 
extent, perhaps to a great extent, refreshes us ; and in gen- 
eral we maintain a higher degree of working power by judi- 
cious variety of activity. But it must be remembered that 
in the long run neither muscular exercise nor any other 
change of occupation can take the place of the complete 
relaxation and refreshment found in sleep. It is, indeed, 
doubtful whether there is any change of employment which 
brings with it an entire change of nervous activity. A cer- 
tain number of the same cells, already weary, are still kept at 
work, as has already been explained above ; and it is by sleep 
alone that every cell has its natural opportunity for repair. 

7. Conditions favorable to sleep. (1) Moderate bodily fatigue. 
The beneficial influence of a moderate degree of bodily fatigue 
in bringing on sleep has been commented upon (p. 63), 
and this is an important office in the ministry of muscular 
activity to the body as a whole. On the other hand, when 
fatigue is very marked, and especially when decided soreness 
is present, it often happens that we cannot go to sleep 



HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 335 

because the afferent painful impulses which are then stream- 
ing into the central nervous system stimulate us ^nd so keep 
us awake. Hence moderate fatigue favors slumber ; over- 
fatigue and especially muscular soreness or lameness often 
render it more difficult. Many people suffer from insomnia 
because of lack of muscular activity; others because of 
injudicious muscular activity. 

(2) Dilation of the arterioles of the skin. A second con- 
dition favorable to normal slumber is dilation of the blood 
vessels of the skin (p. 155). We know that it is difficult 
to go to sleep when the skin is cold, or, indeed, when only 
the feet are cold, and of this physiology gives the ready 
explanation. When the skin is cold its blood vessels con- 
strict and we cannot secure the needed dilation in that 
organ. Sometimes for no apparent reason one is Unable to 
go to sleep, and this sleeplessness may last for several hours 
until the addition of a light blanket to the bed covering 
brings on sleep within a few minutes. The individual was 
unconscious of any distinct feeling of cold, yet the temper- 
ature of the skin was sufficiently below the normal to main- 
tain the tonic constriction of its arteries. The use of warm 
drinks or a tepid bath before retiring also finds its explana- 
tion in the cutaneous dilation thereby induced. Very hot 
baths, on the other hand, by overheating the skin -and 
stimulating the afferent nerves of warmth (p. -258) often 
delay the onset of slumber. Too much bed covering often 
has the same effect. 

(3) Exclusion of afferent impulses. To secure rest to the 
efferent neurones and, indeed, to the central nervous system 
in general, they must be protected from afferent stimulation. 
Not only should the room be darkened and sound excluded 
as far as possible but the sense organs of the other senses 
as well should be protected from stimulation. We have just 
pointed out the necessity of avoiding stimulation by cold 
and heat and also by pain arising from excessive muscular 



336 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

fatigue. Similarly, those sensations arising from any form 
of bodily discomfort (for example, those arising from con- 
stricting clothing) should be relieved. This would seem 
almost self-obvious did not many people assert their inability 
to secure short naps in the daytime, when they have only 
tried to do so by throwing themselves in their street dress 
on a lounge in a bright room in which conversation is going 
on. Finally, one group of afferent impulses must not be 
forgotten, namely, those from the muscular sense (p. 259). 
From every contracting muscle sensory impulses stream into 
the nervous system; and although these do not strongly 
affect our consciousness, nevertheless they stimulate the 
lower nerve centers and prevent their complete inactivity. 
Hence the importance of muscular relaxation preliminary 
to slumber. 

8. Muscular relaxation in sleep. All have noticed, when 
falling off to sleep, the feeling of relief from strain ; the 
framework of the skeleton seems to be held together less 
rigidly, and finally, as we lose consciousness, relaxation 
seems complete. At other times when sleep will not come 
many have felt the inability to relax ; when, as it has been 
well expressed, we seem to be afraid that the bed will slip 
away from under us and we must hold on to it. We have 
seen that during waking life the nervous system is con- 
tinually sending out impulses which keep the muscles in a 
state of moderate contraction and thus among other things 
liberate heat for the maintenance of the body temperature. 
Usually this tonic activity of the motor neurones must be 
more or less relaxed before sleep will come, and the inabil- 
ity to release it is one of the danger signals of the nervous 
system. There can be no doubt that when nervous work 
is pushed too hard against unfavorable conditions, the nerve 
cells develop a condition of excessive irritability, so that 
they are discharged by afferent impulses or other stimuli 
which would ordinarily not affect them, and they maintain 



HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 337 

this irritable condition even in the presence of general bodily 
fatigue. Normal rest is, of course, extremely difficult or quite 
impossible under these conditions, which for this reason alone 
should be attended to at once. The trouble may be in some 
general or special unhygienic condition of life impaired 
digestion, insufficient muscular activity, the presence of undue 
anxiety, etc. ; these should be inquired into and remedied 
if present, but the trouble is usually the result of pushing 
activity of different kinds for too long periods without 
cessation. In other words, we have lost the ability to relax 
because we have not practiced relaxation. 

9. Conservation of the ability to relax. The ability to 
relax is something which, like all phenomena of nervous life, 
depends on practice. Indeed, it is not improbable that it is 
something more than a mere process of desisting from activity 
and that direct active processes of inhibition (see Chap. XV) 
are concerned in it. All have known people who can go to 
sleep the instant they lie down, and they can do this it 
would almost seem by an act of the will because they 
have often done it. It is a power which can indeed be culti- 
vated too well ; by too frequent repetition of the process of 
taking a nap and by sleeping too long at night, there may 
be acquired a diminished irritability of the nerve cells, which 
makes attention to work a very difficult matter and long- 
sustained attention almost impossible. Those in this condi- 
tion may escape the danger of nervous prostration, but they 
impair their usefulness in life. 

The true path, as in other matters of personal hygiene, is 
that between these extremes. When one rises at seven or 
eight in the morning a short period of rest in the afternoon 
is sufficient; the persistent practice of the act of relaxation 
every hour or less is apt to lead to loss of muscular tone 
and of nervous efficiency in general. At the same time the 
habit of momentary relaxation in the midst of the day's work 
is a valuable aid, partly in bettering conditions at the time, 



338 THE HUMAK MECHANISM 

but chiefly in retaining the power to relax when it is wanted 
for longer periods of rest. 

10. Drugs are delusive and dangerous. The physiologist 
cannot condemn too strongly the substitution of stimulants 
'for the proper regulation of work and rest. The reader will 
see at once what this course of action may be expected to 
accomplish ; the stimulant is an antagonist of relaxation ; the 
nerve cell becomes more and more irritable as it is pushed 
harder and harder ; finally, it reaches either the condition of 
excessive irritability or else that of being unable to work 
without the stimulant. It has adapted itself to the presence 
of the stimulant in its environment; it is trained to work 
under drugged conditions, and it cannot work without them. 
It may be safely asserted that, in general, the time above 
all others when stimulants should not be used is when we 
are tired out; to use stimulants regularly, day after day, in 
place of rest is shown by experience to be one of the most 
fatal of errors. 

Nor, on the other hand, can we condemn too strongly the 
use of narcotics to produce sleep. Probably none of these 
drugs is capable of producing normal sleep ; and while in 
times of emergency the physician must have recourse to 
them, they should never be relied upon in place of the 
hygienic conduct of the whole life. Many of them, and 
some of those in common use, are very dangerous, and none 
of them is known to be above reproach. 

11. Mental work and overwork. Much nonsense is said 
and written about " working the brain too hard." If by this 
is meant working it too long at a time without rest or with- 
out stopping for muscular exercise; if it means the attempt 
to do more sums in arithmetic, to read more Latin or Ger- 
man, to write a longer composition, or to master more science 
than the hours of study justify and so prolong these hours 
of study to the neglect of other hygienic demands, no objec- 
tion can be made to the phrase ; but if it refers to the hard 



HYGIENE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 339 

mental work and close application required for a reasonable 
time by a sum in mathematics or a passage in Latin, we may 
well hesitate to regard such work as in any degree danger- 
ous. The world is overflowing with people who have never 
acquired habits of mental concentration and hard thinking, 
and yet their general health is no better than that of persons 
who have acquired such habits, while their mental powers 
often suffer severely by comparison. 

It is very important to understand clearly that it is mis- 
directed nervous activity and not hard mental work in itself 
or the concentration of attention which mental work requires 
that leads to bad results. It is a part of our normal life to 
do mental work and to cultivate the power of close applica- 
tion to that work; it is a part of education to develop the 
power of concentration and attention against resistance and 
inclination, and experience shows that this may be entirely 
consistent with the maintenance of health. But when a stu- 
dent " crams " for an examination for two or three days, 
with the minimum of sleep during the period, and breaks 
down after it is over, it is not merely mental work which 
should be blamed for the result, for he would probably 
have broken down if he had attempted to work a typewriter 
during the same time, with no more relaxation or rest. The 
real cause of the trouble is the too long-continued use of the 
nervous system. 

12. The influence of mental and moral states. Finally, it 
must also be remembered that psychical processes exert a pro- 
found influence upon the well-being of the brain and spinal 
cord. It is a matter of common experience that emotions, 
feelings, moods, worry, etc. profoundly influence human con- 
duct and so indirectly affect health, especially the health 
of the nervous system. It is also certain that they exert a 
more direct physiological influence on the bodily functions; 
the changes which emotions produce in the heart beat are 
good examples of other changes which are none the less 



340 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

important because they do not lend themselves so readily to 
observation. The bestowal of a healthy attention upon the 
moral aspects of conduct is a legitimate and essential part 
of personal hygiene, and it is not too much to say that 
much of the ill-health from which men and women suffer is 
to be traced primarily to the absence of sound moral sense 
or to its abnormal or perverted development. Care and 
worry often cause weariness and loss of sleep which even 
diversion and muscular exercise cannot overcome. They 
seldom trouble the young, but as age advances they are 
sometimes inevitable. Efforts should be made to avoid 
them, as far as possible, by a wise ordering of life, by fore- 
thought, thrift, economy, sobriety, honesty, and the like, 
which tend to " a light heart " and " a clear conscience." 
A heavy heart and a clouded conscience tend not only to 
unhappiness and anxiety but also to loss of appetite, 
depression, wakefulness, and other physical ills. 

13. " Mental cures " of disease. It has been shown that 
mental conditions have a direct influence upon the activities 
of the body, even leaving out of account the voluntary 
muscles. The effect of emotions upon the heart has been 
referred to, and so has the psychic secretion of gastric juice. 
It is known that the movements of the alimentary canal are 
readily modified by events in conscious life. In the hypnotic 
state the effect of suggestion upon functions which we habitu- 
ally regard as involuntary is even more striking. Facts like 
these have led some to the rash assumption that there is no 
limit to the domination of the mind over physiological proc- 
esses. Occasionally the ascendancy which some have gained 
over certain forms of disease has been as surprising to others 
as it has been gratifying to themselves. Beyond question the 
righting of disordered functions and the suppression of pain 
have been frequently attained, and this fact makes it easy 
to see why so great a following has been drawn to a belief 
in the unlimited possibilities of mental power. 



HYGIENE OF THE NEKVOUS SYSTEM 341 

Nevertheless certain dangers are always involved in tne 
attempt to overcome disease by resolutely forgetting it and 
denying its existence. The feeling of pain may at times be 
banished by believing that it does not exist, but this condition 
may be quite as undesirable as self-inflicted blindness or deaf- 
ness. While relief from pain may frequently favor recovery 
by promoting rest and nutrition, it may at other times sim- 
ply mean the loss of warnings which deserve to be heard. 
Where there is grave organic disease, such as cancer, this 
may move on to a fatal issue even while the deluded sub- 
ject consistently ignores or seeks to ignore its existence. It 
is not wise to try to annul the effects of a disease in con- 
sciousness when these , effects as well as their cause can be 
removed by rational medical treatment. Hypnotism may 
relieve a toothache, but it is not claimed that it will mend 
a decaying tooth. The dentist's fillfaig, which does both, is 
the type of medical as contrasted with psychical methods in 
dealing with acute disease. Especially foolish is it to ignore 
or deny the actual presence of infectious or contagious dis- 
ease, for here delay menaces not only the patient but those 
about him. The consequences of this folly, when confined 
to its deluded victim, may end in virtual suicide ; when they 
extend to others, they may fall little short o manslaughter. 



CHAPTER XIX 

THE HYGIENE OF FEEDING 

The present chapter deals with certain hygienic considera- 
tions connected with the taking of food into the body its 
preparation, its cooking, its quantity, the frequency of our 
meals, and the adjustment of our habits of feeding to the 
other work of life. 1 

Mankind as a whole was probably never better fed than 
it is at present. The opening up of the New World with 
its vast fields of corn and wheat and its enormous pastures; 
the introduction of improved methods of agriculture, agri- 
cultural machinery, and education in agriculture; and espe- 
cially the improvements in transportation facilities and in 
arts of food preserving (such as refrigeration and canning), 
all these have immensely increased the available food sup- 
ply of the world and made famine and starvation much 
more rare than formerly. It is now only in inaccessible 
places, such as the central parts of India, that great famines 
still occur. 

And yet in the midst of abundance it is still true that 
many men and women are poorly nourished, for it is the 
absorption of food by the blood and not merely the eating 
of meals which supplies the needs of the tissues. Hence the 
problem of alimentation in its widest sense involves not only 
the growing of food on farms or in gardens, and the preserva- 
tion of this food so that it may be delivered in proper form 
to the consumer, but also the eating of it in such forms and 

1 Many practical points connected with alimentation have already been 
considered in Part I (see chapters on digestion and nutrition). 

342 



THE HYGIENE OF FEEDING 343 

quantities and at such times as will insure its final utilization, 
after processes of digestion, for the needs of the body. 

1. Appetite as a guide in feeding. Nature herself has pro- 
vided us with guides in the choice of food, and these guides 
are the sensations of hunger and thirst and what we sum 
up in general under the term " appetite." So long as these 
remain normal and unperverted, they are to be largely 
trusted; and, like all physiological functions, they are kept 
normal and unperverted, in the first place, by attention to 
the general health of the entire body. Appetite is apt to fail 
or become untrustworthy in the case of men or women who 
are suffering from lack of muscular activity or from mental 
worry. The care of the appetite is rarely a matter of direct 
attention to the appetite itself, but only of maintaining 
bodily conditions in which it acts normally. Consequently 
the basic principle in securing proper nutrition is attention 
to the general health. A patient suffering from indigestion 
once consulted a wise old doctor and began recounting the 
foods that agreed or disagreed with him, together with his 
innumerable symptoms, until the doctor interrupted him by 
saying, " The first thing you must do is to forget that you 
have a stomach." The present chapter is not written for 
people like this patient, or for invalids, or for others suffer- 
ing from indigestion in any one of its thousand forms. It is 
written for those who can and will, first of all, take the 
needful muscular exercise and the needful rest; who will 
pay proper attention to clothing and bathing, to the heating 
and ventilation of the home, to the avoidance of dampness 
and other unfavorable conditions ; who will not abuse them- 
selves by stimulants and narcotics. Those who prefer not 
to belong to this class, or who cannot do so because of some 
constitutional disease, must seek and depend upon medical 
advice as regards their habits of feeding. 

At the same time, to insure proper digestion and nutri- 
tion more is required than attention to general hygiene. 



344 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

What additional precautions are advisable in the taking of 
food by persons leading an otherwise healthy life ? It is 
in answer to this question that we shall attempt to give 
some suggestions. 

2. Good cooking an aid in nutrition. It has already been 
pointed out that digestion begins with the preparation of 
the food by cooking, which serves three purposes: 

1. It destroys parasites and disease germs. The impor- 
tance of this will be shown and emphasized elsewhere 
(Chap. XXXIV). 

2. It renders the food more appetizing (see p. 115). 

3. It makes some foods more digestible by making them 
accessible to the action of the digestive juices ; thus the con- 
nective tissue of animal foods, when heated in the presence 
of water, swells and is more easily acted on by the gastric 
juice, so that tough meat in this way is often made tender 
by boiling. The cellulose walls of the vegetable foods, on the 
other hand, are softened by cooking, and the starch granules 
are swollen and their envelopes burst (see p. 97). 

At the same time it is possible to render food less diges- 
tible by improper cooking. A piece of meat may " have the 
life cooked out of it," and egg albumen, which in the raw 
state mixes rather easily with the gastric juice, may some- 
times be boiled to a leathery consistency which renders the 
action of the digestive juices a slow process. 

3. Chewing of food an aid to digestion. We have seen that 
the word " digestion " is derived from the Latin words dis 
and gero, " to tear apart," or separate, and our studies of 
physiology have shown how the division of the food into 
very small masses by mastication facilitates access of diges- 
tive juices and so secures reasonable rapidity of solution and 
absorption. Proper attention to the teeth therefore becomes 
an important factor in the hygiene of alimentation. The 
structure and care of the teeth will be described in 
Chapter XXIII. 



THE HYGIENE OF FEEDING 345 

Another and probably equally important reason why food 
should be well chewed before swallowing is the prolongation 
thereby secured of its stay in the mouth, where it stimulates 
the afferent nerves of taste and so evokes the "psychic" secre- 
tion of the gastric juice. Food quickly swallowed does not 
afford as efficient a stimulus to gastric secretion as that which 
stays longer in the mouth. The refinement of much of our 
modern food may lessen the necessity for its subdivision by 
mastication, but not the necessity for this stimulation of gastric 
secretion. Starchy foods also receive a larger admixture of 
saliva when well chewed, and this facilitates the gastric diges- 
tion of starch. It is true that the " quick lunch " thrives in 
busy places, but no one considers it hygienic. 

4. Feeding in relation to gastric digestion. In order that 
gastric digestion may be efficient it is of course necessary 
that gastric juice shall be secreted in proper amount, and 
we have learned that the first step toward this secretion 
consists in the agreeable sensations connected with the 
satisfaction of appetite. Consequently it is one of the first 
hygienic requisites of gastric digestion that the food shall 
be appetizing and that the condition of the body and, 
especially, of the digestive system shall be such that the 
food shall be eaten with relish. This is not the same thing 
as saying that food which is appetizing will be digested ; 
it merely means that food is more digestible for being appe- 
tizing, and that when it is not enjoyed, its stay in the 
stomach is apt to be unduly prolonged. For this and other 
reasons the appetite should not be impaired by eating candy 
or by visiting the pantry between meals for something to 
eat ; on the other hand, a good appetite should be encour- 
aged by healthy living, by proper preparation of the food, 
and even, as far as possible, by agreeable table appoint- 
ments. There was wisdom as well as pleasure in the old 
custom of having a jester at the dinner table, and there is 
reason in the saying, " Laugh and grow fat." 



346 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

5. Excessive quantity of food ; overfeeding. It is further- 
more important that the amount of food eaten at one time 
be not excessive and that the stomach under no circum- 
stances be unduly distended. A large proportion of those 
cases of dyspepsia which have their origin partly or entirely 
in the conditions of feeding are due to overeating, which 
may take various forms. Too large a proportion of the daily 
food may be taken at one meal, usually dinner ; or too many 
meals may be taken three should suffice; or each of the 
three may be full-sized meals a very undesirable custom 
among those engaged in sedentary pursuits. We have seen 
that the one condition of life which calls for heavy feeding 
is that of muscular activity, whether in the performance of 
external work or for the production of heat in cold weather; 
a person who is engaged in any occupation which involves 
large amounts of muscular work doubtless should have 
three full meals daily ; with others the habit is attended 
with considerable risk. 

Gluttony has always been a vice of the idle and luxu- 
rious. As the world has grown wiser it has become less 
common, because a larger intelligence makes it plain that 
gluttony defeats its own ends and that the secret of 
the greatest pleasure in eating, as in everything, lies in 
temperance, not in excess. 

Many persons, however, without any desire or even any 
thought of gluttony, regularly overeat. These are usually 
healthy persons leading sedentary lives, " blessed," as they 
say, " with a good appetite," and because of quiet or even 
indolent disposition giving but small heed to muscular ac- 
tivity. As the years go by, such persons are apt to grow 
fat and by and by to find themselves suffering from a weak 
heart, or shortness of breath, or something worse, seldom 
realizing, until it is too late, that overeating is the principal 
cause of their undoing. If sufficient manual labor or other 
exercise of the skeletal muscles is practiced, trouble from 



THE HYGIENE OF FEEDING 347 

overeating rarely comes. It is the sedentary, inactive, and 
indolent who suffer most from this source; for them a good 
appetite often proves to be a curse rather than a blessing, 
and a poor appetite, by preventing overeating, has often 
been a blessing, though a blessing in disguise. 

6. Fried foods. Caution is required in the use of fried 
foods. When a layer of fat varnishes over a particle of 
food the digestive juices do not readily penetrate the mass, 
and digestion is to that extent impaired. This is not of 
so much importance in intestinal digestion, since in that 
portion of the alimentary canal the layer of fat is itself 
digested and removed; the stomach, on the other hand, 
does not digest fat, and we can easily see how, because of 
its interference with the first processes of digestion in this 
organ, the use of too much fried food is unwise. 

Moreover, in frying, care should be taken to have the 
temperature of the fat high enough to coagulate promptly 
the surface layers of the food, thus preventing the pene- 
tration of the fat into the food, which, however, should 
not be served swimming in fat, but as dry as possible. 
The frying pan is still used far too extensively in some 
parts of America. Most of our foods should be roasted, 
broiled, boiled, or baked, rather than fried. 

7. Perspiration in relation to the hygiene of feeding. The 
secretion of gastric juice is seriously impaired by excessive 
perspiration, especially when the loss to the system is not 
made good by drinking sufficient amounts of water. This 
is probably true of the secretion of all of the digestive 
juices, but it is especially important in the case of the 
gastric digestion, upon the proper performance of which the 
subsequent work of intestinal digestion so largely depends. 
Therefore, in general, smaller meals should be eaten in hot 
weather, we have seen that we need less food at that 
time, and heavy meals should not be taken immediately 
after vigorous exercise involving profuse perspiration. Indeed, 



348 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

it is a general rule that excessive loss of water by perspiration 
should be made good, as far as possible, by drinking water 
more freely. 

8. Digestion and bodily fatigue. Digestion, like all other 
functions of the body, involves to a very considerable extent 
the intervention of the nervous system, and we may repeat 
here the advice already given (p. 332), not to go tired to 
the digestion of a heavy meal. It is one of the objections, 
probably the chief objection, to evening dinners that they so 
frequently follow immediately upon a hard day's work, when 
the nervous system is in a poor condition for its share in 
digestive work. A rest of half an hour before dinner is, 
however, generally all that is needed, and usually prevents 
the mental heaviness which sd often follows a full meal. 

9. Mental work after meals. An exaggerated importance 
has probably been given at times to the danger of mental 
work after meals. There is no proof whatever that the 
demand of the brain for greater blood supply will seriously 
interfere with that to the digestive organs. While it is true 
that indigestion often affects people who go straight from 
their meals to hard mental work, it is also true that these 
are usually people who take insufficient muscular exercise, 
rest, and sleep. The relation of the circulation in the brain 
to that in the digestive organs is too imperfectly under- 
stood to justify some of the glib but shallow utterances fre- 
quently met with on this subject, especially when the state- 
ments in question are not clearly supported by experience 
(see p. 157). 

10. Muscular activity after meals. Vigorous muscular 
activity immediately after meals is quite another matter. 
Here we know that blood is taken away from the digestive 
organs and sent through the muscles and skin ; this fact 
suggests caution, and experience amply confirms the need of 
the caution thus suggested. Even here it is vigorous exercise, 
and especially after "heavy meals, that is to be avoided. 



THE HYGIENE OF FEEDING 349 

11. The use of water as a drink. Many people, and espe- 
cially many women, drink too little water. Water is con- 
stantly being lost through the lungs, skin, or kidneys, and 
this loss is only partially made good by the oxidation of the 
hydrogen of the proteins and fats. 1 No rules as to the 
amount can be given, since it varies so much with tempera- 
ture and the amount of muscular activity; but the habit of 
drinking no water between meals and but little at the table, 
in spite of popular opinion on the subject, is open to grave 
objections. We have already shown that the abstraction of 
undue amounts of water by perspiration may seriously inter- 
fere with the secretion of the gastric juice, and there is every 
reason to believe that a deficiency in the supply of water to 
the blood similarly interferes with the secretion of the other 
digestive juices and so, by impairing intestinal digestion, 
favors constipation. 

Much emphasis has been laid upon the danger of drink- 
ing water with meals. The reasons given that water un- 
duly dilutes the gastric juice or takes the place of a normal 
secretion of saliva are questionable. As a matter of fact, 
the water thus taken is soon passed on into the intestine 
and absorbed. It is true, however, that the use of too much 
liquid with a meal is apt to lead to insufficient mastication 
because it makes it easier to swallow the food ; and from 
this point of view caution is advisable. It is certainly also 
true that much drinking with meals tends to overeating, by 
facilitating rapid eating; and it may be that this is one 
reason why fat people are usually great drinkers. They 
" wash down " too much food. 

A further point in the hygiene of gastric and intestinal 
digestion is the avoidance of those inflammatory conditions 
of the bowels which follow exposure to cold. This subject 

1 The water excreted from the body comes partly from the water drunk, 
but also partly from that formed by the union of the hydrogen of the food 
with oxygen. 



350 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

will be dealt with in Chapter XXI. The student will also 
recall what has been said in Chapter XVII with regard to 
the importance of general muscular exercise and, especially, 
of exercises involving the use of abdominal muscles. 

12. The value of indigestible material in food. The impor- 
tance of having a certain amount of indigestible material 
(mostly cellulose) in the food has long been emphasized in 
dietetics, and many people undoubtedly find this a valuable 
aid in securing proper digestion of the food and, especially, 
hi avoiding constipation. The exact mode of action of these 
indigestible wastes is not clear. They unquestionably add 
a certain bulk to the contents of the large intestine, and this 
would aid in stimulating the intestinal movements. It has 
also been supposed that the contact of solid particles with 
the mucous membrane of the intestine acts as a stimulus to 
the intestinal movements, although this view lacks any clear 
experimental support. A third suggestion is that the solid 
indigestible waste " scours " the wall of the intestine clean 
of tenacious material, such as mucus and bile pigments, just 
as a floor may be more effectively cleaned by sprinkling wet 
sawdust over it before sweeping. 

Whatever the mode of action, there can be little doubt 
that we have in fruit, oatmeal, graham bread, lettuce salad, 
and many fresh vegetables, foods whose indigestible residue 
often contributes to more effective digestion, and the regular 
inclusion of such " coarse " foods in the diet, especially hi 
winter, is advisable. 

13. The individual must study his own needs. In thus 
sketching the broad outline of hygienic feeding, little or no 
attention has been given to what we should or should not 
eat; and this has been done intentionally in order to dis- 
courage the reader from looking at the subject from this 
popular but too often misleading point of view. It may 
be true that " what is one man's meat is sometimes another 
man's poison," but only in a very limited sense. Each 



THE HYGIENE OF FEEDING 351 

individual in the course of his experience will learn that 
there are some things he cannot eat with impunity and others 
that he had better not eat. He will find himself growing fat 
or growing thin. He will find his powers of digestion good or 
bad. He will experience comfort or discomfort after eating, 
and if he is wise he will govern himself accordingly. But 
it must be remembered that man enjoys a wide latitude in 
the choice of his food. The vast majority of people, if they 
will but lead otherwise hygienic lives, can eat almost any- 
thing; and the inability to digest something which we have 
always eaten or which others eat with impunity should lead 
not so much to its exclusion from the diet as to an inquiry 
whether the trouble does not have its origin in the general 
unhygienic conduct of life. Those who treat such conditions 
by constructing a table of the things they can eat and 
another of those they cannot eat, and confine their diet to 
the former, usually find that as life advances the size of the 
latter table increases at the expense of the former. It is 
the fallacy of dealing superficially with the symptom instead 
of the disease the same fallacy which leads to the treatment 
of constipation with cathartics and bronchial coughs with 
" cough medicines." 



CHAPTER XX 
POOD ACCESSOEIES, DKUGS, ALCOHOL, AND TOBACCO 

1. Food accessories and drugs. Through the alimentary 
and respiratory tracts there are received into the blood not 
only substances such as proteins, gelatin, fats, carbohydrates, 
salts, and water, which we have described as supplying the 
material for power and for growth and repair, but also other 
substances capable of -modifying in one way or another the 
course of events within the body. The flavors which con- 
tribute to the enjoyment of foods play an important r61e in 
the secretion of the gastric juice, and yet the substances 
which cause these flavors are negligible as sources of power. 
Salt belongs under the same head, for we use in cooking 
more salt than is needed to make good the daily loss from 
the body, and we do this to develop an agreeable flavor in 
our food. Substances of this kind are spoken of as food 
accessories, and among them must be included coffee and tea, 
for their effect is not chiefly a matter of nutrition ; certain 
constituents of tea and coffee absorbed into the blood affect 
the nervous system, and it is largely for this reason that we 
use them. 

We may pass in this way from the necessary food acces- 
sories through those, like coffee and tea, which, while not 
essential, may still be regarded as part of the food of a large 
portion of mankind, to the great number of chemical com- 
pounds known as drugs, which also act by changing the 
course of events within the body ; and it is difficult to draw 
any sharp line of distinction between those which occasionally 
serve as medicine or " stimulants " and those of which daily 
use is made as food accessories. 

352 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DKUGS 353 

Animals as a rule take substances into their bodies only 
to satisfy hunger or thirst or appetite ; man alone takes, in 
addition to his nutriment, food accessories and drugs for 
the sake of then: special effect upon the nervous system or 
other organs. Many of the numerous food accessories which 
human ingenuity has discovered or devised are harmless 
enough in the form used, but others contain substances 
which are capable of poisoning the body. It is an important 
part of the study of personal hygiene to learn of what 
these substances consist, what is their action on the human 
organism, and wherein lie their special dangers. 

2. The drug habit. It is a lamentable fact that large 
amounts of drugs are swallowed by men and women apart 
from any medical need which compels their use. In a sub- 
sequent chapter we shall show reasons for avoiding an undue 
dependence upon drugs as a remedy for various minor ills. 
Bad as this practice is, with its tendency to rely upon the 
uncertain action of a drug instead of taking proper hygienic 
care of the body, it is far worse to make habitual use of 
drugs for their special effects upon the healthy body, for 
the habit is one which is only too easily cultivated. There 
is no reason why a healthy human being, living a normal 
life amid healthful surroundings, should need to use drugs 
habitually, and a little consideration will show that the 
practice is dangerous. 

3. Dangers of the drug habit. When we eat meat or vege- 
tables, or when we breathe air, we take into the body 
materials needed for normal living. These things have 
always formed part of the food of the race and, unless 
wrongly taken, do good and not harm. When, on the other 
hand, we take a drug, such as chloroform, or cocaine, or 
opium, or alcohol, or coffee, or tea, we take something which 
is foreign to the body, in so far as it has not been a regular 
constituent of animal food in the past. It is not needed, as 
protein and salt and water are needed; there is no special 



354 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

preparation for its reception ; and while it may do good, 
there is danger that it may do harm. 

In the second place, the exact action of many drugs is 
only imperfectly understood. In an emergency the physi- 
cian uses them temporarily, for some effect which he desires 
to produce, thus tiding over a difficulty. He uses the drug 
only a few times, at most, and is consequently not greatly 
concerned about unfavorable attendant effects ; it accom- 
plishes some needed purpose, and if it does any harm, the 
organism may be trusted to recover from it. It is very dif- 
ferent, however, with the habitual use of any drug. The very 
fact that it gives some new direction to the events taking 
place within the body means that abnormal conditions of life 
are being maintained, and we have already learned that 
abnormal conditions of life are apt to be unhygienic. 

Again, the use of drugs is only too apt to be substituted 
for the hygienic conduct of life. We may, for example, 
take drugs to accomplish something which the healthy body 
should accomplish for itself without outside help. When 
one drinks a cup of black coffee to facilitate mental work 
which his fatigued condition would not otherwise allow 
him to do, he is trying to get from a drug the power which 
he could and probably should secure by normal sleep. The 
coffee acts like a whip to a tired horse ; the same work 
is done as might have been done had the horse been allowed 
a little rest, but the horse is not as well off when he does 
the work under the lash as when he does it in a properly 
rested condition. Similarly, persons suffering from sleepless- 
ness often take drugs used to produce sleep (hypnotics), 
and, superficially at least, the sleep thus secured resembles 
normal sleep; but experience shows that few if any hypnotics 
can be used for any length of time without bad effects. 
Here again a drug is being depended upon to do what the 
normal body should do for itself. Pepsin tablets may be 
taken to aid digestion, and thereby an attack of indigestion 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DRUGS 355 

may sometimes be prevented or relieved; but a healthy 
stomach should furnish its own pepsin, and the fact that it 
does not do so is a sure warning that something is wrong 
in the conduct of life. It is irrational to neglect the duty 
of attending to the cause of the ailment, and it is foolish to 
substitute temporary relief for permanent cure. Perhaps if 
the drug did all that the proper care of the body does, and 
did no more, no serious objection could be made to its use ; 
but there. is probably no drug of which this is true, and for 
this reason it is foolish and rash to try to substitute the use 
of drugs for the hygienic conduct of life. 

Lastly, if the drugs do not accomplish in the long run 
what should be done by the hygienic conduct of life, their 
extensive use becomes all the more dangerous in view of 
the unquestioned fact that we are apt thereby to become 
their slaves. Every man is the slave, broadly speaking, of 
the habits he forms, and it is only a question as to whether 
he will be the willing slave of good habits or the abject 
slave of bad habits. The man who leads a hygienic life is 
the slave of muscular activity, of correct feeding, of proper 
clothing, of rest, etc. ; that is to say, these things become 
necessary to his life ; he cannot get along without them. 
If for these proper agents of health he persistently sub- 
stitutes some drug, whether it be alcohol, or tobacco, or 
coffee, or tea, or chocolate, or opium, the habit of using 
the drug is substituted for that of maintaining normal 
conditions. But since drugs cannot entirely take the place 
of such conditions, the constitution goes from bad to worse, 
and increasing dependence must be placed upon the drug. 
It is a safe rule that whenever we are uncomfortable or 
unhappy without the use of a certain drug we should cease 
using it until, with the help of hygienic living, we can get 
along without it. 

There are people who are slaves of coffee, of tea, of 
chocolate, of patent medicines, of candy, and of soda water 



356 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

just as truly as there are slaves of tobacco, or of alcohol, 
or of opium. It is worse to be the slave of alcohol than of 
coffee, because the evil consequences of alcohol are greater 
than those produced by the corresponding use of coffee ; 
but it is by the same process in both cases that the man 
or woman becomes a slave to the drug, and that process is 
the formation of bad habits. 

With these practical considerations about the use of drugs 
by which term it will be seen that we mean not simply 
the medicines purchased from the apothecary but all those 
substances which are taken into the body in order to give 
some new or abnormal direction to the course of events in 
the organism we may pass on to the discussion of those 
in common use. 

4. Tea and coffee. Different as are these drinks in taste 
and appearance, their most important physiological effects 
are due essentially to the same substances ; namely, caffeine 
(or theine) and tannic acid (or tannin). Caffeine is a very 
powerful stimulant, especially of the nervous system and 
also of the heart, although probably to a lesser degree ; 
tannin, on the other hand, is a bitter, astringent substance, 
which may considerably hinder digestion and directly injure 
the mucous membrane of the stomach. Tea contains about 
twice as much tannin as an equal weight of coffee, but as 
coffee is frequently made much stronger than tea, the actual 
amount per cup may often be more nearly equal in the two 
drinks than these figures indicate. The amount of tannin 
dissolved in tea varies greatly with the method of prepara- 
tion, and largely for this reason tea should not be boiled 
nor allowed to steep too long. The proper method of making 
tea is to pour over the dry leaves water which has been 
brought just to the boiling point and then to allow the 
infusion to stand, without further heating, for not more 
than a few minutes. 

Both tea and coffee seem to have a slightly retarding 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DRUGS 35T 

influence upon gastric digestion. In healthy people this 
is of little consequence, but when the digestive powers are 
in any way impaired, the use of these beverages may be 
inadvisable. The more important effect, however, of both 
tea and coffee is in their stimulating action on the nervous 
system. No satisfactory explanation has yet been given of 
the fact that some people can use tea and not coffee, while 
with others the reverse is true. It is probably safe to say 
that when used in moderation, tea and coffee are usually 
harmless to those leading an otherwise hygienic life. They 
should be used sparingly by nervous people and by those in 
whom digestion is feeble and slow (Hutchinson). Even by 
the perfectly healthy they should not be used to excess, nor 
should the habit be acquired of using them as the whip to 
the tired horse. Drinking strong coffee in order to keep awake 
for evening study is objectionable, and the substitution of 
afternoon tea for a little rest or sleep is also unwise. 

5. Cocoa is made from the seeds of trees of the genus 
Theobroma, and chocolate is prepared from cocoa. In the 
solid form both are highly nutritious, as shown by the 
following average results of analyses: 

PROTEIN FAT CARBOHYDRATE 

Cocoa l 21.6% 28.9% 37.7% 

Chocolate 12.9% 48.7% 30.3% 

When used as a beverage, however, the nutriment derived 
from them is small. In addition, cocoa and chocolate both 
contain theobromine, a substance closely related chemically to 
caffeine and possessing much the same stimulating proper- 
ties. In general, the same hygienic considerations which 
apply to the use of tea and coffee should guide us also in 
the use of chocolate and cocoa. 

6. Soda water and similar beverages. Of these little need 
be said. In general, they are harmless enough, especially to 
those enjoying perfect digestion. The large amount of sugar 



358 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

which they contain is apt to make matters worse in many 
cases of dyspepsia; by taking them frequently between 
meals the appetite for wholesome food is impaired, and 
excessive indulgence in them under any circumstances is 
needless and foolish. 

7. Alcoholic beverages. In the case of an alcoholic drink 
we have to deal with something which, like tea and coffee 
and cocoa and " temperance drinks," is used as a beverage, 
and to that extent must be classed in the same group. 
Alcoholic drinks are, however, taken as stimulants and so 
resemble tea and coffee and cocoa, but they differ from all 
of these in their action upon the body. Moreover, their 
abuse gives rise not only to degraded moral and social 
conditions, but is also attended with bad hygienic effects. 
Everyone should be informed of then* nature and of the 
dangers attending then* use. 

The common alcoholic beverages consist of (1) malt 
liquors, including beer and ale ; (2) wines, such as hock, 
claret, Burgundy, sherry, and champagne ; (3) distilled 
liquors, including brandy, whisky, rum, and gin ; and 
(4) liqueurs and cordials. These groups are distinguished 
from one another largely by the method of preparation and 
by the amount of alcohol they contain. Malt liquors are 
fermented liquors which contain from three to eight per cent 
of alcohol; wines are also fermented liquors, but contain 
from seven to twenty per cent of alcohol; distilled liquors, 
on the other hand, are first fermented and then concen- 
trated by distillation, and contain from thirty to sixty-five 
per cent of alcohol. In all these the most important con- 
stituent, so far as their physiological action upon the body 
is concerned, is the chemical compound known as ethyl 
alcohol (C 2 H 6 or C 2 H 5 . OH). 

8. Fermentation. The ethyl alcohol in each of these bev- 
erages is produced by the action of yeast on sugar, and 
this action is known as alcoholic fermentation. Yeast is a 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DRUGS 359 

unicellular plant, and when a small amount of it is added 
to a solution of grape sugar or fruit sugar, it breaks up these 
substances, chiefly into alcohol and carbon dioxide gas. The 
latter passes off, while the alcohol remains behind in the 
solution. In addition to these chief products of fermenta- 
tion there are always formed other products in small quan- 
tities, and to these, in part, the flavor of the fermented 
mixture is due. Different varieties of yeast produce dif- 
ferent kinds of fermentation. Thus one variety (domesti- 
cated yeast) is used in making beer, and another (wild 
yeast) in making wine. The amount of alcohol produced 
differs with the yeast used, as do 
also the character and quantity of 
the secondary products. The growth 
of yeast, like that of all living fer- 
ments, is checked by the accumu- 
lation of the products of its own 
activity. Consequently when the al- 
cohol produced reaches a certain per- 
centage (usually less than ten per FIG. 117. Yeast cells 
cent) the fermentation ceases. Alco- 
holic drinks which contain higher percentages of alcohol are 
prepared by special processes, which will be described later. 
9. Malt liquors. Malt consists of sprouted grains (chiefly 
barley). The grains contain a large amount of starch which 
during the process of germination is converted into sugar 
by diastase, an enzyme produced by the living cells of the 
plant the action of diastase being essentially similar to 
that of the ptyalin of the saliva. The germinating plant 
thus comes to contain considerable quantities of sugar, to- 
gether with salts, proteins, and other substances. The 
watery extract of malt is known as wort, and it is this 
which, after being boiled with hops, is acted upon by the 
yeast. The liquid thus produced from wort by fermentation 
is known as ale, beer, stout, porter, etc., according to the 




360 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

conditions under which the fermentation takes place and 
the character of the malt and the yeast employed. German 
beers contain from three to four per cent of alcohol; ale 
contains from four to six per cent.' 

10. Wines. Wine is produced by the fermentation of the 
juice obtained by crushing grapes, and the yeast comes from 
the "bloom" on the skin of the grapes. The juice, or "must," 
thus extracted is allowed to undergo fermentation, and the 
fermented liquid is wine. Most wines, however, are sub- 
jected to subsequent treatment. Some are allowed to ripen 
in wooden casks, during which process there take place 
chemical changes which give to each wine its peculiar flavor. 
In other cases the wine is "fortified" by the direct addition 
of alcohol. Wines differ from one another according to the 
variety of the grape used in making the must, according to 
the variety of yeast used for fermentation, and according to 
other circumstances. 

11. Distilled liquors and spirits. This group of alcoholic 
beverages contains the highest percentage of alcohol, and 
includes whisky, brandy, rum, and gin. In the making of 
all of these the essential procedure is the same ; namely, 
first to produce fermentation in some sugary liquid and 
afterwards to distill from the products of this fermentation 
its alcohol and some other volatile constituents. Whisky is 
made by distilling fermented corn or rye ; brandy may be 
spoken of as distilled wine; rum is distilled from fermented 
molasses, and gin from a fermented mixture of rye and 
malt juniper berries and other substances being added to 
the distilled product. In general, distilled liquors contain 
from thirty to sixty per cent of alcohol. 

With these differences of preparation, alcoholic beverages 
differ greatly among themselves, independently of the quan- 
tity of alcohol they contain, and some of their special effects 
are due to other constituents. The chief danger of most of 



FOOD ACCESSOKIES AND DEUGS 361 

them, however, lies in the action of the ethyl alcohol upon 
the system, and we shall confine our discussion to the effects 
of this substance. The problem is by no means a simple 
one, because these beverages are used in so many different 
ways by different people. Moreover, the results of their use 
differ according to the constitution of the person using them 
and according to his other habits of life. Sweeping assertions 
are too frequently made, in good faith, only to be found false 
by experience in special cases, and in this way harm is done 
where good was intended. For example, it is often asserted 
that alcohol used in any amount whatever is a poison to the 
healthy organism. If this be so, it is the only known drug 
of which this is true. Dr. John J. Abel, from whom we 
shall extensively quote, says on this subject: "All poisons 
are capable of being taken without demonstrable injury in 
a certain quantity, which is for each of them a special 
though sometimes very minute fraction of their toxic or 
lethal dose. There is no substance which is always and 
everywhere a poison." Alcohol is a drug and, like many 
drugs, may be and frequently is used in poisonous doses, 
but it must not be supposed that its real danger lies 
in the fact that it always exerts a poisonous effect on 
the body. 

12. The physiological action of alcohol. As to the imme- 
diate action of alcohol on the body we may say that it 
belongs in the same general* class of drugs as the ether and 
chloroform used for anesthesia; in other words, its general 
action is that of a hypnotic or anesthetic. To quote again 
from Dr. Abel: 

An exhilarating action is an inherent property of these substances 
in certain doses. Occasionally the physician meets with persons who 
have formed the habit of inhaling chloroform from the palm of the 
hand or from a lightly saturated handkerchief. The inhalation is 
usually carried on for a short time only, and its object is to induce a 
pleasant form of mental stimulation. Only occasionally is the inhalation 
of chloroform carried on until helpless intoxication occurs. 



362 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

And again: 

That alcohol can produce as profound anesthesia as any of the sub- 
stances named is also well known. In the days before anesthesia it was 
the custom of bone setters to ply their patients with alcohol in order to 
facilitate the reduction of difficult dislocations. . . . The anesthesia pro- 
duced by alcohol is, however, not commendable, since it cannot safely 
be induced in a short time and is too prolonged. The quantity needed 
for surgical anesthesia would in many cases lead to a fatal result. 

13. Is alcohol a stimulant? The view of the action of 
alcohol just stated is, of course, borne out by the condition 
of a thoroughly intoxicated person ; but it is opposed to the 
very general idea that alcohol, except in large doses, is to be 
regarded as a stimulant. Whether we shall call it a " stimu- 
lant" or not depends upon how we use that term. Some of 
the exhilarating effects of alcoholic drinks might lead us to 
speak of it in this way. People who have drunk wine often 
become more talkative, so that the first effects of intoxica- 
tion often resemble those of stimulation. There is, however, 
strong reason for thinking that this action is only super- 
ficially, and not fundamentally, a case of stimulation, as we 
shall now see. 

In studying the physiology of the nervous system we 
found that processes of inhibition are as important in its 
operation as are those of excitation; and in mental opera- 
tions the course of our thinking is constantly checked or 
inhibited by the knowledge of 'facts opposed to the con- 
clusions towards which we are tending. Probably it is this 
essential feature of all accurate and valuable mental work 
which is the first to be paralyzed by alcohol. The man who 
takes alcohol becomes fluent not because he is stimulated 
but because of the removal of checks whose presence may 
make him talk less fluently, but which at the same time 
make him speak more accurately. He may become witty, 
and may say some brilliant things, but he will almost 
always do and say some very erratic things. 



FOOD ACCESSOEIES AND DRUGS 363 

The following (by Dr. Abel) appears to be a sound state- 
ment of our present knowledge of this important subject: 

Alcohol is not found by psychologists to increase the quantity or 
vigor of mental operations ; in fact, it clearly tends to lessen the power of 
clear and consecutive reasoning. In many respects its action on the higher 
functions of the mind resembles that of fatigue of the brain, though with 
this action is associated a tendency to greater motor energy and ease. 

In speaking of a certain type of individual James says : " It is the 
absence of scruples, of consequences, of considerations, the extraordinary 
simplification of each moment's outlook, that gives to the explosive in- 
dividual such motor energy and ease." This description aptly applies 
to the individual who is under the influence of a " moderate " quantity 
of alcohol. It tends to turn the inhibitive type of mind into the " hair- 
trigger ^ type. We have said that the speech and the bearing of men, 
the play of their features, all bear witness to the action of alcohol on 
the brain ; that it removes restraints, blunts too acute sensibilities, dis- 
pels sensations of fatigue, causes a certain type of ideas and mental 
images to follow each other with greater rapidity, and gives a " cerebral 
sense of richness." 

Larger quantities, such as are for most individuals represented by 
one or two bottles of wine (ten per cent of alcohol), may, according to 
the resistance and type of individual in question, cause a lack of con- 
trol of the emotions ; noticeably affect the power of attention, of clear 
judgment and reason ; and decidedly lower the acuteness of the several 
senses. In many individuals such quantities will develop so marked an 
anesthetic action that all phenomena of intoxication may be seen to 
follow each other in due sequence, finally to end in the sleep of 
drunkenness. 

There has been much discussion as to whether alcohol is in any 
sense a stimulant for the brain. We have seen that pharmacologists of 
high repute deny that it has this action, holding that alcohol is a seda- 
tive or narcotic substance which belongs to the same class as paralde- 
hyde and chloroform ; that its stimulating action is but fictitious ; and 
that even the earlier phenomena of its action are to be referred to a 
paralyzing action on cerebral (inhibitory) functions. This theory as- 
sumes an unequal action on cerebral functions in the order of time. 
Kraepelin, however, holds that this is a purely subjective analysis, and 
that in the early stages of its action alcohol truly stimulates the motor 
functions of the brain ; that a state of mental exhilaration, of " motor 
excitability," may coexist with undiminished power of perception and 
judgment. His psychological experiments on the action of alcohol, 
taken all in all, do not, however, entirely prove his position. 



364 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Some cases of apparent stimulation are really due to the 
fact that alcohol, when taken in the form of wines and dis- 
tilled liquors, sets up an irritation in the mucous membrane 
of the mouth, oesophagus, and stomach, which reflexly excites 
the heart to greater activity or for the time being reflexly 
stimulates the nervous system. Such stimulation is, however, 
transient and, as the alcohol is absorbed into the blood, gives 
way to depression and even stupor. 

It is neither possible nor necessary to state here in full 
the reasons which have led to what seems to the authors 
the erroneous view that alcohol in small doses is a stimu- 
lant and only in larger doses a depressant and hypnotic. 
Enough has been said to show that there are at least two 
opinions about the matter: that even if alcohol is at times 
a stimulant, it is an uncertain stimulant, and that its excita- 
tion is liable to give way at any time to depressing effects. 
A critical examination of the literature on the subject has 
failed to demonstrate to us a direct stimulating action of 
alcohol on any of the functions, such as the beat of the 
heart, respiration, digestion, etc. At times, especially in sick- 
ness, alcohol may be useful; but the evidence tends to the 
conclusion that where it exerts any physiological action 
on the healthy body at all, that action is usually depress- 
ing. This is notably true as to the beat of the heart, as to 
respiration, and as to the ability to do muscular work. 

We have dwelt at length upon this question in order to 
disabuse the student's mind of the idea that alcoholic drinks 
can be safely depended upon as an aid in the performance 
of work. Few causes are more effective in leading to the 
abuse of alcohol than the idea that when one finds difficulty 
in doing a thing it may be accomplished more easily by 
having recourse to beer or wine or whisky for their " stimu- 
lating" effect. In general, so far is this from being the 
truth that the person seeking such aid is really using a hyp- 
notic and depressant. Obviously he would be acting more 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DEUGS 365 

wisely to adopt other methods of accomplishing his end. 
Nor is this conclusion merely theoretical. Brain workers 
who wish to " keep a clear head " almost universally avoid 
alcoholic drinks, at least until work is over. 

14. Alcohol in muscular work. That the general effect of 
alcoholic drinks is to depress rather than stimulate the 
powers of the body is furthermore indicated by the results 
of experiments on men doing heavy work, as, for example, 
soldiers on forced marches. In the Ashanti campaign the 
effect of alcohol as compared with beef tea was tested. To 
quote from Sir Lauder Brunton: 

It was found that when a ration of rum was served out, the soldier 
at first marched more briskly, but after about three miles had been 
traversed the effect of it seemed to be worn off, and then he lagged 
more than before. If a second ration were given, its effect was less 
marked, and wore off sooner than that of the first. A ration of beef tea, 
however, seemed to have as great a stimulating power as one of rum, and 
not to be followed by any secondary depression. 

The results of these and other experiments lead us to 
the conclusion that alcohol cannot be depended upon to in- 
crease the capacity for hard muscular work and that in the 
great majority of cases it actually diminishes it. 

15. The dilation of cutaneous arteries by alcohol. One of 
the most important effects of alcoholic drinks is the dilation 
of the arteries of the skin, thus sending more warm blood 
to the surface. It is a common experience among persons 
not accustomed to alcoholic drinks that even a small amount 
" makes the face hot " and flushed, and the red face of the 
toper is proverbial. The result of this dilating effect is that 
the temperature of the skin rises and the individual feels 
warmer. Congested states of internal organs may thus be re- 
lieved, and this is probably one reason why men leading an 
exclusively sedentary life often use alcoholic drinks apparently 
to some advantage. But even these would do infinitely better 
to secure the same result by proper muscular activity. 



366 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Even if a temporary advantage appears to be gained 
in some cases or at some times, this has often to be 
paid for by bad secondary effects, such as impaired ca- 
pacity for good work some hours later; and in mental 
work of the highest kind, such as original writing or 
composition, the after effects of alcoholic drinks are some- 
times prolonged and easily detected by the subject of 
the experiment. 

16. Alcohol as a defense against exposure to cold. Because 
of this effect upon the cutaneous circulation alcoholic drinks 
are frequently used by men exposed to cold, with the mis- 
taken idea that the conditions within the body are thereby 
improved. The student has, however, learned (p. 193) that 
a feeling or sensation of warmth does not necessarily indicate 
greater heat production within the body; and he also knows 
that bringing the blood to the skin when the body is ex- 
posed to cold serves to increase the loss of heat. As a 
matter of fact the internal temperature often falls when 
alcohol is taken under these conditions. The story is told 
of some woodsmen who were overtaken by a severe snow- 
storm and had to spend the night away from camp ; they 
had with them a bottle of whisky, and, chilled to the bone, 
some imbibed freely, while others refused to drink. Those 
who drank soon felt comfortable and went to sleep in their 
improvised shelter ; those who did not drink felt very un- 
comfortable throughout the night and could get no sleep, 
but in the morning they were alive and able to struggle 
back to camp, while their companions who had used alco- 
holic drinks were found frozen to death. They had pur- 
chased relief from their unpleasant sensations of cold at the 
cost of lowering their body temperature below the safety 
point. This, if true, was, of course, an extreme case ; but 
it accords with the universal experience of arctic travelers 
and of lumbermen and hunters in northern woods, that the 
use of alcohol during exposure to cold, although contributing 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DRUGS 367 

greatly to one's comfort for the time being, is generally 
followed by undesirable or dangerous after effects. 

17. Alcohol as a food. There has been much discussion 
as to whether alcohol is or is not a food ; that is, whether 
its oxidation within the body may supply energy. This 
question must now be answered in the affirmative, although 
whether it can do more than supply heat to maintain the 
body temperature, that is, whether it can also supply the 
power for muscular work, as do fats and carbohydrates, we 
cannot in the present state of our knowledge positively say. 
In many cases of sickness the oxidation of alcohol is prob- 
ably a useful source of heat production, since it is absorbed 
quickly and without digestion, but the healthy man does 
not and should not use it in this way. The amounts which 
would be required to be of any considerable service as food 
are far beyond those in which it may be used with safety. 
In other words, in using alcohol for food one would be ob- 
taining heat at the cost of direct injury to many organs and 
also at the cost of impaired working power. Moreover, men 
do not use alcohol as a food ; they use it as a drug. So that 
while the action of alcohol as a food is of practical impor- 
tance to the physician, who must deal with the abnormal 
conditions of disease, its action as a food is not a matter of 
practical importance to healthy people. 

18. Pathological conditions due to the use of alcohol. 
When alcoholic beverages are taken in excessive amounts 
we have the sad and degrading spectacle of a " drunken 
spree." Whether or not the drinker at first appears bright 
or witty, sooner or later there is presented the pitiable pic- 
ture of complete loss of nervous coordination and control. 
The man becomes silly, or maudlin, or pugnacious, as the 
case may be, but always irrational; he staggers, stumbles, 
or falls ; and finally passes into a drunken stupor. In this 
event the victim of his own indulgence is said to be 
"dead" drunk, or "intoxicated," being as it were thoroughly 



368 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

poisoned. If such intoxication is frequently repeated, there 
is a complete breakdown of the nervous system ; the victim 
of alcoholic indulgence becomes a raving maniac and, with 
disordered vision, thinks he sees all about him snakes or 
foul vermin (delirium tr emeus). The silly or foolish stage 
of this poisoning sometimes provokes smiles or laughter in 
thoughtless observers, but none can witness the more serious 
consequences of repeated intoxication by alcoholic drinks 
without disgust and horror. 

Many steady drinkers, even though they have never been 
drunk in then* lives, are apt ultimately to acquire various 
diseased conditions of the body, into which we cannot enter 
in detail. The heart may be injured, or the arteries become 
diseased ; the repeated irritation of the stomach may produce 
chronic gastritis ; or the connective tissue of the liver and 
kidneys may increase, thus crowding upon the living cells 
and ultimately throwing a large part of them entirely out of 
use. While it must not be supposed that drinking alcohol is 
the sole cause of these troubles, for some or all of them 
may come from other causes, the frequency of their occur- 
rence in steady drinkers is suspiciously high, and this has 
led to the very strong conviction among medical men that 
alcohol plays a large role in producing them. 

19. Summary of the action of alcohol as a drug. In small 
doses alcohol may be completely oxidized within the body 
without exerting any pharmacological action. In the forms 
and amounts usually employed in alcoholic beverages it 
exerts, in general, a hypnotic or anesthetic action ; the result 
on the system as a whole depends on the amount take^i, 
and varies from the paralysis of inhibitory processes to thfe 
depression of all nervous functions, ending in drunken 
stupor. Continued excess may produce exaggerated forms 
of temporary insanity, among which delirium tremens may 
be mentioned. There is, moreover, good reason for believing 
that steady drinking is very frequently an important agent 



FOOD ACCESSOKIES AND DEUGS 369 

in preparing the way for many other diseases, and is hence 
a serious menace to health. 

20. The seat of the danger in alcoholic drink. The regular 
use of alcoholic beverages is dangerous for the same reason 
that the regular use of any drug is dangerous. We are too 
apt to rely upon the drug to do for us what we ought to 
accomplish only by the hygienic conduct of life ; the drug 
never satisfactorily does the work, and we go from bad to 
worse, and become its slave. But there is certainly greater 
danger in hypnotic drugs, like alcohol, than in true stimu- 
lants, like coffee, and cocoa, and tea.. We need to have 
ourselves well under control when we use any drug; the 
highest faculties of the mind must keep tight rein or we 
may lose control of ourselves. With hypnotic drugs to 
which class belong not only alcohol but ether, chloroform, 
opium, chloral, etc. there is special danger that these 
powers of control (inhibition) may be stealthily paralyzed 
before we know it. Of course thousands of people use 
alcohol in moderation and never become drunkards ; but 
thousands also, with no intention of using it to excess, do 
unconsciously let the reins drop, and before they know it 
the drug gets the better of them. Experience shows that 
it is with the hypnotic drugs that this most frequently 
happens. 

Again, if we make a habit of taking alcoholic drinks, we 
are specially exposed to temptation from our fellow men to 
go too far. For the most part, people take coffee and tea 
or do not take them, as they please ; no one urges them to 
use these drinks when they are disinclined to do so. To a 
less degree the same thing is true of tobacco, although here 
the force of fashion and example is stronger. But with 
alcoholic beverages the custom of " treating " makes the 
exercise of self-restraint more difficult than it would other- 
wise be, for here we are dealing with a drug which is 
capable of impairing self-control. Some one "treats" a friend 



370 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

to a drink ; the friend wishes to return the compliment and 
so they drink again; the person with deficient self-control 
and what little he has now lessened insists upon a third, 
and so on, perhaps to intoxication. This, of course, does 
not always happen ; thousands are strong and escape the 
danger, but thousands are weak or do not know better, and 
many a week's wages has gone in this way, leaving behind 
poverty and misery and impaired capacity before the close 
of Saturday night. 

21. Concluding remarks on the use of alcoholic beverages. 
In the foregoing pages we have stated the salient facts 
concerning the physiological action of alcohol and alcoholic 
drinks. It only remains to point out for the student the 
obvious conclusions to be drawn from them and from the 
long and, on the whole, very sad experience of the race with 
alcoholic drinks. The first is that except in sickness and 
under the advice of a physician, alcoholic drinks are wholly 
unnecessary and much more likely to prove harmful than 
beneficial. The second is that their frequent and especially 
their constant use is attended with the gravest danger to 
the user, no matter how strong or self-controlled he may be. 

It is true that history and romance and poetry contain 
many attractive allusions to wine and other alcoholic drinks, 
and it may also be true that such drinks, by loosening 
tongues and breaking down social, political, or other barriers 
(removing inhibitions), may tend towards conviviality and 
good-fellowship ; but it is no less true that the path of his- 
tory is strewn with human wreckage directly due to alcohol; 
that many a promising career has been drowned in wine ; 
and that indescribable misery follows in the trail of drunken- 
ness. The only absolutely safe attitude toward alcoholic 
drinks is that of total abstinence from their use as beverages. 

22. Opium, morphine, and the opium habit. The danger 
of the use of drugs as a regular habit of life is perhaps 
most painfully illustrated by what is known as the opium 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DRUGS 371 

habit. Among the most valuable remedies at the physician's 
disposal is opium or its active principle, morphine, which 
possesses remarkable power to produce insensibility to pain. 
It sometimes happens, however, that by incautiously using 
this drug for this purpose men and women become addicted 
to the habit. They finally cannot do without the drug, and 
its constant use causes an appalling moral and physical de- 
generation; so far indeed does this often go that the victim 
will commit crime in order to obtain the drug. It should 
be clearly understood that it is unsafe for anyone to use 
opiates to relieve pain; indeed, these should never be used 
except when prescribed by a careful physician. 

23. Chloral, cocaine, etc. Men and women may become 
slaves to the use of other drugs and in much the same 
way as they become slaves to alcohol and morphine. Among 
these drugs are chloral and cocaine. They belong in the 
same general group of hypnotics or anesthetics, and the 
habit acquired is perhaps no worse than the opium habit. 
It is certainly very little better. Let the student remember 
that the root of the evil here, as elsewhere, is the substitution 
of the use of the drug for normal habits of healthful living. 

24. Tobacco. The physiological effects of tobacco are quite 
complicated, so complicated that it is difficult to make 
general statements with regard to them. The effects of 
chewing are quite different from those of smoking, and 
those of smoking, no doubt, vary according as the smoke 
is or is not drawn into the lungs (inhaled). 

The leaf of tobacco contains a poison (nicotine) which 
exerts a powerful action on the heart and on nerve cells. 
It is not, however, proved that the bad effects of the use 
of tobacco are due entirely or even chiefly to this substance, 
but it unquestionably contributes to the physiological effects. 

The smoke from tobacco also contains ammonia vapor 
which locally irritates the mucous membrane of the mouth, 
throat, nose, etc., and this irritating action at times acts 



372 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

as a stimulant to the whole system in much the same 
manner as do " smelling salts." 

It has been recently suggested that, owing to the incom- 
plete character of the combustion, tobacco smoke contains 
a small amount of the poisonous gas carbon monoxide (CO), 
and it is quite possible that some effects of smoking 
especially where the smoke is drawn into the lungs (inhaled) 
may be attributed to this gas; but the suggestion has 
not yet been submitted to the test of actual experiment. 

Indeed, the physiological action of tobacco probably not 
only varies with the form in which the tobacco is used but 
is in any case the result of a combination of a number of 
factors partly physiological and partly psychical. We must 
here, however, confine our attention to the purely hygienic 
aspects of the matter. 

Human experience shows that the unwise use of tobacco 
may unfavorably affect digestion, cause serious disorders of 
the heart, and impair the work of the nervous system. Those 
training for athletic events are usually forbidden the use of 
tobacco because it " takes the wind " ; that is, makes impossi- 
ble the most efficient training of the heart. Many employers 
have found that youths who smoke cigarettes are less reliable 
in their work ; and this is only one instance of the effect 
upon the nervous system already referred to, the same result 
being observed in a diminished steadiness of the hand, often 
amounting to actual tremor. 

These effects do not, of course, manifest themselves in 
their extreme form whenever tobacco is used, but it is 
probable that they are always present in some degree. 
Whether they are noticeable or not depends largely upon 
the ability of the constitution to resist them. Tobacco is 
thus often used without demonstrable bad effects when one 
is leading a hygienic life ; but very often the habit, formed 
under these conditions, persists after the increasing intensity 
of occupation and the attendant cares and responsibilities 



FOOD ACCESSORIES AND DKUGS 373 

of life result in neglect of muscular exercise and improperly 
directed nervous activity. As this neglect begins to tell on 
general health it is found that the unfavorable effects of 
tobacco become more pronounced. 

Especially to be condemned is its use by those who have 
not attained their full growth. During youth nothing should 
be allowed to interfere with the best development of the 
heart and nervous system, and the use of tobacco endangers 
the proper development of both of these most important 
parts of the human mechanism. It can hardly be doubted 
that many a young man has failed to make the most out of 
life because the habit contracted in youth has struck in this 
way at the foundations upon which he had subsequently 
to build. 



CHAPTER XXI 

THE PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS AND SOME 
OTHER INFLAMMATIONS 

1. Hygiene and physical efficiency. A most important aim 
of personal hygiene is the maintenance of the highest work- 
ing efficiency of the body. We should not be content with 
the avoidance of serious maladies like smallpox, diphtheria, 
and consumption, but should try also to avoid those minor 
ills which, though temporary and rarely fatal, may seriously 
interfere with our capacity for usefulness and enjoyment. 
The importance of avoiding constipation has already been 
pointed out (p. 132). The present chapter will be devoted 
to the practical consideration of such common complaints as 
colds, rheumatism, and diarrhea, all of which are accompanied 
by inflammatory conditions in some internal organ or organs 
and are favored by exposure to cold, drafts, or dampness, 
which chill the skin and drive the blood into the internal 
organs. 

2. Some common complaints and the conditions which favor 
them. We shall not give any extended account of the nature 
of the complaints mentioned in the preceding paragraph, for 
their exact causes are still obscure. Two points, however, 
should be emphasized for all of them. 

1. The exposure to cold is not usually the cause of these 
diseases, but only favors their development. It is the general 
experience of arctic travelers that they suffer very little or 
not at all from " colds." Nansen and his men were away 
in the Fram for more than three years. During a large 
part of that time Nansen and Johannson journeyed on sleds 

374 



PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS 375 

or afoot, exposed to the worst rigors of an arctic climate; 
at times, after getting into their sleeping bags, they had to 
thaw out their frozen clothing by the heat of then* own 
bodies before they could go to sleep. Yet not one of them 
had " a cold " until their return to Norway, when an epi- 
demic of colds broke out among them. This and numerous 
similar experiences of others suggest strongly that colds 
are largely infectious diseases, but we must not forget that 
dampness and drafts are favoring conditions for their develop- 
ment. The experience of the race on this point is abundant 
and conclusive. 

2. Each of these diseases is characterized "by a condition of 
inflammation. We shall not attempt to describe the exact 
nature of inflammation ; it is sufficient to recall features of 
it familiar to everyone. The sting of a bee or hornet or the 
bite of a mosquito results in local inflammation of the skin ; 
a severe case of sunburn presents a similar condition over 
larger areas ; a wound of any kind often shows more or less 
of the same inflammatory process. The part becomes red, 
indicating the presence of an increased amount of blood; 
it is swollen, partly because of the greater quantity of blood 
and partly because of the greater quantity of lymph present 
in the tissue ; it is usually hot ; and it is often painful. At 
times, as in the case of a wound or boil, pus, or " matter," 
may be formed. 

One or more of these conditions is present in an inflamed 
organ during the diseases mentioned. When we have a cold 
in the head (rhinitis) the vascular membrane lining the 
nasal cavity is the seat of trouble ; in a sore throat it is the 
pharynx and larynx (pharyngitis and laryngitis) ; in a cold 
on the chest (bronchitis) it is the ciliated membrane of the 
trachea and bronchi; similarly in catarrhal attacks of the 
stomach and intestine it is the mucous membrane of these 
organs; and we must thinlf of these inflamed tissues of the 
respiratory and alimentary tracts as presenting somewhat 



376 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

the same condition as that seen in the skin during a bad 
case of sunburn. They all have an excessive amount of blood 
within them ; they are more or less swollen as when one's 
"nose is stopped up"; there is an unusual amount of fluid 
in the tissue ; and there is, besides, generally a transudation 
of this fluid to the surface, as in the " running of the nose." 

3. Congestion during inflammation. The presence of an 
excessive quantity of blood in the capillaries of an organ is 
known as " congestion " ; and this may be of two kinds 
active (or arterial), due to an excessive supply from the 
arterial reservoir; or passive (or venous), due to some 
interference with the outflow into the veins. 1 

In a cold, congestion of the inflamed area begins as an 
active congestion ; the arteries are widened, the pressure in 
the capillaries is increased, and the blood flows much more 
rapidly. This is essentially the same .thing only in greater 
degree that occurs when the arterioles of the stomach 
dilate during digestion or those of the skin during exposure 
to warmth. This initial vascular stage is succeeded by one 
of passive congestion, caused by the adhesion of white blood 
corpuscles to the capillary walls, thereby diminishing the 
bore of the tube and so making difficult the outflow, in to 
the veins ; the velocity of the blood through the capillaries 
is lessened, pressure within them is increased (why?), and 
they become gorged with blood. Such is the vascular con- 
dition in an organ when an inflammatory process is at its 
height ; the characteristic feature is the narrowing of the out- 
let of the capillaries and the consequent excess of pressure 
within them. 

4. Dangers connected with congestion. A decidedly con- 
gested condition is undesirable because it is a predisposing 

1 The artificial model described on page 144 may easily be used to show 
the difference between arterial and venous congestion. With the nozzle in 
the far end of the rubber tube, the tube may be congested (or swollen) with 
water by more rapid pumping (active congestion) or by narrowing the outlet 
(passive congestion). 



PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS 377 

cause of these inflammatory diseases. It is not the only 
cause nor the exciting cause of the disease ; but a con- 
gested organ may succumb to an attack of disease and so 
become readily inflamed where it would have escaped had 
its vascular condition been normal. For example, the 
normal intestine may be the seat of some unusual bacterial 
action (see Chap. VIII, p. 130) and suffer no damage there- 
from, while the same bacterial action may give rise to 
catarrhal inflammation, accompanied by diarrhea, if it occurs 
when the intestinal blood vessels are congested. Or again, 
whatever the cause of an ordinary cold may be, bacterial or 
otherwise, it is probable that its attack upon the perfectly 
normal organism may be and frequently is resisted; while at 
another time a congested condition of the nose, the throat, 
or the bronchial tubes may permit the disease to gain a foot- 
hold at that point. In other words, the congestion alone will 
not cause colds in the head or on the chest or diarrheal 
troubles in the intestine; something else is needed. We may 
have the congestion without the cold, and we may also suc- 
cumb to a cold without the preliminary congestion; but the 
presence of congestion often presents to an infecting agent 
the weak spot which is needed in order that the latter shall 
secure a foothold and do damage. 

5. The avoidance of congestion during colds, etc. ; the care 
of catarrhal conditions. Again, whenever an inflammatory 
process is established, there is, as we have seen, more or less 
of passive congestion ; under these circumstances everything 
should be done to avoid arterial dilation in the inflamed area. 
Suppose there is catarrhal inflammation of some part of the 
small intestine, accompanied by diarrhea; the outlet into the 
veins is narrowed, and there is consequently more or less 
" backing up " of the blood in the capillaries (passive con- 
gestion). This congestion is kept within moderate limits so 
long as the arterioles maintain a good tonic constriction and 
so limit the amount of blood which can flow in; if, however, 



3T8 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



they are made to dilate widely by eating a hearty meal, 
for example, this check is removed, blood flows in under 
high pressure, and the congestion is increased. Hence in all 
such catarrhal attacks the diet should be very light and 
preferably confined to those things which are easily digested 
and absorbed. 

6. The care of colds, etc. Again, when suffering from any 
of these inflammatory diseases of internal organs the greatest 




FIG. 118. Experiment to show the effect of arterial constriction in relieving 
capillary congestion 

In the upper figure constriction of the tube at A results hi distention (conges- 
tion) of the tube between the pump and the fingers; if, however, the tube be 
also constricted at J5, as in the lower figure, pressure falls between A and J5, and 
the congestion is relieved 

care should be taken to avoid chilling the skin, because this 
means (Chap. XII) compensating dilation in the inflamed 
area and therefore increase of congestion there. One should 
be warmly clad (not overclad) ; the living and sleeping 
rooms, though well ventilated, should not be cold; when 
a cold sleeping room cannot be avoided some covering for 
the head is often useful, as this part of the body is 
not protected by the bed covering; cold baths should be 



PBEVENTION AND CAKE OF COLDS 379 

discontinued; and, above all, dampness should be avoided. 
In severe cases it is often necessary for the patient to go 
away from a damp climate to a dry one. The key to the 
situation, so far as the management of the circulation is con- 
cerned, consists in keeping in the skin its full share of blood. 
A brief chilling of even a comparatively small area of the 
skin (for example, cold feet) may produce a congestion in 
the inflamed organ capable of undoing the healing work 
of hours or days. 

A word must be said in this connection about the "fresh- 
air" cure for colds, etc. There is no doubt that being in 
the fresh, dry air, even if it is cold air, and preferably out 
of doors, is better for a cold or any other catarrhal condi- 
tion than remaining in a closed room. But this should 
never involve the chilling of any portion of the skin ; one 
should be warmly clad, even the head and neck being well 
protected. It makes little or no difference that we breathe 
cold air, but it makes a very great difference whether or 
not the skin is exposed to cold air. 

In taking care of colds and similar troubles it is well 
to remember that the inflammation is only one of the un- 
favorable conditions against which the system is struggling. 
Consequently we should not expect the disease to yield in 
all cases to our measures for keeping the skin warm. At 
times a hot bath, a drink of hot lemonade, or other meas- 
ures for bringing the blood to the skin checks a threatened 
cold, but none of these measures is of great value after the 
disease has once obtained a foothold. It is then a struggle 
between the body and the disease ; and we can do more by 
merely avoiding the chilling of the skin than by taking 
measures to produce marked cutaneous dilation. The true 
policy, in other words, is to give the living body every 
chance to cure itself, and this is best done by not calling 
on it to do too many other things at the same time. Thus 
muscular exercise, ordinarily one of our best means of 



380 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

keeping the blood in the skin, is not usually advisable when 
a cold is at its height, because an added strain would 
thereby be imposed on the already sorely taxed system. 
Later, when the worst is over, it is a valuable aid, though 
it should not be too vigorous until one is on the road to 
complete recovery. 

" Stuff a cold and starve a fever " is one of those pithy 
sayings whose very pith may be poisonous. A full meal 
when we have a cold in the head often clears up the nasal 
congestion for a time (probably by drawing the blood to the 
stomach and intestine) and so deludes us into supposing 
that our " stuffing " has done good. It may also, and doubt- 
less often does, support and reenforce the body in its battle 
with the disease. What it may do, however, is to overtax 
the body with the digestion of a heavy meal ; the meal may 
not be properly digested ; bacterial processes in the exces- 
sive mass of food may produce abnormal and poisonous 
substances (see Chap. VIII) which gain admission to the 
blood, and the " last state " of the patient may be " worse 
than the first." 

7. Measures for stopping colds. When one " feels a cold 
coming on," that is, early in the struggle, active measures 
should first be taken to dilate the blood vessels of the skin. 
A hot bath before going to bed and hot drinks, such as hot 
lemonade, may be tried. If the cold does not promptly yield 
to these measures, rest in bed is usually the best treatment. 
The nervous system is frequently in no condition to sustain 
hard work of any kind, and hence, until the cold begins to 
clear up, it is well to confine the diet to easily digestible 
foods in moderate quantity and to remain very quiet. Few 
people, unfortunately, act on this principle. "It 's only a cold" 
is made the excuse for meeting every engagement that may 
have been made or for attempting to do full work. Some- 
times, perhaps generally, no serious results follow, but at 
other times the penalty is heavy. 



PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS 381 

Very often a cold is a more serious matter than we 
suppose. Only physicians appreciate how often it is the 
sign of more serious disease. 1 While we cannot say that one 
should always stop work until the cold is overcome, we do 
say that limiting work to the minimum and securing all the 
rest possible is always advisable and should be the rule 
rather than the exception. We may, unknown to ourselves, 
be nursing more than a cold, and, even if we are not, we 
always hasten the cure by taking care of ourselves. 

8. The use of drugs for catarrhal conditions. A remedy 
very frequently resorted to for colds and other inflammatory 
troubles is the taking of some drug. Large fortunes have 
been made by the sale of " cough medicines " and the like. 
Some of these " remedies " are worse than useless ; others 
may do no harm, and some may be useful. But none of them 
are cures. The cure of the cold is effected not by the drug 
but by the system of the patient; the drug can do no more 
than remove some condition which stands in the way of the 
healing effort of the organism. The severe coughing of a bad 
case of bronchitis is often irritating to the inflamed surface 
of the air passages and may stand in the way of clearing 
up the inflammation. Here a drug may do good, though it 
should be taken only on the advice of a physician and never 
on the strength of newspaper testimonials to its alleged 
virtues. But the use of these medicines does not render 
unnecessary the measures we have outlined as the proper 
treatment. It is worse than foolish to dose one's self with 
drugs when a cold is coming on and then attempt to do full 
work; often the only result of such folly is a complete 
" knocking out of the stomach " by the drug. The average 
tf cough medicine " is especially likely to do this. 

9. The belief in drugs. A century ago the attitude of men 
and women toward practical hygiene consisted largely in living 

1 In typhoid fever a "cold on the chest" is frequently the first outward 
indication of the disease. 



382 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

in ignorance of the workings of the body, taking little or no 
care of it, and then whenever bad feelings appeared " taking 
something simple " to cure them. This course of conduct 
was persisted in until something happened, and something 
usually did happen, sooner rather than later, when recourse 
was had at once to drugs. The doctor was the man who 
knew what drug to " give " for each disease. He was ex- 
pected to " prescribe " ; and if he did not prescribe some- 
thing, he failed to satisfy his patient, who concluded that 
the physician did not understand the disease. The attitude 
of the public was largely that of neglecting personal, indi- 
vidual care of the health and meantime implicitly believing 
that no matter what happened some drug could be swallowed 
which would set matters right. 

Medicine and, especially, personal hygiene have now ad- 
vanced beyond this crude condition. To-day we realize as 
never before that the individual is responsible for the intelli- 
gent care of his health. The time is probably coming when 
he will be held as responsible for the care of his body as he 
is to-day for the care of his morals. At the same time 
drugs are being much less used by the best physicians. It is 
not true that all drugs, are useless ; quite the contrary ; but 
it is true that careful nursing often counts for more than 
does the use of drugs. Typhoid fever is to-day often treated 
with no drugs at all, and the tendency to use drugs in other 
diseases is distinctly lessening. 

The wise physician is often hampered in his work by the 
survival of this old-fashioned belief in the all-sufficiency 
of drugs. Instances of it are sometimes encountered even 
among otherwise intelligent people. We should understand 
that in all cases of illness the one treatment which should 
be applied is good nursing, whether by a trained nurse, or 
by one's family, or by one's self. If medicine is given, it is 
usually subsidiary to the main procedure, although some- 
times, as in the antitoxin treatment of diphtheria, it is the 



PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS 383 

main thing. But in no case should we be so foolish, so un- 
reasonable, as to distrust or lose confidence in a physician 
because he gives few drugs or none at all. 

10. The avoidance of colds, etc.; general principles. If the 
care of these slight ailments is of importance, their preven- 
tion is of much greater importance. And first of all among 
preventive measures must be placed not the avoidance of 
drafts and other chilling of the skin, not clothing, but the 
proper hygienic care of the body regular and sufficient mus- 
cular exercise, the avoidance of improper feeding (for colds 
are often due to digestive disturbances resulting from over- 
feeding), and good habits of sleep and rest. When these 
things are properly attended to, one may usually suffer con- 
siderable chilling of the skin without ill effect. It is not 
true, as is often asserted, that by attention to these general 
matters the protection of the body from exposure to cold be- 
comes unnecessary, but it is true that without this attention 
such protective measures are apt to be of little avail. 

Among general measures none is more important than 
the avoidance of exposure to chilling influences ivhen the nerv- 
ous system is depressed by marked fatigue. We take cold 
more readily, just as we are more susceptible to any disease, 
when we are tired. It is a question of a struggle between 
the organism and unfavorable external or internal conditions, 
and, in general, the greater the fatigue of the organism the 
less is its chance of success in the struggle. 

11. The avoidance of colds; special measures. As to meas- 
ures specially concerned with the avoidance of congestion 
in internal organs, let us first state clearly the principle 
involved and then pass to its practical applications. The 
condition to avoid is the undue constriction of the blood 
vessels of the skin, produced by chilling. The danger is not 
in the mere exposure to cold ; people may be comparatively 
lightly clad on a cold dry day, when there is no wind, with- 
out chilling the skin, because the layer of air in contact with 



384 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

the skin becomes warmed, and in the absence -of wind even 
light clothing, if dry, suffices to keep this warm air in con- 
tact with the body, But if the air is damp, so that it readily 
Conducts heat, or if the wind is blowing, so that convection 
becomes important, or if the body is near cold objects to 
which it can radiate its heat, the skin may be easily chilled, 
especially if we are making no muscular exertion. 

Again, during muscular exertion exposure to cold is 
usually harmless, even if the clothing be light, because the 
increased heat production within the body results in an ade- 
quate flow of warm blood through the skin. We seldom 
take cold during vigorous muscular work on a cold day. 
It is when we are sitting still or, even more, when we are 
lying down and the muscles are liberating less heat that we 
should be on our guard. 

Finally, and most important of all, is the fact that the 
" danger zone " of atmospheric temperature is confined to 
the narrow limits of a few degrees just below the proper 
room temperature. This proper room temperature is for 
light clothing about 66 F. with low or normal atmospheric 
humidity and about 69 or 70 F. for high humidity. Above 
these points there is no chilling of the skin. Five or ten 
degrees below these points we feel so cold that we become 
uncomfortable and take steps to remedy matters, either by 
putting on warmer clothing or by heating the room. It is 
when the temperature is only slightly below what it should 
be that we are apt to be unaware of the insidious increase 
of arterial constriction and chilling in the skin, until, after 
an hour or more of it, we suddenly awake to the true con- 
dition of affairs. This is apt to happen when the fire in the 
stove or in an open grate goes down. It also happens at 
times when we come from a walk out of doors into a room 
of this "dangerous temperature," say 63 F. on a day of high 
humidity; the skin is warmed by the exercise we have been 
taking, so that, as we enter the room, it does not seem cold 



PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS 385 

(for the temperature we really notice is that of the skin, not 
that of the room at all) ; on sitting still in the room the 
cutaneous dilation of muscular exercise passes off so gradu- 
ally that we do not notice the change, and, before we are 
aware that we are chilly, marked internal congestion may 
have been produced. 

It is also well to remember that not all parts of the room 
have the same temperature. The floor is colder than the 
ceiling; it is colder nearer exposed walls and windows than 
away from them, and the common habit of sitting near a 
window on a cold day while reading or sewing is unwise. 

12. Cooling off suddenly. It is an old saying that it is not 
well to " cool off suddenly." While there is some truth in 
this, it is not true in general, nor in the form stated. It is 
perfectly safe for most healthy people to take a cold bath 
after exercise or to pass directly from a hot bath into a 
cold one (see Chap. XXV). The sudden cooling which 
experience has found to be harmful is where the clothing 
has been saturated with perspiration and one cools off by 
sitting still in a breeze or in a cool place. Here the clothing 
remains damp and so conducts heat readily from the skin, 
and the danger lies not in the cooling off but in the pro- 
longed chilling process which follows it. Consequently it is 
a general rule that clothing made damp by rain or perspira- 
tion should be changed as soon as possible or else that drafts 
and cold rooms should be avoided until the clothing is dry. 

It is unnecessary to multiply examples. In all the prin- 
ciple is the same the avoidance of conditions which pro- 
duce marked constriction of cutaneous blood vessels, with the 
accompanying congestion of internal organs ; and the stu- 
dent is again reminded that by this course we do not always 
secure immunity from internal inflammations, but merely 
remove one of the conditions which favor their development. 

13. " Hardening " the system to cold. We must refer 
briefly to the importance of what is popularly known as 



386 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

hardening the system to cold. Cold unquestionably pro- 
duces its effects in some people more readily than in others, 
and these differences are largely dependent upon habit or 
training. When the living rooms are kept above 70 and 
heavy clothing is always worn out of doors, the skin is con- 
stantly subjected to a tropical climate and becomes more 
sensitive to external cold. Internal congestion will then be 
produced at 67 or 68 F. which would not take place above 
60 or 62 F. in persons who have been accustomed to cold. 
In other words, it is possible to overdo the matter of protec- 
tion from external cold. For this reason overheated rooms 
and the use of heavy wraps while walking in moderately 
cold weather (30 to 50 F.) are very objectionable. 

We should thus harden ourselves to cold; but it should 
never be forgotten that the process of hardening may be 
carried too far. To harden one's self does not mean that the 
temperature of the living room should be kept below 65 F. 
nor that sleeping rooms should be cold enough to freeze 
water at night. Severe colds and rheumatism have been 
contracted by this folly. 

Many people fail to realize that because a little will do 
good, it does not necessarily follow that more will do better. 
One person is impressed by the undoubted fact that it is pos- 
sible to eat too much meat, and thereupon abstains from meat 
altogether; another discovers that a sedentary life is a bad 
thing, and hastens intemperately to take " century rides " on a 
wheel. One finds that he has been overclad, and, discarding 
all warm clothing, shivers throughout the winter ; another, on 
learning the possible value of cold bathing, enthusiastically but 
unwisely plunges into the coldest water he can get, and stays 
in it until his skin is blue. Very likely any one of these ex- 
amples can be duplicated from the reader's own circle of ac- 
quaintances. It is important to remember that " nothing 
too much " is always a good rule, and nowhere is it more 
essential than in the hygienic conduct of life. 



PREVENTION AND CARE OF COLDS 387 

14. Reasons for avoiding colds and other inflammatory 
troubles. We may conclude this chapter with some facts 
showing the hygienic importance of the prevention of colds 
and other inflammatory diseases, such as sciatica, lumbago, 
and rheumatism in its various forms. In all these diseases 
we find the same close connection between the chilling of 
the skin and the onset of the disease, so that what has 
been especially urged with regard to colds applies in large 
measure to the entire group. But some may say, " These 
are slight ailments ; why not ignore and disregard them ? " 

1. The first and sufficient answer is that these ailments 
interfere seriously with our working power and with our 
capacity for usefulness and enjoyment. Everyone knows 
from experience that the body is not so good a machine 
during the progress of a cold or a diarrheal attack or while 
suffering from sciatica or slight attacks of rheumatism. We 
should strive not only to live, but to live well; not merely to 
do things, but to do them with our might; not merely to 
live and work, but to live happily and to work cheerfully. 

2. The popular impression as to the frequency with which 
pulmonary consumption, pneumonia, etc. are preceded by 
common colds is much exaggerated. It is nevertheless prob- 
able that in some cases a cold is the means of lowering 
the power of resistance to the more serious disease, and we 
should take every reasonable precaution which will main- 
tain the ability of the body to cope successfully with the 
inroads of diseases, especially of those for which there is 
no certain cure. 

3. Colds and similar troubles have a well-known tendency 
to become chronic. Probably no sufferer from nasal catarrh, 
or chronic bronchitis, or chronic diarrhea, if he had his life 
to live over again, would neglect measures tending to avoid 
the occurrence of these conditions. Only those who do not 
know from experience the capacity of such troubles to pro- 
duce annoyance and discomfort can regard their prevention 



388 THE HUMAK MECHANISM 

as unworthy of serious attention. We cannot too strongly 
emphasize the fact that chronic troubles are very frequently 
the result of the repetitions of the neglected inflammations 
which accompany the acute attack ; they are due not so 
much to inherent weakness of the tissue or organ as to the 
carelessness of the individual about avoiding them or the 
failure to give them the attention they deserve when they 
occur. One of our leading physicians, a man of the widest 
experience and soundest judgment, writes, concerning chronic 
nasal catarrh, "It is sad to think of the misery which has 
been entailed upon thousands of people, owing to the neglect 
of nasopharyngeal catarrh by parents and physicians." 



CHAPTER XXII 

THE CARE OF THE EYES AND EARS 

The visual apparatus (eye, optic nerve, nerve endings, 
etc.) furnishes one of the most important paths from the 
world without to the brain within, and it is of the utmost 
importance to the exercise of the highest functions of the 
human mechanism that this path be -kept as smooth as pos- 
sible. Unfortunately, however, the path is seldom either 
straight or smooth, and it frequently presents serious ob- 
stacles. The curvature of the cornea or of the lens may be 
irregular ; the muscle of accommodation may be weak ; the 
retina may be too near or too far from the lens, or its sen- 
sitive cells may too readily become fatigued by the stimula- 
tion of light ; finally, the path into the brain may be made 
of poorly constructed nervous tissue, or in the brain itself 
the coordinations upon which depend our visual judgments 
(p. 253) may be imperfect. The simplest act of vision is 
the end result of a most complicated series of events, diffi- 
culty with any one of which may make quick and accurate 
seeing impossible. Many a child has been considered stupid 
simply because an unrecognized condition of myopia or 
astigmatism renders it impossible to read clearly the printed 
page or the distant blackboard ; and many people, adults as 
well as children, suffer from headaches and other troubles 
because of the strain thrown on the nervous system in the 
effort to work with defective vision. 

When one is leading an outdoor life, occupied in the 
work of the farm or the lumber camp, and doing but little 
reading, the eyes usually give little trouble, because it is 

389 



390 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

only when looking at near objects (three feet or less away) 
that the mechanism of accommodation is called into vigor- 
ous action. Eyestrain is usually produced by prolonged 
near work with eyes incapable of enduring without undue 
fatigue what is demanded of them. Hence it is that defects 
of vision are more common to-day than they were a hundred 
years ago. Both the vocations and the avocations of modern 
life, with their large amount of reading, writing, and other 
forms of near work, impose upon the eye the most trying 
and difficult task it can be called upon to perform. The use 
of glasses is more common than formerly, and the care of 
the eyes is forced upon us as an important factor in the 
hygienic conduct of life. 

1. The necessity of expert advice. In the care of the eyes 
expert advice is indispensable. The detection of defects of 
vision frequently demands the best skill of those who are 
thoroughly acquainted with the physiology of the entire 
visual apparatus, including its relation to other bodily func- 
tions, and who are also provided with every means for gain- 
ing an insight into the conditions which are giving trouble. 
The selection of the proper glass, for example, when lenses 
are needed is more than a mere matter of testing vision with 
test cards ; and eyes may be seriously injured by using 
glasses prescribed on the basis of information gained by 
imperfect methods. 

First of all, then, let us insist upon the necessity of com- 
petent medical advice whenever there is reason to suspect 
something wrong with the eyes. If vision is not distinct, if 
the eyes tire quickly when used for near work, and even 
ivhen one suffers from headaches, " nervousness" and other 
forms of malaise without apparent cause, it is wise to find out 
whether some remediable defect of vision is not at the root 
of the trouble. 

On first thought it may seem unreasonable to consult an 
oculist with regard to headaches or other troubles with 



CARE OF EYES AND EARS 391 

organs having no obvious connection with the eye ; but when 
we remember the fact that all parts of the central nervous 
system are connected with one another, it is easy to see 
how undue strain of one part in the effort to see with 
astigmatic or otherwise defective eyes may, by injuriously 
affecting other parts of the brain or spinal cord, unfavor- 
ably influence organs which themselves have nothing to do 
with vision. Over and over again it happens that head- 
aches and other troubles are relieved, as by magic, when 
vision is made perfect by the use of proper glasses. 

With these remarks as to the importance of skilled advice 
in the care of the eyes, we may pass to those practical 
measures which should be under the intelligent individual 
control of every man and woman. Suppose vision is perfect, 
or as nearly perfect as the best of medical skill can make it, 
what precautions in the use of the eyes favor the maintenance 
of their best working condition ? 

2. Resting the eyes. First of all we would suggest the 
importance of resting the eyes now and then while engaged 
in near work. This is accomplished by the simple expedient 
of looking for a few moments at some distant object (p. 246). 
The brief relaxation of the effort of accommodation does for 
the neuromuscular mechanism involved exactly what a brief 
relaxation of the body in sleep accomplishes for the body 
as a whole. 

3. Illumination of the object ; the importance of contrast. 
The ease with which the details of an object are seen depends 
chiefly on the contrasts of shade and color which these details 
present to the eye, and nothing so influences this contrast 
as the amount of illumination. Thus as the light fades in 
the evening, the white paper of a printed page becomes 
darker and darker, until finally it reflects to the eye little 
more light than the black ink of the printed letters, which 
consequently no longer stand out clear and distinct. In order 
to admit all the light possible, the pupil enlarges and, in so 



392 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

doing, lessens the distinctness of the retinal image (spherical 
aberration) ; more important than this, we hold the page 
closer to the eye, thereby enlarging the retinal image and 
increasing the intensity of stimulation, but throwing far 
more work upon the ciliary muscle to focus for the near 
object. All of these unfavorable conditions taken together 
place undue strain upon the mechanism of accommodation. 

Hardly less objectionable is excessive illumination of an 
object. After a certain intensity of light is reached, the 
retina no longer responds to increase of stimulation with 
increase of visual reaction. If there were in addition to our 
sun a second sun which sent into the eye twice as much 
light, the second sun would seem no brighter than the first 
because the effect of the first upon the eye has already 
passed the point which calls forth the greatest possible 
reaction in the retina. To apply this principle to the case 
in point we have only to remember that a printed letter is 
not absolutely " dead black," but reflects some light. When 
the illumination is moderate this reflected light hardly affects 
the retina at all, and the contrast between the black letter 
and the white paper is marked. As the intensity of illumi- 
nation increases, however, the effect upon the retina of the 
light coming from the letters increases more rapidly than 
the effect of that coming from the paper. Contrast is les- 
sened and sharper accommodation as well as closer attention 
is needed to see distinctly. Added to this, no doubt, is the 
fatigue and lack of sensitiveness in the retina, resulting 
from overstimulation. 

4. The size of type. The use of fine type should be reduced 
to a minimum, because it necessitates greater effort of accom- 
modation and intensifies all the evils of improper illumination. 
Any printed matter which must be held less than eighteen 
inches from the eye in order to be seen clearly is undesirable 
for long-continued reading. Especially is this true in youth, 
since then the eye is more plastic and excessive strain of the 



CARE OF EYES AKD EARS 393 

muscle of accommodation, pulling as it does on the sclerotic 
and the choroid coats, may lead to permanent deformation 
of the curved surfaces. The marked increase of myopia 
within the past forty or fifty years is perhaps to be explained 
in this way. 

5. Highly calendered paper objectionable. Closely connected 
with the size of the type is the character of the paper on which 
it is printed. This should be as dull as possible in order to 
avoid the confusing effect of a glossy surface. The use of 
highly calendered paper in many books and serial publica- 
tions, because such paper lends itself more readily to the 
reproduction of pictures in half tone, is a sacrifice of hygienic 
considerations to cheapness. 

6. Importance of a steady light ; reading on railroad trains. 
The source of illumination for near work should be as free 
as possible from unsteadiness or flicker, since a flickering 
light necessitates the most accurate accommodation. A " stu- 
dent's lamp," " Rochester burner," " mantle " gas flame, or 
incandescent electric lamp is preferable in this respect to 
candles, " fishtail " gas jets, and arc lights. 

For the same reason caution is demanded in the matter 
of reading on railroad trains. American railway trains have 
recently become so heavy, and the roadbed, rails, etc. have 
been so much improved in various ways, that the danger of 
reading or writing while traveling by rail is much less than 
formerly. At the same time the danger still exists, and read- 
ing on many railway and trolley cars is still to be done with 
caution or, better still, avoided altogether. 

7. Microscopes, telescopes, and other optical instruments 
require close and sometimes continuous use of one or both 
eyes and are popularly supposed to be " hard on the eyes." 
But this is not necessarily the case, except for beginners 
and investigators for beginners, because they try to see 
clearly by focusing with the eye rather than with the use of 
the focusing apparatus of the instrument ; for investigators, 



394 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

because the eyes are used for too long periods at a time. 
Optical instruments are easily focused and, if care be taken 
to provide good lighting, routine work with them need not 
be specially trying to the eyes. 

8. The removal of cinders. Particles of dust, cinders, etc. 
are often washed away from the surface of the eyeball by 
the copious secretion of tears which they call forth. Some- 
times, however, they must be removed directly from the eye- 
ball or the inner surface of the eyelid. In the case of the 
lower lid this operation presents little difficulty, for the eye- 
lashes of this lid are easily seized, the lid drawn forward 
away from the eyeball, and the surfaces of the eyelid and 
eyeball readily inspected. If any foreign body is there 
located, it may be removed by the corner of the handker- 
chief. Successful manipulation of the upper lid is more 
difficult, because a piece of cartilage immediately above the 
eyelashes interferes with turning back the lid. The gaze of 
the patient should be directed downward, a small pencil 
or other cylindrical object pressed against the upper portion 
of the lid, above the cartilage, the eyelashes seized, and the 
lid turned upwards and backwards over the pencil. 

9. Recapitulation ; the care of the eyes. To summarize, we 
may remind the student that the eyes, no less than other 
organs, should be kept sound and strong by attention to the 
general health and welfare of the body. Work, play, rest 
and sleep, muscular exercise, wise feeding, and regular re- 
moval of the wastes these and all other general hygienic 
habits help to keep the eyes sound and strong; but besides 
these, posture in work, lighting, paper (not forgetting wall 
paper), printing, dust, cinders, smoke, acid fumes, traveling, 
sight-seeing, and many other conditions have their effect. 
Finally, it must not be forgotten that the eyes are too 
precious to be trifled with, and that if one has sore or weak 
eyes, or pain in the eyes, or cannot see clearly to read or 
to write, or cannot plainly distinguish things near or at a 



CARE OF EYES AND EARS 395 

distance, then it is always best to consult an oculist or the 
family physician for advice. Remedies or doctors puffed in 
high-sounding advertisements should be carefully avoided. 

10. The care of the ears. Besides good care of the general 
health, which common sense dictates and which we have 
repeatedly urged as the fundamental requirement in the 
hygiene of all organs, there is but little which the individual 
can do for the ears. Deafness, especially total deafness, is 
a defect or injury perhaps no less serious than blindness. 
Acute hearing is probably as valuable as acute vision, and 
a partial loss of hearing is a handicap often harder to 
overcome than are some defects of vision. 

Keeping in mind the auditory apparatus and its connec- 
tions (Chap. XIV), it is easy to see that the drum may be 
pierced or otherwise injured by slender objects thrust in 
from without; that catarrh of the throat may easily extend 
into the Eustachian tube, inflaming it or choking its lumen 
or outlet; and that any thickening of the drum must tend 
to make its vibrations slower and more difficult. In these 
possibilities we have some of the actual causes of deafness, 
and none of them is of a kind to be treated by the patient. 
Any recognition of incipient deafness in one's self should be 
regarded as cause for consulting a good physician. No atten- 
tion should be paid to advertisements promising to relieve 
deafness, for these are usually traps calculated to catch the 
ignorant, unwary, or credulous. It is dangerous to explore 
the outer ears with hairpins or other pointed objects, as the 
drum may thus be broken or other harm done. 

11. Noise, though delighted in by savages, who beat tom- 
toms, blow conch shells, or otherwise tickle the sense of 
hearing, and though in moderation often found stimulating 
and enjoyable by persons who have been living in solitude 
or isolation, is by adults among the most highly civilized 
peoples more and more regarded as a necessary evil or even 
as a nuisance. Children, on the other hand, often delight in 



396 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

noise, and horn blowing, firecrackers, and pistol firing on 
holidays like the Fourth of July appear to give as much 
pleasure to them as pain to their elders. Adults also on occa- 
sions of rejoicing still ring bells, beat drums, blow horns, 
and fire cannon in order to express their emotions. Loud 
noise, like strong light, is unquestionably stimulating and 
exciting, and for these reasons, though justifiable at times 
of rejoicing, is something to be ordinarily avoided as far as 
possible in city life, itself already much too stimulating and 
exciting. One can, indeed, often learn to sleep even in the 
presence of distracting noises such as those of a busy city 
street, but such sleep cannot possibly be as wholesome as 
that enjoyed in quiet places. The constant whistling of 
locomotives, which was formerly a great nuisance in many 
American cities and towns, has been largely done away 
with, and the tendency of the times is to cultivate quiet 
not only as a private luxury but also as a public necessity. 



CHAPTER XXIII 



HYGIENE OF MOUTH, NOSE, AND THROAT. 
FOCAL INFECTIONS 

The mouth and nose are the two great "portals of entry" 
of matter into the body. Through these portals, with the 
food and drink and inspired air, enter also countless foreign 
organisms or microbes capable of finding lodgment in and 
doing harm to the tissues. 
Against these organisms, 
however, the body has many 
means of defense. The 
lining of the air passages 
is moistened by the secre- 
tion of the glands of their 
mucous membrane, and the 
mucus which these glands 
secrete is kept moving 
toward the mouth or nos- 
trils by the lashing of 
minute hairlike extensions 
(cilia) of the cytoplasm of 




FIG. 119. Ciliated epithelium from the 
respiratory tract 

Each cell rests on the basement membrane, 
6, and some of the cells extend to the sur- 
face ; c, cilia ; t, connective tissue ; g, g, g, g, 
cells in the cytoplasm of which mucin is 
being manufactured ; one of these cells is 
seen discharging its mucin, m, upon the 
free surface of the air passage 



the living cells (see Fig. 
119). In this tenacious 
fluid most of these organ- 
isms as well as particles of 
dust, etc. are caught and carried back to the exterior. 
Where the mouth and nasal cavities pass into the throat 
are organs the tonsils from which leucocytes creep by 
amoeboid movement (p. 137 and Fig. 66) into the mouth and 

397 



398 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



throat where they devour many bacteria. Still another 
barrier is the acid of the gastric juice, which kills a large 
percentage of the bacteria swallowed with the food. 

These defenses, however, although highly effective, are 
not perfect, and it often happens that microbes gain a foot- 
hold in places where they are partially protected in one way 
or another from defensive agents. Under these conditions 
they are not completely killed off ; at 
best they are only retarded in activity 
and growth. Nowhere does this hap- 
pen more frequently than in the mouth 
and nasal cavities themselves, and few 
advances of recent years in the field of 
hygiene are greater than the recogni- 
tion of the importance of these infec- 
tions in the preservation of health. We 
shall begin our discussion of them with 
a description of the structure of the 
teeth and practical suggestions regard- 
ing their proper care. 

1. Structure of a tooth. A tooth has 
three parts the crown, or exposed 
portion ; the neck, a narrow constric- 
tion at the edge of the gum ; and the 
root, or roots, by which the tooth is 
fixed in the jawbone (see Fig. 158). 
The tooth consists of a hard body surrounding a central 
pulp cavity, filled with a loose connective tissue containing 
blood vessels and nerves, which enter the pulp cavity by a 
minute opening on the tip of each root. Elsewhere the pulp 
is surrounded by the hard parts of the organ, which consist 
of three different tissues. Immediately surrounding the pulp, 
both in the root and in the crown, is the dentine, which 
makes up the main bulk of the tooth; this is a hard struc- 
ture, containing some 65 per cent of mineral matter. It is 




FIG. 120. Section of an 

incisor tooth. After 

Spalteholz 

A, enamel; B, dentine; 
C, gum ; D, pulp ; E, jaw- 
bone ; F, cement 



HYGIENE OF MOUTH, NOSE, AND THROAT 399 

channeled, as shown in the figure, by minute canals, the 
dentinal tubules, which run into the pulp cavity. In the root 
the dentine is covered with cement, which is virtually bone 
in structure and composition. This bony covering of the 
root is connected with the jawbone, in which it is embedded, 
by a layer of fibrous connective tissue which is torn when 
the tooth is pulled. In the crown, or that part of the tooth 
not covered by the gum, the dentine is covered with enamel, 
the hardest substance in the body. This contains in the 
adult from 95 to 97 per cent of very insoluble mineral 
matter and is the protective covering of the tooth. In 
structure enamel consists of columns, hexagonal in section, 
set together so as to form an impenetrable mosaic covering. 
It is thus admirably fitted to protect the dentine and, indeed, 
the whole tooth from mechanical injury, from chemical 
erosion, and from bacterial action. In the region, however, 
where crown and root join (that is, where enamel ends and 
cement begins) these covering structures are thin and at times 
imperfect. Normally this part of the tooth is protected from 
access of microbes and other matter by the tightly adherent 
gum, but sometimes this protection is insufficient so that 
foreign matter (including microbes) can get between gum and 
tooth. Consequently this forms, perhaps, the most frequent 
point of attack upon the integrity of the tooth. 

2. Care of the teeth. Too much stress can hardly be laid 
on the preservation of the teeth. Apart from considerations 
touching personal appearance, the teeth are of great impor- 
tance in masticating the food. Mastication, or chewing, is 
one of the many acts of digestion, and when the power of 
chewing is impaired, the efficiency of the whole digestive 
process is to that extent lessened; other portions of the 
alimentary tract, especially the stomach, must then do, as 
far as possible, what should have been done by the teeth; 
digestion is hindered; some kinds of food are never properly 
digested ; and the opportunity for bacterial decomposition 



400 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of the food is greatly increased because of the prolonged 
exposure of the food to bacterial action. Besides, there is 
always the possibility that a decaying tooth will cause the 
formation of an abscess (an ulcerated tooth), often a most 
painful and sometimes a dangerous thing. 

3. Decay of the teeth is usually due to the action of 
bacteria, which grow upon food particles in the mouth and, 
in so doing, dissolve away the lime salts of the enamel and 
the dentine; the enamel, however, is acted upon very slowly 
and with great difficulty ; so long as it is intact the under- 
lying dentine, which is dissolved much more readily, is pro- 
tected ; but if for any reason the enamel becomes worn 
away, its absence should be made good by filling the 
tooth, thereby preventing access of foreign substances and, 
especially, of destructive bacteria to the dentine. 

The action of bacteria upon the enamel is favored by the 
formation of a hard deposit known as tartar, a mixture of 
lime salts precipitated from the saliva and especially apt to 
be deposited between the lower teeth and in the neighbor- 
hood of the gums. Sometimes tartar is even deposited 
under the gums, in which case it is inaccessible to the 
action of a brush. Because of this tartar crust, bacteria and 
their harmful products are not properly rubbed away by the 
movements of tongue and cheeks, and hence the importance 
of its artificial removal. This is greatly facilitated by using 
a tooth powder or paste which contains some substance, like 
precipitated chalk, not hard enough to injure the enamel but 
exerting friction enough to break up the deposit. At least 
once or twice a week a good tooth powder or paste should 
be used in cleaning the teeth. At other times the brush and 
water are sufficient. After using powder, indeed always 
after brushing the teeth, the mouth cavity should be very 
thoroughly rinsed out. 

It is, however, very difficult and at times impossible to 
remove the tartar entirely by the use of powder and brush. 



HYGIENE OF MOUTH, NOSE, AND THROAT 401 

For this reason the teeth should be examined by a dentist 
at least once a year, the accumulated tartar thoroughly re- 
moved, and the teeth polished. In this way the beginnings 
of decay are detected and measures can be taken to prevent 
its further progress. Further advice as to the care of the 
teeth can and should be obtained from a good dentist. 

Decay of the teeth caused by bacteria is also prevented 
by removing as far as possible the food supply of these 
organisms, to whose growth and activity nothing is more 
favorable than particles of food between the teeth or other- 
wise iii contact with them. The ideal plan is to brush the 
teeth with water and rinse out the mouth after each meal; in 
most cases this is perhaps more than is required ; it may be 
suggested, however, that the teeth should be brushed at 
night as well as in the morning, and that brushing them at 
night accomplishes more toward restraining bacterial action 
than does brushing them in the morning. 

Finally, keeping the teeth in sound condition is dependent 
on the maintenance of general health. The special measures 
we have outlined are useful and, indeed, necessary, but 
alone they do not guarantee success. The teeth, like other 
organs, require the good offices of the blood, the nervous 
system, etc., and everything which keeps the body in con- 
dition to do its work properly favors the sound condition 
of the teeth. 

4. Riggs's disease ; amoebic abscesses around the roots of 
the teeth. In addition to the above troubles, primarily in- 
volving decay of the enamel or dentine, another disease of 
the teeth is of great hygienic importance. This is the so- 
called Riggs's disease (^pyorrhea alveolaris), which consists in 
the formation of an abscess (or pus cavity) between the 
root of the tooth and the jawbone. These abscesses are 
essentially regions of active microbic growth, with more or 
less destruction of the tissues concerned. In the fight with 
the invading bacteria white blood corpuscles (leucocytes) 



402 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



enter in large numbers, so that the cavity of the abscess 
comes to be filled with a mass of thick liquid (pus) con- 
sisting of disintegrated tissue, the infecting microbes, and 
large numbers of leucocytes, which in this case are known 

as pus corpuscles. It 
has been shown that 
the microbe con- 
cerned in forming 
many, if not most, 
of these abscesses is 
a one-celled animal, 
known as amoeba, 
which, though larger, 
presents many points 
of similarity to the 
white blood cor- 
puscle. With the ex- 
tension of the abscess 
around the root, the 
tooth becomes loose 
in its socket and 

FIG. 121. Adenoid tissue from a lymphatic may finally drop out. 
gland. After Recklinghausen 




c, capillary ; s, lymph channels, bridged by a net- 
work of cells, through which the lymph flows; t, 
connective tissue septa between the channels ; the 
channels border on and surround masses of adenoid 
tissue containing growing and multiplying cells 
which pass into the lymph stream as leucocytes. 



Recently it has been 
found that the drug 
emetine, a constitu- 
ent of ipecac, often 
kills these amoebae 
and so stopsthe prog- 
ress of the abscess. 
Other abscesses around the root of the tooth are doubtless 
caused by certain bacteria. Absorption of the output of 
these various abscesses is believed to be depressing and 
sometimes dangerous. 

5. The tonsils ; adenoids. At the entrance of the mouth 
cavity into the throat or pharynx and in the pharynx itself 



HYGIENE OF MOUTH, NOSE, AND THliOAT 403 

are masses of adenoid tissue. 1 This consists of a network, 
the meshes of which are crowded with cells which by con- 
tinued growth and multiplication form one kind of leucocyte. 
The two largest of these masses (one on each side), the ton- 
sils of the palate, or in popular language " the tonsils," are 
readily seen on looking into the wide, open mouth. Another 
mass of the same tissue, the lingual tonsil, is a collection of 
lymph nodes at the base of the tongue in the median line ; 
while a third, the pharyngeal tonsils, extend over more than 
an inch of the dorsal (or posterior) wall of the upper, or 
respiratory, portion of the pharynx ; that is, above the level 
of the soft palate (see Fig. 14). Into each of these tonsils 
one or more blind tubes, or crypts, extend from the cavity 
of the pharynx. These crypts are lined with the same epi- 
dermal tissue as that which lines the general cavity of the 
pharynx, except that in then* deeper recesses it contains fewer 
layers of cells. Through this epidermis the white corpuscles 
push their way by pseudopodia into the mouth, where they 
are known as salivary corpuscles. These are readily seen 
when a drop of saliva is examined under the microscope. 

There is every reason to believe that this tonsillar lymphoid 
tissue placed at the entrance to the alimentary canal and the 
trachea performs the function of supplying large numbers of 
leucocytes to attack and kill invading bacteria. Unfortunately 
the tonsils are themselves liable to become infected, especially 
in their crypts, in which case we have enlarged and inflamed 
tonsils and also tonsillar abscesses, and the removal of the 
tonsils for such troubles is a very common operation. 

1 Many other masses of this tissue occur widely distributed in the body, 
chiefly as the enlargements on the course of the lymphatics, where they are 
known as lymph nodes, or lymphatic glands. The lymph current through the 
meshes of the lymph node carries leucocytes away with it and thus helps to 
keep up the normal number of white corpuscles in the blood. Other masses 
of the same tissue occur in the mucous membrane of the intestine, some of 
them of considerable size and readily seen with the naked eye. These are 
known as Peyer's patches. 



404 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



The pharyngeal tonsils sometimes enlarge, especially in. 
childhood, and form protruding masses, known as adenoids, 
within the nasal portion of the pharynx. These can obstruct the 
passage of air from the nasal cavity into the pharynx and so 
force mouth breathing, with its Attendant ills, upon the victim 
of the trouble. Relief is obtained by removal of the adenoids. 




FIG. 122. The lingual tonsil of man. From Ferguson's "Histology and 
Microscopical Anatomy" 

a, crypt of tonsil ; b, glands in connective tissue. The epithelium of the mouth 

extends into the crypt, and under this epithelium are the masses of adenoid 

tissue, whose corpuscles bore their way through the epithelium into the crypt, 

from which they enter the pharynx 

6. Focal infections. Any of the above infections or abscesses 
in teeth or tonsils obviously becomes the seat of a steady 
growth and multiplication of bacteria. Either these bacteria 
themselves or their harmful products (toxins) may be car- 
ried by the blood or lymph streams to other organs and there 
cause serious diseases, among which may be mentioned joint 
disease (arthritis, one form of what is popularly called rheu- 
matism), inflammatory changes in the lining membrane of the 



HYGIENE OF MOUTH, NOSE, AND THROAT 405 

heart, and possibly also gastric ulcer. Recent work indicates 
that other diseased conditions similarly have their origin in 
infected, teeth or tonsils. Such infections are known as focal 
infections, since they consist essentially in some localized seat 
(or focus) of microbic growth and multiplication. The focus 
may be elsewhere than in the organs of the mouth or pharynx ; 
tuberculosis, for example, is believed in many or perhaps in 
most cases to start from such unrecognized focal infections 
in lymph glands of the intestine or in other organs ; these 
infections are acquired in childhood, where they remain latent 
until later life, when the pulmonary consumption develops 
as a " secondary " infection from this primary focus. In their 
detection and treatment skilled medical advice is necessary ; 
for the present we have only to call attention to the impor- 
tance of the mouth, nose, and pharynx as situations in which 
they are especially liable to occur, but in which they are 
fortunately accessible to treatment. Doubtless the ear, nose, 
and throat specialist will in the future be consulted as regu- 
larly as the dentist to detect the beginnings of trouble and 
so to conserve health. 

7. Hygiene of the nasal cavities. The two nasal cavities 
into which the nostrils open are separated from each other 
by a median partition, or septum, supported by cartilage and 
bone. The walls of the septum are smooth, that is, not 
thrown into folds. The outer side of each nasal cavity, on 
the other hand, consists of very complicated folds of highly 
vascular mucous membrane, kept warm by the relatively 
large quantity of blood flowing through it and moist from 
the secretion of the mucous fluid upon its surface. These 
folds nearly fill the nasal cavity, leaving only narrow pas- 
sages for the air from the nostrils to the pharynx. Ciliated 
cells sweep outward toward the nostrils the fluid moistening 
the surface. The entire structure serves the threefold pur- 
pose of warming the inspired air, of saturating this air with 
moisture so that it will not dry the throat and bronchial 



406 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

tubes, and of arresting the passage inwards of particles of 
dust, microbes, etc. For these purposes the nasal mucous 
membrane is much more effective than that of the mouth, 
because of the greater surface exposed to the incoming ah-. 
Hence the hygienic value of breathing through the nose 
rather than through the mouth. In children mouth breath- 
ing is also harmful to the developing teeth and gums and 
results in a malformation of the jawbones which interferes 
with proper enunciation. It is easy to see why adenoids 
should produce the same deformity. 

Small openings from the nasal cavities lead into large 
cavities, or sinuses, within the bones of the skull. 1 These 
sinuses are lined by the same sort of mucous membrane 
with ciliated cells as that of the nasal cavity itself. They 
are of importance hygienically in that inflammatory infec- 
tions of the nasal mucous membrane (" colds in the head ") 
may extend into them, causing the so-called sinus infections. 
These are sometimes very serious troubles, at times requir- 
ing surgical treatment. 

Finally, in view of the occurrence of infections in the 
nasal cavities and their communicating sinuses, and also in 
view of the fact that the mucous fluid moistening these 
cavities often contains infectious microbes removed from 
the inspired air, it becomes a matter of hygienic duty not 
to sneeze without placing a handkerchief in front of the 
nostrils. This simple precaution prevents the discharge of 
infectious material into the surrounding atmosphere and 
hence lessens the chance of infecting others. When one has 
a cold in the head and, especially, when one has tuberculosis 
of the lungs, it is hygienically a misdemeanor to sneeze or 
cough in a room without taking this precaution against in- 
fecting others ; and the habit of using the handkerchief when 
coughing or sneezing is one that everybody should acquire. 

1 One of the largest of these sinuses is shown in the upper jawbone, 
above the roots of the teeth, in Fig. 158. 



CHAPTER XXIY 
THE HYGIENE OF THE FEET 

The hygienic care of the feet consists essentially in main- 
taining the ability of those organs to bear easily and with- 
out discomfort the weight of the body. " Weak feet " are 
to blame for many unhealthf u.1 conditions ; the discomfort or 
pain which they cause as one goes about the ordinary occu- 
pations of life subjects their possessor to nervous strain and 
often prevents the enjoyment of that muscular activity which 
the maintenance of health requires. Nor is it generally 




FIG. 123. Bones of the right foot 
Seen from the outer side 

known that this state of affairs may be very largely avoided 
by intelligent care. In the majority of cases weakness of 
foot is the result of maltreatment of the foot and not the 
result of inborn structural defects. 

Each foot consists of no less than twenty-six small bones 
joined by ligaments and held in proper position relative to 
one another by the action of a number of muscles. The 
key to the understanding of the hygiene of the foot is the 
fact that it is upon the proper performance of the work 
of these muscles that the strength of the foot primarily 

407 



408 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

depends and that the weakening of the foot is due to 
interference with their action, chiefly by the use of wrongly 
shaped shoes. 

1. The arches of the foot. The bones of the foot should 
form two well-marked arches. One of these is the con- 
spicuous arch of the instep and the other a less conspicuous 
but important transverse arch immediately back of the toes. 
Not only is the preservation of these arches important be- 
cause they help to relieve the joints above them of jar but 
also because under them lie nerves, blood vessels, lymphatics, 




FIG. 124. Longitudinal section through the bones of the foot 

Showing the arch of the instep and the attachment of the tendon of the calf 
muscle to the heel bone 

and other tissues, which are injured when, the arch gives 
way and permits pressure upon them from above. Fig. 164 
shows the action of one of the groups of muscles which 
maintain the arch of the instep and illustrates, in principle, 
how muscular action keeps the bones in proper relative 
positions. The muscles shown in the figure (the short flexors 
of the toes) act like the string of a bow and, by contracting, 
resist the tendency of the weight of the body to break the 
arch down. Other groups of muscles are concerned, but it 
is unnecessary that we go into the details of their action. 
Enough has been said to show the importance of keeping 
these muscles strong, so that they may do the work imposed 
upon them. 



THE HYGIENE OF THE FEET 409 

The groups of muscles specially concerned are those 
which move the toes, and these, like other muscles, can be 
kept strong only by use. Consequently interference with the 
freedom of action of the toes must lead to the disuse and 
partial degeneration (weakening) of the muscles in question. 
The fundamental principle in the care of the foot is none other 
than the maintenance of the freedom of motion of the toes, together 
with the use of the toes as well as the ankle in locomotion. 

2. The foot of the infant and the adult foot. Every 
human being begins life with a foot possessing wide range 
of movement, amounting almost to a grasping power. It is 




FIG. 125. Ligaments of the foot and ankle 

most instructive to watch a baby use its toes ; not only are 
they bent downward or upward (plantar and dorsal flexion) 
and spread apart (abducted) with the greatest ease, but in 
walking the toes fairly grasp, or dig into, the ground. The 
adult foot of civilized man usually presents a painful con- 
trast to this. Generally the toes are crammed together, their 
power of spreading apart is wholly lost, and their movements 
take no part whatever in walking. The foot, in other words, 
is reduced almost to the condition of a shoemaker's last. 

Nor is this a natural change due to growth and develop- 
ment. It is produced by the use of shoes which permit no 
adequate movement of the toes and therefore lead to disuse of 
the muscles in question. Walking thus comes to be performed 



410 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

almost entirely with muscles which act upon the ankle 
joint, the one articulation of the foot at which movement 
is still possible ; whereas had the toes been allowed perfect 
freedom of action, the work of lifting the weight of the 
body from the ground with each step would have been 
shared by both groups of muscles those which raise the 
heel and those . which flex the toes. That this is tine is 
shown by the feet of people who have not worn constrict- 
ing shoes, for in their case the toes are moved freely and 
perform an important share in locomotion. 1 

If it be asked why the flexors of the toes as well as the 
extensors of the ankle should take part in the act of walk- 
ing, the answer is that it is precisely ' the disuse of the 
former which leads to their degeneration, so that they are 
no longer efficient in opposing the tendency of the weight 
of the body to break down the arches of the foot. It is 
true that " flat foot " is not the invariable result of this dis- 
use, because some people are so fortunate as to possess liga- 
ments of sufficient strength to hold the bones together despite 
the pressure of this weight, and also because tightly fitting 
shoes often assist in holding the bones in position. But it is 
also true that many others are not so fortunate ; one or both 
arches give way, and some suffer agony as the result. Even 
if the arches do not break down, the foot is generally unable 
to stand the strain of prolonged walking without marked dis- 
comfort, and it is not too much to say that this weakness of 
the foot is one of the chief reasons why most people regard 
a walk of ten or twelve miles as a great task. 

1 The action of each of these groups of muscles may be made clear as 
follows : With the bare feet take a step forward by first raising the heel 
and then pushing off by bending the toes downward as far as possible. It 
will be found that this second movement is capable of assisting to a very 
considerable extent in pushing the body forward. The student should thus 
make himself practically familiar with the difference between (1) walking 
when only the heel is raised and the toes passively bent upward as the step 
is completed, and (2) walking when the raising of the heel is followed by 
the active contraction of the plantar flexors of the toes. 



THE HYGIENE OF THE FEET 



411 



The hygienic care of the foot in actual practice consists 
(1) in the use of properly fitting shoes, (2) in avoiding all 
interference with the circulation of blood in the foot, (3) in 
maintaining proper conditions of temperature and moisture 
within the shoe, and (4) in the training and use of the 
muscles of the foot, so as to keep them functionally strong 
and active. 






FIG. 126. Correct and incorrect shapes of the sole of the shoe 

Outline of the sole in solid lines ; of the natural shape of the foot in dotted lines. 

A, correct shape; in B the shape is correct except that the median line of the 

sole is not straight in the region of the toes, thus pressing the great toe over 

toward the other toes ; C has not only this defect but is too narrow 

3. Shoes. Among the most important requirements of a 
good shoe are the following: (1) The sole of the shoe 
should everywhere be as wide as the sole of the foot when 
one is standing and the feet are warm. (2) The heels should 
be low and broad. (3) The sole and uppers should be suffi- 
ciently flexible to permit without great resistance the bending 
of the foot at the transverse line of articulation of the toes 



412 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

with the instep. Many shoes, otherwise correct, are faulty 
in that the sole or the upper from the heel forward is too 
stiff to permit the efficient action of the toe movements. 
(4) The inner (or median) side of the shoe should be 
" straight," that is, the prolongation of the median line 
of the great toe should touch the heel. Fig. 126 shows 
the proper and improper shape of the shoe in this respect. 
Unless the foot is already greatly deformed, no shoe should 
be tolerated which does not permit the great toe and, for 
that matter, all the toes to point straight forward, since 
otherwise it is not easy to flex them. Not only is the 
" toothpick " shoe a hygienic abomination, but any shoe in 
which the inner or median side slopes outward toward the 
toe is highly objectionable (see Fig. 126, B). (5) In the 
region of the toes the shoes should have sufficient room to 
permit perfect freedom of motion in the toes. 

4. Shoes for deformed feet. It must be frankly admitted 
that shoes which fill all the above requirements are uncom- 
fortable to many feet. But this is only because such feet have 
already become deformed. In such cases the attempt should 
be made to bring the foot back toward its normal shape by 
gradually approaching the lines above indicated. With some 
hopelessly deformed feet this is, of course, impossible, but 
with many others great improvement is possible. 

Upon one point there can be no yielding: children should 
wear only properly shaped shoes. It is a pitiable sight to see 
the foot of a child, broadening out as it does toward the 
mobile toes, forced into a shoe which seems to be con- 
structed on the assumption that nature ought to have made 
the human foot wedge-shaped and that it is man's part to 
improve on nature. 

Recent years have witnessed marked improvement in the 
shape of shoes. Fortunately it is now possible in many places 
to buy properly made shoes ; but further improvement is still 
possible, both among those who make shoes and those who 



THE HYGIENE OF THE FEET 413 

buy them. As a matter of common sense nothing could be 
more absurd than the custom of changing the shape of shoes 
each season merely to bring out a new style ; nor would this 
be done if people were more generally informed as to the re- 
quirements of a good shoe and insisted on having only those 
which meet these requirements. In so far only as there is a 
general demand for such shoes in any community, will manu- 
facturers supply them. The remedy lies with the public rather 
than with the manufacturers. 

And this same public must learn that neither from the 
hygienic nor from the aesthetic standpoint is a small foot 
with a pointed toe and high heel the ideal foot. Such is 
not the foot of the Apollo Belvedere nor that of the Venus 
of Melos. It is simply a deformity, belonging in the same 
category with the constricted waist, and far more harmful to 
its possessor than the ear or nose ornaments of the Hottentot. 
No hygienic lesson is more important than that clothing 
should fit the body, and not the body the clothing. 

5. Interference with the circulation in the foot. By lacing 
the shoe too tightly, especially around the top, and by the 
use of tight garters the superficial veins which bring blood 
back from portions of the foot are often compressed. More 
or less of passive congestion results, and this not only pro- 
duces discomfort but introduces in other ways conditions 
highly unfavorable for the free action of the foot; conse- 
quently it is part of the hygiene of that organ to avoid 
these congestions at all times. Garters should always be 
adjustable in length to the size of the leg, and shoes should 
not be laced tightly. 

6. Proper conditions of temperature and moisture within the 
shoe. Although the best of shoes are but poorly adapted to 
care for the perspiration and to maintain an equable temper- 
ature of the foot, some shoes are preferable to others in these 
respects. Thus any "patent" or "enamel" leather is objec- 
tionable for walking, because it is almost impervious to 



414 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

moisture. In such shoes the foot becomes overheated while 
one is walking, because the perspiration does not evaporate 
from its surface; and if one afterwards sits still, the feet are 
apt to become cold because the wet stockings make 'a good 
conductor of heat. Because their surface radiates heat with 
such ease these shoes are cold in cold weather, and because 
they prevent the evaporation of perspiration they are hot in 
hot weather. Canvas shoes are the reverse of enamel and 
are highly commendable for active exercise, especially in 
summer time. 

The " russet " shoe for summer wear is a great boon. The 
leather of which it is made is as porous as any on the 
market and because of its color absorbs less heat in warm 
weather. The failure of the attempt a few years ago to 
retire these shoes from sale is good evidence that people 
can get a certain shoe if only they insist upon having it. 

In brief, the feet should be kept dry and neither dis- 
tinctly warm nor cold. Anything which interferes with 
these conditions should be attended to; shoes and stockings 
should be changed as frequently as necessary and only such 
footwear used as maintains as far as possible the ideal 
conditions given above. 

7. The proper physical training of the foot. It is quite 
possible to meet all the above hygienic conditions and yet 
have feet which are incapable of doing the work which we 
have a right to demand of them. As was shown at the out- 
set, the action of the foot in bearing the weight of the body 
is not a passive but an active one. Muscles must assist in 
holding the bones in place when one is standing still, and 
they must operate the foot during the act of locomotion. 
The physical training of the foot therefore consists (1) in 
securing adequate strength of these muscles and (2) in 
establishing right habits in using them. 

Since the muscles in which strength is especially needed 
are those which produce plantar (downward) flexion of the 



THE HYGIENE OF THE FEET 415 

toes, we may strengthen these muscles by such exercises as 
pressing as hard as possible with the toes against the floor 
or the footboard of a bed, by attempting to " stand on tip- 
toe," *and by the familiar gymnastic movement of " heels 
raise, knees bend," etc. 

Among the habits which should be cultivated may be 
mentioned, first of all, walking and running with the foot 
straight forward instead of toeing outward. The bones 
which form any hinge joint, like that of the ankle, should 
move in a plane perpendicular to the axis of motion in the 
joint, and this is possible in the case in question only when 
the feet are pointed forward. It is absolutely wrong to 
teach children to toe outward in walking, and they would 
never do so were they left to themselves and their feet 
clothed in proper shoes. 

In addition to this the habit should be cultivated of com- 
pleting each step by "digging into the ground" with all the 
toes. This cultivates the use of the foot muscles in locomo- 
tion, along with the use of those which raise the heel, and 
the habit once acquired and regularly practiced keeps these 
muscles strong. 

Finally, it must be remembered that the training of these 
muscles, like the training of all muscles, must be a gradual 
process. Where they have been weakened by improper use, 
one must proceed to strengthen them little by little from 
day to day, and in no case make the mistake of imposing 
upon them work which they are unable to bear. Most cases 
of " weak ankles " can be cured if taken in time and their 
muscles gradually trained. But these muscles can never be 
trained by imposing upon them sudden and severe work 
which, in their weakened condition, they are unable to per- 
form. The fatigue thus induced too often prevents their 
working at all, thus leaving the weight of the body free to 
strain ligaments and do other damage which may leave the 
foot in a worse condition than before. 



416 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

We have already insisted (p. 313) upon the importance 
of walking as a means of general muscular activity ; and we 
may urge in concluding this chapter that the chief hygienic 
importance of the care and training of the feet lies not so 
much in the fact that the danger of acquiring flat foot is 
thereby lessened as in the fact that we thereby maintain in 
good working order this essential part of the mechanism of 
locomotion. American men, and especially American women, 
compare very unfavorably with their English cousins in the 
ability to enjoy walking and tramping; and while this is 
partly due to the general disuse of walking as a means of 
exercise, and perhaps partly to our warmer summers and 
fewer paths and pleasure grounds, it is equally attributable 
to the deformation of the feet, which robs those organs of 
the power and even the possibility of performing with ease 
their natural function. 



CHAPTER XXV 
BATHING 

1. The hygiene of bathing. The principal hygienic pur- 
pose of bathing may be stated in one word, namely, clean- 
liness. A bath is often stimulating and refreshing, and 
special kinds of baths may be used upon occasions for 
good and useful ends ; their value in the treatment of 
many diseases is coming to be widely recognized, and 
even in health they may be useful as aids to the best 
working power. But experience shows that it is not neces- 
sary, even if it be refreshing, for a healthy person leading 
a healthy life to use bathing for any other purpose than 
cleanliness. 

The sweat glands and the sebaceous glands pour out 
upon the skin secretions which primarily serve the useful 
purposes of regulating the temperature of the body and 
keeping pliable the horny layer of the epidermis. Each of 
these secretions contains solid material, which, as the water 
of perspiration evaporates, is left on the surface of the skin 
or in the ducts of the sweat glands ; some of the solids, too, 
are either themselves odorous or else are putrescible, giving 
rise to offensive decomposition products; consequently it is 
a duty which everyone owes to his fellow man to bathe so 
as to be clean and to render that bathing effective by wearing 
clean clothes. A clean person, clean clothing, a clean house, 
clean premises, clean streets, a clean town, are so many 
forms of that habit of cleanliness which is one of the 
characteristics of high civilization, one of the fundamental 
elements of self-respect and proper living. 

417 



418 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Besides this, filth and dirt are effective carriers of dis- 
ease; consequently bathing and the use of clean clothing 
diminish the chance of infection. Finally, personal cleanli- 
ness helps to keep the skin in a healthy condition, and this 
alone is a sufficient reason for making it a rule in the 
hygienic conduct of life. 

2. The indifferent bath. A bath which is neither distinctly 
cold nor hot may be said, in general, to answer all purposes 
of cleanliness. The temperature of such a bath varies be- 
tween 80 and 90 F. with different individuals. When 
soap is used, water of this temperature removes the waste 
products from the skin sufficiently for all practical pur- 
poses, especially when such a bath is taken daily. Indifferent 
baths are, however, without any stimulating (or depressing) 
physiological effect, provided they are not taken in a cold 
room ; and for some people they are the most advisable 
form of bathing. 

3. The hot bath used alone is generally held to be inad- 
visable. Many, perhaps most, people find that it is followed 
by an enervating effect and that caution is required in the 
subsequent exposure to cold. These effects, however, are 
generally obviated by following the hot bath with a cold 
needle bath, a cold shower, or a cold plunge, followed by 
a good " rubdown," and possibly this procedure may be 
recommended as the most useful and beneficial form of 
bathing for the great majority of people. The hot bath 
serves the purposes of cleanliness more effectively than the 
indifferent bath, and the shock of the cold bath is not so 
trying to many people when taken immediately after the 
skin has thus been thoroughly warmed. Too frequent and 
especially too prolonged hot bathing, however, is apt to 
remove too much oil from the skin. 

Hot baths, either of the body as a whole or at times a hot 
foot bath, are often useful in bringing the blood to the skin 
and thus checking a threatened cold or other inflammatory 



BATHING 419 

process. Special care is needed, however, in this case to avoid 
subsequent exposure to cold. It should also be remembered 
that a very hot bath is a strong stimulus to the nervous 
system as a whole. 

4. The cold bath is a powerful stimulus to the nervous 
system. When the irritability of the latter is low, as when 
we awake from slumber, it "wakes us up," and immediately 
after it we feel distinct exhilarating effects. In addition to* 
this it probably serves as a training to the heat-regulating 
mechanism of the body, " hardening " the body to the effects 
of cold. Undoubtedly its influence with a large propprtion 
of healthy people is beneficial, though, as we shall see, this 
is not the case with all. Before dealing with this side of 
the question we may give some rules which are always 
applicable in the use of such baths. 

First, they should not be prolonged. To stay in a cold 
bath longer than one minute is undesirable save in a very 
few exceptional cases ; thirty seconds is the usual time, 
while with some people ten seconds is the maximum. 

Second, a cold bath should be taken when the skin is 
warm. Immediately on rising in the morning, immediately 
after muscular exercise, or immediately after a hot bath it is 
most beneficial and least likely to produce bad after-effects. 

Cold bathing should always be followed, except in warm 
weather, by a good rubdown with a rough towel. This 
promotes a good flow of blood through the skin and adds 
to the tonic effects. 

A cold bath should not be taken in a cold room. Many 
profit by its use in summer, but experience undesirable 
effects in winter. 

Third, cold bathing should not be used unless it is fol- 
lowed by what is called the " reaction " ; that is, unless 
it produces a distinct glow in the skin. The persistence of 
pallor in the skin after the rubdown is proof that the 
system does not react properly, and is a warning that this 



420 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

form of bathing should be given up or at least modified. 
This does not mean that the bath necessarily agrees with 
us if it does produce the " glow," for this is only one of its 
after-effects, and we must judge of its usefulness not by 
one but by the sum total of the effects produced. 

Fourth, no bath, unless it be possibly the indifferent bath, 
should be taken within an hour or more after a meal. The 
evidence of experience on this point is so unmistakable that 
nothing more need be said about it. 

It would be a mistake to discourage all bathing except 
that which is used for purposes of cleanliness ; and when 
we insist that both hot and cold baths are an artificial ele- 
ment introduced into the environment, it is only to enforce 
the need of carefully observing the effects of their use. No 
one is justified in saying that these baths are necessarily 
good for all healthy people ; no one is justified in recom- 
mending them as essential elements in the hygienic conduct 
of life. They must be judged by their effects, and when sub- 
mitted to this standard it would appear that while they are 
beneficial to some people they are harmful to others. 

We must furthermore distinguish between the immediate 
results, those noticed later in the day, and the remote results. 
The immediate effects may be exhilarating ; we may " feel 
splendid" afterward, and yet this feeling may be succeeded 
by one of depression. At times cold bathing on rising in 
the morning results in constipation, although the bath itself 
may be enjoyable. This may be exceptional, but it shows 
that everyone must determine for himself the value of the 
bath by the sum total of its after-effects and not alone by 
those which accompany or immediately follow it. 

5. Swimming and salt-water bathing. When one is swim- 
ming, the heat produced within the body by muscular exer- 
tion counteracts to some extent the effect of the cool or cold 
water applied to the skin. Hence it is possible to remain in 
the water a longer time with safety and even with profit 



BATHING 421 

than in the ordinary cold bath. It is quite impossible, how- 
ever, to give definite rules as to the length of time one 
should remain in the water, since this depends on the 
amount of muscular activity, on the temperature of the 
water, and on the condition of the bather. But the hygienic 
value of swimming and sea bathing must be determined 
by the same tests as have been urged in the case of cold 
bathing in general. 

It is also important to remember the danger of going into 
cold water when one is fatigued from muscular exertion. 
The fatigued muscles seem especially liable to go into cramps 
under these conditions, and persons have been drowned in 
this way before help could reach them. 

When one takes vigorous daily exercise the best time for 
the bath is immediately after the exercise. One is then in a 
perspiration and it is best to change the clothing. The skin 
is most readily cleaned in this condition, and most persons 
find a hot bath, with or without the use of soap, followed 
by a short, cold needle bath, shower, or plunge, preferable 
to other forms of bathing. The time for bathing, however, 
like the time for eating, must depend on one's work in life. 
We do not live to bathe, any more than we live to eat. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

CLOTHING 1 

1. The hygienic object of clothing. Even in the savage 
state some races clothe themselves thoroughly. The Eskimos, 
for example, go warmly clad in furs, and the wild Indians 
who once inhabited the northern United States wore, at least 
in winter, the skins of animals. In the tropics, on the other 
hand, as in northern Africa or the islands of the South Seas, 
very little clothing is worn, and that more for the sake of 
decency or ornament than for warmth. In these facts we 
find the hygienic reason for the use of clothing, namely, to aid 
the body in maintaining its constant .temperature. In cold 
weather, clothing is a kind of portable house, a close and 
intimate shelter, an indispensable aid to the skin in prevent- 
ing undue loss of heat ; on the other hand, summer clothing 
should interfere no more than is unavoidably necessary with 
the dissipation of heat from the skin. If, in winter, warm 
days come, or if the body becomes heated by muscular 
activity, or if (as too often happens) houses or public 
places are overheated, then winter clothing may not only 
become a burden but may be actually unhygienic. Con- 
versely, if in a changeable climate cold days or nights come 
in summer, or sea winds blow damp as well as cold, then 
ordinary summer clothing may prove to be insufficient. Here, 
as always, the individual must be the watchful guardian of 
his own welfare. 

1 The student is advised to review Part I. Chapter XII, before studying 
this chapter. Chapter XXI, on the Prevention and Care of Colds and Some 
Other Inflammations, may also be profitably reviewed. 

422 



CLOTHING 423 

Clothing affects the temperature regulation of the body by 
its influence upon the loss of heat from the skin ; and the 
two channels of this heat loss are (1) heat transfer to colder 
objects and (2) the evaporation of perspiration. 

1. Clothing and the transfer of heat. Any fabric whose 
texture permits the air warmed by contact with the skin to 
be replaced readily by colder air from without will obviously 
favor the cooling of the skin ; and conversely, any garment 
which lessens or altogether prevents these currents of air 
through it is to that extent a warm garment. The leather 
hunting jacket lined with wool or fur is especially warm, 
and a newspaper under one's coat or jacket similarly affords 
a large measure of protection against cold. On the other 
hand, a rubber coat may be very uncomfortable on a warm 
day, although the effect in this case is due to its interference 
with the evaporation of the perspiration as well as to the 
prevention of the passage of air through the garment. 

Even apart from the passage of air through the clothing, 
heat may, of course, be transferred from the skin to the 
outer air, and some fabrics transfer heat more readily than 
others. Other things being equal, the rate at which clothing 
transfers heat depends on the amount of air within its meshes. 
Thus wool is warmer than cotton not because of any differ- 
ence in conductivity of the two kinds of fibers but because 
when wool fibers are made into yarn their stiffness and 
elasticity keep them apart, so that garments woven from 
this yarn always contain spaces filled with air, which is a 
poor conductor of heat. Moreover, the same properties of 
the fibers prevent then- being pressed and felted together 
in laundering, as ordinarily happens with cotton and linen 
fabrics. We shall see that cotton and linen may be so 
woven as to avoid this result, as in many " meshwork " 
fabrics, but they are not usually so woven. 

A moment's thought will show that the warmth of a dry 
garment will depend on the size of its meshes. These may be 



424 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

so fine and close as to inclose an insufficient quantity of the 
nonconducting air, or they may be so large as to permit too 
free circulation. It is also clear that the warmth of a garment 
is not determined by its weight or thickness alone. 

2. Clothing and the perspiration: So long as the meshes of 
a fabric contain air, heat is conducted but slowly from the 
skin. When, however, this air is partially or entirely replaced 
by water, the fabric transfers heat from the skin much more 
rapidly, and if the surrounding atmosphere is distinctly 
colder than the body, the skin becomes chilled and internal 
organs congested ; hence the danger of wet clothing. 

More important still is the relation of clothing to the 
evaporation of perspiration. We have learned that perspira- 
tion is useful to the body only as it evaporates. Consequently 
the clothing should be such as will permit the perspiration to 
evaporate almost as fast as it is secreted. The skin will thus 
be cooled at the time that the needs of the body require 
such cooling, and the clothing will not remain wet after the 
secretion of perspiration has ceased and the need for cooling 
the skin no longer exists. Or if it is not possible to secure 
this rapid drying, the fabric should contain, even while 
moist, a considerable quantity of air within its meshes, 
thereby checking the loss of heat from the skin. 

2. The clothing worn next the skin and the outer clothing. 
Consideration of the above relations of clothing to heat trans- 
fer and to the evaporation of perspiration shows at once that 
the clothing worn, next the skin must fulfill requirements 
not demanded of the outer clothing. The sole hygienic pur- 
pose of the latter is warmth, and the fabric should be chosen 
accordingly. In warm weather, in well-heated rooms, and 
during muscular activity warm outer clothing is undesirable; 
on the other hand, when the body is exposed to cold and is 
not at the same time engaged in muscular exertion, the 
outer clothing should be chosen for warmth ; for this purpose 
woolen fabrics are superior to all others. 



CLOTHING 425 

The clothing worn next the skin must, in addition, care 
for the perspiration. For those forced by age or other 
physical disability to lead sedentary lives, woolen under- 
wear is very useful in cold weather. Since in the case 
of such persons the blood is not brought to the skin by 
muscular activity, it is necessary that the skin be kept 
warm and internal congestions prevented. For such per- 
sons woolen fabrics are probably superior to all others. 
Moreover, during exposure to extreme cold, when little or 
no perspiration is secreted even during vigorous muscular 
work, woolen underwear is superior for everyone because 
of its greater warmth. 

For healthy people, however, in the full vigor of life, 
taking daily muscular exercise but not exposed to extremes 
of cold, woolen underwear presents many serious draw- 
backs. In the first place its very warmth is objectionable 
during muscular activity, because it makes more difficult 
the discharge of the surplus heat. In the second place, 
wool absorbs the perspiration very slowly and so prevents 
its evaporation from the outer surface of the garment ; the 
perspiration does not cool the body as it should, but remains 
between the skin and the garment an unhealthful con- 
dition for the skin. In the third place, when the garment 
has once become " wet through," that is, the air within its 
meshes has been largely displaced by water, it dries more 
slowly than a linen or a cotton garment. 

It is better, in other words, for healthy people to depend 
upon the outer clothing, including overcoats, etc., for warmth, 
when protection against cold is needed, rather than upon 
even moderately heavy underwear. In this way it is pos- 
sible readily to relieve the body of its heavier clothing when 
it becomes necessary to get rid of surplus heat, that is, in 
warm rooms and during muscular activity in only moderate 
cold weather, and yet to protect one's self against cold when 
such protection is necessary. 



426 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

Of late years the attempt has been made, with considerable 
success, to weave linen, and even cotton, so as to contain fairly 
large meshes between the threads. The perspiration is rapidly 
brought to the surface of the garment through the threads by 
capillary attraction and so evaporates quickly ; for this reason 
the garment dries readily and, even while wet, usually retains 
a considerable quantity of air within its meshes. 

The thickness of underwear, as well as of the garments 
worn immediately over it, should be determined by the 
amount of exposure to cold when at rest. When our houses 
or offices are properly heated (65 to 70 F.) in winter heavy 
clothing is as much to be condemned as the too common 
overheating of our rooms, and for the same reason. When, 
on the other hand, our work is out of doors in cold weather 
but involves only a small amount of muscular activity, 
warmer clothing should be worn ; in this case the use of 
heavy woolen underwear is advisable. 

It is unnecessary to go further into details. The student 
can solve special problems for himself, always remembering 
that proper clothes are such as will prevent undue loss of 
heat and consequent chilling of the skin (with accompanying 
internal congestions) when the body is at rest. 

3. The outer clothing. Of this little need be said. By 
varying the thickness of the outer clothing we adapt it to 
the conditions of life. It must also be chosen with reference 
to its permeability to air. In hot summer weather it should 
be as thin and porous as possible ; in whiter it should pro- 
tect from wind. When still further protection is needed, it 
may be obtained by the use of overcoats, gloves, muffs, lap 
robes, or other wraps. 

Some people do not use sufficiently warm clothing in cold 
weather, but most adults make the opposite mistake. The 
custom of using very thick clothing in cold weather appears 
to have been inherited from- the time when houses were 
poorly heated, when transportation from place to place was 



CLOTHING 427 

in cold cars or carriages, and when, in general, the human 
race was more exposed to cold than it is to-day. Where 
these conditions prevail, as they still do in many country 
districts, heavy clothing should no doubt be worn in winter. 
The same may be said of driving in open vehicles, such as 
sleighs, etc. But in cities, where houses are more likely to 
be overheated than underheated, where steam and electric 
cars are far from being chilly, where, in short, we need not 
generally be exposed to cold except when w r alking or taking 
other muscular exercise, the main dependence for protection 
against cold should be upon the outer wrappings rather than 
upon the underwear the coat and trousers, or the dress. We 
do not change to heavy clothing in summer when the ther- 
mometer falls to 65 or 70 F., and there is no" reason why 
we should use such clothing at these temperatures in winter. 
The precautions which many take against sudden changes of 
weather are often excessive. 

4. Clothing not the only protection against cold. It must 
be remembered that we have another means of protection 
against cold besides clothing, and that is muscular activity. 
Even if, as often happens, a balmy morning passes into a 
chilly afternoon, most people, especially those living in cities, 
should be able to keep warm by a brisk walk when going 
home ; a little exposure to cold will not harm, but will 
rather harden, a healthy man or woman. If we are tired 
out and ought not to walk, we can usually ride in a heated 
car. To wear heavier clothing than the probable necessities 
of the case demand, merely because there is a chance that 
suitable weather for such clothing may overtake us, is in 
general unwise. Oppressed with its weight and warmth, the 
usual result is a disinclination to any vigorous muscular 
activity while out of doors, and this in the long run is more 
harmful than a comparatively brief chilling of the skin. 

5. Clothing should not be heavy. The reference in the last 
paragraph to the burden of heavy clothing deserves further 



428 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

consideration. The terms " warm," " thick," and <f heavy," 
as applied to clothing, are often used as if they were synony- 
mous, although a thick garment is not necessarily a heavy 
garment, and a thinner but more loosely woven coat may be 
warmer than one which is thicker but more closely woven. 
In the selection of clothing it is always advisable, not only 
as a matter of personal comfort but also as a matter of 
practical hygiene, to avoid heavy fabrics. While this holds 
especially for invalids and elderly people, to whom the 
burden is more oppressive, it also holds for the young and 
strong. The clothing should be such as will interfere in the 
least degree with the freedom of bodily movements. Not 
only should everyone avoid such fashions as tight lacing 
and high-heeled boots so senseless as to be beneath the 
contempt of those who respect the human body and care for 
its physical well-being but care should be taken to have 
the clothing everywhere loose enough to be comfortable and, 
above all, light enough so that its weight is not a burden. 
For this reason a very close weave is objectionable except in 
windy weather, since it gives great weight of fabric with but 
small air contents. 



DOMESTIC HYGIENE AND SANITATION 



CHAPTER XXVII 

THE HOUSE: ITS SITE, CONSTRUCTION, 
FURNISHINGS, AND CARE 

1. The family a private community. Every human being 
has not only individual, or personal, relations with his environ- 
ment but also various other, and public relations, since the 
life of an individual is always more or less closely connected 
with the lives of other human beings. Each individual or 
person is a member of some family and also of some village, 
town, city, state, or nation. Connections of this kind con- 
stitute kinship, relationship, and fellowship and are commonly 
described as social relations (socius, " a fellow "). They 
are nowhere more conspicuous than in matters of life and 
death, health and disease. The human infant is absolutely 
dependent upon parental care, and among civilized people 
the sick, the aged, the dying, and the dead must be tenderly 
cared for by those who are alive and well. But this is not 
all, for sickness is frequently " catching," and plagues, pesti- 
lences, and epidemics have often run like wildfire through 
families or communities, leaping from person to person and 
from village to village very much as a forest fire leaps from 
tree to tree. 

A fundamental feature of all social relations is the fact 
that persons in families, villages, towns, cities, states, and 
nations have and use many things in common. This has 
caused such groups of human beings to be known as com- 
munities (communis, " common "). Of all communities the 

429 



430 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

simplest, the most fundamental, and the most important is the 
family, or household, in which the various individual mem- 
bers share a common shelter, a common fireside, a common 
table, and a common interest, based upon the all-powerful 
ties of blood or marriage. In these and many other respects 
the family is not only a community but a peculiar kind of 
community, namely, a private community. But precisely as 
the individual necessarily has relations to the world outside 
himself and is by nature not merely a man and an animal, 
but a social man and a social animal, so the civilized family, 
or household, although essentially a private establishment, 
has certain public relations. It must draw its air supply from 
the aerial ocean common to all mankind ; it must form a com- 
ponent unit in some village, township, state, or nation; it must 
buy sugar or salt, tea, coffee, or spices, from overseas. 

Midway between the more purely public relations which 
we shall presently discuss under public hygiene and sanitation 
and those individual relations which we have considered in 
the foregoing chapters on personal hygiene stand the hygiene 
and sanitation of the house and the family, subjects neither 
altogether public nor altogether personal. These we may 
describe as domestic hygiene and sanitation. 

2. Housing and the house. The chief function of clothing 
is to protect the body from cold by maintaining about the 
skin fairly constant temperature conditions, and accordingly 
clothing is of least importance in the tropics, where con- 
ditions of temperature are both constant and warm. The 
housing problem is very similar, for the principal function 
of the house is likewise to furnish for the body a favorable 
environment and, especially, a fairly constant temperature. 
Here also the problem is simplest in the tropics. The house, 
in fact, is a kind of outer clothing or protective shell, 
although usually designed not for a single individual but for 
an entire family or, as in the case of tenement houses, apart- 
ment houses, or hotels, for many families or for the public. 



SANITARY HOUSING 431 

Houses may be separated and detached, as on farms or 
in villages, or massed in groups or blocks, as in towns or 
cities; and owing to the fact that they are comparatively 
durable and costly, most people live in dwellings already 
built. But although very often a family cannot build its 
dwelling, but must take to some extent what it can get, it 
usually has, sooner or later, some choice ; and even if it 
has not much choice, it may modify more or less from time 
to time the domicile which it must occupy. 

3. The site of the house is often determined more by 
necessity, taste, or convenience than by hygienic considera- 
tions, but in general it may be said that a human dwelling 
should be so situated as to afford good air, good light, good 
drainage, and good neighbors. If, in addition, beautiful, 
charming, or attractive surroundings can be had, these are 
of great importance, since beauty and charm often have 
a distinct hygienic value. A certain seclusion or privacy is 
also to be desired, for a quiet, retired, and restful home, 
removed from the distractions of publicity, is soothing to 
tired nerves as well as conducive to normal and wholesome 
family life. On the other hand, extreme isolation, such as is 
sometimes found in farmhouses, often produces a morbid 
feeling of loneliness. 

When possible the house should be placed upon open, 
porous, or gravelly soil, because such soil is less likely to be 
water-logged and is more easily drained. In the United 
States in general a southerly or southwesterly slope is usually 
preferable, as affording more sunshine in winter and more 
breeze in summer. It is also wise, of course, to have the 
principal living rooms on the side exposed to dry, rather 
than to cold and damp, winds. 

G-ood air for a house is to be sought for in a clean neigh- 
borhood, a clean, dry cellar, and a free circulation the 
latter impeded as little as possible by other buildings or, in 
the country, by too many trees. An elevation, therefore, 



432 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

rather than a depression is obviously desirable as an aid in 
securing these things, although the very top of a hill should 
usually be avoided because of its bleakness. A dry cellar 
and, if possible, a dry, open, and porous soil beneath the 
house are highly important, no matter where the house is 
placed. Cellar habitations are very objectionable and ought 
to be avoided by even the poorest family. Such dwellings 
were long since forbidden by law in England, and although 
sanitarians are not yet agreed as to all the reasons why 
cellar habitations are injurious, the principal reasons seem 
to be the well-known unwholesomeness of dampness and want 
of sunlight. Undue dampness in air is believed to favor 
rheumatism and other disorders, and the absence of sunlight 
not only favors dampness and microbic life but also tends to 
mental depression. House cellars should be well drained. 

Crood light and, if possible, abundant sunshine are hygienic 
conditions of great importance, both as aids to cheerfulness 
and happiness and as powerful sanitary agents. Sunshine tends 
to remove dampness and to destroy the germs of infectious 
diseases. In winter, sunshine is valuable also for warmth. 

G-ood drainage is no less (and perhaps no more) necessary 
for human habitations than good air and good light. With 
the abundant use of water in recent times for washing, 
bathing, cleaning, sewage disposal, and other purposes, it 
becomes necessary in modern houses to get rid somehow 
of a" great deal of soiled and dirty water, and the possi- 
bility of easy and safe drainage or removal of such water 
must be kept in mind in considering the sanitary aspects of 
the situation of any house, old or new. Here again the 
advantage is plain of some elevation of site. 

4. The construction of the house. As the first object of 
any house is shelter from rain, snow, wind, dampness, and 
excessive heat or cold, its materials should be waterproof, 
windproof, and nonconducting for heat, as far as is con- 
sistent with a proper circulation of air. Wigwams or tents, 



SANITARY HOUSING 433 

at least in temperate latitudes, are clearly defective in some 
of these particulars. Houses built of glass or india-rubber 
would answer most of these requirements but would still be 
most unhygienic, chiefly because glass houses would be too 
light and too hot, while both glass and india-rubber would 
interfere seriously with that free circulation of air which 
takes place through relatively porous materials such as wood 
and brick. Buildings of wood, stone, brick, or steel and 
brick, rightly built, answer all requirements. A " double 
wall," that is, a hollo-v wall, by providing a nonconducting 
air space, is of great value for preventing rapid changes in 
the temperatures of houses under sudden changes of climate, 
as well as for protection against dampness and noise. 

Much circulation of air usually takes place even through 
walls or partitions of plaster and wood, and a knowledge 
of this so-called " natural " ventilation helps us to understand 
how it is that many people live and even thrive in seemingly 
unventilated rooms and houses. It also helps us to under- 
stand how the damp air of a cellar finds its way upward 
into a house and why a double floor (with air spaces be- 
tween) is especially useful immediately above the cellar. 
Blinds or shutters and shades or curtains for darkening 
rooms are of great hygienic value, since sleep is deeper in 
darkness than in light, and in summer these tend also to 
keep the house cooler. 

5. The furnishings of the house. The walls of rooms may 
be of wood bare, painted, or varnished or of plaster, 
either bare or covered by textiles such as burlap, tapestry, 
or paper. Sometimes, instead of being papered, walls and 
partitions are painted either with white paint or in colors, 
and sometimes simply a hard finish is given to plaster, which 
is afterwards " whitewashed " or " calcimined." 

A good feature of painted walls is the fact that they 
may be washed, and of walls smoothly calcimined that they 
may be easily done over. In general, a smooth and washable 



434 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

surface is preferable to a rough one or one injured by wash- 
ing, for these not only collect more dust but are harder 
to keep clean. 

The most serious charge, from the hygienic point of view, 
thus far brought against ivall papers is that of the danger 
of poisoning for persons living in rooms papered with such 
papers as contain arsenic. The evidence of such occasional 
poisoning seems now convincing, especially since the work of 
Gosio, an Italian investigator, showed that molds or other 
microorganisms which grow in the paste used to stick the 
paper to the walls are capable of attacking the arsenic of 
some coloring matters, thereby producing volatile compounds 
of arsenic readily diffusible into the air of the room. 

There is similar danger from arsenical poisoning in some 
tapestries or furniture coverings, and grave disorders have 
been attributed, apparently with reason, to this source. 

The iron bedstead, light, firm, cheap, and easy to keep 
clean, is a marked improvement upon the heavy wooden 
bedsteads formerly used. Curtains, canopies, valances, etc., 
either above or below beds, are objectionable, as they inter- 
fere with the free circulation of air. The modern open 
bedstead is an improvement upon the old-fashioned " four- 
poster," with its hangings, almost as great as is the modern 
" open " over the earlier concealed plumbing. 

Single beds possess many advantages over double beds. 
They are more easily cared for and kept clean ; the amount 
of covering can be more accurately adapted to the indi- 
vidual needs of their occupants, who are also less exposed 
in cases of infectious disease ; and the use of such beds is 
more conducive to undisturbed slumber. 

Folding beds, mantle beds, sofa beds, and all similar devices 
for concealment of beds and bedding are subject to the objec- 
tion that they are likely to be closed too soon after having 
been used and before the bedding has been sufficiently aired 
or freshened. 



SANITAKY HOUSING 435 

Floors are in America usually wooden and made of boards, 
" matched " or otherwise laid tight. Formerly the material 
used for inexpensive floors was of pine, spruce, hemlock, or 
other soft woods, oak being reserved for the more costly 
hard floors. Nowadays hard pine (Southern pine) is much 
used, and .many cheap yet good floors are made of this 
material. Softwood floors are apt to become dented and 
splintered unless covered and protected by carpets or mat- 
tings ; but if made of good stock and well cared for by 
frequent painting, such floors answer very well for a long 
time, especially in rooms, such as chambers, not subject 
to hard usage. Bare floors possess the immense sanitary 
advantage of being easy to clean and also of revealing 
dust and dirt, but they require, for the latter reason, more 
care and are also open to the objection that they are 
comparatively noisy. 

Fixed mattings are useful for the deadening of sounds, 
and fixed carpets not only for this but also for warmth, but 
both hold dirt ' and are hard to clean, wliile light, movable 
mattings, carpets, or rugs readily lend themselves to cleanli- 
ness, because they can be removed and in their temporary 
absence both they and the otherwise bare floors upon which 
they rest can be thoroughly cleaned. 

6. The care of the house. The house is subject to the 
wear and tear of time and weather. Painting, in the case of 
wooden houses (and for the steel parts of steel-and-brick 
structures), and pointing (or the renewal of mortar between 
bricks or stones), in the case of brick or stone houses, help 
to make them waterproof and windproof and tend to keep 
out dampness. 

The cellar, especially, requires watchful care and should 
be kept not only dry, by windows or other ventilating 
devices opened wide in favorable weather, but also clean 
and free from rubbish, decaying vegetables, or anything 
tending to dirt or dampness. 



436 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The halls, stairways, and rooms and the furniture, radiators, 
etc. they contain should be kept as free from dust as possible. 
Former crude methods of sweeping and dusting are fortu- 
nately giving place to more effective ones, and the feather 
duster, which merely transfers dust from one place to another 
and stamps the individual using it as superficial, indolent, 
or shiftless, is only seen occasionally. A damp (not a wet) 
cloth or, even better^ a cloth upon which a harmless volatile 
oil has been sprayed, will remove dust from books and fur- 
niture without stirring it up to settle elsewhere. The various 
forms of vacuum cleaners are ideal for floors, rugs, and car- 
pets, and efficient hand-power vacuum cleaners can now be 
obtained at a comparatively low price. The more expensive 
forms, operated by electricity, are more effective and less 
tiring to operate ; special attachments also make electric 
vacuum cleaners applicable to books and furniture as well. 

Another method which has much to commend it for 
special uses consists in spraying into the atmosphere and 
even on the walls 'of a room a harmless volatile oil in the 
form of a very fine mist, discharged from an atomizing 
spray. As this mist settles to the floor, it catches the parti- 
cles of dust, which can then be removed by a broom covered 
with a cloth without causing the dust to rise. Aiter this 
treatment the dust on the walls may be effectively removed 
by a long-handled brush. Painted arid varnished surfaces 
are also often improved by rubbing with a cloth moistened 
with a volatile oil. 

Even when closed, houses quickly become dusty or dirty, 
because the air which finds its way into them through 
cracks or crevices is almost always more or less charged 
with dust, while the occupants of inhabited houses bring 
in upon clothes, shoes, and all kinds of articles more or less 
dust or dirt. Fires, whether in stoves, fireplaces, or furnaces, 
also add greatly to the dust of houses. Dust and dirt are 
composed largely of inorganic or lifeless matters but also 



SANITAEY HOUSING 437 

* 

partly of microbes. Most of the latter are harmless, and 
some kinds of dust and dirt are of little sanitary importance 
a fact which helps us to understand why some people 
seem to have health even in dirty surroundings. But dust 
and dirt sometimes contain the germs of dangerous diseases, 
and the way of safety is the way of cleanliness. 

The same principle may be applied to other matters con- 
nected with the care and management of the house. Rats 
and mice are for the most part merely troublesome pests, 
destructive of property and food ; on the other hand, they 
(at least rats) may be the means of conveying disease (see 
Chapter XXXIII). Consequently, by keeping the premises 
as free from them as possible, or even by making the house 
rat-proof, we lessen the chance of contracting communicable 
disease. Similar considerations obviously apply to screening 
the house against mosquitoes and flies, which, although gen- 
erally nothing more than annoyances, may nevertheless at 
times be the carriers of dangerous diseases. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 
THE WARMING AND LIGHTING OF THE HOUSE 

1. The warming of the house. The earliest method of 
warming human dwellings was the open fire, in hut, cave, 
or wigwam, and when chimneys were added to carry off 
smoke and improve combustion by creating drafts, the open 
fire still remained for a time the sole resource of mankind 
for heating purposes. It is still the most attractive and most 
cheerful method of heating and has been well called " the 
eye of the room." It is a coveted luxury in all tasteful 
homes, not so much for the heat it furnishes as for its 
cheerful glow and the constant interest which it excites. 
The home and the fireside have become everywhere almost 
equivalent terms. 

2. The open fire may be of either coal or wood. In Eng- 
land it is almost always of coal, and in that country it is 
still the principal means of heating. In some other countries, 
especially in the United States, it is made of either coal or 
wood, but is less depended upon for heating purposes. The 
open fire may be on a hearth in a fireplace or in an open 
grate or an open stove. In all modern cases of true open 
fires a chimney rises above the fire to carry off the smoke, 
and the draft of the chimney (caused by the rising of the 
column of lighter, heated air) constantly sucks away the air 
of the room and produces considerable ventilation by remov- 
ing vitiated air. The air thus removed is replaced by air 
from adjoining rooms or from outdoors, driven in by the 
atmospheric pressure through open doors or windows or 
through the walls themselves, which, if of wood or plaster 

438 



WARMING AND LIGHTING THE HOUSE 439 

or even of stone or brick, are to some extent porous. But 
while such ventilation has great advantages and is one of 
the best things about open fires, such fires are wasteful of 
heat and often do not effectively warm the entire room. 
This is because the warmed air is not returned to the room, 
but is drawn up the chimney, and because the movement of 
the cold air which is pressed in from the outside tends to make 
the room "drafty." Radiation from the fire itself, rather than 
convection by air currents, thus becomes the chief means of 
warmth; and the complaint against open fires that those 
gathered about them, whether indoors or out, are " roasted 
in front and frozen behind " is undoubtedly well founded. 
Open fires, nevertheless, serve admirably to " take the chill 
off ". from a room in those days of late spring or early 
autumn when the temperature is only a few degrees below 
the proper point (see p. 204). 

3. Stoves are superior to open fires as sources of warmth, 
but far inferior in attractiveness and as aids to ventilation. 
A stove is usually placed in a room at some distance from 
the wall and connected with the chimney by a stovepipe to 
carry off the products of combustion. There is no such thing 
as an " air-tight " stove, a term often used because some 
stoves seem tightly closed, only enough air being allowed to 
enter to supply the actual need for combustion. A stove 
warms a room by the mixture of currents of heated air 
around the stove with the cooler air in other parts of the 
room (that is, by convection) and also by direct radiation 
from the stove itself. 

4. Hot-air furnaces are usually inclosed stoves placed in 
the basement or cellar. They are provided with smoke pipes 
and surrounded by a space (the hot-air chamber) to the lower 
portion of which a pipe, or " air box," conducts cold air, 
while a second pipe or system of pipes leading off from the 
upper portion of the chamber supplies the various rooms 
with the warmed air. This is a convenient, economical, and 



440 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

popular method of heating a house, and possesses the great 
advantage of bringing constantly into the various rooms 
supplies of fresh air. If this air has not been overheated 
while passing by the furnace, little objection can be brought 
against it on any ground. It is true that having been 
warmed its relative dryness has been increased, but this 
condition may be corrected to some extent by always keep- 
ing in the hot-air chamber of the furnace a vessel of water 
for evaporation. 

If, however, the air supplied to the furnace is not fresh 
and drawn from the outer atmosphere, but is simply taken 
from the cellar in which the furnace stands ; or if the fur- 
nace is not tight, but cracked or loose-jointed, so that the 
gases of combustion may escape and mingle with the air as 
the latter flows through the pipes and rises into the rooms 
of the house ; or if, as often happens, the air is overheated 
and greatly overdried, then furnaces of this kind may, and 
do, become objectionable. In very cold and windy climates, 
and for houses in bleak or exposed places, furnaces are less 
satisfactory than steam or hot-water heaters. As they usually 
deliver warm air under very small pressure, it is often 
impossible, especially in windy weather, " to put the heat 
where it is wanted," a difficulty not encountered in the 
use of steam or hot water. Another objection to hot-air 
furnaces is the fact that much dust finds its way in with 
the warm air, but fresh air without dust, at least in towns 
and cities, is rare. 

A simple combination of stove and furnace is much used 
in some places, where a stove (usually in or against the fire- 
place) on the first floor heats not only the room in which it 
stands but also, by means of a pipe (or pipes) and registers, 
one or more rooms overhead. Unfortunately the air thus 
supplied to the upper rooms is not always pure air from out 
of doors ; sometimes it is the already vitiated air of the 
room below. 



WARMING AND LIGHTING THE HOUSE 441 

5. Warming by steam and by hot water. It is very common 
in the United States to find houses (and other buildings) 
heated by steam or hot water. Through the " radiators " or 
" coils " placed in the various rooms there is maintained a 
circulation of steam or of hot water from a " heater " below. 
Here the room is warmed partly by direct radiation and 
partly by convection currents, very much as in the case of 
the stove. The chief objection to this method of heating is 
that the heating and the ventilation of the room are not 
effected by the same process ; the room must be ventilated 
by opening windows, and the air thus introduced is apt to 
be cold and to produce undesirable drafts. On the other 
hand, steam and hot water are both superior to hot air in 
convenience and efficiency. They can be carried anywhere 
and are free from disturbances by atmospheric conditions, 
wind pressure, natural ventilation, etc., which greatly inter- 
fere with the proper distribution of hot air. 1 Sometimes a 
combination of direct and " indirect " radiation 2 is employed, 
the latter being used for all ordinary heating, and the former 
kept for aid in extremely cold or windy weather. On this 
plan fresh air drawn from outside is first passed over coils 
of pipes placed in a basement or cellar and containing steam 
or hot water, and then carried (as in the hot-air furnace) to 
the various rooms which it is desired to warm. In addition, 
radiators are placed in these rooms, often near doors or win- 
dows, and in extreme cold weather are charged with steam or 
hot water to furnish supplementary heating by direct radiation. 

6. Oil stoves, gas stoves, and electric heaters. These do 
not greatly differ from other stoves except in the sources 
of the heat which they provide and in the important fact 

1 The hot-water system is rapidly coming into favor to replace steam 
heat, because a given volume of water will carry a larger amount of heat 
than the same volume of steam ; consequently the water can be sent from 
the heater at a lower temperature than the steam, the supply pipe is not 
so hot, and the heat is more evenly distributed through the house. 

2 "Indirect radiation" is, of course, really convection. 



442 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

that in the first two the products of combustion are not 
usually carried off by chimneys but, as in oil or gas lamps, 
escape directly into the room and thus tend to vitiate its 
atmosphere without causing any compensating ventilation. 
In the case of gas stoves special care must be taken to see 
that the unburned gas does not escape into the room from 
leaks in the connections or elsewhere. Here the same con- 
siderations apply as in the case of gas used for lighting. 
The flexible rubber tubes often used for supplying gas stoves 
deteriorate with age and then frequently permit the escape 
of gas directly into the room. Whenever possible, perma- 
nent (metallic) connection of the stove with the iron gas 
pipe is advisable. Where rubber connections are used, the 
gas should ahvays be turned off at the cock on the main pipe, 
never at that on the stove. 

Electric stoves, like electric lights, are heated by electricity, 
and even electric lights, though inferior in this respect to 
oil or gas lights, are often noteworthy factors in the warm- 
ing of houses. Stoves used for cooking add materially to 
the warmth of houses, and hence gas or oil stoves may be 
used with advantage when, as in summer, heat is undesirable. 

7. Solar heating ; glass verandas. Less use is made of 
the direct heat of the sun than is often advisable or advan- 
tageous. Rooms flooded with sunshine are always more eco- 
nomically warmed than those without it, and a solarium, or 
glass-covered room or veranda, on the south side of a house 
is often useful as well as agreeable in winter. If provision 
is made for heating it at night and in cold and cloudy 
weather, it may be made to answer also as a plant conserva- 
tory, or greenhouse, and thus become a source of added 
interest and pleasure. 

8. Overheating. If the temperature of the house is too 
high we suffer from many of the objectionable conditions 
of hot weather ; mental work is more difficult and we are 
disinclined to muscular exercise. It is probably unwise to 



WARMING AND LIGHTING THE HOUSE 443 

keep the temperature of the house above 68 or 70 F.. 
A good rule is to keep it between 65 and 70 F. (see 
pp. 201-206). Those who, by reason of infirmities of age, 
cannot enjoy regular muscular activity often find rooms of 
this temperature too cold, but they should be encouraged 
and even urged to keep up at all hazards the habit of doing 
some muscular work every day. With careful attention to 
muscular exercise and outdoor life they not only can endure 
but also enjoy lower room temperatures than is generally 
supposed, and thus permit the younger members of the 
household to live under more wholesome temperature condi- 
tions. Appetite is also improved by this practice and old age 
made in general more comfortable and more cheerful. Youth 
should remember, however, that the aged, largely because 
they cannot " get warm from the inside," not only desire but 
actually require warm clothing and often very warm rooms. 
9. The lighting of the house. The firelight and the light 
of the pine knot with which the hut, the hovel, or the 
wigwam were lighted were objectionable chiefly because of 
their inconvenience, smoke, and flare or flicker. The inven- 
tion of the lamp without chimney and of the candle marked 
a step forward, though their light was weak and flickering. 
A much greater advance was the invention of the lamp 
chimney, as it provided what nothing else had done steadi- 
ness of flame : and avoided flar,e and flicker. Once the latter 
was overcome it became easy to improve the fuel, until now 
the oil lamp with chimney not only illuminates and decorates 
the home of wealth but also brightens and cheers the hut 
of the fisherman and the cabin of the sailor; it aids and 
comforts the seamstress in her toil in the humblest lodging ; 
it warns the mariner by night from dangerous coasts by 
lighthouses, and throws about the student a warm and cheer- 
ful radiance as he "burns the midnight oil." Candles are 
still much used both in churches and in houses, but chiefly 
because of sentiment or for decoration. They still furnish 



444 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

the softest and most beautiful light, especially for quiet 
places, but they are unfit for reading purposes because of 
their flickering and feebleness. 

The introduction of gas lighting was a great advance over 
lighting by lamps, owing to its convenience and cleanliness 
and the intensity of the light afforded. But gas lights, 
unless provided with chimneys, are generally unsteady and 
therefore objectionable for use in reading. Gas lights (and 
oil lamps) also produce much heat, and by this as well as 
by their products of combustion may greatly vitiate the air 
of rooms in which they are used. 

While some kinds of illuminating gas are more poison- 
ous than others, all manufactured as distinguished from 
" natural " gas contains a considerable percentage of poison- 
ous constituents. When the gas is burned, these are oxi- 
dized and form harmless substances, and hence there is little 
or no danger from the products of its combustion. But the 
greatest care should be taken to avoid the entrance in any 
way of uiiburned gas into the air of a room. This may 
happen by the gas escaping through leaky fixtures. It may 
also occur when the light has been turned down very low 
in the sleeping room and is afterwards blown out by a draft 
or goes out because of lessened pressure in the main, and 
the unburned gas escapes freely when the pressure is re- 
stored. Still another source of danger exists when the cock 
used to turn off the gas works too easily in its socket and 
so is capable of being turned on by slight jars, touches, etc. 
The student is referred to Chapter XXXIV for a full de- 
scription of the dangers of inhaling unburned illuminating 
gas. Illuminating gas is also explosive when mixed with air 
in certain proportions. 

Electric lighting is in many respects an ideal method, 
giving a convenient, steady, and powerful light ; but, as is 
stated in the next paragraph, care miist be exercised that 
such light is not too bright. 



WARMING AND LIGHTING THE HOUSE 445 

10. The best light. Probably there is no one kind of light 
which is best for all purposes. For general illumination of 
public squares and public buildings the electric light seems 
to be generally preferred. The same thing is probably true 
of private houses. For reading and for microscopic work, 
on the other hand, the electric light may easily be too 
bright ; but this objection can be overcome by using lamps 
of proper candle power, by having the lamp at a suitable 
distance, or by using bulbs with ground glass. The same 
thing may be true of the light yielded by any incandescent 
solid, such as the " lime " (oxyhydrogen) light and the 
various " mantles " made from incombustible earths, such as 
that in the Welsbach light. In general, for reading a " soft " 
light is best, and it is desirable to have the larger part of 
the light come to the book indirectly from the ceiling or 
walls rather than solely and directly from any source of light 
near by. For this reason dark-colored walls are objection- 
able for rooms in which a number of people do much reading, 
sewing, or other near work. 



CHAPTER XXIX 
THE AIR SUPPLY OF THE HOUSE. VENTILATION 

Besides the relatively permanent furnishings and fixtures 
of the house, there are other necessaries of civilized domestic 
life, such as air, water, oil, gas, coal, and provisions, which 
come into the house only to be consumed, their waste ma- 
terials being cast out again. These are commonly called the 
domestic supplies, air supply, water supply, gas supply, etc., 
and they are usually derived from much larger, public 
supplies, which are used in common by many families. All 
such public supplies, although convenient, may, under certain 
circumstances, become dangerous to human life and health. 

1. The air supply of the house is probably more neglected 
than any other. Water, gas, coal, and provisions are costly 
and often difficult to get, but air is always abundant and 
cheap. The familiar saying " as free as air " applies best, 
however, to outdoor air; for, as we shall see, good air in 
houses is not always very abundant nor always cheap and 
easy to provide. 

Inasmuch as the adult human body requires for its regular 
uses about five hundred cubic inches of air per minute, the 
air in the immediate vicinity of the nose is quickly used up ; 
and as an equal amount of vitiated air is discharged per 
minute at the same place, the need is obvious of a constant 
streaming of air about the body which shall remove vitiated 
air and supply fresh air. This circulation or flow of air is 
just as necessary as is the circulation of the blood ; but as 
the movement always goes on unseen, through the diffusion 
of gases and by other natural and invisible agencies, it is 

446 



THE AIK SUPPLY OF THE HOUSE 447 

harder to realize the need. Out of doors the air supply is 
ordinarily sufficient and of good quality, especially while the 
body is in motion. 

2. Stagnant air. Conditions are very different indoors. 
Life is more sedentary, the body is more quiet, and natural 
wind currents or drafts are intentionally prevented ; the air 
of houses tends to become stationary and even stagnant 
and with it the air supply about the bodies of the house 
dwellers. Since it is this stagnant air which is steadily 
vitiated by the air discharged from the nose and mouth, a 
blanket of increasingly stagnant and impure air tends to ac- 
cumulate about the body of a sitting or sleeping person. To 
prevent this stagnation and the consequent impurity of the 
air supply, movement of the body or, better, movement of the 
air is a prime necessity (see p. 198). 

3. Ventilation (Latin ventus, " wind ") is the name usually 
given to any circulation or movement of the air of rooms or 
buildings by which fresh, pure air, preferably from outdoors, 
is introduced and vitiated air is removed, the movement of 
the air being rapid enough to meet all the needs of the body, 
but not so rapid as to cause dangerous currents or drafts. 
This movement or circulation may be either intermittent and 
occasional, as when a window is opened for a little while and 
then shut; or more or less regular and constant, as in all 
efficient " systems " of ventilation or even in such primitive 
methods as that of the chimney above an open fire. 

4. Natural ventilation. The walls of most houses are more 
or less porous and permeable for gases. Cracks and crevices 
around doors and windows also allow gases to leave and 
enter. In an experiment made by one of the authors four 
ordinary gas jets in a small room were left open (but not 
lighted) all night, and after the gas had poured in for eight 
hours it was found that the room contained only three per 
cent of gas, the remainder having escaped by natural ventila- 
tion. It is largely because of the cracks, crevices, and pores 



448 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

in the walls that human beings get on as well as they do in 
rooms and houses seemingly wholly unventilated. Wood, 
brick, stone, and plaster are more porous than glass, iron, or 
glazed brick, and dry walls more porous than those wet or 
damp. Painted and papered walls are less porous than 
those left bare, and accordingly the walls of summerhouses 
are often loosely made, preferably of wood stained rather 
than painted. 

5. What we mean by good or bad, pure or impure, air. 
Air is not a chemical compound of fixed composition, but a 
mixture of gases containing, even when pure, varying amounts 
of nitrogen, oxygen, carbonic acid, ammonia, and water 
this last in the form of invisible (aqueous) vapor. More- 
over, the density of the air varies not only at different places 
but also at the same place at different times. Impure air 
contains all these gases and may contain, in addition, any 
other gas capable of mixing with them, such as hydrogen 
sulphide, carbonic oxide, marsh gas, etc. The terms " good " 
and " bad " air, " moist," " fine," " dry," " bracing," " muggy," 
"humid," "heavy," "foul," "fetid," "stagnant," "dead," 
" thick," or " lifeless " air, and all similar terms, are popular 
descriptions of atmospheric conditions real or imaginary, 
testifying to the wonderful variety of this part of the envi- 
ronment of mankind. 

We may define " pure " air as any portion of the atmos- 
phere free from noxious gases or vapors and from infec- 
tious microorganisms. Such air may, however, be unfit for 
breathing, as is the case with those higher portions of our 
atmospheric ocean into which aeronauts have sometimes 
ventured. At the height of four miles above the sea the 
air no doubt is very " pure," but yet too thin to support 
human life readily. 

Air may be considered as polluted or " impure " when it 
contains noxious gases or floating particles in large numbers 
(as in smoke) or disease-producing germs. 






THE AIR SUPPLY OF THE HOUSE 449 

6. The sources of discomfort and danger in air. We must 
be careful to discriminate between discomfort and danger in 
atmospheric conditions. Positive danger comes chiefly from 
deficiency of oxygen, excess of carbon dioxide, admixture of 
poisonous gases, or from infectious microorganisms. Aero- 
nauts, explorers on high mountains, and persons living at 
great altitudes are apt to suffer from oxygen deficiency. 
Miners, charcoal burners, and well cleaners sometimes suffer 
from carbon-dioxide excess. Laborers in gas works and con- 
sumers of illuminating gas may be poisoned by carbon 
monoxide ; and workers in sewers, by various gases, especially 
by illuminating gas which may have leaked in. Air may also 
contain, and thus convey, germs of infectious diseases. 

On the other hand, air that is perfectly " pure " may be a 
source of great discomfort, simply because of its temperature 
or moisture, or its temperature and moisture taken together. 
The air in the " dog days " of August is no less pure than 
that of June or October, yet it is often oppressive because 
it is both too warm and too moist. It has been shown in 
Chapter XII how greatly the regulation of the temperature of 
the body depends upon the capacity of the atmosphere to take 
up moisture, and it is plain that any atmosphere saturated 01 
nearly saturated with aqueous vapor must seriously interfere 
with the cooling of the body. A careful review of that chap- 
ter will greatly help the student to an understanding of the 
sources of discomfort in the atmosphere of houses or rooms. 

A shut and uninhabited room often becomes " musty " or 
" damp " because of a want of circulation to remove air con- 
taining traces of odoriferous gases and excess of moisture 
the former perhaps derived from carpets or furniture, the 
latter from the basement or cellar. 

The air of an inhabited room may prove a source of dis- 
comfort to its inmates and therefore deserve to be called 
bad for any or all of the following reasons : (1) the air may 
be overheated or underheated ; (2) it may contain an excess 



450 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of moisture due either to its dampness of location or to the 
breath of its inmates ; (3) it may be deficient in moisture 
and thus exert too strongly a drying effect upon the skin, 
eyes, or mucous membranes of mouth, nose, ' and throat ; 
(4) it may be deficient in the movement necessary to renew 
promptly the air in immediate contact with the body ; (5) it 
may contain odoriferous gases which cause discomfort. 

What such rooms do not often suffer from is oxygen deficiency 
or carbon-dioxide excess, for experiments have proved that 
unless the oxygen falls below 12 per cent or the carbon 
dioxide rises above 3 per cent (conditions which are very 
rarely met with in ordinary human habitations), no marked 
discomfort ensues. 

7. Ventilation replaces bad air with good air and causes 
aerial movement or circulation. It is now easy to see precisely 
how ventilation aids us in securing comfortable and agree- 
able atmospheric conditions. It removes bad air and sup- 
plies good (that is fresh) air and, by causing movement, 
favors evaporation from the skin and consequent cooling on 
muggy days. It is also easy to see why ventilation is at times 
ineffective. No system of ventilation can wholly overcome 
the mugginess of a close room in August, because the pure 
outer air is itself unpleasant and uncomfortable ; but active 
ventilation, by producing a breeze, can do more than any- 
thing else to make the conditions tolerable. 

8. Fans and fanning. It is an old point of dispute whether 
or not a person who fans himself grows cooler or warmer. 
However this may be, there can be no question that persons 
who use i&nsfeel cooler, and there is no doubt that anyone 
fanned by another or by a breeze not only feels but actually 
is cooled thereby. The great and growing use of electric 
fans in hotels, houses, etc. testifies to the same fact. 

9. A room may be well ventilated but oppressive from 
overheating. This fact, though perfectly obvious, and familiar 
to all who have been in well-ventilated boiler rooms or who 



THE AIR SUPPLY OF THE HOUSE 451 

have lived in the tropics, is too little attended to. Many public 
halls, Pullman and other railway cars, steamboats, and private 
houses, especially in the northern United States, are rendered 
almost intolerable and very unhygienic by simple overheating. 
Elderly people and infants require higher room temperatures 
than do active persons in youth and middle life, but in gen- 
eral any temperature above 70 F. must be regarded as exces- 
sive, and 65 to 68 F. is a better temperature (see Chap. XII). 
Housekeepers, at least in the northern United States, would 
do well to try to keep the mercury in their houses between 
these lower limits. When the outdoor air is cold and moist 
a somewhat higher temperature is often required than when 
it is dry. 

10. A room may be comfortable in temperature but defective 
in ventilation. This fact is less obvious than that just con- 
sidered, but it is nevertheless true. It may be because of 
excessive moisture, or because of odors, or for other reasons ; 
but those entering such rooms from out of doors are often 
able to remark and deplore the fact. It is perhaps oftenest 
exemplified in warm countries or in warm seasons when 
people close and darken rooms to " keep out the heat." 

This climatic condition presents a very real choice of evils. 
If the room is closed it becomes close; but this may be 
measurably relieved by the use of electric fans. On the other 
hand, if hot air of high humidity is admitted in large quanti- 
ties from without, the temperature of the room is raised ; 
inasmuch, however, as it does not usually reach that of the 
outside air, the relative humidity 1 is increased, much to the 

1 By relative humidity we mean the amount of water vapor the atmos- 
phere contains expressed in percentage of the maximum amount which air 
can contain at that t.emperature. For example, air at 80 F. will hold only 
70 per cent as much water vapor as air at 98 F. If, therefore, air at 98 
which has a relative humidity of 70 per cent, and hence is capable of taking 
up considerable additional water vapor, is brought into a room and thereby 
cooled to 80, it will be virtually saturated. Into such air perspiration 
cannot evaporate. 



452 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

discomfort of the occupants of the room. Perhaps the lesser 
of the two evils is to air the rooms well in the early morning, 
then close or almost close the windows as the day grows 
warmer and relieve the atmospheric stagnation by the use of 
electric fans. As the evening grows cooler windows should 
again be opened. When fans are not available the lesser of 
the two evils is to leave the windows open, especially when 
a breeze can thereby be secured. 

11. Some practical hints about the ventilation of rooms. 
We have already referred to the great value of chimneys 
and open fireplaces as ventilators and to the " natural " ven- 
tilation by porous walls and by cracks above and below 
doors and windows. The simplest and most usual artificial 
method of ventilation is the opening more or less widely of 
windows or doors, and this is a means which should never 
be disregarded. The great drawback associated with it is the 
fact that uncomfortable and frequently unwholesome drafts 
are likely to ensue. It should be remembered, however, that 
the existence of a decided draft is usually an indication 
that the amount of ventilation is greater than is necessary. 
When the wind is blowing against a window, it is enough to 
open it an inch or less; if the wind is blowing very hard, 
the natural ventilation may be sufficient. Moreover, the 
amount of natural ventilation secured depends quite as much 
on the ease of egress as of ingress of air. It often happens 
that if the window be closed or very slightly opened on the 
windward side of the house, enough natural ventilation will 
be secured by opening other windows on the side away from 
the wind. 

It is often possible, especially in warm or temperate weather, 
to secure satisfactory ventilation by opening windows both 
at the top and the bottom, the warm air passing out above, 
while cooler, fresh air comes in below. This is not advisable, 
however, when the temperature of the incoming air is too 
low, since the air then sinks at once to the floor and chills 



THE AIR SUPPLY OF THE HOUSE 453 

the feet. Another good plan is to raise the lower sash three 
or four inches and place under it a board made to fit the 
space. Air now enters between the sashes, and the air being 
directed upward, the occupants of the room are protected 
from drafts. Where electricity is available an electric fan 
placed in one of the upper sashes is frequently very effec- 
tive in hastening the removal of vitiated air. Fans for this 
purpose are now readily obtainable and have proved to be 
serviceable. 

In winter fresh air and good ventilation cost something, 
as the air must be heated; but it is poor economy to use 
stagnant air for the sake of saving fuel. The keen edge of 
capacity for good work is dulled by bad air, the vital resist- 
ance is lowered, and the susceptibility to disease increased. 
On the other hand, there is such a thing as too much ven- 
tilation, for if it causes harmful drafts or leads to actual 
chilling of the body, it may do almost as much harm as too 
little ventilation. Here again each individual must study 
and determine his own needs. 

The hot-air furnace is capable of supplying fresh air in 
abundance and, if the ah" be not overheated or overdried, 
gives an admirable method of heating and ventilation com- 
bined in a single device, the jacketed stove, provided 
always that the air supplied to its heating chamber is 
unobjectionable. 

12. Mechanical systems of ventilation. Buildings larger 
than dwelling houses, such as large schoolhouses or public 
halls, are (or should be) ventilated by some mechanical system. 
These are of two principal types, known as the vacuum and 
the plenum systems. In the former an attempt is made to 
effect good ventilation by sucking out the air from the 
building by an exhaust fan or blower attached to one main 
pipe, or duct, to which are led tributary ducts connected 
with the various rooms. To supply the air thus removed, 
fresh air is supposed to make its way in either by natural 



454 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

ventilation (p. 447) or through inlet ducts specially provided, 
in either case being pressed in by the outer atmospheric 
pressure. In the plenum system this arrangement is reversed 
and air, previously warmed if need be, is driven by a fan 
into a mam duct or space, from which smaller ducts carry 
it to the various rooms, circulation being favored by outlet 
ducts, through which the air flows away. Sometimes an 
effective combination of the two systems is used, in which 
case the air is not only pumped in but also, at the same 
time, sucked out. 

In favor of the plenum system it may be said that instead 
of currents of (often) cold air pressing in by the paths of 
natural ventilation about doors, windows, etc., the direction 
of the aerial current at these places is reversed, owing to 
the pressure to which the air is subjected, so that it is more 
often possible to sit very near such windows and doors. 

The combination of the two systems offers many practical 
advantages, but is obviously relatively costly. It is some- 
times forgotten that air, quite as truly as water, possesses 
inertia and moves along paths of least resistance ; but ex- 
perience has shown that in order to govern the direction of 
flow of the aerial stream it is often necessary as well as 
-advisable to control the outgo as well as the income of air. 



CHAPTER XXX 

THE WATEE SUPPLY, PLUMBING, AND DEAINAGE 
OF THE HOUSE. GARBAGE AND EUBBISH 

1. Water supply. The water supply of the house should 
be first pure, and second, abundant. No exact figures can 
be given as to the amount required, but for kitchen and 
laundry use, bathing, and good drainage, it is safe to say 
that thirty gallons per day per capita are ample. An ordi- 
nary barrel holds this amount. Most families get on with 
very much less ; but for the greatest convenience and 
cleanliness some such quantity, if not absolutely needed, 
can be used to advantage, and no domestic supply is a 
greater luxury than abundant water. 

The purity of the domestic water supply should be 
above suspicion. In a following chapter we shall empha- 
size (Chap. XXXIV) the requirements as to purity of a 
proper public water supply from which the domestic sup- 
ply may be drawn ; but we may here consider briefly those 
private supplies, such as wells, springs, and brooks, from 
which many houses, especially in the country, must obtain 
their water. It is worth remembering that all water in or 
upon the earth was originally rain water (that is, distilled 
water from the atmosphere). This, when it flows over the 
surface of the earth or percolates through the ground, is 
known later as surface water or ground water. Streams, 
such as brooks, creeks, and rivers, are composed largely, 
but by no means wholly, of surface water; deep wells, 
dug or driven, and many springs contain a mixture of 
surface and ground waters. Surface waters are particularly 
exposed to pollution by dirt and filth from roads, manured 

455 



456 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



fields, and the surface of the ground generally. Ground 
waters, on the other hand, although subject to pollution 
by percolating through buried filth and by surface waters 
mingling with them through cracks or fissures in the earth, 
are, in general, subject to great purification by filtration 
during their percolation through earth, which often acts 
as a porous filter (Fig. 127). 




FIG. 127. A domestic well badly situated in a farmyard 

Observe that the water which it yields is partly drainage from the barnyard, 
privy, pigpen, etc. It is also exposed to pollution at the top 

2. Domestic wells. The well of water has an ancient 
reputation and has long been celebrated in song and story. 
As a supply more or less public it has often served as a 
meeting place and a social center and has frequently been 
ornamented with decorated curbs or covers testifying to 
popular esteem. Until 1854 the common well was, with 
rare exceptions, regarded as a perfectly safe and satisfactory 
method of securing water for public as well as private water 
supplies ; but in that year all wells began to be regarded 
with suspicion because of a disastrous outbreak of Asiatic 
cholera in London, which was conclusively traced to a 



THE WATER SUPPLY 457 

polluted public well on Broad Street in that city. It was 
found on investigation that a privy vault, probably infected 
by the discharges of a cholera patient, had leaked directly 
into the well; and immediately all wells, especially those 
near any source of pollution, fell under suspicion. 

The truth, in brief, appears to be that many wells are 
absolutely innocent of all contamination and yield excellent 
water. Some wells undoubtedly contain water originally 
impure, but purified by filtration because it has come a long 
distance through the soil before reaching the well. Others, 
however, are in more direct connection with cesspools, privy 
vaults, barnyards, stables, or similar objectionable and per- 
haps dangerous sources, and are utterly unfit to serve as 
water supplies for domestic uses. Still others, though re- 
ceiving good water from the earth about them, yield bad 
water because objectionable matters find their way in at the 
top. Poultry should be prevented from walking over loose 
planking which only partially covers the well, and farmers 
whose boots have become fouled by walking in barnyards 
or on fields heavily manured with stable manure should be 
careful to avoid doing likewise. The danger of even worse 
contamination of wells from manure or other surface dirt 
washed in at the top during heavy rains is also very great 
(Figs. 127 and 128). 

3. Springs are usually sources of pure water, but a spring 
in a barnyard or a cemetery would be plainly objectionable, 
and care should always be taken to ask whence comes the 
water which the spring yields. Springs often occur on hill- 
sides ; in such cases they should be protected from the 
possibility of surface pollution, while sources of pollution 
of any sort higher up the hill should not be tolerated, since 
from these the spring may become contaminated. 

4. Cisterns of rain water are often used for domestic supply 
in country houses and in some places, such as New Orleans 
and the Bermuda Islands, where wells are not available. 



458 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

There is no objection to this practice, which should secure 
a pure and very soft water, provided the roofs, cisterns, 
reservoirs, and other receptacles employed in collection or 
storage of the water are clean and suitable. Painted roofs, 
and pipes, roofs, or reservoirs containing any exposed metallic 
copper or lead, should be avoided, since rain water may attack 
these metals, forming with them soluble and poisonous salts. 
After a long dry period in summer, roofs are often dusty 
and dirty, and the first washings of dirty roofs should be 
allowed to go to waste. Rain water collected in winter or 
spring and subjected to long storage is probably the purest 
and most desirable cistern water. 

5. Streams, such as brooks and creeks, are sometimes 
used as sources of private domestic water supply, and if 
the places which they drain are wooded and entirely unin- 
habited, that is, not manured in tillage or pasturage, the 
surface water which they yield may answer fairly well for 
house use. But even at its best such water is exposed to 
pollution by wild animals and by passing tramps, fishermen, 
or gunners, and a carefully protected well or spring is, as 
a rule, a safer supply. Well water is often more palatable, 
especially in summer, but is sometimes very hard. For 
washing, surface or rain water is generally softer and of 
course unobjectionable. 

6. Hard waters and soft. Rain water contains few or no 
salts in solution and is therefore called soft water. Many 
surface waters and some well and spring waters are also soft. 
All such waters readily dissolve soap, and because soapy 
waters are sticky and easily form air bubbles, a " lather " 
or " soapsuds " is easily made in soft waters with very 
little soap. 

Other waters, and especially ground waters, contain salts 
in solution, some of which, notably those of calcium and 
magnesium, form precipitates with soap, thus removing it 
from the water in which it is placed. Such waters, therefore, 



THE WATER SUPPLY 459 

require more soap to make them soapy, lathery, or sudsy, 
and are known as hard waters, because they feel less bland 
or soft to the skin. 

In some parts of the United States the well waters (and 
sometimes even the surface waters) are so hard as to be 
almost or quite useless for washing, and even for drinking. 
It has never been shown that moderately hard waters are 
necessarily any more harmful for drinking than soft waters. 
Persons used to either kind are apt to suffer temporary dis- 
turbances, such as diarrhea, when they change suddenly from 
one to the other ; but otherwise no great or permanent harm 
ordinarily happens. If, however, a drinking water is very- 
hard and heavily charged with mineral salts so that it becomes 
essentially a mineral water, it may be unfit for regular use. 

7. House filters for water are not needed if the water 
supply is pure and colorless, but in many places this is not 
the case. If the water supply is impure it should either be 
carefully filtered by a germ-proof filter (several kinds being 
on the market, but all of them costly) or else boiled for a 
few minutes and cooled before it is used for drinking. If 
the water is pure but colored or turbid, it may be made 
bright and attractive by filtering through a charcoal filter; 
but this also, if durable and effective, is sometimes costly. 

8. The ice supply of the house is one of the greatest of 
modern conveniences. Ice in summer was formerly a luxury, 
but in northern latitudes it is now generally harvested in 
winter and stored for the following summer. In warmer 
climates the so-called artificial or manufactured ice brings 
the same luxury within reach of persons of moderate means. 
Provided the water from which it is made is pure, manu- 
factured ice is as wholesome as the best natural ice. The 
economical value of ice in preserving foods is very great, 
as is also its sanitary importance in hindering harmful 
decomposition and decay (for example, in milk). 

Ice water, so generally used as a beverage in America, 



460 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

is probably harmless enough when not drunk in too large 
quantities or too rapidly ; although, as a matter of fact, 
thirst is normally slaked by cool water more effectively 
than by very cold water. The ice added to drinking water 
should be pure ; that is, ice obtained from ponds, streams, 
or other waters unfit to serve as sources of domestic water 
supply should never be used in water intended for drink- 
ing purposes, and all ice should be carefully washed before 
being so used. 

9. The plumbing of the house. Almost all houses have a 
sink of some sort; from this there runs a drain-pipe, which 
should be tight, and large enough to carry off readily the 
drainage from the sink. Many houses have in addition more 
or less complex systems of water supply and drainage 
requiring piping and plumbing. 

The plumbing for water calls for brief comment only. Lead 
service-pipes should, as a rule, be avoided, for experience 
has shown that if the water passing through lead pipes 
happens to contain an excess of free carbon dioxide, this 
may attack the lead and form with it a soluble bicarbonate, 
which is a dangerous poison. In Massachusetts there have 
been several epidemics of lead poisoning due to this cause. 

The plumbing for drainage should aim to provide against 
escape or leakage of both liquids and gases. As drain-pipes 
are not usually filled with liquids or gases under pressure, 
leaky joints and even small holes may, and often do, occur 
without detection. If under such circumstances any stoppage 
happens, pressure may arise and the liquid or gaseous con- 
tents escape. It was formerly believed that great danger 
existed in defective plumbing owing to the escape of sewer 
gas or gases by leakage and, particularly, from the pressing 
backward, or " rising," of sewer gas into bathrooms, or 
sleeping rooms provided with set bowls, etc. The present 
view is that while such gases may and probably sometimes 
do escape into houses, they are usually greatly diluted 



THE WATER SUPPLY 461 

before they are breathed and, at the worst, are much less 
harmful than was formerly supposed. They are, nevertheless, 
highly objectionable, and it is likely that they occasionally 
produce serious poisoning. If breathed for a long time, even 
in small amounts, they probably lower vital resistance and 
increase susceptibility to infectious disease, and are thus not 
merely objectionable but also dangerous. 

Pains should be taken to ventilate thoroughly all places, 
such as sleeping rooms, bathrooms, and water closets, into 
which sewer gases may find their way, and it is advisable 
and customary to seal up the various drain-pipes by water 
seals, or traps. If, in addition, the main drain-pipes are pro- 
vided with vents to allow the escape of any gases accumu- 
lated in the pipes, the essentials of sanitary plumbing have 
been secured. Good workmanship is, however, indispensable 
in all water- and drain-pipes, as well as in all gas-pipes in 
the house, to prevent serious damage from breaks or leaks. 

The main drain-pipe in the house is called the soil-pipe. 
This usually empties into an underground drain or sewer out- 
side the house, which discharges its contents now known 
as sewage into a cesspool or a stream, or upon a sand bed, 
a sewage filter, a cultivated field, or some other place of 
sewage disposal. 

10. Drainage and the disposal of household wastes. The 
consumption of the solid and liquid supplies of the house 
water, ice, coal, food, etc. is accompanied by the forma- 
tion of various wastes which for sanitary as well as aesthetic 
reasons must be promptly got rid of. Waste water and 
melted ice necessitate drainage ; the dust and ashes of fuel 
remain to be disposed of, and from food, putrescible rem- 
nants, known as garbage. Dirt, bottles, papers, boxes, tin 
cans, old clothes, worn-out mattresses, broken furniture, 
crockery, and glass must also be removed. Among all the 
wastes of the house, however, the discharges of human 
bodies are of the first importance not only because of their 



462 THE 'HUMAN MECHANISM 

putrescible and disagreeable character but also because they 
frequently contain the germs of dangerous diseases. 

Drainage is often necessary for a house merely to carry 
off rain water from the roofs and to keep the cellar dry. It 
is very important to remove all surplus water from the house 
and its vicinity in order to prevent dampness this being 
one of the most unfavorable conditions in the environment 
of mankind. 

If the drams of houses or lands carry water only, they 
keep the name of drains, and the water in them is called 
drainage ; but if such drams carry household wastes and, 
especially, human or animal excreta, they are more often 
called sewers, their contents being known as sewage. The 
process or act of removing sewage from a house or a city 
and the systems of sewers are both known as sewerage, 
although this same term is sometimes popularly applied to 
the sewage itself. 

11. The disposal of drainage and sewage. Cellar drains 
and drains for the removal of roof water usually discharge, 
especially in the country, upon the surface of the ground at 
some distance from the house and give little trouble; but 
sink drains, since they contain dish washings, soapsuds, and 
the liquid wastes of the kitchen, are apt to become choked 
with grease. Grease is dissolved by alkalies, and common 
lye (potash) allowed to dissolve and flow down the sink 
waste-pipe will often remove greasy obstructions and give 
at least temporary relief. The final disposal of sink water, 
however, is more difficult, and a greasy, slimy, malodorous, 
and unsightly channel or area behind a country house too 
often tells of trouble. The only complete remedy is a large 
waste-pipe, as straight as possible, going to an equally large or 
larger (underground) drain, which ends in a covered pit or tank 
placed in porous or gravelly soil. This pit must be cleaned 
out from time to time, and if no open porous soil is available 
a tight tank or pit must be used and frequently emptied. 



THE WATER SUPPLY 



463 



Sewage disposal is a more difficult matter, for sewage; corn 
tains not only the sink wastes just mentioned but also 
washings from the human body, human excreta, and other 
putrescible matters, all in comparatively large volume. We 
shall discuss later (Chap. XXXIV) the problem of the dis- 
posal of the mixed sewage of numerous houses combined into 
communities and therefore at this point need consider only 
the disposal of the sewage of separate houses, such as country 




FIG. 128. Disposal of household sewage by means of a cesspool 

Observe that the loosely laid drain-pipe, or sewer, allows some sewage to leaoh 

away befdre reaching the cesspool. If no well were ne&r, this would bfe a 

distinct advantage 

homes or farmhouses. If these are so placed as to be readily 
drained or sewered into the sea or into some large lake or 
stream nowhere used for drinking purposes, the solution is 
simple. If not, the cesspool and disposal upon land, as described 
in the following paragraphs, are among the best expedients. 
12. The cesspool is a receptacle or tank in the earth, at 
some distance from the house, not less than one hundred 
feet away, and the farther off the better, into which sewage 
is conveyed by a drain or sewer directly connected with the 



464 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

soil-pipe of the house. The cesspool may be either water- 
tight to prevent leakage or loosely built to favor it. A 
common construction is one in which the cesspool is water- 
tight and has an outlet pipe just below the surface. This 
outlet pipe may run into a drain, loosely laid to facilitate 
leakage from its joints and thereby the escape of liquid 
sewage into the earth. 

It was formerly held that the cesspool was a sanitary 
abomination, that it favored putrefaction and the develop- 
ment of sewer gas, and that it ought always to be avoided 
if possible. Experience has shown, however, that thousands 
of houses have been drained into cesspools not only con- 
veniently but without the slightest discoverable sanitary 
injury ; and sanitary science now recognizes in the septic 
tank (a special form of cesspool) a useful and popular 
means of sewage disposal. 

13. Irrigation and subsurface disposal of sewage. Another 
method often successful, especially in soil which is open and 
porous, that is, in sandy soil, is that of simply discharging 
the sewage upon the surface of land set apart for the pur- 
pose at a distance from the house. This method may be 
recommended in many cases, but is often less satisfactory 
than the use of a well-regulated cesspool. A modification 
of it, in which the sewage is distributed under, instead of 
upon, the surface by means of a system of branching pipes 
loosely laid, is frequently preferable, even in the same 
porous or sandy soil; but neither of these methods is to be 
recommended as compared with the cesspool, if the soil is 
impervious or clayey. 

14. The domestic privy. In the absence of a water supply 
sufficient for drainage, a well-kept privy is a necessary sani- 
tary adjunct of the house. The two sanitary considerations 
of prime importance are the prevention (1) of access of flies 
and (2) of soil pollution. Access of flies is readily prevented 
by well-made walls, roof, doors, etc, and by thoroughly 



THE WATER SUPPLY 465 

screening all window openings. The use of flytraps on the 
premises contributes even more effectively to this result. 
The avoidance of soil pollution is a most important sanitary 
measure, especially in warmer climates where hookworm 
abounds (p. 509). It is readily accomplished by placing re- 
ceptacles (for example, 6 to 8 gallon galvanized-iron buckets) 
beneath the seats. The top of the bucket should fit as 
closely under the seat as possible, and the bucket should rest 
on a well-made stand or flooring covered with tin or galva- 
nized iron. Painting the inside of the buckets and the floor 
on which they rest with asphalt paint protects from rusting. 
To prevent access of flies the entire space under the seat 
around the buckets should be closed by a tightly fitting door 
opening outwards, through which the buckets may from time 
to time be removed and their contents buried in the earth. 
Disagreeable smells are lessened by throwing in dry earth 
or ashes from time to time. 

15. The care and disposal of garbage is a matter of much 
importance both to the housekeeper and to the community. 
Garbage consists chiefly of the more solid refuse from the 
kitchen and, since it is composed of the remnants of food, 
it is highly putrescible. On the farm, garbage may be fed 
to swine, and in many towns and cities it is collected by 
farmers and used to maintain large (and often offensive) 
piggeries in or near a city or town. More rarely garbage 
is fed to milch cows, the milk from such cows being known 
as swill milk; but this use of garbage is rightly forbidden 
by boards of health. 

In the house, garbage is simply a nuisance, to be got rid 
of as quickly and as completely as possible. It should be 
either burned (in which case disagreeable odors are often 
produced) or kept as short a time as possible in a clean 
receptacle in or near the kitchen. The garbage receptacle 
is usually the dirtiest and foulest-smelling household utensil. 
Nothing about the house requires more careful attention. 



466 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The receptacle itself should be of metal rather than wood ; 
it should be no larger than is necessary, because a small 
can is easier than a large one to keep clean ; it should have 
a tight-fitting cover to prevent access of flies ; and it should 
be kept where dogs and cats cannot overturn or open it. 
Above all, it should be frequently emptied and cleaned. 

16. The disposal of ashes, dirt, and refuse is perhaps as 
much a question of good taste as of sanitation. Nothing is 
more unsightly than a dump, especially if its papers, boxes, 
and other combustible materials are set on fire, as often 
happens, and left to smolder. In towns and cities ashes and 
rubbish (as well as garbage) are usually removed periodically 
by public carts, but isolated householders must ordinarily 
look after their refuse disposal themselves ; and of all methods, 
burial in pits, when possible, is the least objectionable. For 
garbage, especially, when a piggery is undesirable and cre- 
mation not possible, burial in sandy land at a distance from 
the house has much to recommend it. 



PUBLIC HYGIENE AND SANITATION 



CHAPTER XXXI 

PUBLIC HEALTH. COMMUNICABLE AND NON- 
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. MICEOBES 

1. The public health. The environment of man consists 
of two principal and very different parts: one near and 
chiefly personal, domestic, or private, including his clothing, 
house, family, and estate; the other more remote, impersonal, 
and public, including his neighborhood, village, town or city, 
state, and country. 

In sparsely settled districts little attention is paid to any 
health beyond that of the person or the family ; and the 
family, as we have shown, is really a small and private 
community, but in thickly settled regions, such as cities 
and towns, conditions and problems arise involving numbers 
of families, and public hygiene and sanitation become neces- 
sities. In the country each family generally has its own pri- 
vate water supply, milk supply, food supply, and drains, 
but in cities and towns mutual convenience, economy, and 
safety require public supplies and public drains. Instead of 
private roads we find public streets ; instead of private 
estates, public parks. Public gardens and public markets 
furnish flowers and vegetables; public conveyances, such as 
cars, steamboats, and carriages, serve public needs ; public 
institutions arise, such as hospitals, schools, almshouses, and 
jails; and public buildings, such as halls, hotels, churches, 
schoolhouses, shops, factories, stores. 

467 



468 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

In all such cases numbers, groups, or masses of individual 
families called collectively the people or the public are 
at times and as a whole exposed to unfavorable conditions, 
such as a general want of muscular exercise, lack of sleep, 
a too sedentary life, and overwork ; or to germs of infectious 
and contagious diseases in public supplies of water, milk, 
etc. ; or to foul air, overheating, defective lighting, gas 
poisoning, noise, dust, smoke, or impure food ; some of 
which conditions are chiefly personal, affecting more or less 
directly the bodies of the people, while others are more 
remote, or environmental. 

By the PUBLIC HEALTH we mean the health of the public, 
that is, of the people as a whole ; and the health of the pub- 
lic depends just as the health of the individuals who com- 
pose that public depends on a great variety of conditions, 
some of which, as just stated, are chiefly internal, or in inti- 
mate relation with the persons of the people, and may con- 
veniently be called hygienic; while others are chiefly external, 
or at least not in intimate relation with the persons of the 
people, but rather in their environment, and may be described 
as sanitary. 

The applications of the various branches of science, such 
as physiology, chemistry, bacteriology, vital statistics, clima- 
tology, medicine, engineering, etc. to the control of these 
various hygienic and sanitary conditions, and thereby to the 
protection and promotion of the public health, constitute the 
science of public health ; and of this, as indicated in the last 
paragraph, there are two grand divisions, namely, hygiene 
and sanitation. 

2. Public-health rules and regulations. For the regulation 
and control of those conditions which are personal and 
domestic we must look, even in large communities, chiefly 
to individuals and families; but even if individuals and 
families always obeyed the laws of personal hygiene and 
domestic sanitation, the protection of the public health would 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. MICROBES 469 

still require special supervision and control of public sup- 
plies, public drains, public vehicles, public institutions, and 
the like, because these things are outside and beyond the con- 
trol of private individuals or families and stand in a class by 
themselves. In point of fact, however, private persons and 
families are v often negligent in matters- of this kind, inflicting 
damage upon their neighbors by maintaining nuisances of- 
one kind or another, or else by their carelessness in respect 
to filth, or in respect to the spread of infectious or con- 
tagious diseases. Hence it has come to pass that sanitary 
and hygienic rules and regulations have been adopted by the 
citizens of most civilized communities for mutual benefit. 

3. Public-health authorities. For the enforcement of these 
rules and regulations (sanitary laws) special public officials 
are usually elected or appointed, such as boards of health, 
health officers, city physicians, sanitary inspectors, medical 
inspectors, quarantine officers, school nurses, sanitary police, 
vaccinating physicians, etc. By common consent of the 
majority of the citizens these officers are authorized and 
required under the laws to prepare, publish, and enforce 
needful sanitary rules and regulations for the protection 
and promotion of the public health. 

4. Public-health problems. In this and the following 
chapters we can touch upon only a few of those more ele- 
mentary and important problems of the public health of 
which every educated citizen should have some knowledge. 
Such problems are almost all fundamentally concerned with 
the control of communicable diseases, to the nature of which 
we shall therefore at once turn our attention. 

Much of what follows was formerly the exclusive pos- 
session of the medical profession and has only recently 
become a part of the common knowledge of mankind. 
Much of it also is comparatively new and among the best 
fruits of the splendid advances of the last half century in 
the sciences of pathology, hygiene, and sanitation. 



470 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

5. Plagues, pestilences, and epidemics are the most striking 
examples of influences affecting both personal and public 
health. Only wars, riots, and great conflagrations are capable 
of throwing communities into such terror as has often been 
caused by plagues or pestilences of some swiftly fatal disease. 
Such was the plague in London described by Defoe in his 
Journal of the Plague Year, a story which has been well 
called "that truest of all fictions." History is full of similar 
instances. Even as late as 1892 the rich and powerful city 
of Hamburg, Germany, was terrorized by a severe epidemic 
of Asiatic cholera due to a polluted public-water supply, 
while still more recently the great city of New York and 
a large area of adjacent territory have been stirred by the 
plague of infantile paralysis. 

Plagues and pestilences are simply older names for great 
epidemics of much-dreaded diseases, such as smallpox, yel- 
low fever, Asiatic cholera, or the bubonic plague, and the 
pesthouse, which formerly existed in many towns and cities, 
was a remote and isolated shelter, or primitive hospital, 
often of the crudest and poorest kind, to which the victims 
of pestilence were taken (or driven) by a frightened public. 
The true sources of epidemics, plagues, and pestilences 
have only recently become known. Savages often attribute 
these to supernatural causes, such as evil spirits or demons, 
and even for civilized people pestilences were until recently 
mysterious in origin and incomprehensible in behavior. It 
is now known, however, that such outbreaks are simply 
extensive epidemics of contagious (that is, communicable) 
diseases, which may often be controlled and even prevented ; 
but in order that control or prevention shall be effective, the 
intelligent cooperation of all good citizens is essential. It is 
one of our first duties to acquaint ourselves with the 
nature and the methods of prevention of contagious and 
infectious diseases, and thus at the same time of plagues, 
pestilences, and epidemics. 






COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. MICROBES 4T1 

6. What are infectious and contagious diseases? The dis- 
coveries of Pasteur, Koch, and their successors in the last 
half of the nineteenth century have brought to light the 
remarkable fact that those "fevers" typhoid fever, ma- 
larial fever (malaria), diphtheria, smallpox, cholera, tuber- 
culosis, etc., and probably also measles, chicken pox, scarlet 
fever, and many " colds " which attack apparently healthy 
persons and cause a severe but brief sickness that seems to 
run its course and then cease are due to invasions of the 
body by microparasites 1 called microbes. Each of these con- 
tagious or infectious diseases has its own special microbe to 
which it owes its origin ; and it is customary to speak of 
the microbes of diphtheria, of typhoid fever, of the bubonic 
plague, of Asiatic ^cholera, etc. as the cause of these dis- 
eases. Although in some contagious and infectious diseases 
the microbe has not yet been discovered, all these diseases 
are nevertheless so much alike, and causative microbes have 
been found in so many cases, that all are believed to have a 
similar microbic origin. 

The view or theory just outlined is known as the germ 
theory of infectious and contagious diseases, and the causa- 
tive microbes are known as disease germs. It is easy, on this 
theory, to see why these diseases are " catching." It is, of 
course, not the disease but the parasitic microbes which can 
be " caught " or " taken," as fleas can be " taken " from a 



1 Microparasites. A parasite is a plant or animal which feeds upon 
another plant or animal (called its host) and renders it no services in 
return. Some parasites, like fleas, lice, the pork worm (trichina) and 
ringworm, are visible or almost visible to the naked eye ; but many others 
are invisible and may be called microparasites. Of these the most im- 
portant belong among the microbes but as the microbes form an enor- 
mous group of plants and animals, most of which are in no way parasitic 
or harmful to mankind, but on the contrary are highly useful, we must be 
careful not to regard as parasites more than a very few of the microbes. 
Those that do not lead a parasitic life are usually scavengers and lead a 
saprophytic life ; that is, they feed upon dead organic matters, often 
helping greatly to clean and to keep clean the surface of the earth. 



472 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

dog, or bedbugs carried from place to place in bedding or 
clothing, or lice "caught" by children from lousy play- 
mates. It is easy also to understand how destructive epi- 
demics, plagues, and pestilences can occur if public food 
supplies, water supplies, milk supplies, carriages, steamers, 
cars, or other conveyances have become infected with 
dangerous microbes or disease germs. 

An infectious disease is one in which the disease germs 
infect (that is, invade) the body from without. Such are 
diphtheria, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, trichinosis, scarlet 
fever, smallpox, measles, chicken pox, and all the more 
common " fevers." Among these some are ordinarily con- 
veyed quite directly by contact from person to person, and 
to such infectious diseases the term " contagious " is often 
applied. Formerly a sharp line was drawn between infection 
and contagion, but to-day it is recognized that no such line 
exists. Typhoid fever, for example, is still mistakenly said 
to. be "infectious but not contagious." If by this is meant 
that it is not as often spread through the air or by mere 
contact as are smallpox and some other diseases, that may 
be true ; but if the saying means that it cannot be trans- 
mitted by mere contact with the patient or his excreta, then it 
is false. It would be better to drop altogether the term " con- 
tagious " and to use in its place the term " communicable." 

7. Communicable and non-communicable diseases. From 
this point of view all diseases may be arranged in two grand 
divisions -^- communicable and non-communicable. Strictly 
speaking, of course, no disease is itself communicable. Disease 
is a condition of the body and manifests itself by a complex 
of symptoms, such as the fever, the thirst, the stupor, the 
delirium of typhoid fever. These bodily conditions do not 
pass over as such from A to B. It is only the causative agent 
microbe or other parasite which is communicable. In 
the preceding section we have named some of the com- 
monest of the communicable diseases, and in the next chapter 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. MICROBES 473 

the prevention of some of these will be dwelt upon. Mean- 
time we may turn to the other grand division the non- 
communicable diseases. 

Of the non-communicable diseases good examples are 
old age (" the one incurable disease "), cataract of the eyes, 
presbyopia (p. 249), diabetes, arterial sclerosis, valvular heart 
disease, and Bright's disease. All of these, so far as we know, 
are strictly personal, individual, and non-transmissible. They 
never break out in epidemic form, or " run through " a com- 
munity, as do such diseases as measles or scarlet fever or 
tuberculosis, apparently because they are not due to microbic 
or other parasites, but to some defect, inherent or acquired, 
hi the construction or to some error in the operation of the 
bodily mechanism. Old age, for example, is clearly not due 
to any germ or parasite but to gradual changes in the body 
which bring it about in rabbits and guinea pigs in four or 
five years; in sheep, cats, and dogs in a dozen years or less; 
in horses in twenty years or thereabouts ; in mankind in 
" threescore years and ten " ; in elephants in one hundred 
years; and in some trees only after the lapse of centuries. 
The causes of most of the non-communicable diseases are 
not well understood except in the case of those which, like 
certain diseases of the heart and other organs, are plainly 
due to congenital structural defects ; or those due to bad 
management of the body, such as wrong feeding or exposure 
to damaging conditions, like those accompanying the so-called 
" occupational " diseases. 

8. Defective diet and disease. In addition to the lowering 
of vital resistance by improper feeding, whereby the body 
succumbs to some communicable disease, it is now known 
that definite diseases are caused by the absence of certain 
elements from the food (see Part I, Chap. XIII). Scurvy, 
for example, formerly so common in prisons and on long 
voyages, is caused by the lack of something normally sup- 
plied by fresh vegetables or fruits and has been successfully 



474 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

combated by the use of limes or other fruits. Beriberi, a 
wasting disease which in the more severe forms involves de- 
generation of the nerve fibers, with consequent paralysis, has 
been shown to be due to the lack of materials (vitamines) 
found in the outer portion of cereal grains and removed 
in those milling processes which produce white flour or pol- 
ished rice. Hence when one of these foods forms an unduly 
large proportion of the diet, as is the case with the rice diet 
of many of the poorer classes in the East, the deficiency in 
vitamines produces beriberi. 

These vitamines or other essential elements of the food are 
also destroyed by heating canned foods to the temperatures 
used in the processes of sterilization (120 C. or higher). 
Hence to depend solely on canned foods is unwise or even 
dangerous. The prevention of diseases of this kind is a 
matter of the proper selection of food. 

9. Occupation and disease. The prevention of diseases 
due to special occupations is in theory very easy, namely, 
by changing from a noxious to an innocuous occupation, 
although in practice this is often difficult to bring about. 
If a granite cutter, a miner, or a worker in phosphorus has 
grown old in the trade, it may be impossible for him to 
escape from an occupation which appears to be doing him 
harm. The " clergyman's sore throat " and the " housemaid's 
knee" may be curable for some only by avoidance of these 
occupations. The caisson disease (" the bends ") can best 
be prevented by avoiding exposure to compressed air, and 
mountain sickness, due to the deficiency of oxygen at 
great altitudes, by avoiding mountain climbing, ballooning, 
aviation, etc. 

On the other hand, many of these occupational diseases 
can and should be lessened or prevented by strict attention 
to personal hygiene on the part of the worker and to the 
sanitary conditions of the factory on the part of the em- 
ployer. This important matter can often be best dealt with 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. MICROBES 4T5 



by legislation, as when Congress, by imposing a prohibitive 
tax on matches containing yellow phosphorus, forced the use 
of the harmless red phosphorus used in the safety match. 

10. Microbes. Brief references have frequently been made 
on previous pages to microbes and their work, but we must 
now give them special consideration. 

As the word implies, microbes (micros, " small " ; bios, 
" life ") are little living things, and they have been described 






FIG. 129. Microbes (rod-shaped bacteria, or bacilli} (all very highly 
magnified) showing variations in size and form 

1, bacilli, some very large and some very small; 2, other forms of bacilli; 3, 
bacilli forming threads or filaments; 4, dead or dying bacilli (involution forms) 

as " all forms of life, whether animal or vegetable, invisible 
or barely visible to the naked eye." It is customary to re- 
gard them as the smallest of all living things, and some- 
times as identical with bacteria. All bacteria, however, are 
plants, so that a broader term, such as " germs," " micro- 
organisms," or " microbes," is required if the lowest forms 
of animal life are also to be covered. In these pages we 
shall use the term " microbes " for those forms of life, either 
plant or animal, which are invisible or barely visible to the 



476 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



naked eye and of interest or importance in physiology, hygiene, 
and sanitation. 

For our purposes microbes may be divided into bacteria, 
or vegetable microbes, and protozoa, or animal microbes. 
The bacteria are unicellular plants of the simplest structure 
and of three principal forms, namely, rods, berries (or balls), 
and spirals. The rods form the group bacilli (Fig. 129), the 
balls the cocci (pronounced cock's eye) (Fig. 130), and the 








f 




FIG. 130. Microbes (ball-shaped bacteria, or cocci, showing characteristic 
grouping of different forms) (all very highly magnified) 

1, cocci single, and cocci united in a jelly mass known as zooglcea ; 2, in twos 

and fours (diplococci and tetrads) ; 3, in clusters (staphylococci) ; 4, in chains or 

necklaces (streptococci) 

spirals the spirilla (Fig. 131). Bacteria often grow and 
multiply (by simple cell division) very rapidly, and some are 
capable of producing within themselves smaller cells, called 
spores, which have thick walls and possess great powers 
of resistance (see Fig. 132). 

The protozoa are unicellular animals, also of the simplest 
structure, and among them one group, the sporozoa, is of 
especial interest because it certainly includes the microbes 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. TMICROBES 477 

of malaria and possibly those of smallpox and of scarlet 
fever (see Fig. 137). 

Microbes are of interest and importance to the physiologist, 
Jiygienist, and sanitarian, first, because they are nature's 
scavengers, that is, removers of organic waste matters ; 
second, because they are the ordinary agents of the decom- 




FIG. 181. Microbes (spiral or screw-shaped bacteria, or spirilla) (all very 
highly magnified) 

1, spirilla from the human mouth ; 2, microbes of Asiatic cholera ; 3, spirilla of 
relapsing fever ; 4, large spirilla from ditch water 

position, putrefaction, and decay of foods and other valuable 
organic matter; and third, because among them are found 
many microparasites, and especially those germs which cause 
communicable diseases, such as consumption, typhoid fever, 
diphtheria, and malaria. 



478 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

1. Microbes as scavengers. Whenever the dead body of a 
plant or animal, or any part of it, is left upon the ground 
or in water or is buried in the earth, it soon crumbles or 
decays and disappears, turning, as we say, to dust and ashes. 
It was formerly universally believed that this change was 
a slow combustion or oxidation caused by the direct action 
of the oxygen of the atmosphere. It is now known, how- 
ever, that this decomposition is due to the influence of 
microbes which abound in the upper layers of the earth 
and, to a less extent, in air and water. These decompose and 
subsequently oxidize the waste organic matters to carbon 
dioxide, water, etc., much as the muscle fiber decomposes 
and oxidizes the food brought to it by the blood (see 
Chap. IV). 

It is now established that scavenging is one of the princi- 
pal functions of microbes, for they abound in sewage, which 
they readily decompose and, under favorable circumstances, 
completely purify; in excrement, which they work over and 
change to harmless, inoffensive, and even useful mineral 
matters; and in many organic wastes, which they reduce to 
simple and harmless chemical compounds. 

2. Microbes as agents of decomposition and decay. The 
peculiar property which makes microbes destroyers of waste 
organic matters, and therefore useful as scavengers, makes 
them also troublesome if not dangerous agents of the de- 
composition, decay, and consequent destruction of useful 
organic substances, such as foods. Milk, for example, may 
be spoiled by lactic-acid microbes, which feed upon its sugar 
and, by producing lactic acid in the course of their feeding, 
cause the milk to turn sour; but, on the other hand, this 
very change wrought by the microbes, though dreaded by 
the milkman, may be desired by the cheese-maker, in whose 
work the souring of the milk is necessary. The spoiling of 
meat, fish, fruit, and many other forms of food is due almost 
wholly to the vital activity of microbes, and we have to 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. MICROBES 479 




invoke cold and heat for protection against their inroads. 
Cold, by chilling and benumbing microbes, checks their 
growth and multiplication; while heat, if sufficiently in- 
tense, destroys them altogether. Upon such use of cold is 
based the important art of refrigeration and cold storage ; 
upon killing by heat, the great modern industry of canning. 

Microbes have a wide and useful employment in the arts 
and industries, such as the souring of milk in cheese-making, 
the flavoring of cheese and 
butter, the preparation of hides 
for tanning, the ripening of 
manures, the fixation of free 
nitrogen in agriculture, and 
many other processes depend- 
ing upon their vital activity. 
But, on the other hand, spoiled 
foods especially meat, eggs, 
and fish may be not only 
disagreeable but also danger- 
ous, owing to the formation 
by microbes of poisonous by- 
products known as ptomaines, 
to whose agency 'have been 
attributed severe outbreaks of 
acute disease. Ptomaines are 
bodies of uncertain chemjcal composition which cause intense 
general prostration and' sometimes death. It is a good rule 
to avoid carefully all meat or fish which is " tainted " ar 
suspected of putrefactive decomposition. 

3. Microbes as disease germs. But it is as disease germs 
that microbes are of the greatest hygienic importance. Long 
before the nineteenth century it had been suspected that 
infectious and contagious diseases were caused by invisible 
germs of some kind, but it was not until the last half of 
that century that the responsibility for some of the worst 




FIG. 132. Diagram of the growth, 

multiplication, and spore formation 

of a bacterial microbe 

1-4, growth and multiplication by cell 
division (fission) ; a-g, formation, lib- 
eration, and germination of a spore 



480 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



diseases that afflict the human race was clearly and specifi- 
cally fastened upon certain microbes. For this great dis- 
covery we are indebted chiefly to Louis Pasteur, a French 
mineralogist and biologist, and Robert Koch, a German phy- 
sician and bacteriologist. Thanks mainly to then- genius and 
their patient labors, we now know that many of the infec- 
tious or communicable diseases of animals and plants are due 



/ 










FIG. 133. Some motile bacterial microbes, showing flagella or cilia (all very 
highly magnified) 

1, 4, large water bacteria ; 2, microbes of Asiatic cholera, known as the comma 
bacillus ; 3, microbes of typhoid fever 

to the entrance into the living body of specific microbes which, 
growing in it or upon it, poison it and cause it to sicken or 
even to die. 

'But if infectious or communicable diseases are thus due 
to the attacks of microbes coming from the environment, 
we may hope to prevent these diseases, either by warding 
off the microbes or by making the body competent to resist 
or overcome them, or both; and it is one of the chief lessons 
of sanitation and hygiene to show how the warding off, the 
resistance, and the overcoming of infectious and contagious 
microbes may be most effectively accomplished. X 



COMMUNICABLE DISEASES. MICROBES 481 

11. The behavior and control of microbes. It must never 
be forgotten that microbes are living cells and, as such, sub- 
ject to the laws which govern all living things. As a rule 
they work best at about the blood heat. They feed and 
grow and multiply by cell division. Like muscle fibers and 
gland cells they decompose their food materials and produce 
secretions and by-products, some of which may be harmless 
and some harmful. Microbes (or germs) are killed by strong 
acids, strong alkalies, and various other substances, which, 
for this reason, are called germicides or disinfectants. Steriliza- 
tion is complete removal of microbic life. It may be effected 
by germicides or by intense heat, such as boiling or burn- 
ing, or by various other means. Pasteurization is incomplete 
sterilization by heat, at a temperature sufficient to destroy 
most, but not all, germs. Antiseptics restrain or inhibit 
microbic activity, growth, and multiplication without neces- 
sarily destroying the germs -themselves. 

12. The prevention of microbic diseases. For the causation of 
any infectious or communicable disease two conditions must 
be fulfilled, namely, (1) a specific disease germ, microparasite, 
or microbe, and (2) a person susceptible to the disease in ques- 
tion. Without the microbe the disease cannot arise, no matter 
how favorable for it the condition of the person may be ; 
and, on' the other hand, the microbe is often powerless to 
produce the disease unless the condition of the person is 
favorable for its reception, life, and activity. This being the 
case, we obviously have at our command two principal lines 
of defense against the attacks of infectious and contagious 
disease ; we must seek on the one hand to obtain (1) con- 
trol of disease-producing microbes, and on the other to secure 
(2) insusceptibility or resistance of the human mechanism to 
their attacks. 

Boards of health are constantly seeking to destroy or 
control dangerous microbes by requiring the reporting of 
all cases of infectious diseases, by isolation of such cases, 



482 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

by the placarding of houses, by disinfection, by the inspec- 
tion of food and other materials, and in other ways. Cities 
are purifying their water supplies, their sewage, and their 
milk supplies, with a view to warding off the attacks of dis- 
ease germs. Individuals also, if wise, will take all reasonable 
care to avoid exposure to infection by such germs, and will 
endeavor, as far as is practicable, to secure food and drink 
free from microparasites capable of causing disease. 

To measures of this kind, devoted to the destruction or 
avoidance of the active agents of infectious disease, should 
be added efforts calculated to maintain personal resistance 
to their influence if, as sometimes happens in spite of all 
precautions, they find entrance into the body. The wise in- 
dividual will study himself and learn from experience how 
to avoid colds and other slight ailments; he will regulate 
his diet and his exercise, his sleep and his bathing, his work 
and his play, in order to build up and maintain a strong 
constitution with which to meet any microbic invasions which 
may chance to occur. The wise and enlightened community 
will also provide parks and playgrounds, gymnasia and baths, 
and other means which will facilitate the cultivation of sub- 
stantial health among its citizens, young and old. 



CHAPTER XXXII 

SOME PARASITIC DISEASES AND THEIE PEEVEN- 
TION. VACCINATION AND ANTITOXIC SEEUMS 

1. Tuberculosis. One of the first diseases of which mi- 
crobes were conclusively proved to be the parasites was 
tuberculosis, a disease to which more deaths are annually 
attributed than to any other. For the latter reason it has 
been called the " great white plague," and under the com- 
mon name of " consumption " one form of it is only too 
familiar. The name " tuberculosis " was given to the disease 
because of certain characteristic cheesy nodules or tubercles 
(little tubers) found in the lungs and other tissues of persons 
affected with it, and until 1882 it was generally regarde4 as 
a constitutional disease, readily inherited and often " running 
in families." In that year, however, Koch announced the 
great discovery that in the tubercles could be found peculiar 
and apparently characteristic parasites belonging among the 
bacteria; also, that by special methods he had cultivated 
these microbes pure, or free from all others; and, finally, 
that with them he had inoculated healthy guinea pigs and 
actually produced tuberculosis in the infected animals. 

Intense interest was everywhere felt in Koch's splendid 
discovery, which was quickly confirmed, and soon became 
an established and universally accepted fact. It is now 
known that tuberculosis is not ordinarily an inherited or con- 
stitutional, but an acquired, disease .infectious, communi- 
cable, and environmental in origin, and due to the ravages 
of a special microparasite, a bacterial microbe named Bacillus 
tuberculosis. It is true that the disease often runs in families, 

483 



484 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



but communicable diseases frequently do this ; and one reason 
why it affects some families so much more than others is 
believed to be simply that the individuals of some families 
are more susceptible to it, more adapted to its growth, than 
others, precisely as some soils are better suited than others 
for growing wheat or grass or corn. 

2. How tuberculosis is spread.. As this disease is caused 
by the invasion of a specific microbe, it can only be caused 






; 

Illl 

/ ' ' ' " ' 







'M m 1' 

-'*, :-.-'-. ; >^ > :-. Q&Z-^ti 



FIG. 134. The microbe of tuberculosis (bacillus tuberculosis) (very highly 

magnified) 

A minute amount of the spit (sputum) of a consumptive has been spread out thin 
and photographed. The tubercle bacilli are the little sticks or small rods scat- 
tered all about among larger irregular epithelial cells, mucus, etc. 

by the entrance of that microbe into susceptible bodies. Sani- 
tarians generally believe that the principal ways in which 
tuberculosis is conveyed from one patient to another are 
the following: (1) by personal contact of tuberculous with 
nontuberculous persons, and especially by kissing. A con- 
sumptive mother or sister or friend fondling a baby and 
" smothering it with kisses " may thus transmit the germs 
of the disease to the child; (2) by objects handled or 
mouthed (such as food, forks, drinking cups, pencils, or 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 485 

towels) first by consumptives and then by susceptible non- 
consumptives ; (3) by dust containing sputum expectorated 
upon streets or floors and then dried and carried in the air; 
(4) by milk or. meat of tuberculous animals; and (5) by the 
moisture of the breath thrown off not as vapor but as fine 
droplets or spray, in coughing or even while talking. It is 
not possible to determine just what part any or all of these 
play in the dissemination of the disease. At one time it was 
thought that the principal vehicle of tuberculosis was the 
spit, or sputum, of tuberculous patients expectorated upon 
floors, sidewalks, or streets and afterwards dried, pulverized, 
and driven about as dust particles, which might readily find 
access to healthy throats and lungs. There is no doubt that 
the spit of consumptives may, and often does, contain the 
germs of the disease, and for this reason " spit cups " and de- 
structible handkerchiefs (for example, of paper) should always 
be used by them ; but further investigations have shown that 
drying and exposure to sunlight both tend to weaken and to 
destroy microbes, so that to-day, while dust is still regarded 
by all as a vehicle of considerable importance in the spread 
of tuberculosis, much more significance than formerly is attrib- 
uted to other factors, especially to personal contact. 

It is an open question how far milk is a carrier of tuber- 
culosis. Cows undoubtedly often suffer from a form of the 
disease not readily distinguishable from that which occurs 
in man, and the frequency of tuberculosis in children cer- 
tainly suggests that infected milk may have been the cause 
of it. On the other hand, it is far from certain that bovine 
tuberculosis is readily transferable to man ; and at present, 
while it may be that milk is an important vehicle of the 
disease, the whole question is still debated. The same thing 
is true of meat from tuberculous animals, although in this 
case thorough cooking must destroy most, if not all, of the 
germs. The safest plan is to use for food no milk or meat 
which is in the least doubtful in quality, at least not without 



486 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

first subjecting it to thorough cooking. At present personal 
contact and the dissemination of the bacilli by means of finely 
divided droplets of mucus or moisture, as suggested above, 
are regarded as of special importance. 

3. The prevention of tuberculosis. No successful steps 
have yet been taken toward the prevention of tuberculosis 
by vaccination or in any other way than by warding off 
the microbe and by helping the patient in his struggle with 
it by giving him good air, good food, rest, and all other fa- 
vorable conditions which aid the body in resisting infection 
and the ravages of the disease. 

It has been proposed to isolate cases of tuberculosis and 
in general to deal with them very much as the more con- 
tagious diseases are ordinarily dealt with. There is some- 
thing to be said in favor of this plan, but the general 
opinion is that such isolation is a hardship to the patient 
and not often necessary for the safety of the community. 
Consumptives should, however, be expected and even re- 
quired to be especially cleanly in their habits and to col- 
lect and destroy their sputum in cheap paper cups or in 
paper handkerchiefs, which can readily be burned. They 
should never spit upon floors or streets, or cough into the 
faces of friends or attendants, and they should wash their 
hands and mouths frequently and thoroughly. 

Milk or meat derived from tuberculous animals should 
not be used without thorough cooking, and dust, which 
may contain germs of tuberculosis, should be kept down as 
far as possible both in houses and in streets. Above all, 
every means of direct conveyance of the fresh virulent 
microbes from persons having the disease to new victims 
should be carefully avoided. Some of these means are kiss- 
ing and coughing, by which latter minute infectious parti- 
cles may be thrown to a distance to be caught upon the 
face or hands of friends, or upon food, tableware, or linen. 
Any lack of absolute cleanliness in washing dishes, cups, 



1 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 487 

spoons, napkins, etc. recently used by consumptives, is to 
be scrupulously avoided, and those who do the washing 
need to be on their guard against infection, by exercising 
extreme care and cleanliness. 

There are many other forms of tuberculosis besides con- 
sumption, but this is the form of principal interest to 
students beginning the study of hygiene and sanitation. 

4. Hygiene in the treatment of tuberculosis. While con- 
sumption is the cause of many deaths, it is by no means 
necessarily fatal. The Bacillus tuberculosis is usually of 
very slow growth and low virulence ; it does not, like 
some microbes, produce large quantities of poisonous toxins 
which, upon entering the blood, cause rapid and extensive 
injuries to most organs. On the contrary, its action is at 
first largely confined to the spot where it has gained a 
lodgment, and at the outset the constitutional disturbances 
are slight. So insidious is the attack and growth of the 
germ that the patient does not at first even suspect its 
presence, but merely feels " out of sorts " or " run down." 
Only later, when the pathological processes have spread 
over a considerable area of tissue, are the symptoms seri- 
ous, and frequently the disease is not recognized until 
almost irreparable damage is done. 

It is chiefly for this reason that consumption claims so 
many victims, for the inroads of the disease are by no 
means unresisted by the living cells of the body. From 
the outset a struggle between these cells and the invading 
microbes takes place, and it should be better known than 
it is that in the majority of cases the human mechanism is 
the victor in the struggle. This is shown by the fact that 
autopsies on persons who have died of other diseases dis- 
close in a surprisingly large percentage of cases healed 
tuberculous lesions, where the presence of the disease had 
not been suspected. In other words, the disease moves on 
to a fatal issue only when the vital resistance proves 



488 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

unequal to the defense, and the mortality from consump- 
tion would undoubtedly be exceedingly low were sufficient 
attention paid to the hygienic care of the body and the 
sanitation of its surroundings, by both of which the vital 
resistance is powerfully reenforced. 

Many if not most students of the problem of tuberculosis 
now believe that infection generally occurs in infancy and 
childhood and that the vast majority of people become in- 
fected during the first few years of life. This means that 
the bacilli enter the body and some of them find lodgment 
in one place or another, in the lungs, in lymphatic glands, 
or in other organs and tissues. In these " foci " of infection 
the germs grow, multiply, and destroy the tissues upon 
which they are parasites ; but the body has certain defenses 
against their invasion of adjacent tissues, for around such 
foci are constructed barriers within which the bacilli are 
confined and many but not all of them die. This may take 
place without any suspicion on the part either of parent or 
child of the true state of affairs. When the resistance of 
the organism is low the disease is not checked and proceeds 
to a fatal issue. Hence the high mortality from tuberculosis 
in childhood. Where the resistance is adequate the prog- 
ress of the disease is checked, because the bacilli, though not 
necessarily killed, are prevented from invading the adjacent 
tissue, thereby extending the disease process. In this con- 
dition the child may grow into adult life without a suspicion 
of the latent tubercular infection lurking within. 

Too frequently, however, the protective barrier breaks 
down, as the result of weakening of the defensive power of 
the organism by unhygienic living. The bacilli are thus set 
free to cause a "secondary" infection in the lungs, the joints, 
or in other organs. It is believed that most cases of consump- 
tion of the lungs are instances of such secondary infection. 

If this view of the case is correct, it follows that every 
safeguard against infection should be thrown around children. 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 489 

Their milk should come from sources known to be free from 
infection or, if not, it should be Pasteurized ; promiscuous 
kissing of babies should be avoided and special care exercised 
to keep them, as well as children, away from known cases of 
consumption. In the second place, the defenses of the organ- 
ism against the spread from foci of infection should be kept 
as perfect as possible by attention to the principles of hygi- 
enic living ; in other words, by attention to personal hygiene. 

This is in itself a powerful argument for attention to 
general hygiene, and it points out unmistakably the hygienic 
treatment of the disease when once recognized. No reliance 
whatever should be placed upon drugs. On the contrary, the 
patient, his family, and friends should recognize that the one 
hope lies in the hygienic conduct of life. The patient should 
live and sleep out of doors, if possible; he should fearlessly 
breathe cold air, but should protect the skin from chilling 
by warm clothing ; if he cannot live out of doors, the win- 
dows of the living and sleeping rooms should be kept open, 
even in winter weather ; the sleeping room should have light 
walls, and all curtains and draperies which limit the amount 
of sunlight should be dispensed with; the furniture of the 
room should be reduced to a minimum and should be such 
as can be easily cleaned; rest from anything but very 
moderate muscular activity, and from nervous strain, is 
absolutely essential. All these measures should be reen- 
forced by abundant feeding with appetizing and easily 
digested food ; the feeding, indeed, may be pushed to the 
extreme, may even be forced feeding, but only with easily 
digestible foods. In brief, rest, fresh and cool air, sunshine, 
and abundant food are the cures for tuberculosis, and, unless 
the disease has gone too far before it is recognized, they are 
almost certain cures. 

While some climates are more favorable for the treatment 
of tuberculosis than others, a cold, dry climate being 
preferable, it should be understood that the treatment we 



490 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

have outlined has been used with excellent results even in 
the patient's own home, wherever that may be, and this 
hygienic treatment should be employed whether or not it 
is possible to go away from home. Continuous high tempera- 
ture and high humidity, or dampness, are the main condi- 
tions which make change of climate desirable. 

5. Sanatorium versus home treatment of tuberculosis. It is 
theoretically possible to give as efficient treatment of tuber- 
culosis at one's own home as in a public or private sana- 
torium. In practice, however, better results are obtained by 
beginning the treatment either at a tuberculosis sanatorium 
or at least away from home under surroundings especially 
adapted to the " rest and fresh air " cure. In the first place, 
patients are thus withdrawn from the calls which are apt to 
be made upon them at home and so can give themselves up 
unreservedly to following the directions of their attending 
physicians. In the second place, with the vast majority of 
people it is only in this way that the exact regimen of the 
cure can be learned in all its details. After six months, 
more or less, spent under these conditions most patients with 
slightly advanced cases may return home, where family and 
friends may not only minister to their needs but may also 
maintain those cheerful surroundings which count for so 
much both in sickness and in health. 

6. Importance of the early recognition of tuberculosis. In 
the struggle of mankind against this " great white plague " 
the provision of public and private sanatoria in which to 
begin the treatment is of prime importance ; but no less 
important is the prompt recognition of the disease. Its 
approach is so insidious that all too frequently the patient 
has a mere fighting chance or even less than this before 
a physician is consulted and the diagnosis made. Everyone 
should understand that a run-down condition, especially 
when accompanied by steady loss of weight or rise of tem- 
perature, is suspicious, even when there is no cough. If 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 491 

these conditions do not yield readily to ordinary hygienic 
measures, it is wise to have a thorough physical examination 
by a competent physician. It may be positively stated that 
tuberculosis when recognized in its incipient or early stages 
is almost always curable ; when its ravages have gone to the 
" moderately advanced " stage, the outlook is far more grave. 
7. Typhoid fever. This disease is now believed to be due 
to the bacterial parasite known to bacteriologists as Bacillus 



wi$i*35* : " .M,<* 




FIG. 135. Typhoid fever germs (Bacillus typhi) (highly magnified) 

Above, swimming free in normal blood serum; below, "clumped" or "agglu- 
tinated " in the serum of a typhoid fever patient 

typhi, which, though observed by Koch, Eberth, and others 
about 1879, was first thoroughly worked out in 1884 by 
Dr. Gaffky, a pupil of Koch. 

Typhoid fever has been well known since about 1840, 
previous to which time it was confused with typhus {jail, 
spotted, or ship) fever (see page 520). It is one of the worst 
.maladies that afflicts mankind, for although not generally 
fatal in more than about 10 per cent of the cases, it is a 
slow fever, disabling the patient even when it does not kill 
and requiring weeks and often months for its course and for 
convalescence. It is widely distributed, probably all over the 



492 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

world, and, although less widespread than tuberculosis, it is 
still one of the chief causes of death. It is a disease which 
seriously damages the intestine and is one form of what is 
sometimes called " inflammation of the bowels." The microbe 
finds its way into the alimentary canal with food or drink 
and is believed to multiply in the intestine and to invade 
the body proper, producing a poisonous substance which 
causes the fever and otherwise injures the whole organism. 
The germs are cast off in abundance with the various excreta, 
and as diarrhea is a frequent (though not invariable) accom- 
paniment of the disease, typhoid fever is called a diarrhea! 
disease. At its beginning and in mild attacks throughout 
the whole disease the victim may not be confined to his 
bed, but may " keep about." Such cases are known as 
" walking " typhoid. 

8. How typhoid fever is spread. Since the germs of this 
disease are present in the excreta, both urine and feces, 
and even in the saliva, it has been well called a " filth " 
disease. The old idea of a filth disease, however, was that 
filth bred disease and that almost any heap of dirt or rot- 
ting material might generate disease, especially typhoid fever, 
and inflict it on persons in the vicinity. This idea is now 
abandoned, for it is held that the germs of any one kind or 
species of disease can come only from other germs of the 
same kind ; that is to say, typhoid fever can come only from 
a person or persons now having or having once had that 
disease. The excreta of such persons may readily convey it, 
and if food or drink are polluted in any way by such excreta, 
then the germs readily find access to fresh victims. 

Unfortunately food and drink are oftener polluted than 
most persons realize. Water may be contaminated by sew- 
age ; milk, by the dirty hands of careless or unclean milkers ; 
oysters growing in harbors or estuaries, by city sewers dis- 
charging therein ; vegetables, by manure ; and fruits or ber- 
ries, by filthy hands. When we stop to think that filth may 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 493 

readily find access to food and drink in these and many 
other ways, it is clear that typhoid fever may still be called 
a filth disease, even if we understand by the term that it is 
a disease conveyed by infected filth but not bred or generated 
by filth alone. 

9. The prevention of typhoid fever. This disease can be 
vastly reduced in amount and destructiveness in any com- 
munity in which it abounds, by careful attention to the avoid- 
ance and destruction of its microbes and by maintaining high 
vital resistance through hygienic and wholesome living. For- 
tunately, moreover, a method is now in use for vaccinating 
against its attacks, much as is done for smallpox. 

The microbes of typhoid fever may generally be avoided 
by the use of pure drinking water, pure milk, clean vege- 
tables and fruits, raw oysters derived only from harbors and 
estuaries free from sewage, and, in general, by the use of 
pure foods and drinks. The microbes are readily destroyed 
by cooking at a high temperature and, in the case of the 
excreta of patients suffering from typhoid, by disinfection, 
which, under the direction of an attending physician, should 
always be thoroughly carried out. 

It should never be forgotten that, contrary to the general 
impression, typhoid fever is really contagious, that is, may be 
" taken" by contact not merely with the patient but very readily 
with his excreta, or with his linen, or with any of his belong- 
ings soiled with his excreta. Even trained nurses sometimes 
seem to forget this fact, for not infrequently a trained nurse 
contracts the disease from her patient. Similar secondary 
cases of typhoid fever, especially in families in which the 
mother or sister attends the patient and at the same time pre- 
pares food for the rest of the family, are painfully common. 

In the majority of cases of typhoid fever the victim is in 
an overworked or otherwise poor condition at the time of in- 
fection. This proves that the power of the body to resist the 
disease is strengthened by hygienic living. It is a mistake, 



494 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

however, to suppose that attention to general personal hygiene 
is a sure preventive, for persons apparently in the very best 
physical condition are sometimes attacked. 

Finally, it must be admitted that it is not always possible 
to avoid infection, especially when one is away from home ; 
and even at home control of the vehicles of infection is never 
complete. It is therefore fortunate that in what is popularly 
called typhoid inoculation or vaccination we have the means 
of producing an almost certain immunity from infection. 
For this purpose the microbes of typhoid fever are grown 
in vast numbers on suitable culture media. The microbes 
are then killed and their dead bodies injected subcutane- 
ously. Usually three such injections are made at intervals. 
In its reaction to the presence of the dead bacilli the body 
acquires an immunity from infection by the living bacillus, 
this immunity usually lasting, on an average, two or three 
years. The introduction of this typhoid inoculation into 
armies as a routine measure has virtually eliminated a dis- 
ease by which previously more soldiers were killed than 
by bullets. Whenever one is to be especially exposed to 
infection, typhoid inoculation becomes a hygienic duty, since 
thereby one not only secures himself against attack but also 
lessens the risk of becoming a source of danger to others. 
It must never be forgotten that every case of a communicable 
disease is a potential source of danger to the community. 

A fever closely similar to typhoid is now known as para- 
typhoid. It differs from typhoid in its specific parasite and 
requires for its control a different serum or vaccine. 

10. Diphtheria. This disease has long been known under 
the names "membranous croup" and "malignant sore throat," 
but it was not until 1884 that Loeffler, one of the pupils of 
Koch, detected the microbe now generally agreed to be its 
sole and only cause (Fig. 136). 

It is believed that this microbe, Bacillus diphtherice, find- 
ing lodgment in the throat of a susceptible person, grows 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 



495 



and multiplies there, secreting meanwhile a poisonous sub- 
stance (or toxin) which injures the tissues of the throat and 
causes the formation of the white spots and false membrane 
so characteristic of the disease, and also damages the rest of 
the body after its absorption into the circulation, by produc- 
ing fever, paralysis of particular parts, and sometimes death. 
11. How diphtheria is spread. Inasmuch as diphtheria is a 
disease of the throat especially, it is easy to see that it must 









|||||||;ip| 




$** 

** s *---'''' - k 

S 



FIG. 136. Microbes of diphtheria (Bacillus diphtherice) (highly magnified) 

On the left, as they appear under the microscope in discharges from the throat 
of a diphtheritic patient; on the right, after cultivation in the bacteriological 

laboratory 

be chiefly conveyed from one person to another by sputum 
and by objects which come in contact with the mouth or lips. 
Kissing and fondling among children, or parents and chil- 
dren; fingers, which, especially in children, are too often in 
the mouth; books, handkerchiefs, pencils, playthings, and 
food bitten and passed from hand to hand, all these may 
be vehicles of contagion and infection in this microbic disease. 
It may be spread also by sputum in dust, by milk infected 
by milkers suffering with the disease, by infected food, and 
possibly by pets, such as cats and dogs, and even birds, 
suffering from the disease. 



496 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

12. The prevention of diphtheria. Diphtheria being pri- 
marily a disease of the throat and therefore distributed both 
by personal contact and by spittle, it would seem to suffice 
for its prevention to isolate patients having the disease as 
long as they are capable of communicating it to others, and 
thus cut off the escape and distribution of the germs. Un- 
fortuna f ely, however, in this, as in many other infectious 
diseases, persons often have the disease for some time before 
they or their friends discover the fact; and some mild cases 
of this malady (as also of typhoid fever and other infectious 
diseases) probably occur and run their course without ever 
having revealed their true character. Hence arises the diffi- 
culty of accounting for the origin of some apparently inex- 
plicable cases and also the difficulty of stamping out a disease 
of this kind. Diphtheria is not an eruptive disease and ought, 
therefore, to be more readily controlled than smallpox, scarlet 
fever, or measles, which are doubtless often disseminated by 
means of scales shed from the skin during the "peeling" 
which follows the eruption. 

It should be clearly understood that all kissing by per- 
sons having sore throats, or the mouthing of pencils or 
other objects by children, is a dangerous practice ; and that 
fingers, which so readily find their way into mouths, may 
as easily as not carry infection to books, playthings, food, 
letters, or other objects which are " handled." Letters sealed 
or handled by diphtheritic patients or by persons attend- 
ing them have probably at tunes conveyed the germs of 
disease to persons at a distance in whom the appearance 
of the illness seemed quite unaccountable. Here also, as 
in tuberculosis, care in the disposal of sputum is of great 
importance. 

Within a decade the discovery of an antitoxic serum, 
antitoxin, has given us a novel and invaluable means of 
defense against the microbes of diphtheria by increasing the 
resistance of the human body so that it shall be no longer 

I 



PAKASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 497 

susceptible to the disease. But as this discovery means 
much more to hygiene than the control of this one disease, 
we shall devote to its careful consideration an entire para- 
graph farther on. 

13. The spitting nuisance, as the habit of public spitting 
is often called, is not only a disgusting nuisance but a real 
menace to the public health, because, as will now readily 
be seen, it may be the means of spreading abroad diseases, 
such as tuberculosis and diphtheria, with which many per- 
sons incipient cases, or "walking" cases may be moving 
about. Fortunately the habit is chiefly confined to one sex, 
and this fact shows how easily it might be controlled if 
custom demanded. 

14. Some other communicable diseases and how they are 
supposed to be spread. In the case of some of the commonest 
communicable diseases we are still in the dark both as to 
their precise causation and the ways in which they are scat- 
tered abroad. Concerning measles, chicken pox, and whoop- 
ing cough, for example, we are still awaiting discoveries 
such as have already been made for tuberculosis and the 
other diseases described above. 

We have also referred above (p. 375) to the fact that 
some colds or influenzas appear to be infectious. Attempts 
have been made to detect the microbes of the " grippe " 
and other influenzas, and figures are often given of germs 
found associated with disorders of this class. Fig. 137 is 
an example of this kind, although it is not safe to say 
positively that the microbes chiefly concerned have really 
as yet been identified. 

But while we patiently wait for more light, we have 
good reason, because of then- general character, to believe 
that these also are microbic diseases, caused likewise by 
microparasites transmitted either directly or indirectly from 
victim to victim. Experience has shown that the same 
kind of effort which tends to prevent diseases undoubtedly 



498 



THE HUMAK MECHANISM 



microbic tends to prevent these also; so that at present 
and for all practical purposes we may consider that we 
know enough about their causation and spreading to enable 
us to deal with them intelligently, fearlessly, and hopefully. 
15. Scarlet fever, measles, and chicken pox belong to the 
group of eruptive diseases, a term derived from the fact that 
person^ having any of them are usually, sooner or later, 
" broken out," or more or less covered with an eruption, or 



m 




r$* /J"r 



. 

' 



~> ., " : *? 

:K ; -if?. 

V' K * * q 



FIG. 137. A so-called " influenza bacillus " 

On the left, as found in the sputum in some " colds " ; on the right, after cultiva- 
tion in the bacteriological laboratory 

rash. When this eruption heals, scales of the skin are shed, 
and the wide dissemination of these scales during the process 
of " peeling " is believed to be one reason why eruptive 
diseases are more contagious than some microbic diseases 
(like tuberculosis and diphtheria) which are not eruptive. 
Persons suffering from an eruptive disease should not be 
allowed to go about among other people until they have 
ceased peeling. 

As for the prevention of measles, chicken pox, scarlet 
fever, and whooping cough, the only means at hand at pres- 
ent seem to be isolation and nonintercourse. To maintain 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 499 

or increase the resistance of the body no better means are 
known than good feeding, temperate living, and, in general, 
a wise and wholesome conduct of life ; yet, even so, immunity 
is often purchased only at the cost of one or more attacks, 
and prevention by isolation is frequently difficult under 
the conditions of modern life, especially in tenements and 
crowded districts. 

16. Summer complaint in children is a severe and often 
dangerous summer diarrhea, believed to be caused by 
microbes and apparently due in part to wrong feeding. In 
cities it appears to be closely connected with the use of stale 
milk, and is often prevented or overcome by using very 
fresh milk or, better, by Pasteurizing ordinary milk (p. 481). 
This is readily done by immersing bottles of milk in water 
and then heating the water to a temperature of about 160 F. 
for five minutes. If no thermometer is available, it will suf- 
fice to bring the milk nearly (but not quite) to the boiling 
point and keep it at that temperature for a few minutes. 

17. Smallpox, a disease once so common that " scarce one 
in a thousand" escaped it, is now happily rare in most 
highly civilized countries. It is an eruptive fever, small 
pustules or pocks giving it its name, and while not as fatal 
as some of the diseases shortly to be considered, it is 
peculiarly loathsome and very apt to leave after it lifelong 
disfigurement, or pitting. It is hard to realize to-day the 
dread and fear with which our ancestors rightly regarded 
smallpox, and for this reason some people make much more 
of the slight discomfort and insignificant danger of vaccina- 
tion than of the loathsome smallpox itself; but if communi- 
ties ever cease to take the simple but indispensable steps 
required to prevent smallpox, outbreaks of the disease will 
undoubtedly remind them in alarming fashion of what they 
had previously escaped. 

It is not yet absolutely proved, although it is generally 
believed, that smallpox is caused by microbic activity; but 



500 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

it is certain that it is extremely contagious, probably through 
the scales cast off from the skin of those suffering from 
it, with which scales the specific microbes are blown or 
handed about. 

Experience has shown that great gain results from " iso- 
lating " or " quarantining " smallpox patients in a deten- 
tion hospital (to which the name " pesthouse " was formerly 
given). Smallpox patients are thus removed and isolated, 
while those suffering from typhoid fever or consumption are 
not, partly because of the much greater contagiousness of 
smallpox and partly because of its graver and more loath- 
some character. 

In smallpox, as in other diseases, wholesome living 
diminishes the danger of infection ; but it is a matter of 
history that in the days when the disease was prevalent 
and the question was put to the severest test, general good 
health proved an unreliable defense. Fortunately, however, 
the human race, which was once so frightfully scourged by 
this disease, has discovered a more certain means of protec- 
tion, which consists not in the warding off or destruction of 
microbes but in an enhancement of the powers of resistance 
of the organism, so remarkable as to constitute for extended 
periods virtual exemption, or immunity, from smallpox. The 
methods by which this extraordinary result is reached are 
known as inoculation and vaccination. 

18. Immunity. The best of all defenses against any disease 
would be complete insusceptibility, or immunity, to it ; for 
no matter how ingenious, elaborate, or complete the devices 
may be for preventing disease germs from finding access to 
the body, accidents may always happen which will allow 
them to enter. Immunity, or insusceptibility, to disease is 
therefore one of the principal aims of hygiene, one of the 
goals of sanitary science. Unfortunately natural immunity 
is not common, and artificial immunity is not easily conferred 
or acquired except in the case of one or two diseases, but 



PAEASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 501 

there is good reason to hope that the future may have in 
store for the human race great gains in this direction. 

Natural immunity means a natural insusceptibility to 
disease. It is usually constitutional and inherited. The lower 
animals, for example, are not susceptible to typhoid fever, 
and birds are immune to anthrax, although mammals take it 
readily. Diseases common to many species of animals appear 
to be the exception. In general, each species is immune to 
many, if not most, of the diseases of other species. 

By artificial immunity is meant a similar exemption from 
disease not constitutional or inherited but acquired in one 
way or another. The most familiar method of becoming im- 
mune to any disease is to have the disease in question. For 
example, long before inoculation and vaccination were known, 
it was well recognized that persons who had once had smallpox 
were not likely to have it a second time, and such persons 
were, and still are, in demand as nurses for cases of that 
disease. Again, children who have had scarlet fever or 
measles or whooping cough are believed (and rightly) for 
that reason to be less likely to have the same disease a second 
time. There can be no question that protection is generally 
secured in this way, although cases are not rare in which 
such protection, even if once secured, is ultimately lost; for 
people sometimes have measles, typhoid fever, and diphtheria 
twice, or even oftener. 

19, Inoculation for smallpox. The first great step towards 
the prevention of infectious diseases by producing artificial 
immunity from them was that of inoculation for smallpox. 

For a century after the first English settlements in this 
country smallpox ravaged Europe and America, but in 1721 
a novel and ingenious method of producing immunity from 
the disease was introduced into England from Constantinople, 
and quickly reached the United States. This method, known 
as inoculation, consisted in inoculating persons while in good 
health with the virus of true smallpox (not vaccine), for the 



502 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

purpose of causing them to undergo a mild attack of the 
disease while well and in good condition, so that they might 
avoid having a severe attack when unwell and in poor con- 
dition. Inoculation for smallpox was an effective preventive 
and met with wide acceptance and approval both in England 
and in the United States. It was extensively practiced for 
nearly a century, but was finally supplanted by the much 
safer process of vaccination, in which the inoculation was 
with vaccine (the mild and comparatively harmless virus of 
cowpox) instead of with the always dangerous smallpox virus. 

20. Vaccination, one of the greatest blessings ever con- 
ferred upon mankind, was first invented in England, in 1796, 
by Edward Jenner, a young physician of Gloucestershire. It 
consists in the inoculation of the human being with virus 
derived from a cow having cowpox. A spot, usually upon 
the upper arm, is scraped by a lancet, so that the outer 
layers of the epidermis are removed ; the spot is then rubbed 
with an ivory point, quill, or tube, carrying the virus. A 
slight and usually unimportant illness or indisposition follows, 
and the arm is sore for a time, a characteristic scar remain- 
ing. In some cases the illness is more serious, but deaths 
plainly due to mere vaccination very rarely, if ever, occur. 

The immunity from smallpox produced by vaccination is 
remarkable and has been proved over and over again not 
only by the experience of armies and nations but also by 
actual experiment. It was formerly thought that " once vac- 
cinated " was '* always protected " ; but to-day it is recognized 
that occasional re vaccination is essential to complete immunity, 
the length of the period of protection usually fixed nowadays 
being not more than ten years. Indeed, so variable is the 
duration of the immunity in different individuals, and in 
the same individual at different times, that the only safe 
course is to revaccinate whenever there is an appearance of 
smallpox in the community. It should also be remembered 
hat the vaccination may fail to " take " merely because the 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 503 

virus has been rubbed off by the clothing or because it was 
not effective to begin with. Consequently when any vacci- 
nation fails to " take," it is safest to try again a second or 
even a third time, especially if there is unusual exposure to 
the contagion of the disease. 

21. Diphtheria antitoxin ; other serums ; immunology. As 
has been said above, inoculation against smallpox was begun 
in western Europe and America about 1721, and vaccination 
for the same disease at about the beginning of the nineteenth 
century (1796). No further progress was made in the art of 
immunizing until, in 1879, Pasteur succeeded in extending 
vaccination to some species of the lower animals, upon which 
he conferred immunity from certain diseases by using a modi- 
fied (or, as he called it, attenuated) virus of the disease itself. 

A much more fruitful discovery than Pasteur's was made 
in 1892, when Von Behring, a German bacteriologist, found 
that the serum of the blood of an animal immune to diph- 
theria differs from that of one not immune in that it is 
capable of neutralizing, both in a test tube and in the 
body of another animal, the poison (toxin) produced by 
diphtheria germs. This great discovery naturally led to 
the use of such neutralizing, antidotal, or antitoxic serum 
(antitoxin) in cases of diphtheria in man, and this use of 
it has now become general. 

In order to obtain the antitoxin, horses are inoculated 
hypodermically with virus, or toxin, 1 of diphtheria (from 

1 If the animal were inoculated with the germ of diphtheria instead of 
its toxin we should have no control of its growth and the severity of the 
disease produced. By inoculating with carefully measured doses of the 
toxin, however, which does not increase in amount, we may produce 
the symptoms of diphtheria in very mild form and always have the course 
of the disease under control. Immunity is gradually acquired with but 
trifling discomfort to the animal, and the antitoxic serum is absolutely free 
from the germs of the disease. The statement sometimes made, that the 
use of antitoxin is liable to produce diphtheria because the animal was 
inoculated with the germs of that disease, is untrue, because such germs 
are never present in antitoxin properly made. 



504 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

which all germs have been removed), at first in small doses 
but gradually with larger amounts, until they have become 
immune to heavy doses. The serum of the horse's blood 
under this treatment gradually becomes changed, so that 
it possesses antitoxic or antidotal properties. This serum 
(or antitoxin) is then carefully collected, bottled, and after- 
wards used to cure and sometimes to prevent cases of 
diphtheria in human beings. 

Von Behring's discovery is probably one of the most 
beneficent ever made, because it has pointed out the way 
for the prevention or cure of other infectious diseases, by 
showing that when the disease is due to a toxin it may 
be possible in any case to produce an antidote (antitoxin) 
which shall neutralize and overcome it. 

22. The science of immunology. We have described in 
some detail the method of producing immunity from typhoid 
and smallpox and also the preparation of the antitoxin of 
diphtheria. It will be observed that in all these cases the 
living cells of the animal (man, horse) are exposed either to 
the microbes of disease (as presumably in smallpox x ) or to 
the products of their active growth (as in typhoid and diph- 
theria). The body of the inoculated animal is believed in 
all cases to react to the presence of the foreign poisons by 
the production of antitoxic substances capable of restraining 
or stopping the growth of the microbe, or of neutralizing the 
toxins it produces, or capable of both. In the cases of typhoid 
and smallpox these antitoxic substances are produced in and 
by the body to be rendered immune ; in the case of diph- 
theria they are produced in another animal, and the blood 
serum of this animal is injected into the human being 

1 The virus containing the microbes used in vaccination, as previously 
explained, is that of cowpox and not that of human smallpox. Probably, 
however, cowpox is a mild form of smallpox. The microbes used are capa- 
ble of causing only an exceedingly mild attack, but this confers the same 
immunity from the more virulent germs as if the patient had been exposed 
to the action of these virulent germs themselves. 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 505 

attacked with the disease. In all cases the object to be 
secured is the presence of protective antitoxic substances, 
or antibodies, in the exposed or infected animal. 

The history of other diseases suggests that this is a general 
reaction of living organism to the invasion of foreign microbes. 
In pneumonia, for example, we frequently meet the very- 
striking phenomenon of the crisis. For a week or so the 
patient is extremely ill, and the symptoms become progres- 
sively and alarmingly worse from day to day. Then there 
is a sudden and complete change ; the fever ceases, the dis- 
tressing circulatory and respiratory symptoms improve, and 
convalescence sets in. The crisis marks the time when the 
infected organism has finally succeeded in producing enough 
of antitoxic substances or antibodies to check the further 
harmful activity of the invading microbes. The same thing 
is believed to be true whenever one acquires immunity by 
having an attack of measles, mumps, scarlet fever, etc. In 
all cases the immunity lasts as long as the organism con- 
tinues to produce the antibodies. In pneumonia this period 
is comparatively brief; in typhoid it is considerably longer 
(two or three years) ; in smallpox it is longer still. 

The production of these antibodies, or of this condition 
of immunization, presents many special complicated problems 
for each communicable disease. Hence has grown up a highly 
specialized and important branch of biological science the 
science of immunology. Those working in this field seek to 
find the practical way to combat every communicable dis- 
ease by making the antibodies of the disease effectively 
available to the organism attacked. 

23. Tetanus, or lockjaw, is a comparatively rare disease, 
although in America, about the Fourth of July, it was 
formerly quite common among boys as a consequence of 
accidents attending the celebration of that anniversary. The 
lessening of these distressing and inexcusable accidents by 
the public agitation for a " safe and sane Fourth " is a good 



06 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



example of how hygienic reforms may be accomplished. The 
disease is a peculiar one, and prolonged muscular contrac- 
tions or spasms are a characteristic symptom of its advanced 
stages. These spasms may cause the lower jaw to become 
more or less set or fixed; hence the popular name, "lockjaw." 
The microbe of tetanus is well known, and is common in 
the intestine of herbivorous animals and in dirt in many 
places. It grows best in the absence of oxygen, and deep 




FIG. 138. Microbes of lockjaw (tetanus). After Kolle and Wassermann 

On the left, in the ordinary rodlike stage of active growth ; on the right, after 
having formed resting " spores " in the resting stage 

or lacerated wounds, such as are made by toy pistols, rusty 
nails, tacks, etc., appear specially to favor its development. 

24. Asiatic cholera is a microbic fever formerly greatly 
dreaded all over the civilized world, and still very destruc- 
tive of human life in the East for example, in the Philip- 
pine Islands. The germ of the disease was discovered by 
Koch, in 1883, in the bowel discharges of cholera patients 
in Egypt. Cholera appeared in Hamburg, Germany, in epi- 
demic form as late as 1892, causing about eight thousand 
deaths and great alarm all over Europe and America. It is, 
however, easily prevented by the same means as are used 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 



507 



to limit the chance of infection by typhoid fever (p. 493), 
and cholera need no longer be greatly feared in any clean 
and well-ordered community supplied with pure food and 
pure water. 

25. Infantile paralysis, or anterior poliomyelitis. Those 
who live in New England or the Middle Atlantic States 
will recall the prevalence of infantile paralysis during the 
summer of 1916, and the alarm caused thereby in the territory 



Hi 



FIG. 139. Microbes of Asiatic cholera 

On the left, as they occur in the feces of victims of the disease ; on the right, 
after cultivation in the bacteriological laboratory 

adjacent to the city of New York. Since the cause of the dis- 
ease and its mode of transmission were only imperfectly un- 
derstood, health authorities and the public generally were in 
the dark as to effective means of control. Cities and states 
were forced to the expedient of quarantine, which is always 
a confession of ignorance or helplessness. It was an instruc- 
tive reminder of the days before Pasteur and Koch and 
Walter Reed, and emphasized, as nothing else could have 
done, the changed attitude of mankind toward plagues or 
epidemics of cholera, smallpox, typhoid, and diphtheria. 
There can be no doubt that infantile paralysis is a microbic 



508 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

infection and that the virus is contained in the nasal secre- 
tion of persons suffering therefrom; at least this is true in 
certain stages of the disease. It can therefore almost cer- 
tainly be transmitted from person to person directly by 
contact or possibly indirectly through articles of one sort or 
another. In many cases, however, no such transference can 
be detected even after the most thorough investigation ; for 
which reason still other modes of transmission (for example, 
by insects) have been suspected, though not proved. 

The name "anterior poliomyelitis" (Greek, polios, "gray"; 
muelos, " marrow ") refers to the most distressing effect of the 
disease, namely the injury or destruction of the motor nerve 
cells of the ventral (or anterior) horn of the spinal cord. 
The microbe, however it gains entrance to the body, ulti- 
mately finds lodgment in the spinal canal and attacks the 
nerve cells of the cord and other parts of the nervous system. 
The resulting paralysis, often permanent, leaves the victim 
a partial or complete cripple for life, and this fact makes 
this one of the most dreaded of all communicable diseases. 

26. The care of wounds. Proper care is usually taken of 
a severe wound by the physician or surgeon who is sum- 
moned to attend the case. Slight cuts, on the other hand, 
are frequently neglected as trivial affairs; and these cuts 
usually heal with no bad after-effects, either because no 
pathogenic organisms are introduced or because, if intro- 
duced, they are killed by one or another of the means of 
defense possessed by the body against microbic invasion. 
Infections of such wounds are, however, by no means of 
rare occurrence, and it is safer to give them thorough care 
whenever possible. The wound should be washed thor- 
oughly with some antiseptic, such as a solution of corrosive 
sublimate (1 to 1000) or carbolic acid (1 to 40), and then 
protected by absorbent cotton until healed. Since the bacillus 
of tetanus grows only in the absence of oxygen, it is gener- 
ally safer not to close the wound with anything like collodion, 






PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 



509 



which entirely prevents access of air. The bleeding from an 
ordinary cut presents no danger of undue loss of blood from 
the body and, by washing out the wound before clotting 
takes place, is an important safeguard 
against infection. 

27. Hookworm disease ; its prevention. 
Some parasites are not microbic but 
macrobic, that is, large enough to be 
readily visible. Such are those of the 
diseases caused by tapeworms, stomach 
worms, pinworms, pork worms, and, most 
important of all, especially in the south- 
ern United States, Porto Rico, Central 
America, etc., hookworms. These last are 
minute parasitic worms which fasten them- 
selves to the mucous membrane among the 
villi of the small intestine and live upon 
blood and lymph abstracted from their 
host. In persons badly infected large 
numbers of these parasites will be found 
in the intestine. They cause marked 
anemia (diminution in the number of red 
blood corpuscles) and, secondarily, dis- After A. J. Smith 
turbance of digestion, malaise, emacia- The i arge r is the Old 
tion, and a marked loss of bodily and World hookworm (An- 

. * kylostomaduodenaleor 

mental vigor. Ihe eggs ot the worms 

are discharged from the body in the feces 

and in this way are distributed wherever (NecatorAmericanus). 

the soil is allowed to become contami- Magnifie f im a e g ut five 

nated with human excrement. 

Infection sometimes occurs through the mouth, but more 
frequently the eggs find entrance to the body through 
wounds or scratches on the feet. Those going barefoot in 
regions where soil pollution is not prevented by the use of 
sanitary privies or by other proper means of excrement 




Uncinaria duodenalis); 
the smaller is the 
American hookworm 



510 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



disposal are especially in danger. The egg, thus gaining 
entrance into the tissues of the foot, develops into the larva, 
which finds its way into the blood and may be carried to 
various tissues of the body. Usually, however, it bores its 
way from the blood vessels into the intestinal mucous 

membrane, where it becomes es- 
tablished as the intestinal parasite 
above described. 

The best remedy is the use of 
thymol or other substances, fatal 
to the worms in the alimentary 
canal but harmless or almost 
harmless to the patient. Preven- 
tion consists, on the one hand, in 
the avoidance of soil pollution 
by the use of proper privies and, 
on the other, in safeguarding the 
feet with proper shoes and the 
practice of general cleanliness. 

Few diseases in warm coun- 
tries are responsible for more ill 
health and economic inefficiency 
than hookworm disease. Boards 
of health and other agencies are 
to-day spending large sums of 

money to stamp out this disease so prevalent among the 
poorer classes of the population. 

28. Trichinosis. This is another disease caused by para- 
sitic worms, which find access to the body when uncooked 
or insufficiently cooked pork products are eaten. Raw 
hams, the lean of bacon, and sausages may contain a kind 
of almost microscopic worm (Trichinella, or trichina) which 
sometimes occurs in the muscles of hogs, and which, if not 
killed by cooking, is capable of developing in the alimentary 
canal of man, boring into the tissues, and encysting in the 




FIG. 141. Hookworms in 
tissues of the host 



PARASITIC DISEASES. PREVENTION 511 

muscles (especially the diaphragm), thereby causing severe 
disease and even death. Extensive epidemics of this disease 
(trichinosis) have occurred in Germany, in America, and 
elsewhere, due to ham and other pork products which have 
been eaten either raw or imperfectly cooked. Such foods are 
seldom eaten underdone or rare in America, but even here 
one should be careful to eat them only when thoroughly 
cooked or well done. 

29. The itch, ticks, fleas, lice, flies, etc. A disease known 
as the itch, very common in the Middle Ages, was plainly 
communicable and at times epidemic. It is now known 
to be due to an insect (Sar copter, " a mite ") which bores 
through the skin to deposit its eggs and in so doing causes 
the itching which has given its name to the disease. Ticks, 
insects related to mites and spiders, are also common in some 
parts of the United States and produce serious sores and 
inflammations by fastening themselves upon the skin, from 
which they suck blood. Lice are also skin parasites, nesting 
often near the roots of the hairs and there depositing egg 
masses called nits. Fleas, flies, mosquitoes, bedbugs, and 
similar insects may also bite or sting, producing annoying 
though seldom dangerous wounds. When, however, besides 
biting, stinging, poisoning, or otherwise wounding their vic- 
tims, insects become carriers of disease germs, they may no 
longer be merely troublesome pests but transmitters of pesti- 
lences and plagues of the most dangerous description. To 
them, therefore, and to the diseases which they may convey, 
we shall devote a special chapter. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 

1. Insects as carriers of disease. One of the most sur- 
prising discoveries of recent years is the important part 
played by insects in the transmission of disease. Insects 
have long been regarded as annoying, but it was not until 
1890 that it was discovered by investigators of the United 
States Department of Agriculture that Texas fever (malaria 
of cattle) can be conveyed from one ox to another by 
parasitic ticks. 

The tick is a small wingless insect closely related to the 
mites, and it was found that all that is necessary for the 
transmission of Texas fever is that a tick which has sucked 
blood from an ox affected with that disease shall afterward 
bite an ox as yet unaffected. 

A few years later (1897) it was shown that human 
malaria (malarial fever), one of the worst diseases affecting 
the human race, especially in the tropics, is conveyed by 
the female of a certain kind of mosquito (AnopheUs). Here 
also the insect must first bite a person affected with the 
disease, sucking some of the infected blood, after which it 
may bite a normal healthy person and cause infection. 

Still more recently it has been proved that yellow fever, 
once a fearful scourge of the American tropics, is likewise 
transmitted by a special mosquito ; that bubonic plague, 
formerly a world-wide pest and still common in certain 
Asiatic countries, may be conveyed to man by fleas which 
have bitten rats infected with plague ; that ground squirrels 
likewise become affected and may serve as reservoirs of the 

612 



DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 



513 




same disease ; that tsetse flies in Africa may act as trans- 
mitters of a mysterious disease known as sleeping sickness ; 
while one of the most recent and most fruitful of all dis- 
coveries in this direction has been the intimate connection 
between certain lice, known as body lice, and typhus fever. 
It has been recently stated that two hundred and twenty-six 
different disease organisms are carried by in- 
sects to man or animals. 

2. Malarial fever, or " malaria," is a world- 
famous disease, especially common in warm 
climates but also frequently occurring in the 
more temperate zones. It is by far the most 
important of all tropical diseases, for while it 
does not kill as readily as yellow fever and 
Asiatic cholera, it is much more common and 
disables a far greater number of victims. 

Malaria was long associated in the popular 
mind with low grounds and swamps. Experi- 
ence has shown, however, that it cannot be 
caused by swamps alone, for many swamps and 
marshes are entirely free from malaria. Some- 
times it has seemed to go with the digging 
up of earth; yet the earth has very often been opened and 
thrown about without causing malaria in the neighborhood. 

The true source of this disease remained a mystery until 
in 1880 Laveran, a French investigator resident in Algiers, 
discovered in the blood of malarial patients a peculiar kind 
of microbe not a bacterium, but an animal known as a 
hcematozoon, or sporozoon, belonging among the simplest 
animals, or protozoa. Fig. 143' gives illustrations of some 
of the various forms of the microbe, and its life history is 
outlined in the description of the figure. 

But even after the microbe of malaria had been detected 
no one knew whence it came or whether it lived outside of 
man or how it was conveyed to the victim. When, at last, 



FIG. 142. The 
cattle tick of 
Texas fever. 
After Comstock 

a,female; 6, male 




FIG. 143. The malaria microbe (Plasmodium malarice) and a malarial 
mosquito. After Leuckart-Chun's wall diagram 

1, the microbe ; 2-5, its growth in a red blood corpuscle ; 6, its multiplication 
and escape from the corpuscle (it is now ready to infect fresh blood cor- 
puscles) ; 7, 8, crescentic forms of the microbe. For further development the 
microbe must be transferred from man to mosquito (by a biting, that is, a 
blood-sucking, mosquito) . 

In the stomach cavity of Anopheles : 9, female stage of the microbe ; 9a, 9b, male 
stage ; 10, union of 9 with one of the vibratile arms of 9b ; 11, the microbe 
resulting from 10. 

In the body proper of Anopheles : 12, The microbe (If) has penetrated the stomach 
wall of the mosquito and embedded itself on the outer (body) side of the 
stomach. Here it undergoes a process of growth, cell division, and multiplica- 
tion (13), eventually forming " tumors " on the outside (body side) of the mos- 
quito's stomach, as shown in 15. From these tumors the microbes escape into 
the body cavity of the mosquito and find their way into the salivary glands 
(shown in section 16). From these they are readily transferred (with the 
saliva) into a human body bitten by Anopheles. 

14, female malarial mosquito (head of male below). 

514 



DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 



515 



in 1897 the whole subject was cleared up, the solution of 
the riddle was found to be as .simple as it was unexpected, 
for the vehicle proved to be a special mosquito, an insect 
long known as a pest but never hitherto suspected or 
dreaded as a carrier of disease. At once it became clear 
why malaria is a disease of some warm climates and some 
seasons, and why it " hangs 
about" some swamps and not 
about others. 

3. How malaria is spread. 
The malarial microbe is a mi- 
croparasite, spending a part of 
its life in man and another 
part in certain mosquitoes, 
which are thus its " hosts." A 
mosquito of the right kind 
bites and sucks the blood of a 
man having malaria, and, hav- 
ing thus become infected, bites 

other persons, injecting into 

,-, P , . i FIG. 144. Anopheles punctipennis 

them germs of malaria along (female) . After a photograph from 

with that poison which causes life by W. Lyman Underwood 
the familiar swelling often f ol- Common in the northern United States 

lowing a mosquito bite. 

It is important to note that only one genus of mosquito 
(^Anopheles), and that not the commonest in most places, 
seems capable of conveying the disease. Moreover, it is 
only the female Anopheles which can transmit malaria, and 
even that only after it has become infected by biting a per- 
son having the disease. Hence many mosquitoes, even if 
Anopheles, are harmless, as are all mosquitoes in regions in 
which either no Anopheles or no malarial microbes exist. 
For the causation of malaria three things are therefore re- 
quired : namely, (1) malarial microbes, (2) female Anopheles, 
and (3) susceptible victims. Fortunately the first two do 




516 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 




not always coexist, and malaria cannot occur where either 
the microbe or the mosquito is missing. 

4. The prevention of malaria. Beyond a general reenforce- 
rnent of the body by wholesome living, the only means yet 
known of avoiding this disease is the avoidance of mosqui- 
toes in 'ihose regions in which they abound and in which 
malaria also occurs. If a region contains no malaria, the 

mosquitoes in it cannot pro- 
duce the disease. If there are 
cases of malaria in the region, 
but no malarial mosquitoes, 
no fresh cases can occur. But 
if malarial fever and malarial 
mosquitoes coexist, then the 
only hope is to remove one or 
the other, and if possible both. 
For relief from malaria already 

fastened upon a patient, ap- 
FIG. 145. The malaria mosquito lication should be made to 
(Anopheles), above, and the common J 

mosquito (Culex), below. After pho- a physician. For the exter- 
tographs from life by W. Lyman mination of mosquitoes from 

Underwood i i i i n 

a neighborhood, all swamps 

Showing a characteristic difference in i Tnarqhpq must hp rlrainpH 
the resting attitudes ^ 

and pools of stagnant water 

either treated with crude petroleum or stocked with fishes 
that will feed upon and destroy the mosquito larvse. 

5. Yellow fever. This is a disease greatly dreaded in the 
tropics. Little is known of the parasite beyond the fact that 
it is contained in a " filterable virus," that is, in something 
which, invisible under the microscope, passes through pipe- 
clay filters and is able to reproduce the disease. Like ma- 
laria, its mode of transmission was until recently entirely 
unknown, but it was generally believed that infection oc- 
curred by contact with the patient or with his belongings. 
This was disproved by experiments conducted in Cuba after 



DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 



517 



the Spanish American War by a commission of United States 
army surgeons under Major Walter Reed. It was shown 
that, provided the room is effectively screened against mos- 
quitoes, yellow fever is not contracted through contagion 
by those in the same room with the patient, but that trans- 
mission of the disease takes place when we have (1) a 
patient suffering from yellow fever, (2) a certain genus of 
mosquito (Stegomyia) that has sucked the yellow-fever blood, 
and (3) a susceptible person bitten by the Stegomyia. In 
these experiments the American in- 
vestigators fearlessly exposed them- 
selves to the possible contagion in 
screened rooms, and volunteers sub- 
mitted themselves to the bite of mos- 
quitoes which were known to have 
sucked the blood of yellow-fever 
patients. Several of these volunteers 
contracted the disease, and two of 
them died. 

It follows that, to control the dis- FlG ' u f' e ^"7 ' e . r 

mosquito (Stegomyia). After 
ease, mosquitoes should be reduced a drawing by L. O. Howard 

to a minimum by the same means 

used in fighting malaria, but, still more important than this, 
that every yellow-fever patient should be kept in a room 
effectively screened from mosquitoes until complete recovery. 
As the result of the introduction of these measures, Havana, 
which was formerly cursed by yellow fever, has been virtu- 
ally freed from it; and the suppression of yellow fever in 
Cuban ports, from which formerly the disease was frequently 
exported to the United States, means much to the southern 
states of the Union. In 1905 a disastrous outbreak of yellow 
fever in New Orleans was fought on this mosquito theory 
with entire success, and since that time the dread of yellow 
fever as a plague is a thing of the past. Another result of 
the advance of our knowledge with regard to mosquitoes as 




518 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



transmitters of disease is the building of the Panama Canal, 
which was rendered possible only by the complete control of 
malaria and yellow fever during the course of its construction. 

Stegomyia occurs in the southern United States as far 
north as Norfolk, Virginia, and is found north of this latitude 
only when brought into ports on fruit ships in summer time. 

6. The plague (bubonic plague). The plague is the most 
famous of all the great epidemic diseases of history. It has 




FIG. 147. Microbes of plague 

On the left, as they occur in the swollen lymph glands ; on the right, after 
cultivation in the bacteriological laboratory 

repeatedly ravaged Europe, and is still very common in 
some parts of Asia, such as India and China. The Black 
Death, which is probably a severe form of the bubonic 
plague, was a severe epidemic disease of the fourteenth cen- 
tury, when it is said to have killed off twenty-five million 
people, or from one fourth to one half of the entire popula- 
tion of Europe. 

The bubonic plague is so called because it is accompanied 
by enlarged lymph glands, or buboes, which look black in 
advanced stages of the disease (hence " black " death). A 
particularly severe and fatal form of this plague is that in 



DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 



519 




which the lungs become quickly inflamed as in pneumonia, 
and hence the term " pneumonic " plague sometimes applied 
to this form. 

All forms of true plague are believed to be transmitted 
chiefly through the agency of rats and fleas, rats even more 
than human beings being susceptible to the disease. Rats 
affected with plague are bitten by fleas which, thus becom- 
ing infected, later feed upon human beings and inoculate 
them with the germs derived from rats. Fortunately it is 
only certain kinds of fleas which 
readily transmit the disease, so that 
if, as happened in England in 1910, 
plague appears among rats in a cer- 
tain district, only a few human beings 
may suffer, either because the proper 
fleas are wanting or because of the 
cleanly habits of the people. 

In order to prevent plague it is FIG. 148. A common flea 
all-important to get rid of rats and 
fleas, and in plague-stricken districts 
preventive measures against the dis- 
ease are directed almost wholly to the capture and destruc- 
tion of rats. In the Philippines, for example, rat catching is 
an important branch of sanitary work, and on the Pacific 
coast an outbreak of bubonic plague was successfully held in 
check by sanitary officials who devoted their energies almost 
exclusively to the destruction of rats and of ground squirrels. 

An important sanitary measure against the plague is to 
prevent the rats aboard ships from infected countries from 
getting ashore, and for this various devices have been in- 
vented, such as rat guards upon ropes and hawsers. Sani- 
tary garbage pails, which make it impossible for rats to steal 
food from these receptacles, are also considered important by 
those engaged in rat destruction, the aim being to starve 
out all rats. 



(Xenopsylla cheopis) para- 
sitic upon man. Enlarged 
about eight times 



520 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



7. Typhus fever and body lice. Typhus fever (spotted 
fever, ship fever, jail fever, or camp fever) was formerly 
one of the commonest and most destructive of all slow or 
continued fevers. Between 1830 and 1840 it was found that 
under the name of typhus fever at least two specific diseases 
were confused, and since that time typhoid (" like typhus ") 
fever has been clearly distinguished from typhus. 

Under improved sanitary conditions typhus fever has 
rapidly declined much more rapidly than typhoid fever. 

Recent studies have shown that, 
nevertheless, typhus fever does 
from time to time occur, espe- 
cially in our largest cities, and 
that it is common in countries 
such as Mexico, where modern 
sanitary conditions are compara- 
tively rare. Still more recently 
it has been found that this dis- 
ease is transmitted by lice, and 
FIG. 149. The head louse (Pedic- especially by the so-called body 
ulu* capit^} (much enlarged). l ou se, or " grayback " (Pe^to 
After Neveu-Lemaire 5L. -, r^ 

vestimenti}(Fig.~LdQ,a). Since the 

The larger is the female ' \ ' 

outbreak of the great European 

war of 1914 typhus fever has frequently appeared in camps 
and prisons, and serious epidemics of the disease have 
broken out in various places, particularly in Serbia. No 
causative microbe of typhus has hitherto been discovered. 

The body louse is not very different from the more familiar 
louse of the head (Pediculus capitis) shown in Fig. 149, but 
lives chiefly in the clothing of soldiers, prisoners, or others 
suffering from defective personal cleanliness. Under such 
circumstances lice are especially abundant in the seams of 
the trousers, where they appear to find refuge and from 
which they make excursions to the skin of the victim, suck- 
ing blood and causing great irritation. If perchance any such 




DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 



521 



lice have already fed upon a person affected with typhus 
fever, then they may readily communicate the disease by 
biting other persons. 

Here also the three conditions referred to under malaria 
and yellow fever must occur, namely, (1) a victim of the 
disease from whom (2) an insect parasite may suck infected 
blood, carrying it to (3) a person hitherto unaffected. 





a b 

FIG. 150. Two species of lice, parasitic on man. After Neveu-Lemaire 

a, female of the body louse, or gray back (Pediculus vestimenti) (much enlarged) ; 
6, the crab louse (Phthirius pubis, or inguinalis) (greatly enlarged) 

8. Tsetse flies and sleeping sickness. A disease has long 
been known in certain parts of Africa under the name of 
sleeping sickness, for the reason that its victims constantly 
fall asleep and are awakened with difficulty. The mode of 
infection was a complete mystery prior to the discovery that 
a susceptible person could become infected with the disease 
through the bite of a peculiar kind of fly the tsetse fly 
which had previously bitten a victim of the disease. 

9. Carriers, vehicles, or transmitters of disease. While it is 
true that disease is not a substance or entity but a condition 
of the body and cannot therefore exist apart from the person 



522 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

or persons affected, it is otherwise with the living germs, 
which produce disease. These, being generally minute, often 
invisible, and frequently hardy, are readily carried about and 
scattered abroad very much as small seeds are sometimes dis- 
tributed by winds and sometimes by animals, especially birds. 
Strictly speaking, anything by which germs may be distributed 
is a carrier, a vehicle, or a transmitter of disease ; for example, 
water, air, milk, or meat; mosquitoes, fleas, or man. The 
term " carrier " is at present used, however, chiefly for human 
beings who, consciously or unconsciously, are carrying about 
within them the germs of a disease and are giving off such 
germs from time to time in breath, sputum, urine, or feces. 

For our purposes we may regard as carriers all animals, 
including man, capable of holding and giving off disease germs. 
The case of a tuberculous patient is typical; he or she may 
be a veritable reservoir and capable of discharging tubercle 
bacilli at any and all times. Similarly, the malaria mosquito 
(Anopheles) may be both a reservoir and a source of supply 
of malarial-fever microbes ; the yellow-fever mosquito, of the 
germs of that disease ; the rat flea, of plague bacilli ; the body 
louse, of typhus fever; and mankind, not merely of tuber- 
culosis but also of diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, chicken 
pox, typhoid fever, leprosy, smallpox, and venereal diseases. 

10. Flies as transmitters. A review of the preceding 
pages, especially those devoted to malaria, yellow fever, 
and plague, illustrate how important are insects in the trans- 
mission of infectious diseases and the causation of epidemics. 
Mosquitoes, fleas, and lice have already been sufficiently 
dealt with. It only remains to consider briefly one other 
kind of insect, the fly. 

The common house fly (Fig. 151) has long been recog- 
nized as a noisy and irritating nuisance, but it is only of 
recent years that it has come to be regarded as a possible 
carrier of disease. There is now good evidence that the 
germs of almost any infectious disease, material from which 



DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 



523 



may be accessible to flies, are transmissible by their means 
from one human being to another. Flies are essentially 
scavengers and feed upon almost any waste organic material. 
While feeding they also walk upon it and touch it with 
their tongues, so that through their tongues, their excreta, 
and their feet they may readily convey germs from infected 
matter of any kind, including excrement or dead bodies. 
It is sometimes held that a very large amount of typhoid 
fever is transmitted by flies. While there is reason to think 




FIG. 151. The common house fly (Musca domestica) (enlarged 4-5 times). 
After L. 0. Howard 

a, egg case ; 6, pupa ; and c, larva (or maggot) 

that this particular aspect of their activity may at times have 
been exaggerated, there is no doubt that flies are filthy, dis- 
gusting scavengers, and that they should never be allowed to 
obtain access to pantries or come in contact with foods. 
Houses, and especially dining rooms, kitchens, and the like, 
should be carefully screened with mosquito netting or wire 
gauze to prevent the entrance of flies. Flies are also espe- 
cially out of place in a sickroom. 

Other kinds of flies bite their victims and suck their 
blood. Examples are the various species of horse fly, the 



524 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



black fly of the northern woods, and the stable fly (Stomoxys 
calcitrans) shown in Fig. 152. The possibility of the trans- 
mission of disease by these biting flies is obvious, and certain 
of those mentioned, as well as other biting insects, have from 
time to time been suspected of acting as the vehicles of in- 
fection in such diseases as infantile paralysis, pellagra, etc. 
Although the responsibility for epidemics of these diseases 
has not been successfully fastened upon these insects, no one 




FIG. 152. The stable fly (Stomoxys calcitrans) (enlarged 4-5 times). 
After L. O. Howard 

6 

a, egg case ; b, larva ; and c, pupa 

can deny that they constitute a potential source of danger and 
that their numbers should be kept down as far as possible. 

11. The elimination of flies. Four chief methods are used 
to control or eliminate the fly nuisance. These are (1) to 
kill flies with " swatters " or insect powders, (2) to screen 
dwellings and other buildings, (3) to prevent the breeding of 
flies, and (4) to catch the flies in traps. The first and second 
methods can at best accomplish no more than the reduction 
of the number of flies within houses, leaving countless new 
ones to come in when doors are opened. The third and fourth 
methods seek to rid the premises around the house of flies, 



DISEASES CONVEYED BY INSECTS 



525 



and it is clear that if this end can be attained, swatting and 
screening, so far as flies are concerned, become unnecessary. 
It should be generally known that this end is easily attainable. 

Flies breed chiefly in horse manure, and they are especially 
attracted to garbage and other decaying matter as a source 
of food. If horse stables could be entirely eliminated from 
cities, there would doubtless be few flies in those cities ; 
but this is not possible, and is even more impracticable in 
towns and rural districts. Keeping 
stalls clean, screening manure pits, 
promptly removing manure, and 
even treating it with chemicals 
to prevent the breeding of flies 
therein, have been recommended 
and tried out, with results which 
are unsatisfactory, chiefly because 
it is not possible to secure unre- 
mitting vigilance and cooperation 
on the part of all individuals in 
these measures. 

The fourth method catching 
the flies in traps depends for 
its success, first, upon the use of a properly constructed and 
operated trap, and, second, upon preventing the access of 
flies to their favorite foods (especially garbage), except 
when the fly must enter a trap to get it. Flies usually 
crawl upwards, seldom downwards, and this peculiarity 
of behavior is utilized in trapping them (Fig. 153). Over the 
bait is placed a conical or tentlike chamber of fly netting, 
with its sides converging to a narrow (^ inch) hole or slit 
at the top. After feeding on the bait the fly crawls upward 
through the slit into the trap, which consists simply of a 
framework of wood or iron with sides and top of fly netting. 
Traps may be baited with garbage of any kind fish clean- 
ings being one of the best and placed out of doors at a 




FIG. 153. Vertical section of a 
fly trap 



526 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



distance from the house. Sometimes the lid of the garbage 
can is fitted with such a trap, the lid fitting loosely enough 
on the can to allow the fly to enter it. Success in all cases 
depends upon preventing the access of flies to any other 
food than that in the trap. 

By the use of these traps it is possible to catch virtually 
all flies, even on premises where there are stables and where 
no measures are taken to prevent their access to manure. 
Under such circumstances flies do not multiply, for the 
simple reason that almost none are left to deposit eggs in 
the manure. 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

PUBLIC SUPPLIES OF FOOD, WATEK, AND GAS. 
PUBLIC SEWERAGE 

1 . Communities and public supplies. Public supplies and 
public services are designed to meet those wants or demands 
which many families have in common, -and the chief supplies 
are those of water, ice, gas, and milk. Fuel, transportation 
facilities, libraries, parks, playgrounds, baths, laundries, baker- 
ies, and the like are examples of other public supplies or 
services. Formerly in rural life each family was compara- 
tively independent, but the modern town or city family, 
and to a great extent the rural family, depends upon some 
public supply for nearly everything that it has or uses: for 
books, upon public libraries or bookshops ; for clothing, 
furniture, household utensils, etc., upon shops or stores ; 
for food, upon markets ; and sometimes even for housing, 
upon hotels or other public houses. 

2. Public supplies as public conveniences and safeguards. 
When such public supplies or services are well regulated, 
cheap, and abundant, they may often be superior in safety, 
comfort, and convenience to private arrangements for the 
same purpose. In a city it is easier and cheaper to buy 
milk than it is to keep a cow. It is also better to do so, 
because cows in cities must be under unnatural, if not un- 
wholesome, conditions, and the milk may suffer in quality. 
It is more convenient to draw water from a tap than from 
a well, and city wells are generally objectionable because 
usually subject to contamination. It is more convenient, 
more cleanly, and safer in a city to connect a house with a 

527 



528 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

good sewer than to supply it with a privy and a sink drain. 
Public supplies may thus serve not only as conveniences 
but also as sanitary safeguards. 

3. Public supplies as public dangers. On the other hand, 
public supplies must be well arranged and well regulated or 
they may become sources of public danger. If, for example, 
the water supply is allowed to become polluted, a whole 
community may be stricken with typhoid fever or some 
other infectious disease. Hundreds of cases of typhoid fever 
have been known to occur among the customers of a single 
milkman whose milk supply had become infected. Sewage- 
polluted raw oysters have been known to cause the illness 
of dozens of persons at a single public banquet. 

It is easy to see that the very convenience and wide- 
spread use of public supplies which are not pure makes 
them doubly dangerous. If a private supply becomes pol- 
luted, ordinarily only a single family suffers ; but if a public 
supply is impure, hundreds or even thousands of persons 
may perish. The moral is plain : The purity of public supplies 
should be thoroughly established at the outset and carefully 
maintained. If, as is often the case, public supplies are 
owned or controlled by the municipality, then no persons 
should be put in charge of them who are mere politicians 
or in any other way unfit to act as guardians of the public 
welfare. Expert scientific supervision of public supplies is 
indispensable for efficiency, for economy, and for public safety. 

4. Food supplies, public and private. The supply of foods 
to families or individuals may be largely from private 
sources, as in the case of a farm upon which many foods 
may be produced. But with the growth of cities and large 
towns, food supplies are more and more shared in common 
by many persons or families, while certain necessities 
or luxuries of life, such as fish, sugar, salt, tea, coffee, 
spices, are, with rare exceptions, always obtained from 
public supplies. 



PUBLIC SUPPLIES 529 

Furthermore, even on the farm, specialization often leads 
to the raising of only one thing or a few things, such as 
cotton, corn, or wheat, and so to dependence on public sup- 
plies for other things which might be raised if it were worth 
while. For example, most farmers in New England might 
cultivate sugar maples and make from the sap of their own 
trees a year's supply of maple sugar, the purity of which 
they could control; but most of them prefer to raise other 
things which they can sell or exchange for ordinary cane 
sugar, of the purity of which they have no knowledge. 
Flour nowadays is generally bought in barrels or bags taken 
at random from the output of distant mills over which the 
buyer has no control. Meat of various kinds is often pur- 
chased from a public cart, shop, or market; fish and shell- 
fish, yeast, butter, eggs, cream, spices, canned and dried 
foods, are likewise obtained from special dealers, whose 
stores are drawn upon by many families and are therefore 
public supplies. Obviously impurity or adulteration in any 
of these public supplies may injure, or at least defraud, an 
entire community. 

5. Impurity of foods. This may be of many kinds and 
many degrees, some of them of little or no hygienic signifi- 
cance. An excellent spring water, for instance, may not be 
chemically pure (that is, containing nothing but water), and 
yet may be hygienically wholesome ; and milk might con- 
ceivably be somewhat adulterated with distilled water with- 
out perceptible damage to the health of the community. 

We may, for convenience, distinguish three principal 
kinds of impurity in foods: the first kind, caused by the 
addition of some cheaper substance, either already present 
in the food (as of water to milk) or altogether foreign to 
it (as of sawdust to ground spices). Such impurity is pro- 
duced artificially, intentionally, and fraudulently, and is 
known as adulteration. It may or may not be prejudicial 
to health, but it is always a cheat. 



530 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

The second kind of impurity of foods, known as their 
infection, consists in the occurrence in them of parasites 
or microparasites, such impurity being as a usual thing 
entirely accidental and unintentional, though often due to 
ignorance, negligence, carelessness, or uncleanliness. It is 
always prejudicial to the public health, but is not often 
due to a desire to cheat. 

A third kind of impurity is that due to the use of unfit 
or unclean or diseased raw materials, disgusting to the taste 
and destructive to the appetite. This again arises either 
from negligence or the desire to cheat. 

6. Adulteration of foods. The commonest and most familiar 
adulteration of food is that of milk by water. Water is so 
abundant and cheap, and mixes so readily with milk, that 
it offers a constant temptation to dishonest milkmen who 
profit by the sale of such milk. It is often difficult for the 
consumer to detect this adulteration, even if he suspects the 
cheat ; but it is easy for the chemist, and large cities should 
keep milk inspectors and analysts constantly on the watch, 
in the interests of the public welfare. In some cities the 
fines imposed upon dishonest milkmen more than repay the 
cost of the service. 

But while milk is the food whose adulteration is most 
familiar, it is by no means the only adulterated food. 
Coffee, spices, beverages, sirups, honey, vinegar, and many 
other foods are subject to serious adulteration, and most 
states and .countries are obliged to maintain laboratories 
devoted to the protection of the public against the adultera- 
tion of foods and drugs. Massachusetts has such a labora- 
tory in the Statehouse in Boston, conducted by the State 
Board of Health. Some of its revelations are surprising 
and instructive. Milk, for example, is treated not infre- 
quently with artificial coloring materials and preservatives 
such as formic aldehyde, sodium carbonate, and boracic acid. 
Of about one thousand samples of suspected milk examined 



PUBLIC SUPPLIES 531 

chemically during certain summer months, nearly three per 
cent contained preservatives. Chocolate and cocoa likewise 
have frequently been found to be adulterated with wheat or 
sugar ; coffee with roasted peas, wheat, pea hulls, chicory, 
and sometimes bark, wood, and charcoal; honey with cane 
sugar or glucose; lard with cottonseed oil; maple sugar 
with other sugars ; maple sirup and molasses with glucose ; 
pepper with rice and buckwheat ; cloves with bran, sawdust, 
and charcoal ; mustard, one of the most commonly adulter- 
ated of all spices, with rice, cornstarch, etc.; cider with 
salicylic acid. Worse yet, some so-called patent medicines, 
which profess to effect cures, contain the very substances, 
such as alcohol and morphine, the effects of which they are 
supposed to overcome. 

7. The infection of foods by parasites and microparasites. 
Another and, from our standpoint, much more important 
kind of impurity sometimes occurring in foods consists in 
their infection by disease-producing organisms, such as para- 
sitic worms or microbes, for example, the germs of typhoid 
fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, etc. Here again milk has the 
unenviable distinction of serving as a familiar example, for 
some of the worst epidemics of typhoid fever that have ever 
occurred have been traced conclusively to the infection of 
some milk supply by persons suffering with that disease. 

Other foods subject to infection and capable of conveying 
disease are those which are either occasionally or regularly 
eaten uncooked, for example, shellfish, such as oysters and 
clams; vegetables, such as celery, parsley, water cress, let- 
tuce, tomatoes, cabbage; and fruits, berries, and the like. 
The danger lies in the fact that they may have been han- 
dled by persons themselves dirty and suffering from infec- 
tious diseases ; or they may have been grown on fields 
manured with sewage or other fecal matters containing germs 
of disease. For all these dangers there is but one sure 
remedy, namely, sterilization by cooking at a high temperature. 



532 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

But this, in the nature of the case, is impossible for many of 
the foods cited above. 

Some fruits (oranges, bananas, melons, etc.) are natu- 
rally protected by their skins, and are consequently espe- 
cially wholesome. Others (such as cherries, plums, apples, 
pears) should be washed thoroughly or rubbed with a damp, 
clean cloth before being eaten. Still others (grapes, rasp- 
berries, strawberries) may be immersed in water and imper- 
fectly washed, though they are seldom really cleaned by this 
process. Moreover, such " washing " is apt to injure the 
texture or flavor of delicate fruits and is sometimes avoided 
on that account. 

After all has been said and done, preventive measures may 
fail and some risks must be taken. The final defense must 
often come from that vital resistance, that good general 
health, which it is the special object of hygiene to secure and 
promote. Life is valuable and health is precious, but either 
or both may be safeguarded at too great cost. Undue anxiety 
about foods, or even about life and death, is unworthy of 
those who have at most but a few short years to live, and 
who in those few years have many better things to do than 
merely to keep alive. ! 'T is not the whole of life to live." 

8. Food preserving and preservatives. Processes such as 
canning, and cold storage in wells, cellars, refrigerators, etc., 
are of immense value to the human race as conveniences and 
for the saving of surplus foods. The packing of pork in 
brine, the salting, smoking, and drying of fish, the corning of 
beef, and the pickling of vegetables are familiar examples of 
other kinds of food preserving. In these latter cases the 
foods are saved from spoiling by substances (brine or vinegar) 
which inhibit the growth of putrefactive microbes and are 
therefore called antiseptics. There are many other antiseptics 
besides brine and vinegar, and chemistry is constantly add- 
ing to the number. Some of the more important are boracic 
acid, formaldehyde (formalin, or formol), and salicylic acid. 



PUBLIC SUPPLIES 533 

A difficult and delicate question arises when we ask 
whether the introduction of chemical antiseptics into foods 
makes them impure or dangerous. It is obvious that the use 
of salt to preserve fish, of brine for packing pork or corning 
beef, of smoke for preserving fish, hams, and dried beef, and 
of vinegar for pickling have been approved and sanctioned 
by generations. On the other hand, the use of boracic acid 
or formalin in milk is an undesirable practice, and at pres- 
ent the employment of any chemical antiseptic in food 
preserving must be regarded as of doubtful justification. 

Some food substances contain acids which may attack 
the tins in which they are put up for the market. Blue- 
berries, for example, readily corrode tin cans, forming salts 
of tin which in large amounts are harmful. The use of 
glass is therefore preferable for preserved foods whenever 
practicable ; but the long-continued and very extensive use 
of tin cans for tomatoes, peas, beans, pears, etc., without 
known harm, indicates that for many foods tin cans may be 
used without much, if any, danger. 

Sometimes food products, such as peas, clams, etc., are 
treated chemically in order to make them more attractive. 
French peas (canned) have frequently been found to con- 
tain copper, and canned clams are sometimes bleached to 
make them whiter. It is needless to say that such treat- 
ment is almost always objectionable, even if not positively 
dangerous. 

The best preservatives, hygienically speaking, are heat 
and cold, which, carefully applied, may be wonderfully 

Pective. The processes of canning and preserving are too 
familiar to need description, but it is not always under- 
stood that if the temperature employed is high enough and 
sufficiently long-continued, it is of great hygienic value, 
because it tends to destroy any disease germs which may 
be present. It must, however, be remembered that while 
the high temperature used in canning destroys the germs 



534 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

of disease, it also destroys the vitamines contained in the 
food (for full discussion see pp. 232-234). Refrigeration, 
or cold storage, although without such disinfecting influence, 
is also a preservative of immense economic value. 

9. The purity of public water supplies. Public water sup- 
plies should be derived from the purest possible sources. 
Villages and small cities are often supplied from driven 
wells or open basins located near a lake or a river, and thus 
receive ground water (see p. 455). Large cities and many 
small ones often secure their supplies from lakes, ponds, or 
rivers, or from smaller streams, the water of which is stored 
in reservoirs. Supplies of this sort are called surface-water, 
rather than ground-water, supplies, and the water from them 
is naturally softer (see p. 458). 

Ground-water supplies are apt to be of good quality but 
limited in quantity. Surface-water supplies are generally 
ample in quantity but more easily subject to pollution. For 
this reason they should not, as a rule, be drawn from thickly 
inhabited districts or from rivers, lakes, or small streams 
into which sewage or other polluting matters may find their 
way; and they should never be drawn from such sources 
unless they have first been purified in some manner. 

Some cities, like Brooklyn (New York) and Lowell 
(Massachusetts), rely for their public water supply in part 
or wholly upon driven wells ; some, like Boston, New York, 
and Liverpool, upon water collected in large reservoirs from 
streams upon comparatively uninhabited watersheds; and 
some, like Philadelphia, Paris, St. Louis, London, Hamburg, 
Lawrence, Albany, upon impure river water which is purified 
by filtration, or otherwise treated, before it is distributed to 
the citizens. 1 



1 The student, unless already informed, should familiarize himself with 
the sources and the possibility of pollution of the public water supply, if 
any, of his own village, town, or city, and should satisfy himself, if possible, 
as to its purity. 



PUBLIC SUPPLIES 535 

It was formerly thought that running water sufficiently 
purified itself, although as early as 1874 a Royal Commis- 
sion of experts on water supply reported in England that 
" there is no river in the United Kingdom long enough to 
purify itself from any sewage introduced into it even at its 
source," and the river Thames is more than two hundred 
miles long. It is true that sewage or other filth in streams 
often disappears, and that great improvement in polluted 
streams frequently takes place ; but such " self -purification " 
is too often partial, incomplete, and untrustworthy. 

In many cases the disappearance of obvious pollution is 
due to a mere dilution of the filth with purer water, and 
such dilution may greatly improve or even "purify" it. A 
drop of ink in a quart of water makes a mixture far less 
inky than the original drop. On the other hand, dilution 
does not necessarily mean destruction. A flock of birds 
may be lost sight of, but not destroyed, by scattering, and 
the purification of sewage filth should mean its destruction 
as such and its conversion into harmless substances. Much 
true purification does take place in a flowing stream, but 
this is not usually adequate, and towns and cities nowadays 
are generally turning toward filtration, or other artificial 
treatment on a large scale, of waters which for any reason 
are suspected of possible contamination. Some of these 
municipal purification works are elaborate and costly, as, 
for example, those in Albany, Philadelphia, St. Louis, Ithaca 
(New York), Lawrence (Massachusetts), and Washington. 

10. Public gas supplies and their dangers. There is no 
more danger from the products of combustion of illumi- 
nating gas than from those of oil or other illuminating 
materials. The air of rooms naturally becomes heated and 
more or less vitiated by these products, just as it does by 
human breath or any other waste product of oxidation ; but 
illuminating gas properly burned is no more dangerous to 
life than is kerosene oil or any similar illuminant. Unburned 



536 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

gas, on the other hand, escaping from pipes or fixtures, is 
often extremely dangerous, both because it .is poisonous and 
because in certain proportions it forms with air an explosive 
mixture. 

Illuminating gas is generally either " natural " gas, drawn 
ready-made from the earth, or gas made from gasoline, oil, 
wood, coal, or coal and water, and hence known as oil gas, 
wood gas, coal gas, or water gas, as the case may be. 

11. Natural gas consists chiefly of marsh gas, or methane 
(CH 4 ), this making from 90 to 97 per cent of the whole. 
It never contains more than one half of 1 per cent of car- 
bonic oxide (CO), a quantity too small to do serious 
damage. Though irrespirable (that is, not fitted to support 
life), and though it forms exploding mixtures, natural gas 
is not poisonous. It may even leak into an apartment in 
considerable quantities without endangering life or seriously 
damaging health. 

12. Coal gas is made by distilling soft, or bituminous, 
coal, and consists chiefly of hydrogen and marsh gas, with 
smaller amounts of carbonic oxide and other compounds of 
carbon. It contains from 6 to 10 per cent of carbonic 
oxide, a highly poisonous gas, and cannot be admitted into 
living or sleeping rooms in any great quantity without 
extreme danger to life. It also readily forms explosive 
mixtures with air. 

13. Water gas is made by passing steam over red-hot coal 
or coke (carbon), which decomposes the water vapor, pro- 
ducing, among other gases, an abundance of carbonic ox- 
ide. As it leaves the generator, water gas burns with a 
pale-blue flame only. For lighting purposes it is therefore 
enriched by the addition of naphtha or other vapors which 
give it good illuminating qualities. But even after this 
treatment water gas generally contains from 25 to 30 per cent 
of carbonic oxide, and is therefore extremely poisonous. 

In cities supplied with water gas, cases of asphyxiation 



PUBLIC SUPPLIES 537 

and death from gas poisoning are common. These come 
chiefly from ignorance (in blowing out the gas instead of 
shutting it off) or carelessness (in turning the gas on again 
after extinguishing the light), or from suicidal intent, or 
drunkenness, or from leaky fixtures, or from change of 
pressure, a light turned low being extinguished by a 
decrease of pressure in the pipes, and the gas escaping into 
the room afterwards when the pressure is renewed. 

The most remarkable (and often the most extensive) 
cases of poisoning by illuminating gas are those in which 
the inhabitants 'of houses or apartments have been poisoned 
by gas which has escaped from a broken or leaking main in 
an adjoining street. In these cases the gas makes its way 
underground to the basement of the house in question, and 
then, partly robbed of its warning odors by passage through 
the earth, rises through the house to sicken or kill those 
within. Whole families, and even groups of families, have 
occasionally been poisoned in this way, even in houses or 
tenements not piped for gas at all. The fact is that heated 
houses act like chimneys in producing a strong up-draft; 
and in winter, when windows and doors are shut tight, this 
draft sucks in air from the surrounding ground. If the 
ground air happens to be charged with gas from a leaky 
main, both air and gas may enter the house and sicken or 
even kill the inmates, although the house itself is not sup- 
posed to receive any gas. It has been estimated that "14 per 
cent of the total product of gas plants leaks into the streets 
and houses of the cities supplied." 

Headaches and malaise (a convenient term for " feeling 
poorly ") may be caused by small and imperceptible leaks 
of illuminating gas, and great care should be taken to have 
all gas-fitting well done, and all leaky joints or fixtures 
made perfectly tight, especially if the gas used is water gas, 
now very generally supplied to the public in American cities, 
either in full strength or diluted. 



538 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

One of the great advantages of lighting houses by elec- 
tricity is that it does away with all possibility of gas poison- 
ing except that from leaky mains in public streets, already 
referred to. 

The use of gas for heating and cooking requires special 
caution, owing to the large quantities used and the tem- 
porary connections often employed (pp. 442 and 444). 

14. The purity of public milk supplies. Milk is one of the 
most universal and most important of foods. It is also one 
of the most peculiar, in that it is a secretion drawn directly 
from the bodies of living animals. This remarkable animal 
secretion, when fresh, is very sweet, smooth, and bland to 
the taste, but on exposure to the air generally spoils quickly 
and sours. It is obviously not the air alone which causes it 
to sour, for milk is easily kept sweet a long time if kept in 
a cold place or if scalded when it threatens to turn sour. 

The spoiling and souring of milk are caused by certain 
bacterial microbes which, having got into the milk as it was 
drawn, or later from dust, air, dirt, or unclean pails or 
strainers, live and multiply enormously at the expense of the 
sugar and other foodstuffs which milk contains. The so- 
called lactic-acid bacteria, in particular, thrive in milk, espe- 
cially if it is kept warm, and spoil it by converting the milk 
sugar (lactose) into milk acid (lactic acid). 

Milk that is pure should be free from dirt, and sweet 
rather than sour, but such milk is unfortunately not always 
easy to obtain, especially in cities. A black sediment in milk 
indicates dirt (usually cow dung), and so does a " cowy " 
taste. Milk may also be adulterated with water, with anti- 
septics, or with other substances, as has been shown above 
(p. 530). But the most serious impurity in public milk sup- 
plies is the occurrence of germs of contagious or infectious 
diseases. Many epidemics of typhoid fever and diphtheria 
have been conclusively traced to a public milk supply which 
served as the unsuspected vehicle of the disease. In all of 



PUBLIC SUPPLIES 539 

these cases uncleanness of some sort on the farm, in the 
dairy, among the milkmen, or elsewhere is believed to 
have been always at the bottom of the trouble. 

Persons supplying milk to the public should take pains to 
keep their cows healthy and their cow stables clean ; to milk 
only after careful washing of the hands, pails, cans, strainers, 
etc., and also only after cleaning the udder of the cow; and 
it should always be remembered that milk is a rich animal 
secretion which readily supports bacterial life and therefore 
should be scrupulously guarded against any invasion of dirt 
or disease. To secure rich, pure, clean, and fresh milk in 
cities, a higher price must probably be paid than has been 
the custom hitherto. The demand is for better, purer, cleaner 
milk, and for this it is reasonable to expect that more must 
be charged. 

It should also be remembered that the number of bacteria 
in milk, unlike that in water, does not depend simply on the 
number that get in, since germs multiply very rapidly in this 
rich food supply. Hence milk as soon as drawn should be 
chilled as far as possible before delivery. The mere souring 
of milk lessens its digestibility, especially in the case of 
infants, so that it is a matter of hygienic importance, particu- 
larly in warm weather, to hinder the growth of bacteria in 
it by immediate cooling as soon as drawn from the cow, and 
keeping as cold as possible afterwards. 

It must also be borne in mind that the milk-producing 
industry, while one of the oldest known to man, is still 
largely in a primitive condition. What is needed is a more 
scientific knowledge of the subject, more intelligence, skill, 
and cleanliness among those engaged in it, and, finally, expert 
supervision both on the part of the producer and of the sani- 
tary authorities of cities, with better returns for the farmer. 

15. Public sewerage and the disposal of sewage. One of 
the most beneficent procedures in any community is the estab- 
lishment of a system of public drains which shall quickly and 



540 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



effectually remove all liquid and some solid wastes, espe- 
cially the excreta of human beings and other animals. Well- 
built sewers not only do this but also carry off mucli 
ground water, making the soils of cities drier and there- 
fore more wholesome. The term " sewerage " is applied both 
to the act of draining and to the system of sewers ; the word 
" sewage," to the contents of sewers. 

The disposal of the sewage of cities and towns is often a 
very serious, difficult, and costly problem. Sometimes the 
sewage can be safely emptied into a river, a lake, or the sea, 
but more often it is necessary to purify it, either upon land 
(where it may be made useful, though rarely profitable, for 
agricultural purposes), or by chemical treatment, or by mi- 
crobic (bacterial) action through cesspool or filtration proc- 
esses. The problem of the final disposal of sewage is not yet 
fully solved, and at the present time is engaging the atten- 
tion of the world's ablest sanitary engineers. 



CHAPTER XXXV 

HYGIENE AND SANITATION OF TRAVELING, AND 
OF PUBLIC CONVEYANCES, PUBLIC HOUSES, ETC. 

1. Migration, past and present. One of the most striking 
characteristics of the present as compared with the past is 
the increased and increasing movement of masses of people 
not only permanently out of one country (emigration) and 
into another (immigration), but also temporarily from place 
to place, and back and forth (traveling). Such migration 
inevitably removes the traveler, temporarily at least, from 
one environment, and subjects him to another and often very 
different one ; so that from the hygienic point of view a change 
of this sort is of great importance and interest. It also often 
affects the environments of others besides the migrant him- 
self, by introducing into those environments new elements 
of disease. 

2. Traveling and change of scene. Even before starting 
upon a journey, conditions for the prospective traveler have 
often begun to change. The bustle and the thought of the 
necessary preparations constitute a kind of excitement, some- 
times pleasurable, sometimes wearisome, accompanied, it may 
be, by temporary loss of appetite or even sleeplessness (espe- 
cially in children), or by other abnormal conditions some- 
times described by the phrase " journey proud." With the 
start come leave-takings, farewells, and partings more or 
less unusual and exciting, and then begins a series of toler- 
ably rapid changes of environment or scene. The body is 
moving and possibly shaken about or jarred ; unusual and 
shifting scenes fall upon the retina and come before the 

541 



542 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

mind, calling for attention and arousing new sensations ; 
strange sounds are heard, strange odors detected; the air 
(if in an open vehicle) beats against the face, and the ordi- 
nary atmospheric " blanket " is diminished or otherwise 
interfered with. 

Arrived at a stopping place or the journey's end, streets, 
houses, and hotels are new or strange ; strange faces meet 
the traveler; there are strange rooms and walls, strange 
furnishings, strange sounds and odors, in short, a strange 
or unusual environment. 

All this may or may not be wholesome, according to 
circumstances on the one hand and the individual on the 
other; but it is certainly stimulating and physiologically 
exciting, as may be readily proved by observing its effects 
upon children and the aged. The change of scene is only 
one element in the hygiene of travel, and its value must be 
determined by weighing it together with other equally influ- 
ential factors (namely, the change of occupation, the change 
of air, and the change of food), and, finally, by applying all 
these considerations to particular cases or individuals. 

3. The change of occupation. It is an old saying that 
" all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and expe- 
rience teaches clearly enough that a change of occupation 
is wholesome. One of the best features of travel is that 
it necessitates a change of occupation. A common expres- 
sion contains the idea of " going away from home to get 
a change." One of the most valuable characteristics of the 
home is the repose and restfulness which result from its 
uniformity of conditions, and one of the best things about 
travel is the mild stir and excitement involved. Routine 
and regularity of occupation are, on the whole, the more 
natural and normal, and " a steady job," whether it be in 
shop, home, or factory, on farm, plantation, or shipboard, 
in bank, school, or professional life, is naturally sought and 
prized by everybody. 



TRAVELING. PUBLIC PLACES 543 

And yet most persons profit from time to time by " a day 
off," or a vacation, or a journey which affords change of 
occupation with freedom from responsibility. Once on his 
way, the traveler is not responsible for the train or the 
steamer, for the cookery or the beds, for the house or hotel, 
or its furnishings or management; and this freedom from 
responsibility is a complete and often a refreshing change. 

4. The change of air. It is difficult to say in what way 
and to what extent a change of air is beneficial in traveling. 
Much of the benefit, even when attributed to the " change 
of ah-," is no doubt really due to other things, such as the 
change of work and the change of scene; but after making 
all allowances, it would still seem to be true that a change 
of air has a perceptible effect, and often does great good or 
great harm. Air that is drier or damper, or warmer or cooler, 
than usual, or air in the forest or by the sea, often seems 
to have decided effects for good or for evil, all other con- 
ditions remaining apparently much the same. At times, 
obscure atmospheric influences at home, unknown to our- 
selves, may be the source of lessened vital resistance, and 
so of a lowered tone of general health, and the change of 
air may be the means of restoring normal conditions by re- 
moving the obscure cause of trouble. Moreover, when the 
change is from the close, " stuffy " air of an office to the 
open air of country or of sea, with their agreeable odors, 
there is a " bracing," or stimulating, effect which reacts 
favorably upon the entire constitution, but especially upon 
the nervous system. The tendency to " fill our lungs " with 
it is only a sign of the general beneficial influence upon the 
system as a whole. Many a case of "the blues" has been suc- 
cessfully overcome by this simple expedient of a change of air. 

On the other ' hand, air as a vehicle of infection may 
affect the traveler unfavorably, for he must almost" inevi- 
tably be exposed to air (as well as to other things) which 
has recently been in contact with persons having incipient 



544 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

tuberculosis, diphtheria, measles, typhoid fever, or other in- 
fectious diseases. To this subject we shall return in the 
next section but one. 

5. The change of food. It is uncertain how much or how 
little influence a change of food has upon the organism. 
It is commonly believed that a change of food is often 
beneficial, or the reverse, and that much of the good or bad 
effects of travel is due to the inevitable change of diet and 
of cookery which goes with it. How far this is true is un- 
known, but it is easy to see that a simpler diet for some 
and a more abundant diet for others may in itself alone be 
helpful. It is doubtful if any special virtue resides in " sea 
food," or in " country living," or in " camp cookery," apart 
from that which consists in its palatability or its novelty, 
qualities which affect appetites and therefore nutrition; but 
in so far as a change makes food appetizing or acceptable, 
such food is, of course, more valuable to the body. How- 
ever this may be, there can be no question about the 
increased danger of infection from food and drink taken at 
random from unknown sources. 

6. The dangers of infection away from home. At home 
the traveler, in theory at least, has an environment well 
under his control; but when he starts upon a journey, 
whether afoot, or riding, or driving; by automobile, railway, 
steamship, or other means of conveyance, he enters into 
new environments, of whose precise nature he is ignorant, 
and which are usually beyond his control. Of the sanitary 
or unsanitary condition of the water supply, ice supply, 
milk supply, etc. he is usually ignorant; and he may at 
any time be thrown in contact with persons suffering from 
infectious diseases, especially in a mild or incipient form. 
The public vehicle (carriage, wagon, car, or omnibus) in 
which he travels, the hotels, rooms, chairs, and even the 
beds which he uses, may have been recently occupied by dis- 
eased persons. His laundry work may be done or delivered 



TRAVELING. PUBLIC PLACES 545 

by workers suffering from contagious diseases ; uncleanliness 
may attend the preparation and serving of his food. In short, 
in leaving his own familiar and controllable environment and 
passing into others unfamiliar and beyond his control, the 
traveler clearly takes large risks. 

7. Safeguards of the traveler. If it be asked what one 
can do to protect himself or his family from the dangers of 
travel, it may be pointed out, in the first place, that it is 
often better not to travel at all. When one is in poor con- 
dition, although a change to some new scene whose hygienic 
conditions are known to be good is likely to be beneficial, 
a railroad journey with frequent stops is apt to increase the 
danger of infection at a time when vital resistance is low. 
When a journey is advisable, the traveler should try to avoid 
marked fatigue, which always diminishes vital resistance and 
thus predisposes to disease ; he should seek to avoid unclean 
hotels, unclean conveyances, badly aired rooms, and unclean 
fellow travelers ; he should avoid the use of public drinking- 
cups, public towels, public razors, and the like ; he should, 
if possible, drink only waters of established reputation ; he can, 
if need be, forego the use of raw milk, raw oysters, and 
other uncooked foods the antecedents of which he knows 
nothing about, and he can take other obvious and useful 
precautions that will suggest themselves as he goes along. 

But, after all, it must be admitted that precautions, even 
if rigorously observed, will often prove insufficient, and also 
that too much thought about them, or about the dangers of 
travel, would rob it of most of its advantages. People 
always have traveled and probably always will travel with- 
out much consideration of the dangers involved in traveling. 
Some risks must always be taken, even at home, and most 
travelers cheerfully accept the necessary risks for the sake 
of the gains to be derived. With the increase in the amount 
of traveling, some of the risks are gradually decreasing, and 
in highly civilized countries adults in robust health who 



546 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

know how to take care of themselves may now go upon a 
journey without very much more risk of infection than they 
would undergo if they stayed at home. This is probably 
less true of children, for children and old people are not 
only more easily excited and more easily fatigued but they 
also suffer more severely from exposure, and children are 
especially apt to contract infectious diseases when away 
from home. 

8. Public drinking cups. These should be avoided by 
travelers, theater-goers, and all persons in parks or other 
public places. Few sights are more distressing to a sanitarian 
than to see (on a hot day in a crowded railway car) men, 
women, and children, of all ages, sorts, and conditions, clean 
and unclean, sick and well, one after another in rapid suc- 
cession applying their mouths to the one public drinking 
cup. If the student will once carefully observe for himself 
the use to which this cup is put during even a short journey 
under such conditions, he will realize that every traveler 
had better carry his own drinking cup, or, in default of this, 
go thirsty. In some theaters, between the acts, trays con- 
taining glasses of water are passed to patrons in their seats. 
Here also the lips of many persons touch successively the 
same glasses, and one who is wise will avoid the obvious 
danger involved in using any of these glasses, which may 
have become infected. Sanitary drinking fountains in which, 
by a simple device, the obnoxious common drinking cup is 
made unnecessary, are now being rapidly introduced in 
parks, schools, and other public places. 

9. The influence of travelers upon the environment. We 
have thus far considered chiefly the effects of strange environ- 
ments upon the traveler, but before leaving the subject we 
must not fail to point out some of the reactions of travelers 
upon the environments in which they journey or linger. 
Many epidemics of infectious diseases have sprung from 
germs left by travelers, and most of the great plagues and 



TRAVELING. PUBLIC PLACES 547 

pestilences of history have followed the routes of pilgrims, 
caravans, crusaders, conquerors, traders, or travelers. " Walk- 
ing cases" of typhoid fever, diphtheria, etc. are perhaps 
most dangerous to the public health, and tramps, peddlers, 
and other roving characters do much to spread disease. Per- 
sons coming down with an infectious disease, such as typhoid 
fever, are very apt to leave off work and go a-fishing, some- 
times upon or along the shores of a public water supply, 
which they may unwittingly contaminate. Life away from 
home has its dangers for the traveler ; it is no less true that 
life at home has its dangers, these often arising from travelers 
themselves. 

10. Public conveyances, because they are used promis- 
cuously by the well and the ailing alike, are subject to 
infection, and for this reason carriages, cars, and steamboats 
should be kept clean and occasionally should be thoroughly 
disinfected. Steamboats and steamships are essentially float- 
ing hotels, and should be treated as such. Sleeping cars 
bear less resemblance to public houses, and may be cleaned 
partly by washing, partly by blasts of compressed air, and 
partly by disinfectants, and, when properly cared for, are 
less likely to endanger health than are many hotels. Their 
lavatories should be kept scrupulously clean and should 
be frequently disinfected. In modern times vast improve- 
ments have been made in all kinds of public conveyances, 
in the direction of greater steadiness, less noise, better 
heating, better air, and better lighting. The public drink- 
ing cup, even, has been forbidden in many states and ought 
to be. abolished altogether. 

11. Public houses. Hotels and other public houses may 
be either clean, wholesome, and restful, or unclean, noisy, and 
unsanitary. Owing to the fact that their population is con- 
stantly changing, they are far more exposed to infection than 
are private houses, and great pains should be taken to keep 
them always in good sanitary condition. The simplest (iron) 



548 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

bedsteads are the best, and in hotels all carpets, draperies, etc. 
should either be avoided or subjected to frequent and thorough 
cleaning. The kitchen, especially, requires careful supervision 
to insure cleanliness, and in the laundry the linen should be 
so treated as to be sterilized during the process of washing. 
Employees should be instructed in the art of cleanliness, and 
any suffering from contagious or infectious diseases should 
be excluded or quarantined. All lavatories should be kept 
scrupulously clean and should be frequently disinfected. 

12. School buildings. The proper construction, operation, 
and care of school buildings is a very important branch of 
public hygiene. In these buildings children spend much of 
their lives removed from their ideal physical environment; 
during a large part of this time they are at desk work, with 
its possibilities of acquiring deformities, such as round 
shoulders and faulty curvatures of the spine ; their eyes 
must be used in near work with its danger of eyestrain ; 
they are more exposed to communicable diseases and too 
frequently to improper heating and ventilation. These and 
other disadvantages of life at school have led to special 
study of the problems of school hygiene by experts. It is 
not possible to sketch this field even in outline in this book. 
It is, however, something in which the public is vitally 
interested and everything possible should be done to reduce 
to a minimum the hygienic and sanitary dangers of school life. 

13. Public places, such as streets, parks, playgrounds, and 
cemeteries, are dangerous only when infected. Dirty streets 
are unsightly and disagreeable, but it is very hard to trace 
the source of much disease directly to them. Nevertheless, 
few things sooner or more agreeably impress a visitor than 
clean streets, and in the lower portions of the town or city 
clean streets are particularly important because the streets 
are the home and the playground of the children of the poor. 
Pavements in cities should be hard and nonabsorbent rather 
than porous, and should be kept clean and free from rubbish. 



i 



TRAVELING. PUBLIC PLACES 



549 



14. Public parks are desirable for fresh air, recreation, 
rest, and change of scene, and in these respects are impor- 
tant hygienic factors in city life. They are of special benefit 
to those living in tenement houses or under crowded condi- 
tions. Public playgrounds minister to the needs of the 
same class of people. Their importance can hardly be over- 
estimated, since they furnish to city children almost the 
sole opportunity for normal physical development and some 
contact with nature. It has been well said that " the boy 
without a playground is the father of the man without a 
job." But here also wise supervision and cleanliness are the 
conditions of hygienic success. 

Public cemeteries in America are usually well conducted 
and unobjectionable from the hygienic standpoint. The objec- 
tions sometimes urged against them as centers of infection 
and sources of disease are seldom well founded. Cremation, 
or the burning of the dead, is slowly but steadily growing 
in favor and has much to recommend it from the sanitary 
standpoint, since it prevents slow decay and destroys com- 
pletely all germs of disease. Near most of the larger American 
cities there are now one or more crematories. 



CHAPTER XXXVI 
PUBLIC PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH 

1. The public health. By this term is meant the health 
of the community, and of some community every family 
and every individual is a member. The public health is 
obviously of vital importance to the individual; and, con- 
versely, the health of the individual is of vital importance 
to the community. Personal hygiene, or the hygiene of the 
individual, and public hygiene, or the hygiene of the com- 
munity, are thus closely bound together. Not only because 
it is his duty, but also because, from the selfish point of 
view, it is to his advantage, the individual should, therefore, 
interest himself .in and seek to promote the public health. 
If, for example, smallpox appears in his community, he can- 
not afford, even from a selfish point of view, to fail to do 
his best to aid in suppressing it. If he himself falls ill of 
smallpox, his neighbors and the whole public naturally feel 
a similar interest in isolating him and preventing the spread 
of the disease. 

For these and similar reasons, people living in commu- 
nities, and especially in villages, towns, and cities, by com- 
mon consent usually elect or appoint a few of their own 
number as sanitary authorities or officials to attend to 
matters affecting the public health. The citizens thus 
chosen are endowed by common consent with special 
powers and privileges, and are generally designated as the 
board of health, or health commissioners. Sometimes, es- 
pecially in small communities, there is no formally organ- 
ized board of health, the duties of such a board being 

560 



PUBLIC PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH 551 

performed by some other governing body of the community, 
such as the selectmen, county commissioners, and the like. 

2. Boards of health, their powers and duties. Very much 
as boards of police are chosen by the people to preserve 
public order and to prevent disturbance and crime, so 
boards of health are chosen to preserve the public health 
and prevent disease and death. And as the police officer 
could not possibly do the work assigned to him without 
unusual powers and privileges, these sometimes involving 
a considerable interference with personal liberty, so the 
health officer cannot do the work expected of him without 
unusual powers and privileges. But it should never be for- 
gotten that in each case both the officers themselves and 
the powers which they possess exist by the common consent 
of the community, which desires, and thus provides for, 
protection at the cost of surrendering some personal rights 
and privileges. Boards of this sort derive their powers 
solely from the consent of the majority of the community 
which they serve, and those members of the community who 
disapprove of their existence, powers, and acts must either 
persuade the majority to adopt a different policy, or must 
submit, or must go elsewhere. 

Among the important powers of boards of health are the 
rights of quarantine, isolation, entrance and search, and vac- 
cination. The Public Health Service may, at the ports of 
the United States, quarantine a vessel, perhaps full of pas- 
sengers impatient of delay and eager to land, even for 
many days, subjecting the owners, passengers, and others 
to great inconvenience, expense, and damage. A board of 
health, finding smallpox in a hotel or boarding house, may 
quarantine or isolate the building, surround it by police, 
and forbid all persons to enter or leave it, thus causing 
great alarm and annoyance to the inmates, great damage 
to the proprietor, and a heavy expense to the community. 
A board of health may declare general vaccination necessary 



552 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

for the protection of the public health, and may even enforce 
vaccination upon the careless, reluctant, or resisting. It may 
forbid a dairyman to sell milk thought to contain typhoid- 
fever or other disease germs, thus causing the dairyman great 
inconvenience and even financial rum. In all these cases the 
board is, as a rule, simply obeying the wishes of a majority 
of the community, and those who are delayed, constrained, 
or financially injured have to submit as best they may, unless 
the general sentiment of the community undergoes a change 
in their favor. 

The duties of boards of health are manifold. Some of the 
most obvious and general are usually prescribed by public 
statute or ordinance. Such, for example, are the following 
in the state of Massachusetts: 

The State Board of Health shall take cognizance of the interests 
of health and life among the citizens of the Commonwealth. It shall 
make sanitary investigations and inquiries in respect to the causes 
of disease, and especially of epidemics and the sources of mortality, 
and the effects of localities, employments, conditions, and circum- 
stances on the public health ; and shall gather such information in 
respect to those matters as it may deem proper, for diffusion among 
the people. It shall advise the government in regard to the location 
and other sanitary conditions of any public institutions. 

Others are less general and more specific, like the two 
following : 

The State Board of Health shall have the general supervision of all 
streams and ponds used by a city or town as sources of water supply, 
with reference to their purity, together with all springs, streams, and 
watercourses tributary thereto; and shall have authority to examine 
the same from time to time and inquire what pollutions exist and what 
are their causes. 

When the Board of Health of any city or town has had notice of 
the occurrence of a case of smallpox or of any other disease dangerous 
to the public health in such city or town, such Board of Health shall, 
within twenty-four hours after the receipt of such notice, notify the 
State Board of Health of the same. 



PUBLIC PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH 553 

A nation may and should have a national sanitary au- 
thority charged with the protection and promotion of the 
public health and provided with large powers ; it should also 
be supplied with trained experts and money enough to enable 
these to deal with emergencies, to study large sanitary prob- 
lems, and to carry on researches into the causes of disease and 
the improvement of methods for their prevention. Germany 
has such an organization in its Imperial Board of Health, 
and the United States, for a short time, had a National Board 
of Health. At present the United States Public Health 
Service is charged with all interstate public-health functions. 

The states also, in the United States, have for the most 
part their own boards of health, but such boards do not 
always have very large powers, these being reserved for 
the so-called local boards of the various cities and towns. 
It is believed by many experts that a larger grant of powers 
and resources to state and national boards would be of sub- 
stantial benefit to the public, and would secure for all a 
much more constant and efficient sanitary protection. 

3. What the individual may do to protect the public health. 
The first duty of the individual to the public health is to 
remember that he himself, his family, his house, and all his 
belongings constitute one important and fundamental ele- 
ment in the health of the community of which he is a unit. 
He should therefore seek, first of all, to mam tain and pro- 
mote good health in himself, in his family, and in all his 
household; for the prevention of disease and premature 
death in one household is a distinct and genuine contri- 
bution to the better health of all other households. 

In the next place, he should cheerfully conform to all 
reasonable regulations of the board of health or other sani- 
tary authority of his community, duly prescribed by them 
under powers conferred by the community as a whole. 

Finally, he should inform himself as fully and as accu- 
rately as possible upon hygienic and sanitary subjects, in 



554 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

order not only to protect and promote his own health and 
that of his household but also to enable him to become an 
intelligent, critical, and yet cooperative member of the com- 
munity, thus doubly aiding in preserving and promoting 
the public health. 

Having done, or tried to do, these three things, the good 
citizen has still one further duty of the utmost importance 
to perform for the maintenance and betterment of the public 
health (which, as we have shown above, is also of great 
consequence both to himself and to his family), and that is, 
to aid and assist in all their good works boards of health 
and all others hi sanitary authority. This he may do by 
reporting the existence of cases of infectious disease, nui- 
sances, etc.; by helping to secure the election or appoint- 
ment of intelligent, upright, and expert officials ; by loyally 
upholding such officials in the performance of their duty ; 
by refusing to countenance opposition to necessary public 
procedures, such as vaccination, gas inspection, plumbing in- 
spection, the placarding of houses containing cases of infec- 
tious disease, the isolation of patients, etc. ; and in many 
other ways which are sure to arise. 

At times this individual responsibility for public health 
involves personal inconvenience and hardship, severely test- 
ing the good citizenship even of those most desirous of 
cooperating with the public-health authorities. This is well 
illustrated in the case of diphtheria. When antitoxin is 
given in this disease, the toxin produced by the bacteria 
is neutralized in the blood and tissues and is thus prevented 
from injuring the organism ; but not all the bacteria are 
necessarily killed by this treatment. Consequently it some- 
times happens that, long after the clinical symptoms have 
disappeared, and when the patient is apparently perfectly 
normal, examination of the throat reveals the presence of 
the bacillus ; and it has been proved beyond question that 
germs from this source are often capable of transmitting the 



PUBLIC PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH 555 

disease to healthy persons. It is a real hardship to such a 
patient to be kept in quarantine for days and weeks, until 
the disappearance of the germ in the throat is established 
by bacteriological examination, and boards of health are 
frequently criticized severely for enforcing quarantine under 
such circumstances ; but it is obvious that these measures 
are demanded in the interests of the community and that 
resistance to them can arise only from ignorance or selfish- 
ness, or both. 

4. What the public may do to protect and promote the 
health of the individual. On the other hand, the community, 
through its paid or unpaid officials, can do much to protect 
and promote the health of its individual members. It should 
see to it that the public water supply is pure ; it should 
maintain an efficient system of milk inspection ; it should pro- 
vide investigations of food adulteration, and prosecutions and 
penalties for the same ; it should require prompt and efficient 
scavenging, and the collection and removal of wastes such 
as sewage, garbage, and other refuse; it should establish 
a system of medical inspection of schools and of school hy- 
giene; it should prevent the concealment of the existence 
of cases of infectious or contagious disease ; it should pro- 
vide for vaccination against smallpox, for the use of anti- 
toxic serum in diphtheria, and for immunization against 
typhoid fever; it should provide laboratories for the rapid 
diagnosis of communicable diseases; and in many other ways 
it should protect the individual and his family even better 
than he, unaided, could protect himself. Finally, state boards 
of health may, by the publication and free distribution of 
popular health bulletins, bring to the attention of the people 
of the state those matters of health regarding which, from 
time to time, they need reliable and authoritative informa- 
tion. In New York, Virginia, and other states the intelli- 
gent cooperation of the people in the improvement of the 
public health has been greatly strengthened by such bulletins. 



CHAPTER XXXVII 
INTERNATIONAL HEALTH RELATIONS 

1. The modern world one vast community. Ever since the 
invention of the mariner's compass, followed as this was by 
the voyages of discovery of Columbus, Vasco da Gama, and 
Magellan, the world has become, century by century, more 
and more one great community, or neighborhood. With the 
introduction of steam transportation on land and sea our 
globe has practically shrunk so that intercourse between the 
various nations of the earth has become both frequent and 
easy; and if there were no other means for the prevention 
of disease than those formerly known, plagues and pestilences 
would, without question, ravage mankind worse than ever 
before. The isolation of the ancient world gave it some, 
sanitary protection, but to-day there is no isolation. Steamers 
ply regularly and frequently between Orient and Occident, 
commingling the people and the products of the whole world. 
Books, newspapers, letters, food materials, fabrics, and many 
other sorts of merchandise pass freely back and forth, and 
yet plague and pestilence to-day seldom follow in then: train. 

2. Ancient paths of pestilence and plague. Although mod- 
ern civilization is indebted to the Orient for its first knowl- 
edge of the art of inoculation for the prevention of smallpox, 
it is no less true that many of its worst epidemic diseases 
have often come from the same source. 

The plague, a world-famous disease (p. 518), has afflicted 
mankind for centuries, and has repeatedly appeared in 
Europe, traveling westward from the Orient and from 
Africa. The Black Death, which is held to have destroyed 
.one fourth of the population of Europe in the fourteenth 

556 



INTERNATIONAL HEALTH RELATIONS 557 

century, was probably a virulent form of the oriental plague 
which entered Europe from the south and east. The Great 
Plague of London (in 1665) probably pame from Holland, 
in bales of merchandise brought from the Levant. 

The Asiatic cholera, as its name suggests, has repeatedly 
come to Europe and America from the East, and is believed 
to exist almost constantly in India, from which place its 
germs are readily conveyed to western countries. The germs 
of the great Hamburg (Germany) epidemic of 1892 were 
probably brought there by immigrants from Russia. 

3. The modern impotence of pestilence and plague. The 
modern increase of the means of communication has no 
doubt tended to spread far and wide all sorts of contagious 
and infectious diseases; but with that increase there has come, 
especially within the last few years, such a scientific knowl- 
edge of these diseases and of the ways of holding them in 
check that, in spite of vastly greater facilities for their dis- 
tribution, they are actually less dangerous to mankind, and 
far less dreaded, than they formerly were. The appear- 
ance of the bubonic plague in China or in India, or of 
Asiatic cholera in Japan or in the Philippines, still causes 
international anxiety, and vigorous local precautionary or 
corrective measures are taken to overcome them ; yet little 
widespread alarm is felt. The closer intimacy between Cuba 
and the United States since the Spanish War of 1898, while 
in itself favoring the spread of yellow fever, has had the 
marvelous and happy consequence (thanks to the brilliant 
researches and able administration of the medical and sani- 
tary officers of the American army) not of bringing more 
yellow fever to the United States, as would formerly have 
been the case, but of virtually extirpating that disease, for 
the present at least, in Cuba. 

4. The use and abuse of quarantine. The word " quaran- 
tine " comes from the French word quarante, meaning "forty," 
because a detention of forty days was formerly enforced upon 



558 THE HUMAN MECHANISM 

travelers crossing frontiers. Quarantine is of greac value hi 
some cases, as, for example, in ports like Boston or New York, 
and, when thoroughly enforced, may be an important means 
of protecting a region against infectious disease. When a 
vessel which has been long enough at sea to give contagious 
disease (if present) time to appear, comes into port with 
cases of such disease on board, its detention is a wise pre- 
caution. On the other hand, indiscriminate quarantine be- 
tween states or cities, or of vessels that have come from near 
ports, so that little or no time has been given for disease, if 
present, to show itself, is necessarily severe and often useless 
and unwarrantable. 

Quarantine is also liable to abuse on other grounds, for it 
is claimed that it has sometimes been unjustifiably employed 
to keep out of a country foods or other products which came 
into competition with domestic products, the plea of sanitary 
danger being raised for commercial reasons. 

5. International sanitary congresses. From time to time 
there are held nowadays international sanitary congresses 
which undertake to deal with the larger questions affecting 
the health of nations. There are also held from time to time 
international congresses of hygiene and demography, while 
the meetings of the American Public Health Association, in 
which the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Cuba are 
represented, are really international congresses for a large 
part of the western hemisphere. 

6. Health and longevity in various countries. It is inter- 
esting to inquire how different nations compare, one with 
another, in respect to health and longevity. It might be 
supposed that somewhere on the earth's surface the climate 
would be so salubrious, the food so wholesome, the condi- 
tions so favorable, and life so normal, that sickness would 
be unknown and death indefinitely postponed. Invalids in 
large numbers do, in fact, turn to Colorado or California, to 
Madeira or to the Riviera, seeking in these places more 



INTERNATIONAL HEALTH RELATIONS 559 



favorable conditions for sustaining or prolonging life ; but 
no place has ever been found altogether free from disease, 
and no climate, however salubrious, seems capable of caus- 
ing any great increase in longevity. It was many centuries 
ago in the Orient, and of a race singularly strong and per- 
sistent, that the Hebrew poet wrote those majestic lines which 
for every land and every people are no less true to-day : " The 
days of our years are threescore years and ten ; and if by 
reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength 
labour and sorrow ; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away." 
The general death rate (that is, the number of deaths 
per year per thousand of the population) is not a complete 
measure either of health or of longevity, but is sometimes 
the only test we have ; and the following table for 1900 
shows how great the difference may be in the death rates of 
some of the larger cities of the world. 



London . 18.7 

New York ...... 20.6 

Paris 20.5 

Berlin 18.9 

Vienna 20.6 

Petrograd 27.0 



Moscow 30.0 

Rome 16.5 

Madrid 33.3 

Stockholm 17.1 

Boston 20.8 



The table on page 560 (from the United States Census of 
1900) gives the death rates for the periods specified of some 
of the principal countries of the civilized world. 

7. The sanitation of the world. Enough has been said in 
the foregoing pages to indicate that while the hopes of 
dreamers seeking after an elixir of life have no foundation, 
and while a wholly salubrious environment cannot greatly 
prolong human life beyond the usual period, much is being 
done, and much still remains to be done, for a more complete 
and perfect sanitation. Communicable diseases still sweep 
over communities, carrying sickness and death among the 
people, increasing the death rate, and diminishing longevity. 



560 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



COMPARATIVE DEATH RATES PER 1000 POPULATION FOR 
CERTAIN COUNTRIES 





1890 


TWENTY-FIVE 
YEARS 

1876-1900 


1900 


Austria 
Belgium 


29.4 
20.6 
19.0 
19.6 
22.8 
24.4 
24.0 
32.4 
18.2 
26.4 
20.5 
17.9 
19.7 
32.5 
17.1 
20.8 
19.6 


28.6 
20.1 
18.3 
19.1 
21.9 
24.2 
23.7 
32.3 
18.2 
26.5 
20.3 
16.6 
19.2 
30. 3 1 
17.0 
20.6 


25.4 
19.3 
16.9 
18.2 
21.9 
22.1 
21.8 
26.9 
19.6 
23.8 
17.8 
15.9 
18.6 
28.7 
16.8 
19.3 
17.8 


Denmark . . ... .... 


England and. \Vales 


France 


German Empire 


Prussia 


Hungary . 


Ireland 


Italy 


Netherlands .... 


Norway 


Scotland 


Spain 


Sweden 


Switzerland 


United States (registration area) . . 





1 Average for twenty years, 1878-1884, 1888-1900. 

Here and there nations and individuals are devoting them- 
selves with energy, public spirit, and wisdom to investigation 
of the causes of disease, and to improvement of their envi- 
ronment by careful organization of boards of health, by munic- 
ipal sanitation, by sanitary engineering, by purer water and 
milk supplies, by proper sewerage and sewage disposal, by 
food inspection, and the like. All this is wise and encourag- 
ing, but it is only a beginning. Far more might and ought 
to be done both by nations and by individuals. Many of the 
nations, especially those known as half -civilized or barbarous, 
have as yet hardly made a beginning in hygiene or sanitation ; 
and as long as this is the case, they are, and will continue 
to be, a menace not only to themselves but to the whole 



INTERNATIONAL HEALTH RELATIONS 561 

world, which, as one vast community, is in these respects 
closely bound together. One of the most important move- 
ments of recent years is the establishment of the Rockefeller 
International Health Board, which undertakes, among other 
things, the improvement of unsanitary or unhygienic condi- 
tions among these half -civilized or backward peoples. 

The student should never forget that the foundation of 
municipal, national, and international hygiene and sanitation, 
and therefore of the health of nations, rests ultimately upon 
the hygiene and sanitation of individuals, that is, upon 
personal hygiene and sanitation. If all human beings were 
healthy and clean, the nations of the world would of neces- 
sity be in the same condition. Personal hygiene and scientific 
sanitation thus form the basis of all hygiene and sanitation, 
whether of home or village, of town or city, or of the world ; 
and the essentials of personal hygiene and sanitation are simply 
the proper management and care of the human mechanism 
and its surroundings. 




FIG. 154. The thoracic and abdominal cavities, after the removal of 
the organs shown in Fig. 2 

The diaphragm has been drawn somewhat forward 




I 



FIG. 155. General view of the digestive tract. After Spalteholz 

A, mouth cavity; B, pharynx; (7, oesophagus ; D, diaphragm ; ^stomach; 
F, small intestine ; G, ascending colon ; H, descending colon ; /, rectum. 
The transverse colon has been cut away, its position being indicated by 
dotted lines 




FIG. 156. The flouncelike folding of the mesentery, as seen after 
removing the small intestine. After Spalteholz 




E J 



F i. -' > 



FIG. 157. Median dorso-ventral section of the trunk in the abdominal 
region, showing the suspension of the stomach and intestine by the 
mesentery. After Spalteholz 

A, liver; B, stomach; C, transverse colon; D, mesentery; E, rectum; 
F, urinary bladder 




FIG. 158. The permanent teeth in the jaw-bones, viewed 
from the right. After Spalteholz 




FIG. 159. The network of capillaries on the lining of the 
air cells of the lungs. After Kolliker 

See page 169 




FIG. 100. First layer of muscles of the breast and shoulder region. 
After Spalteholz 

A, biceps of the arm (p. 33); B, deltoid; C, portion of the trapezius (see 
Figs. 113 and 114); Z), clavicle; E, sternum or breastbone; F, pecto- 
ralis major (see p. 316 and Fig. 114) 



H 




FIG. 161. Second layer of muscles of the breast, exposed by dissecting 
away the pectoral is major in Fig. 1(50. After Spalteholz 

A, B, the two " heads " of the biceps ; C, cut end of the pectoralis major; 
D, deltoid ; E, pectoralis minor; F, trapezius; G, clavicle; H, first rib ; 
K, sternum. Note the direct attachment of the intercostal muscles to 
the ribs (p. 8). Compare Fig. 160 




be N S 

11 iK 

S 2 3 n 



IS 




cb 




The parts of the nervous system 
represented are the cerebrum, 
cerebellum,bulb,and segment 
of the spinal cord. Afferent 
nerves in red, efferent nerves 
in black, w, m, motor neu- 
rones to some of the muscles 
of the leg. These may be 
stimulated to coordinate ac- 
tion by neurones (v) from 
the cerebrum, neurones (cb) 
from the cerebellum, or by 
the afferent neurones (a/ 1 ) 
from the tendons, etc. In the 
bulb this afferent neurone 
connects with a second neu- 
rone (a/ 2 ), and this with a 
third (a/ 3 ), thus providing 
the path to the cerebrum and exciting 
in consciousness sensations of position 
of the leg (muscular sense). The same 
neurones connect with the cerebellum, 
as do also neurones from the inner ear. 
For further explanations see Chapter 
XV, pp. 275-279. 



FIG. 105. Diagram of the nervous mechanism of walking 






FIG. 166. Side view of the brains of rabbit, cat, and monkey 
Seepage 267 



INDEX 



Abdominal breathing, 172 

Abdominal cavity. See Peritoneal 
cavity 

Abdominal muscles, action in 
breathing, 174 

Abscesses of teeth, 401 

Absorption from the intestine, 126 

Accommodation, in vision, for near 
objects, 243 ; muscle of, 244 (fig.) 

Adenoid tissue, 402 

Adenoids, 404 

Adipose tissue, 184, 222 

Adrenal glands, 64 

Adrenalin, action of, 64, 163 

Adulteration of foods, 530 

Aerial blanket, 198 

Afferent impulses, 76 ff . ; reflex and 
conscious effects of, 275 ff. 

Afferent neurones, 76, 78 

Air, stagnant, 198 ; good and bad, 
pure and impure, 448 ; change of, 
543. See also Fresh air 

Air cell, 169 

Albuminoids, 94 

Alcohol, physiological action of, 
361 ; as a stimulant, 362 ; in mus- 
cular work, 365 ; as a defense 
against cold, 366 ; as a food, 367 ; 
pathological conditions due to, 
367 ; influence on self-control, 
369-370 

Alcoholic beverages, composition of, 
358 

Alimentary canal, structure of, 20, 
107, 118, 128 

Alimentation, 91, 98 

Alveolus of gland, 30, 31 (fig.), 32 
(fig.) ; of lungs, 169, 170 (fig.) 

Amino-acids, 102 

Amoeba, amoeboid movement, 137 

Amylopsin, 120 

Anesthetics, 280 

Animal foods, 97, 111 

Ankle, bones of, 19, 407 (fig.), 408 

(fig-) 
Anopheles, 514 ff . 



Anterior, definition of term, 9 
Antibodies, 504-505 
Antiseptics, 481, 508 ; in food pres- 
ervation, 533 
Antitoxin, 496, 503 
Aorta, 13, 22, 23 (fig.), 25, 145 
Apical lobes of lungs. See Lungs 
Appendicular skeleton, 18 
Appetite as a guide in feeding, 343 
Aqueduct of Sylvius, 265 
Aqueous humor, 243 
Arborization. See Synapse 
Arterial reservoir, 142 
Arterial tone, 161 
Arteries, 21, 37, 148 (fig.) 
Astigmatism, 249 
Auditory nerve, 27, 256 
Augmentor nerves of heart, 160 
Auricle, 21, 23 (fig.), 140 
Auriculo-ventricular valves, 141 
Automatic nervous actions, 81 
Axial skeleton, 14 
Axon, or axis cylinder, 72, 75 

Bacilli, 476 

Bacteria, 475. See also Microbes 

Balance exercises, 324 

Balance movements, 272-273 

Bathing and baths, 417 ff. 

Beds and bedsteads, 434 

Bile, 121 

Bile duct, 108 (fig.) 

Bladder, urinary, 181, 182 (fig.) 

Blood, arterial and venous, 24, 166 ; 
as a common carrier, 135 ; micro- 
scopic structure of, 136 ; distribu- 
tion among organs, 146 ; gases of, 
166 

Blood corpuscles, red, 136-138; as 
carriers of oxygen, 167 

Blood corpuscles, white, 136-137, 
401 ; behavior during inflamma- 
tion, 376 

Blood plasma, 138 ; gases of, 166 

Blood vessels, 37. See also Arteries, 
Capillaries, and Veins 



563 






564 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Boards of health. See Health 

Body cavity, 10 

Bone, 36. See also Skeleton 

Brain, 27 ; the seat of sensations, 
241 ; of frog, 264 ; of mammal, 
265 ; histological structure of, 268 ; 
functions of, 270 ff. 

Breastbone, 17 

Breathing movements, 171 ff. ; effect 
on circulation, 148, 176 ; effect on 
flow of lymph, 160, 176; hygiene 
of, 174 ; in muscular activity, 301, 
308 

Breathiessness, 178 

Bronchiole, 170 (fig.) 

Bronchitis, 375 

Bronchus, 12, 21, 169 

Bulb, 264 (fig.), 265, 267 (fig.) ; 
functions Of, 272 

Caffeine, 356 

Calendered paper, 393 

Calorie, 216 

Oanal, spinal, or vertebral, 17 

Canning of foods, 533 

Capillaries, 24 (fig.), 27, 31 (fig.), 37 

Capsule of gland, 30 

Carbohydrates, 94 ; digestion of, 
104, 112, 120 ; as source of power 
for work, 217 ff. ; fuel value of, 
217; as food in cold climates, 
220 ; as source of fat, 224 

Carbon ; dioxide (carbonic acid) 
formed during muscular work, 
48, 60, 178, 299 ; in lymph, 167 ; 
in blood plasma, 168 ; action of, 
on respiratory center, 176 

Cardiac region of stomach, 107 

Carpets, 435 

Carriers of disease, 521 

Catarrh, chronic, 387 

Catarfhal conditions, care of, 877 

Cell walls in plants, 98 

Cellar, sanitation of, 432 . ., : 

Cells, 31, 32, 34, 36, 39, 40 (fig.), 41 ; 
as chemical factories, 46 ff. ; waste 
and repair of, 229 ff. 

Cellulose, 97 

Cement of tooth, 399 

Cemeteries, 548 

Central canal of spinal cord, 264 

Cerebellum, 264 (fig.), 265, 267, 270 
(fig.), 279 

Cerebrum, 82, 264 (fig.), 266 (fig.), 



267 (fig.), 268 (fig.); connections 
with other parts of the nervous 
system, 275 ; functions of, 279 ff . 

Cervical vertebrae, 14 

Cesspools, 463 

Chicken pox, 497, 498 

Chloral, 371 

Chloroform, 280 

Chocolate, 357 

Cholera, Asiatic, 506 

Choroid, 243, 244, 247 (fig.) 

Chyme, 117 

Cilia, of bacteria, 480 ; of the respir- 
atory tract, 397 

Ciliary muscle, 244 

Ciliary region of eye, 244 (fig.) 

Cinders, removal from eye, 394 

Circulation, organs of, 21, 143 (fig.) ; 
time of, 136; mechanics of, 139; 
in warm and cold weather, 152, 
201 ; during muscular activity, 
154 ; during mental work and 
sleep, 155 ; during digestion, 157, 
158 ; nervous factors of, 159 ff. ; 
essential to respiration, 177; in 
foot, 413 

Cisterns, 457 

Clavicle, 19 

Cleanliness, sanitary value of, 436 

Cleavage, chemical, in muscular con- 
traction, 50 ; of starch and protein 
in digestion, 102 

Climate, and mental work, 207 ; and 
feeding, 220 ; in treatment of tu- 
berculosis, 489 

Clothing, hygiene of, 422 ff . 

Coagulation of proteins, 93 

Coarse foods, importance of, 350 

Cocaine, 371 

Cocci, 476 

Cdccygeal vertebrae, 14 

Cochlea, 257 

Cocoa, 357 

Coffee, 356 

Cold, effect on circulation of the 
blood, 152 ; effect on body as 
a whole, 201 ff. ; sensations of, 
258 

Cold-blooded animals, 191 

Colds, nature, prevention, and care 
of, 374 ff. 

Collagen, 94 

Collar bone. See Clavicle 

Collaterals, 78 



INDEX. 



566 



Colon, 20 

Color, sensations of, 262 

Compensatory adjustments of the 

circulation, 153 
Conditioned reflexes, 85 
Conduction of heat, 211 
Congestion of blood in internal 

organs, 300 ; during inflamma- 
tion, 376 ff . 
Connective tissues, structure of, 7, 8, 

37, 222 ; of glands, 30, 31 ; of 

muscles, 33-34 ; relation to blood 

vessels, 36 ; to lymphatics, 39 ; of 

nerves, 71 ; digestion of, 110 ; of 

lungs, 169; of skin, 184 
Consciousness, 240, 273, 279 
Consciousness of correct posture, 

education of ,320 
Constant temperature of the body, 

190 ; maintenance of, 201 ff. 
Constipation, 132 
Consumption. See Tuberculosis 
Contagious diseases. See Diseases 
Contraction of muscle, 33, 47, 56 
Convection of heat, 212 
Convolutions of cerebrum, 266 (fig.), 

267 
Cooking, as an aid in nutrition, 344 ; 

sterilization of food by, 531 ff. 
Cooling off suddenly, 385 
Coordination, 70, 83, 271 ; training 

in, 87, 283, 323; by chemical 

means, 89 
Corium, 184 

Cornea, 243, 244 (fig.), 247 (fig.) 
Corpuscles. See Blood corpuscles 
Corrective muscular exercises, 314 ; 

hygienic value of, 325 
Cortex of cerebrum and cerebellum, 

269 

Costal breathing, 172 
Cotton underwear, 424-425 
Cough medicines, 381 
Cranial nerves, 268 
Cranium, 17 
Culex, 516 (fig.) 
Curd of milk, 93 
Curvatures of vertebral column, 

14 ff.; 321 

Curve of fatigue, 56 
Cutaneous sensations, 258 
Cutis, 184 
Cycling, 310 
Cytoplasm, 31, 35, 41, 75 



" Danger zone " of atmospheric teni-r 
perature, 205, 384 

Deafness, 395 

Dendrites, 75, 268, 270, 271 

Dentine, 398 

Dermis, 184 

Dextrines, 101 (fig.), 105 

Dextrose, 101 

Diaphragm, 10 ; action in respira- 
tion, 171-173 

Diarrhea, 133, 374, 459 

Diastase, 369 

Diastole, 140, 142 (fig.) 

Diet, value of a mixed, 231 

Digestion, organs of, 20; nature of, 
100; external and internal, 100; 
in the mouth, 103 ; in the stomach, 
107; in the intestine, 117; sum- 
mary of chemical processes of, 
123 ; cooperation of processes of, 
132 ; and the circulation, 157 ; 
and temperature regulation, 207; 
as affected by muscular activity, 
302 ; during fatigue, 348 

Diphtheria, 494 

Diseases, causes of, 292 ; mental 
cures of, 340 ; infectious and con- 
tagious, 471 ; prevention of mi- 
crobic, 483 

Disinfectants, 481 

Distilled liquors, 360 

Divisive movements of intestine, 124 

Dorsal, definition of term, 9 

Drainage in house sanitation, 461 

Drinking cups, public, 546 

Driving force for circulation through 
capillaries, 144 

Drug habit, 353 

Drugs, 352 ff . ; in the operation of 
the nervous system, 338 ; use of, in 
catarrhal conditions, 381 ; as a 
substitute for hygienic living, 381 ; 
in treatment of tuberculosis, 489 

Ducts of glands, 21, 28, 31 (fig.), 
32 (fig.) 

Dust as vehicle of tuberculosis, 485 

Dyspepsia, 114 

Ear, structure of, 255 ; care of, 895 
Efferent nerve fibers and impulses, 

75, 78 (fig.) 

Elasticity of arteries, 144 
Elimination of intestinal waste, 132 
Emmetropic eye, 246 



566 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Enamel, 399 

End organs of nerves, 27, 74-82, 240 

Enjoyment of food, hygienic value 
of, 116 

Enjoyment of muscular activity, 312 

Environment, 295 

Enzyme, 44, 47 ; action of, 101 ff . ; 
of saliva, 104 ; of gastric juice, 109 ; 
of small intestine, 119-123 

Epidemics, 470, 546 

Epidermis, 185 

Epiglottis, 20 (fig.) 

Equilibrium, nervous factors in, 272 ; 
in physical training, 324 

Esophagus. See (Esophagus 

Ether, 280 

Eustachian tube, 256, 395 

Evaporation a cooling process, 195 

Excitation, 282, 362 

Excretion, 180 ; in relation to feed- 
ing, 228 

Extractive, 138, 232 

Eye, structure of, 242 ; care of, 389 

Face, bones of, 17 

Farsightedness, 248 

Fasciculus of muscle, 33, 34 

Fatigue, 55 ff . ; hygienic value of, 63 ; 
practical considerations concern- 
ing, 309 ; influence on digestion, 
348 ; and taking cold, 383 

Fatigue level, 58. 61 

Fats, 95, 222; of meat, 110; diges- 
tion of, 120-123; fuel value of, 
218 ; storage of, 222, 224 

Fatty acids, 96, 120 

Feces, 130, 132 

Feeding, muscular activity after, 
158 ; hygiene of, 342 ; during colds, 
380 

Femur, 19 

Fermentation, 358 

Fever, 211 

Fibula, 19 

Filters, house, 459 

Filth and filth diseases, 492 

Filtration of public water supplies, 
534 ff. 

Fires, open, 213, 438 

Flagella, 480 (fig.) 

Flat foot, 410 

Fleas as carriers of plague, 519 

Flies, as carriers of disease, 522 ; elim- 
ination of, 524 



Focal infections, 404 

Food accessories, 352 ff . 

Foods, as source of energy or power, 
91, 215; as material for growth 
and repair, 91, 229 ; chemical com- 
position of, 92, 99, 238 ; animal and 
vegetable, 97; fuel value of, 215; 
heating, 220 ; adulteration and in- 
fection of, 528 ff . ; preservatives 
and antiseptics in, 632 ; canning of, 
533 

Foodstuffs. See Nutrients 

Foot, hygiene of, 407 ff. ; arches of, 
408 ; deformation of, 409 ; physi- 
cal training of, 414 

Force-pump action of heart, 140, 
142 (fig.) 

Forebrain, 264 (fig.), 279 

Fresh air, as a substitute for exer- 
cise, 313 ; as a cure for colds, 379 

Fried foods, 347 

Fuel requirements of the body, 220 

Fuel substances, storage of, in mus- 
cle, 48 

Fuel value of food, 215 

Gall bladder, 108 (fig.) 
Games, 311 

Ganglion, 72 ; of the dorsal root, 76 
Garbage, disposal of, 465 
Gas, as a conductor of heat, 197 ; il- 
luminating, 444 ; natural, 636 ; 

coal, 536 ; water, 536 ; poisoning 

by, 537 
Gaseous exchange in capillaries, 167 ; 

during muscular activity, 178, 299 
Gastric digestion, 345 
Gastric juice, 110; secretion of, 114 
Gelatin, 94 

General muscular exercise, 307 
Germ theory of disease, 471 
Germicides, 481 
Glands, 21, 28, 30, 31 (fig.), 32 (fig.) ; 

working and resting, 44, 46 (fig.); 

blood supply during activity, 44 ; 

ductless, 28, 64 ff . 
Glottis, 20 (fig.) 
Gluten, 93, 110 
Glycerin, 96 
Glycogen, 225 
Granules, storage of, in gland cells, 

46 
Gray matter of spinal cord and brain, 

74, 264 ff. 



INDEX 



567 



Grippe, 496 

Ground water, 455, 534 

Growth, favorable period for the 

acquisition of deformities, 319 
Gymnasium, 324 ff . 

Habits, physical basis of, 284 

Hair and hair follicle, 185, 186 (fig.) 

"Hardening" to cold, 385 

Harvey, William, 139 

Headaches, 134, 390 

Health, 290 ; public, 467 ; national, 
state, and local boards of, 550 ff . ; 
in different countries, 556. See also 
Public health 

Hearing, 255 

Heart, 10, 12, 21 ; force-pump action, 
of, 140 ff . ; valves of, 141 ; regula- 
tion of, 159 ; nerves of, 160 ; ef- 
fect of muscular activity on, 300 .;.. 

Heart beat, 139 

Heat, produced in working muscles, 
52 ; effect of, on the circulation of 
the blood, 152 ; production and 
transfer of, 194, 204 ; transfer of, 
from internal organs to the skin, 
212; unit of, 216; supply of en- 
ergy for production of, 220 ; as a 
food preservative, 633 

Heat balance, 199 ff . 

Heating foods, 220 

Hemoglobin, 137, 138, 167 

Hepatic artery, 24 (fig.) 

Hepatic vein, 24 (fig.), 26 

Hindbrain, 264 

Hip bones, 19 

Hoarseness, 21 

Hookworm disease, 509 

Hormones, 89 

Horny layer of skin, 185 

Hotels, sanitation of, 647 

House, sanitation, 429 ff . ; construc- 
tion, 432 ; furnishings, 433 ; floors, 
435 ; care of, 435 

Humenis, 19 

Humidity, influence on temperature 
regulation, 200 ; influence on men- 
tal work, 207 

Hunger, 261 

Hygiene, scope and subdivisions of, 
295 ; personal, 297 ; domestic, 429 ; 
public, 467 

Hypermetropia, 248, 260 

Hypnptics, 338 



Ice supply of the house, 459 

Ileocolic sphincter, 128 

Illumination for near work, 251 

Illusions, optical, 254 

Immunity, natural and artificial, 500 

Indigestible material in food, 97 

Indigestion, 114, 132 ff. 

Infantile paralysis, 607 

Infection of foods, 531 

Infectious diseases. See Diseases 

Inflammation, 375 

Influenza, 497-498 

Inhibition, 160, 362 ; in the nervous 

system, 281 ; an active process in 

muscular relaxation, 336 
inhibitory nerves of heart, 160 
Inorganic salts. See Salts 
Insects as carriers of diseases, 612 ff. 
Instep, bones of, 19 
Interdependence of organs, 63 
Internal secretion, 64 
Intestinal juice, 118-121 
Intestinal waste, elimination of, 132 
Intestine, small, 10, 20, 23 (fig.), 25, 

117 ; large, 10, 20, 127 ; action of 

muscular coat of, 122, 128 
Iris, 243, 244 (fig.), 247 (fig.) 
Irritability, 45 

Jugular vein, 23 (fig.) 

Kidneys, 10, 13, 14 (fig.), 28, 26; 

structure of, 181 ff. 
Kilogrammeter, 216 
Koch, Robert, 480, 483 

Labyrinth of ear, 266-288 

Lactic acid, 48, 69 

Large intestine. See Intestine 

Laryngitis, 376 

Larynx, 20 

Lateral costal breathing, 173 

Lateral curvature of spine, 321 

Lens of eye, 243, 247 (fig.) ; forma- 
tion of image by, 244 

Lice as carriers of typhus fever, 
520 

Ligaments, 8, 14, 16, 18 

Lighting of the house, 443 

Linen underwear, 426 

Lipase, 120 

Lipoids, or lipins, 229 

Liver, 10, 21, 23 (fig.), 25, 26, 108 
(fig.>,116ff. 



568 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Lobes and lobules of the lung, 13, 
174; of glands, 29, 30 (fig.) 

Lockjaw, 505 

Locomotion, nervous factors in, 276 

Longevity, 659 

Lumbar vertebrae, 14 

Lungs, 10, 12, 21, 23 (fig.) ; struc- 
ture of, 169 ; apical lobes of, 174, 
308 

Lymph, 38 ; origin of, 38 ; environ- 
ment of cells, 40, 138 ; gases of, 
167 

Lymph flow, function of, 40 ; cause 
of, 150 ; influenced by respira- 
tory movements, 175 ; influenced 
by muscular activity, 301 

Lymph spaces, 38 

Lymphatics, 39, 150 

Malaria; 513 ff. 

Malt liquors, 359 

Massage, 150 

" Master " neurones, 82 

Mastication, 104 ; hygienic aspects 
of, 344 

Mattings, 435 

Measles, 497, 498 

Meat, a protein food, 93, 97 ; as a 
vehicle of infection, 485, 510 

Mediastinum, 11, 20 

Medulla obi ongata. See Bulb 

Mental cures of disease, 340 

Mental states, influence on the health 
of the nervous system, 339 

Mental work and the circulation, 
165; after meals, 168, 848; as 
influenced by climatic conditions, 
207 

Mesentery, 12- 

Meshwork underwear, 426 

Microbes, 475 ff . ; as scavengers, 478 ; 
in decomposition and decay, 478 ; 
as disease germs, 479 ; growth, 
multiplication, and spore forma- 
tion, 479 (fig.) 

Microbic life in the intestine, 130, 
132 

Micromillimeter, or micron, 136 (fig.) 

Microparasites, 471 

Microscopic work and the eyes, 393 

Midbrain, 264 (fig.) 

Milk as a vehicle of infection, 484, 
538,555 

Milk supplies, purity of, 688 ?(,_. > 



Moisture, influence on temperature 
regulation, 197 

Moral conduct as a part of nervous 
hygiene, 339 

Morphine, 370 

Mosquito, as transmitter of malaria, 
513; as transmitter of yellow 
fever, 616 

Motor nerves, 74 

Mouth, hygiene of the, 397 ff . 

Movements, active or passive, effect 
on circulation, 149 ; respiratory. 
See Breathing movements 

Mucin, 44, 127, 397 

Mucous coat of stomach, 108 ; of 
intestine, 117, 128 (fig.) 

Muscle fibers, 34, 35 ; of stomach 
and intestine, 108, 117, 128; of 
arteries and veins, 148 

Muscles, 8, 16 ; antagonistic action 
of, 16-18, 209; structure of, 32; 
physiology of, 47, 55 ; isolated, 
49, 56 ; and temperature regula- 
tion, 209 ; in faulty carriage, 316 ff . 

Muscular activity, effect on circula- 
tion, 149, 154, 158 ; after meals, 
158, 348 ; effect on respiration, 
178 ; and the regulation of the 
temperature of the body, 206, 300, 
384, 427; hygiene of, 297; ministry 
to body as a whole, 297; physi- 
ology of, 298 ; for women, 306 ; 
and fatigue, 309 

Muscular exercises, general charac- 
ter of the most useful, 307 ; for 
special purposes, 314 

Muscular sense, 259 ; relations to 
locomotion 'a'nd maintenance of 
equilibrium, 278-279 

Muscular work, power for, 217 ; 
feeding for, 220 

Myofibrils, 35, 62 

Myopia, 248 

Narcotics, 388. See also Anesthetics 

Nasal cavity, 20, 405 

Near vision, 245, 260, 390 ff. 

Nearsightedness, 248 

Neck, carriage of, 320 

Nerve cells, 72 ff., 268 ff. . 

Nerve, fibers, structure of, 71 ; affer- 
ent and efferent, 75, 76 ; of spinal 
cord and brain, 74, 268 

Nerve rodts, 74 



INDEX 



569 



Nerves t 27 ; distribution to organs, 
. 40 ; structure of, 71 ; cranial, 268 

Nervous strain, 327 ff. 

Nervous system, general anatomy 
of, 27, 71, 263 ; training by prac- 
tice, 88,. 283; physiology of, 69, 
269; and the circulation, 159- 
162 ; and respiration, 175 ; and 
secretion of perspiration, 187 ; and 
regulation of body temperature, 
208 ; and carriage of body, 320 ; 
hygiene of, 327 

Neurones, 76; "master," 82; of 
brain, 268 

Nitrogenous equilibrium, 235 

Noise, 395 

Nose, hygiene of, 405 , . 

Nucleus, 31, 35 

Nutrients, 92 ; classification of, 93 

Nutrition, 216 ff . 

(Esophagus, 10, 12, 20 (fig.) 

Opium, 370 

Optic lobes, 264 

Optic nerve, 28, 243, 247 (fig.) 

Organs, typical structure of, 40 (fig.) 

Overfeeding, 346' 

Overheating of houses, 442 

Oxidation, 50 ff., 91, 165 

Oxygen, r61e of, in cell life, 50 ff., 
165 ; in lymph, 165 ; in blood 
plasma, 165 ff. ; absorbed during 
muscular activity, 178 

Pain, sensations of, 260 ff. ; signs 

of, 281. .*- -..... 
Palate, 20 

Pancreas, anatomical relations, 10", 
20, 25, 29, 108 (fig.), 118 ; the 

source of an internal secretion, 67 
Pancreatic duct, 108; stimulus to 

secretion of, 89 
Pancreatic juice, 111, 119 
Paper in printing, 393 
Papillae of skin, 185 
Parasites, 471 
Parks, 482, 548 
Parotid gland, 29 
Pasteur, Louis, 480 
Pasteurization, 481 
Pelvis, of skeleton, 19 (fig.) ; of 

ureter, 1S2, 183 (fig.) 
Pepsin, 109 
Peptids, 102 



Peptones, 109 

Peristalsis, 125 

Peritoneal cavity, 10, 11, 12 

Peritoneum, 10, 11, 13 

Peritonitis, 11 

Perspective, idea of, 253 

Perspiration, composition of, 181, 
187 ; secretion of, 187 ; sensible 
and insensible, 187 ; and the out- 
put of heat, 194-198 ; in relation 
to feeding, 347 

Pharyngitis, 375 

Pharynx, 20, 185, 256, 403 ff. 

Pituitary body, 67 

Plague, bubonic, 518 

Plagues, 470, 546 

Plasma. See Blood plasma 

Play, 284; 312 

Playgrounds, 548 , 

Pleura, 10, 11 

Pleural cavity, 10, ll ; pressure 
in, 171 

Pleurisy, 11 

Plumbing of the house, 460 

Poliomyelitis, 507 

Pons Varolii, 266 (fig.) 

Portal vein, 23 (fig.), 26, 127 (fig.) 

Position, sense of, 259, 276 ff., 320 ff. 

Posterior, definition of term, 9 

Posture, nervous factors in, 279 ; 
faulty, as a cause of deformity, 316 

Presbyopia, 249 

Preservatives of food, 532 

Pressure in arteries and veins, 144 ff ., 
155 ff . ; in pleural space, 171 

Privy, domestic, ,464 

Processes- of , nerve cells, 72, , ;' 

Proteins, nature of, 93 ;. .chemical 
structure of, 101 ; digestion of, in 
stomach and intestine, 109, 120"; 
in blood plasma, 138 ; influence of, 
on secretion of urine, 183; fuel 
value of, 217 ; as a source of fat, 

- 224 ; of sugar, 226; in living cells, 
229 ff.; daily requirement of, 235 

Proteoses, 109 

Protozoa, 476, 513 

Pseudopodium, 137 

Psychic secretion of gastric juice, 
114, 345 

Ptyalin, 105 

Public health, 467 ff. ; rules and 
regulations, 468 ; authorities, 469 ; 
problems, 469, 560 ff ; . " 



570 



THE HUMAN MECHANISM 



Pulmonary arteries, 22, 24 (fig.), 

25, 167 

Pulmonary circulation, 23, 140 (fig.) 
Pulmonary veins, 21, 22, 23 (tig.), 

24, 169 

Pulp cavity of tooth, 398 
Pupil of eye, 243 
Purposeful character of reflex and 

volitional actions, 70, 79, 271 
Pylorus, 108 (fig.) 

Quarantine, 551, 557 ; in tubercu- 
losis, 486 ; in smallpox, 500 ; in 
diphtheria, 554 

Radiation of heat, 212 

Radius, 19 

Railroad trains, reading on, 393 

Rats as carriers of plague, 519 

Rectum, 128, 185 

Reflexes, 80 ; conditioned and un- 
conditioned, 85 ; of locomotion, 
etc., 276 ; disappearance of, dur- 
ing anesthesia, 280 

Relaxation, muscular, in sl.eep, 336 

Renal arteries, 25, 182 (fig.) 

Repair of cells, 229 ff . 

Reservoirs, arterial and venous, 
142 

Resistance to the flow of blood, 144, 
156 (fig.) 

Respiration, organs of, 21 ; of the 
cells, 165 ; nervous factors in, 175 ; 
and muscular activity, 178, 301, 
308- . 

Respiratory center, 176 

Respiratory movements. See Breath- 
ing movements 

Rest, in relaxation and sleep* 331 ff. ; 
in change of work, 334 

Retina, 243, 247 (fig.), 263 

Rheumatism, 374 ff. 

Rhinitis, 375 

Ribs, 17 ; action in respiration, 172ff. 

Rice, polished, 233 

Rigg's disease, 401 

Rugs, 435 

Sacrum, 14, 19 

Saliva, chemical composition of, 44 ; 
secretion of, 44-47 ; action in di- 
gestion, 104 ff . 

Salivary glands, 21, 29, 44 

galtfc, inorganic?, 44, 96, 232 



Sanitation, scope and subdivisions 
of, 296 ; domestic, 429 ; public, 
467 

Saprophyte, 471 

Sarcolemma, 34 

Sarcostyles. See Myofibrils 

Scapula, 19 

Scarlet fever, 498 

Sclerotic coat, 242 ff . 

Scurvy, 234 

Sebaceous glands, 185 (fig.), 186 

Secondary aids to the circulation, 
147 

Secretin, 89 

Secretion, general physiology of, 
44-47 ; internal, 64 ; of gastric 
juice, 108 ; of pancreatic juice, 
bile, and intestinal juice, 119-122; 
of urine, 182 ; of perspiration, 187 

Segmenting movements of intestine, 
124 

Semicircular canals, 256-258, 259 

Sensations, 240 ff . ; reference of, 240 

Sense organs, 77, 242 

Sense of position, importance of, in 
physical training, 320 

Septum, of gland, 30 ; of muscle, 33 

Sewage, disposal of, 462, 539 

Shivering, 210 

Shoes, 411-414 ; for deformed feet. 
412 ; temperature and moisture 
within, 413 

Shoulder blade, 19 

Shoulder girdle, 19 

Sigmoid flexure, 130 

Sinuses of skull, infections of, 257, 
406 

Skeleton, 14-19 ; c 

Skin, 7 ; structure and functions, 
184 ; care of, 187, 417, 422 ; as an 
organ of absorption, 188 ; regula- 
tor of the output of heat, 208 

Skull, 17 

Sleep, circulation during, 155 ; hy- 
giene of, 331 ff. 

Sleeping sickness, 521 

Smallpox, 499 ; inoculation and vac- 
cination for, 501 

Smell, sensations of, 258 

Soaps, 96, 121 

Sodai water, 357 

Soil an element in house sanitation, 
431 

Solidity, ideas of, 253 



INDEX 



571 



Somnambulism, 274 

Speech, 279 

Spinal column, 14, 17 ; faults of car- 
riage of, 321 

Spinal cord, gross anatomy of, 18, 
27 ; structure of, 73, 264 ; func- 
tions of, 270 

Spirilla, 476 

Spitting nuisance, 497 

Spleen, 10, 25 

Sporozoa, 476 

Springs, 457 

Sputum as a vehicle of tuberculosis, 
484 

Starch, 94, .97 .(fig.) j chemical struc- 
ture of, 101 ; digestion of, 104, 
112, 120. See also Carbohydrates 

Steapsin. See Lipase 

Stegomyia, 517 

Sterilization, 481 ; of food by cook- 
ing, 631 

Sternum. See Breastbone 

Stimulants, 338, 362 ff. 

Stimulation, 45, 79 

Stomach, anatomical relations of, 
10, 20, 25 ; structure of, 107 ff . ; 
digestive work of, 109-116 

Storage of material in the cell, 46, 48 

Stoves, oil and gas, 439 ff . 

Streets, sanitation of, 548 

Submaxillary gland, 29, 44 

Submucous coat of intestine, 117 
(fig.), 128 (fig.) 

Suction action of breathing mover 
ments, 148 

Sugars, 95, 105 ff., 120. See also 
Carbohydrates 

Summer complaint in children, 499 

Sunshine, 432 

Supplies, public, of food, water, and 
gas, 527ff. 

Supporting organs and tissues, 36 

Suprarenal glands. See Adrenal 
glands 

Surface water, 455, 534 

Suspensory ligament of eye, 244 

Sweat glands, structure of, 186 

Synapse, 78, 270 (fig.) 

Systemic circulation, 22 

Systole, 140, 142 (fig.) 

Tannic acid, 356 

Tartar, 400 

Taste sensations, 258 



Tea, 356 ' 

Teeth, 398 

Temperature, external, influence on 
secretion of urine, 183 ; influence 
on chemical change and vital activi- 
ties, 189, 190 ; reactions of body 
to changes of , 201 ; "danger zone" 
of, 205, 202 (fig.), 206 (fig.), 384 ; 
of living rooms, 384, 442, 450 

Temperature of the body, 190 ff. 

Temperature sensations, 193, 258 

Tendon, 8, 33, 34 

Tetanus, 505 

Theine, 356 

Thermal phenomena of the body, 
189 ff. 

Thirst, 261 

Thoracic cavity. See Pleura! cavity 

Throat, hygiene of, 397 ff . 

Thyroid gland, 64 

Tibia, 19 

Tobacco, 371 

Toes, bones of, 19 ; flexion of, in 
hygiene of foot, 408 ff . 

Tone, arterial, 161; of skeletal 
muscle, 209 ff . 

Tonsils, 402 

Touch, 258 

Trachea, 10, 11, 21 

Traveling, hygiene and sanitation of, 
641 ff. 

Trichina, 510 

Trunk movements, 308 

Trypsin,.120-. ... ... -. 

Tuberculosis, 483 ff . 

'Tweenbrain, 264 (fig.) 

Tympanic membrane, 2#5, 268 (fig.) 

Tympanum, 266 

Type, size of, 392 

Typhoid fever, 491 ff. 

Typhus fever, 520 

Ulna, 19 

Underclothing, 424 
Urea, 181 

Ureter, 181, 182 (fig.) 
Uric acid, 181 
Urine, secretion of, 182 
Use and disuse in the training of 
the nervous system, 284 

Vaccination, 502, 551 
Valves, of heart, 21, 141, 144 ; in 
veins j 149 



572 



THE HUMAN -MECHANISM 



Vasoconstrictor nerves, 162 
Vasodilator nerves, 162 
Vasomotor nerves. See Vasoconstric- 
tor nerves and Vasodilator nerves 
Vegetable foods, 97, 113, 344 
Veins, 7, 23, 26, 38, 39, 144 (fig.) ; 

intermittent compression of, in 

muscular activity, 146 
Venaj cavee, 13, 22, 23 (fig.), 24 (fig.), 

26 

Venous reservoir, 142 
Ventilation, 446 ff . ; natural, 447 ; 

mechanical systems of, 463 
Ventral, definition of term, 9 
Ventricles, of heart, 21, 23, 140 ; of 

brain, 264, 265 
Vertebra, 14, 16 

Vertebral column . See Spinal column 
Villus of intestine^ 117 (fig.), 118, 

120 (fig.), 126 (fig,) 
Visual judgments, 253 
Visual sensations, 252 
Vital resistance, 293 
Vitamines, 232 

Vitreous humor, 243, 247 (fig.) 
Volitional actions, or movements, 

81, 276, 279 

Walking as a means of exercise, 313, 
v 416. See Locomotion 
Wandering cells, 137 
Warm weather, circulation in, 152 ; 

and feeding, 168 
Warm-blooded animals, 191 



Warming of the House, 438 ff. ; by 
open fire, 438 ; by stoves, 439 ; by 
hot-air furnaces, 439 ; by steam 
and hot water, 441 

Warmth, sensations of, 258 

Waste products, 48, 58, 63; excre- 
tion of, 180 

Water, as a food, 96 ; and the secre- 
tion of urine, 183 ; use as a drink, 
349 

Water supply, of the house, 455 ; 
purity of public, 634, 645 

Waters, hard and soft, 468 

Wells, 456 

White matter of spinal cord and 
brain, 74 

Whooping cough, 497 , - 

Will, 81, 279 

Wind and temperature regulation, 

-. 200 . 

Wines, 360 

Winking, muscular and nervous 
mechanism of, 69 

Woolen underwear, 425 

Work, unit of, 216 

Wort, 359 

Wounds, care of, 608 

Wrist, bones of, 19 

Writing, 279 

Yeast, 358 
Yellow fever, 516 

Zymogen^ 46 



ANNOUNCEMENTS 



BOOKS ON FOOD PROBLEMS 

A STUDY OF FOODS 

By RUTH A. WARDALL, State University of Iowa, and EDNA N. WHITE, 
Ohio State University. 

THIS book discusses food materials and their nutritive value and 
cost, and outlines laboratory exercises in food preparation to follow 
each discussion. While the book was prepared primarily for a text- 
book in domestic science, it is nevertheless very suitable for general 
use and will be of further value in correlation with courses in chemistry, 
physiology, and physics. Each subject is developed as a unit with no 
effort to divide it into separate lessons, the nutrients, or food principles, 
forming the basis of the work. 174 pages, illustrated, 84 cents. 

THE PRACTICAL COOKBOOK 

By MARGARET W. HOWARD, High School of Practical Arts, Boston. 
A BOOK for class use which presents in simple form a large number 
of tested and economical recipes arranged in such a manner as to show 
their relation to one another and to the whole question of well-balanced 
meals. The book also discusses in nontechnical manner the classifi- 
cation, selection, and combination of foods, and contains a number of 
well-planned model menus and, for purposes of contrast, several poorly 
balanced ones which contain an excess of certain food principles. Pro- 
vision is made for accurately computing costs. 152 pages, 72 cents. 

FOOD WHAT IT IS AND DOES 

By EDITH GREER. 

" Food What It Is and Does " provides a thorough treatment of 
foods, scientifically authoritative and yet readily understood by those 
without scientific training. The subject is developed progressively, 
opening with a general discussion of foods, becoming more detailed 
in description and instruction, and concluding with practical directions 
for food selection, dietetics, and household hygiene as manifested in 
the care of food. The wealth of information contained makes it valu- 
able for reference purposes. 251 pages, illustrated, $1.20. 

1673. 

GINN AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS 



CIVIC BIOLOGY 

A TEXTBOOK OF PROBLEMS, LOCAL AND NATIONAL, 

THAT CAN BE SOLVED ONLY BY 

CIVIC COOPERATION 

By CLIFTON F. HODGE, Professor of Social Biology, the University of Oregon, 

and JEAN DAWSON, Department of Sanitation, 

Board of Health, Cleveland 



izmo, cloth, 381 pages, illustrated, $1.60 



"THAT we may know enough to work together 'Ms the motto 
of this new > high-school course: - -Oiir civic life is profoundly 
affected, either for good or for evil, by various biological forces. 
The purpose of " Civic Biology " is to instruct the student in 
the nature of these forces, so that he may know how to suppress 
the injurious and to support the beneficial. 

It has been estimated that biological damage and loss cost us 
each year about $6,000,000,000. This is too much at any time. 
Just at present, when we are preparing to strain our national 
resources to the uttermost, if need be, to meet the emergencies 
of war, such wastage, if it can be prevented, is criminal. " Civic 
Biology "shows how it can be prevented, provided we are will- 
ing to bend our united wills to the task. 

The following typical chapter titles better disclose the aim of 
the book: Practical Biology of Agricultural Production and 
Civic Utilization of Land ; Special Problems of Insect Control ; 
The Rat Problem ; Control of Bacterial Diseases. These topics 
are discussed in the straightforword, ' logical manner suited to 
the grades for which the course is intended. There is not a 
dull page in the book, and the many illustrations form an 
interesting study in themselves. 

i66a 

GINN AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS 



TEXTBOOKS IN BIOLOGY 

FOR HIGH SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES 

BOTANY 

IBergen : Botanies (For list see High-School and College Catalogue) 

Bergen and Caldwell : Introduction to Botany 

With Key and Flora $1.64 

Without Key and Flora 1.36 

Bergen and Caldwell : Practical Botany . . . . . . . 1.52 

Clute: Agronomy .1.20 

Clute: Laboratory Botany .92 

Clute : Laboratory Manual and Notebook in Botany . . . .66 

Duggar : Fungous Diseases of Plants . ... - 2 -6 

Frye and Rigg: Laboratory Exercises in Elementary Botany .72 
Meier: Herbarium and Plant Description . ... ... .72 

Meier : Plant Study (Revised Edition) ........ ,92 

Penhallow: Manual of North American Gymnosperms . . 4.50 

Pepoon: Representative Plants 72 

Roth : First Book of Forestry . .92 

BACTERIOLOGY 

Conn : Bacteria, Yeasts, and Molds in the Home (Revised Edition) i .20 
Moore: Laboratory Directions for Beginners in Bacteriology 1.25 
Reed : Manual of Bacteriology i .40 

ZOOLOGY 

Linville and Kelly : Laboratory and Field Work in Zoology . .48 

Linville and Kelly : Textbook in General Zoology . . . . 1.64 

Meier: Animal Study . . . . .90 

Pratt: Course in Invertebrate Zoology (Revised Edition) , , 1.40 

Pratt: Course in Vertebrate Zoology ... 1.75 

Sanderson and Jackson : Elementary Entomology . .... 2.40 

PHYSIOLOGY 

Blaisdell: Life and Health .... . . 1.12 

Blaisdell: Practical Physiology . .'. \ 1.32 

Brown: Physiology for the Laboratory . . .92 

Hough and Sedgwick : The Human Mechanism . . ' -.\ . 2.00 

Volume I .... $1.40, Volume II . . .... 1.36 

Jewett: The Next Generation . . . . . . .... .90 

146 a 

GINN AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS 



BOOKS FOR TEACHERS 



Allen: Civics and Health . . . .'..;. . < . . . . $1.50 

Bloomfield: Readings in Vocational Guidance . . ... . . 2.60 

Brigham : Geographic Influences in American History ... . 1.48 

Curtis: Play and Recreation for the Open Country 1.32 

Davis: Vocational and Moral Guidance < ->. . . 1.48 

Finlay-Johnson : The Dramatic Method of Teaching . . ,. . 1.20 

Gesell : The Normal Child and Primary Education 1.48 

Hall: Aspects of Child Life and Education 1.64 

Hodge: Nature Study and Life .1.60 

Johnson: Education by Plays and Games 1.12 

Johnson : What to do at Recess 32 

Jones : Education as Growth ' . ..... . 1.40 

Judd : Psychology of High- School Subjects 1.80 

Judd: Scientific Study of Education 1. 80 

Kastman and Kohler : Swedish Song Games 80 

Kern: Among Country Schools 1.40 

Leavitt: Examples of Industrial Education ........ 1.32 

Leiper: Language Work in Elementary Schools 1.40 

Lincoln : Everyday Pedagogy 1 .20 

Moore : Fifty Years of American Education 80 

Moore: What is Education? 1.40 

Moral Training in the Public Schools 1.48 

Palmer : Play Life in the First Eight Years . i .40 

Parker: History of Modern Elementary Education 1.80 

Parker : Methods of Teaching in High Schools 1.80 

Phillips: An Elementary Psychology 1.36 

Prince : Courses of Studies and Methods of Teaching 92 

Read: An Introductory Psychology 1.25 

Sargent : Fine and Industrial Arts in Elementary Schools . . .90 

Sargent and Miller : How Children Learn to Draw i.oo 

Scott: Social Education 1.40 

Smith: The Teaching of Arithmetic 1.20 

Tompkins : Philosophy of School Management i.oo 

Tompkins : Philosophy of Teaching i.oo 

Williams: Gardens and their Meaning 1.20 

196 

GINN AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS 



m 



00 
CO 



i O 

*4 "2 



o 

10 



O! 

di 

O: 





*i i 



Oi 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



