


NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736270 9 






.*" 

j. 



N- 





Courtesy of "The Ladies' Home Journal " 



SALADS, SANDWICHES 

AND 

CHAFING DISH RECIPES 





BY 

MARION HARRIS NEIL, M.C.A. 

FORMER COOKERY EDITOR, THE LADIES' HOME JOURNAL, AUTHOR OF " HOW TO 
COOK IN CASSEROLE DISHES," "CANDIES AND BONBONS AND HOW TO 
MAKE THEM," " CANNING, PRESERVING AND PICKLING," AND 
" THE SOMETHING-DIFFERENT DISH " 



. 



- 



PHILADELPHIA 

DAVID McKAY, PUBLISHER 

604-608 SOUTH WASHINGTON SQUARE 



' T'" 1 r 

i . 



-> 

i 



739253 



AS^or ' < 

TILD-N FOl '.CA. IONS 
R 10 6 L 



COPYRIGHT, 1916, BY 
DAVID McKAY 



I c C t 



. 
i 



e* c ' t e e c 



TO MY MOTHER 

THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED 
BY THE AUTHOR 






<<C ( 

* ft 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 

CHAFING DISH RECIPES 17 

SANDWICH RECIPES 76 

SALADS, GENERAL INFORMATION 137 

SALAD ACCESSORIES 146 

How TO PREPARE -149 

DRESSINGS . . . , 151 

SALADS 174 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING 
PAGE 

MAKING FRUIT SALAD Frontispiece 

HAM A LA COUNTRY CLUB 41 

A SWEET OMELET 62 

BEEF SANDWICHES 79 

AN EXCELLENT LAYER SANDWICH 79 

LADY MARY SAND WICHES 103 

MY FAVORITE SANDWICHES no 

NANTUCKET SANDWICHES no 

UTENSILS FOR SALAD MAKING 117 

CHICKEN AND CRANBERRY SANDWICHES 131 

TUTTI-FRUTTI SANDWICHES 131 

BLUE BIRD SALAD 180 

CRAB MEAT WITH EGGS 192 

MACARONI SALAD 216 

PARK LANE SALAD , 216 

TUNA FISH SALAD 245 



PREFACE 



It might seem to a superficial observer that there 
are cookery books in abundance already before the 
public, but I do not think an apology is needed for 
the publication of a reliable book on Salads, Sand- 
wiches and Chafing Dish recipes, at this time. 

Encouraged by the popularity of my other cookery 
books, I have been persuaded to produce this present 
volume, and I confidently believe that it will be found 
a useful manual in the hands of the experienced as 
well as the young housekeeper. 

The tested recipes I offer here are the results of 
careful selection from a collection made during a pe- 
riod of twenty years, and I have been explicit in my 
directions, even at the risk of repeating them more 
than once. I hope the feature of the illustrations 
will render the book of special service to many house- 
wives. 

MARION HARRIS NEIL 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

11 A morsel for a monarch" 



The chafing dish, which within the last few years 
has been so much favored, is by no means a utensil of 
modern invention, as many chafing dishes have been 
found in the ruins of Pompeii. 

A chafing dish is mentioned in a book termed ' : The 
French Cook' published in London in 1653. This 
utensil was used in the time of Louis XIV. The sup- 
pers and entertainments of this monarch were in ac- 
cord with the magnificence of his court, and he was 
exacting as to the renown of his table. His motto 
was "One eats well who works well." In the days of 
Madame de Stael and Madame Recamier the chafing 
dish was popular and played an important part in 
their entertainments. 

The modern chafing dish consists of a stand in 
which is set a broad, shallow saucepan with a handle 
called a blazer. Fixed in the stand beneath this is a 
lamp with a generous hardworking flame which does 
not merely keep warm the contents of the pan above 
but cooks it with speed and thoroughness. In addi- 
tion to the saucepan there is another outer pan, a 

13 



14 Chafing Dish Recipes 

little larger, into which it fits. This is intended to 
act as a hot water jacket and to be kept filled with 
boiling water when cooking anything of a nature to 
burn easily, or if it is merely desired to keep the con- 
tents warm. Some of the newest and most success- 
ful chafing dishes consist of wrought copper stands with 
dishes of earthenware, others again are to be obtained 
with dishes of the same sort held in brass or copper of 
less cost. Copper and nickel are made into suffi- 
ciently attractive shapes to be desirable on any table, 
and if the pocketbook allows of entering upon the 
realm of silver and silver plate, there are to be found 
designs of infinite charm and variety. There is, in 
fact, to be found a chafing dish adapted to any need, 
and its usefulness is beyond dispute. Every house- 
hold should own a chafing dish, as it will be found 
especially useful for the late supper, the cook's day 
out, the hasty breakfast, the impromptu luncheon, the 
Sunday evening tea, the hot day dinner, the picnic, 
and the motoring tour. 

And nowhere does it do better service than in the 
sick room, where small quantities, quickly prepared 
and served hot, will often tempt the invalid's appetite. 

The most characteristic and novel feature about 
chafing dish cookery is that the cooking process is 
carried out directly upon the dining table and in full 
view of the expectant diners. This is what lends 
fascination to the process. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 15 

The chafing dish is often made the excuse for dainty, 
luxurious suppers, for merry little after- theater parties, 
and for all sorts of convivial meetings among friends. 

There is something wonderfully seductive about the 
shining little dish as it glistens among the damask 
and crystal and flowers under the soft glow of the rosy, 
shaded candles at the supper party. 

It appears the very incarnation of good cheer and 
jollity with the blaze curling up on the bright silver, 
and the delicate, savory odor arising as one of the 
party skilfully concocts some toothsome delicacy 
suited to the festive occasion. 

The officiating person, it should be mentioned, is 
by no means invariably a lady, for many of the most 
skilled chafing dish cooks belong to the sex which 
usually confines its culinary efforts to criticism. 
Most people will agree that this is at least a step in 
the right direction. It must needs be a regretful 
confession to make; but when men do cook, they cook 
well, and the chafing dish cook is no exception. To 
descend to the practical side of chafing dish cookery, 
almost anything can, roughly speaking, be cooked in 
it; but those articles which do not require over long 
in the cooking, and which do not require to be sub- 
jected to a fierce heat, are most suitable: things, for 
instance, such as omelets, eggs, cheese savories, bacon, 
kidneys, sausages, rechauffes of all sorts, bananas, 
tomatoes, all kinds of foods which have already been 



16 Chafing Dish Recipes 

once cooked, such as cooked fish and poultry, and so 
on. The Welsh Rabbit is a standard favorite at sup- 
per parties. All kinds of shell fish, especially the 
oyster, the lobster, the crab and the shrimp are very 
popular as inmates of the chafing dish, and the sweet- 
bread and the mushroom are very frequently to be 
met with. Everything cooked at the table should be 
served directly from the chafing dish to individual hot 
dishes. 

With two or three chafing dishes a very creditable 
repast may be served. Alcohol, electricity or gas 
may be employed as the fuel, but the former is gen- 
erally used. Denatured alcohol is best, as it gives 
greater heat and burns longer than wood alcohol. 
Do not burn cheap or diluted alcohol. The electric 
chafing dish is one of the best expressions of modern 
household luxury and it is always ready for use. 

Wooden spoons are excellent to use as they do not 
become hot, are noiseless, and do not scratch the pans. 

See that the lamp is full before lighting. The lamp 
can be adjusted to give a moderate or quick heat. 

In preparing to use a chafing dish at table, be sure 
that all ingredients, seasonings, etc., are at hand, 
that no time may be wasted when the lamp is lighted. 

The butter, which usually appears in the recipes in 
fairly generous quantities, should be in squares, rolls 
or little balls, and all the other ingredients daintily 
placed forth in pitchers or plates. Always have a 



Chafing Dish Recipes 17 

tray under the chafing dish in case water or alcohol 
overflows. 

There is no utensil that is so capable of witchcraft 
in cooking as the ordinary kind of chafing dish, cost- 
ing little to buy, and only a trifle for fuel. It will 
grill the humble slice of bacon, or it will reanimate 
the joint of a bygone dinner; it will broil the little 
cutlet, and it will cook cheese or the homely but ever 
welcome egg in literally a hundred ways, and produce 
all sorts of practical dishes. Indeed as a matter of 
fact it is an object of the greatest utility in the menage. 

APPLE RINGS 

4 large firm apples i tablespoonful lemon- juice 

y 2 Ib. (i cup) sugar Lady-fingers 

i gill (y 2 cup) water Whipped cream 



Peel, core, and cut the apples in thick rings; boil 
the sugar, water, and lemon- juice until the syrup 
threads; lay in the rings and cook slowly until they 
are transparent; cool and serve in a glass dish with 
lady-fingers and whipped and sweetened cream. 

ASPARAGUS IN ROLLS 

i^ pint (i cup) milk i tablespoonful flour 

Rolls Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

2 beaten eggs taste 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) but- i can asparagus 
ter 

2 



1 8 Chafing Dish Recipes 

Cut off the tops of as many rolls as required, take 
out all the soft inside, and lay the rolls with their tops 
to crisp in the oven. Heat the milk in the chafing 
dish, add the beaten eggs, seasonings, butter, flour, 
and asparagus cut fine. Stir until the mixture thickens, 
put it in the shells of the rolls, place their tops on, 
and serve hot. 

BANANA COMPOTE 

8 bananas i lemon 

y Ib. ( l /2 cup) sugar 2 tablespoonfuls chopped nut 

4 tablespoonfuls water meats 

Peel the bananas and with a silver knife cut them 
into slices one inch in thickness. Place these in the 
chafing dish with the grated rind and strained juice 
of the lemon; just allow them to boil up, then lift out 
the fruit and place it in a glass dish. Now boil su- 
gar and water for three minutes, then pour over the 
fruit. Sprinkle over the nut meats and serve. 

BARBECUED HAM 

4 slices ham % teaspoonful paprika 

i teaspoonful sugar 6 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

i teaspoonful French mustard 

Fry the slices of ham in the blazer, and when 
cooked, put them on a hot platter. Add to the fat in 
the pan the sugar, mustard, paprika, and vinegar. 
Stir until smoking hot and pour over the ham. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 19 

BLANQUETTE OF TURKEY 

i pint (2 cups) cooked tur- i teaspoonful lemon- juice 

key breast % teaspoonful salt 

i^ ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) ^4 teaspoonful paprika 

butter y& teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

i tablespoonful flour 3^ teaspoonful onion-juice 

i. l /t gills (y cup) white stock 2 egg-yolks 

i gill (y cup) thick cream 

Heat the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish, 
stir in the flour, and cook for two minutes. Add the 
stock, cream, and the seasonings. Reduce the flame 
and simmer for four minutes, then add the turkey cut 
in small pieces, and cook for five minutes more. Stir 
in the yolks of eggs, well beaten, and serve at once on 
hot plates. 



BREADED TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Cold boiled tongue i can tomatoes 

i egg i onion slice . 

Salt and pepper to taste 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 teaspoonful sugar i teaspoonful chopped parsley 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) % teaspoonful paprika 
butter 

Cut the tongue in slices, season with salt and pepper, 
dip in the egg, well beaten, and fry in hot fat. Melt 
the butter in the blazer, add the flour, and when well 
blended add the tomatoes, the onion, sugar, and season- 



2O Chafing Dish Recipes 

ings. Cook for eight minutes, then strain and serve 
with the tongue. 

BROWNED FISH HASH 

% lb. (i cup) cooked white 2 tablespoonfuls chopped 
fish cooked beets 

% lb. (i cup) cooked diced i tablespoonful bacon fat 

potatoes 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) butter 

i tablespoonful chopped Watercress 

parsley Lemon quarters 

i teaspoonful lemon juice 

Mix the potatoes with the fish, add the beets, 
seasonings, butter, melted, and parsley. Melt the 
fat in the blazer, add the hash, and turn it quickly until 
it is heated through ; then form it into an oval mound 
and allow it to brown on the under side. Serve in- 
verted on a hot platter, garnished with watercress 
and quarters of lemon. 

CALF'S BRAINS WITH MUSHROOMS 

i set calf's brains i gill (y^ cup) Madeira wine 

4 ozs. (^4 cup) butter 6 chopped mushrooms 

% lb. (i cup) flour 2 egg-yolks 

$4 pint (i cup) stock ^4 lemon 

Melt the butter in the blazer, stir in the flour, and 
when smooth add the stock, taking care to stir all the 
time, then add the wine, mushrooms, and the brains. 
Let cook for thirty minutes and then remove the 



Chafing Dish Recipes 21 

brains to a hot dish; into the sauce put the beaten 
yolks of eggs and the strained lemon-juice. Pour 
the sauce over the brains before sending to table. 



CALF'S LIVER A LA MINUTE 

6 thin slices calf's liver i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) lard 

X teaspoonful salt i teaspoonful chopped parsley 

Y^ teaspoonful white pepper ]4 lemon 

}4 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour 

Mix the flour with the seasonings and dip the slices 
of liver into these. Melt the lard in the blazer, place 
in the liver, and fry for one and one-half minutes on 
each side. Lift out on a hot dish, sprinkle with the 
parsley, squeeze over the lemon-juice, and serve. 

CARROTS WITH PEAS 

3 large carrots i tablespoonful chopped mint 

i can peas leaves 

y^ Ib. (y cup) butter Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

y^ Ib. ($4 cup) sugar taste 



Scrape the carrots and cut them into one-fourth 
inch slices; then cut them into fancy shapes, and cook 
for fifteen minutes in boiling salted water. Drain 
and put them into the chafing dish with the butter, 
sugar, and mint. Cook slowly until soft and glazed. 
Drain the peas and cook them in boiling water for 
eight minutes; drain and season with a little butter, 



22 Chafing Dish Recipes 

salt, pepper, and paprika. Pour them into a hot 
vegetable dish, surround with the carrots, and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER HONGROISE 

i boiled cauliflower i gill (yZ cup) vinegar 

1^2 teaspoonfuls mustard 3 egg-yolks 

1^4 teaspoonfuls salt X gill (/4 CU P) li ve il 

i teaspoonful powdered sugar i teaspoonful chopped parsley 

i^ teaspoonfuls paprika i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

Separate the cauliflower in small pieces. Beat the 
yolks of eggs, add the oil, vinegar, and seasonings, 
pour into the chafing dish, add the cauliflower, and 
cook over hot water until the mixture thickens. Take 
from the flame and add the butter, melted and mixed 
with the parsley. Serve very hot in hot ramequins. 

"CELERIED OYSTERS 

12 large oysters i wineglassful sherry wine 

i tablespoonful chopped ^4 oz. (1^2 tablespoonfuls) 

celery butter 

Salt and pepper to taste Squares of buttered toast 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the oysters 
and celery, cook for three minutes, add the seasonings 
and wine, and serve very hot on the toast. 

CELERY TOAST 

i head celery i pint (2 cups) milk 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter Buttered toast 

1^2 tablespoonfuls flour Salt and pepper to taste 



Chafing Dish Recipes 23 

Clean the celery, cut it into small pieces, and boil 
it in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and 
add the milk, the butter creamed with the flour, and 
the seasonings. Cook for five minutes and pour over 
buttered toast. 

'CHEESE DREAMS 

Cheese Tomato or mushroom catchup 

Buttered bread Butter 

Cut eight thin slices of white bread, remove the 
crusts and spread with butter. Place thick slices of 
cheese between the bread and fry in plenty of hot 
butter in the chafing dish. Serve hot with tomato or 
mushroom catchup. 



CHICKEN A LA KING NO. i 

i*4 pints (3 cups) cooked % teaspoonful onion-juice 

chicken i tablespoonful lemon-juice 

X green pepper Yz teaspoonful paprika 

^ pint (i cup) mushrooms Butter 

>oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour Pinch grated nutmeg 

2 truffles, sliced Triangles of toast or puff paste 

X teaspoonful salt 3 egg-yolks 
i pint (2 cups) cream 

Chop the pepper and peel and break the mush- 
rooms in pieces. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter 
in the chafing dish, add the flour, truffles, salt, mush- 
rooms, and pepper and cook for four minutes. Add 



24 Chafing Dish Recipes 

the cream gradually and stir until the sauce boils. 
Set the blazer over hot water, add chicken cut in 
cubes, then cover and let stand to become thoroughly 
hot. 

Cream one-fourth cupful of butter, beat in yolks 
of eggs, add the seasonings, and blend with the 
chicken mixture. Make very hot and serve with 
triangles of toast or puff pastry. 



' CHICKEN A LA KING NO. 2 

2 cold boiled chickens 6 mushrooms 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 2 teaspoonfuls capers 

butter YZ pint (i cup) cream 

Salt and red pepper to taste 3 egg-yolks 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped i gill (y cup) sherry wine 

pimientoes (canned red Slices of buttered toast or 

peppers) patty cases 

2 tablespoonfuls shredded i truffle 

boiled ham 

Cut the breasts of the chickens into small pieces 
two inches square and saute in the butter seasoned 
with salt and red pepper. Add capers, pimientoes, 
ham, mushrooms cut in slices, and yolks of eggs beaten 
with the cream. Bring slowly to boiling-point, then 
add the wine, stir quickly, and serve on the toast or 
in hot patty cases decorated with the truffle cut in 
diamonds. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 25 

CHICKEN A LA NEWBURG 

1 pint (2 cups) cold diced 2 hard cooked egg-yolks 
chicken "%. giU (/4 cup) sherry wine 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 2 tablespoonfuls milk 
butter Salt and red pepper to taste 

i tablespoonful flour Strips of buttered toast 

^2 pint (i cup) cream 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
and when blended add the cream and cook over hot 
water. Add the chicken, yolks of eggs mashed to a 
paste with the milk, and seasonings. When hot, stir 
in the wine and serve with the toast. 



CHICKEN LIVERS WITH OYSTERS 

Chicken livers 12 oysters 

^2 oz. (i tablespoonful) Buttered toast 

butter ^2 pint (i cup) stock 

i tablespoonful flour Kitchen Bouquet 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Get the livers from three good-sized fowls, parboil 
them, and cut them into pieces. Melt the butter in 
the chafing dish, add the flour, and, when blended, add 
the livers and heat well; now add seasonings, the 
stock, or water in which the livers were cooked, 
seasoned with a little Kitchen Bouquet, and the 
oysters. Cover and simmer for five minutes; serve 
hot on toast. 



26 Chafing Dish Recipes 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN 

Cold cooked chicken Mustard and red pepper to 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) taste 

butter Powdered mace to taste 

^2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) ^ pint (i cup) cream 

flour 2 wineglassfuls sherry wine 

3 hard-cooked egg-yolks 3 tablespoonfuls chicken stock 
i teaspoonful salt Fried croutons of bread 

Cut the chicken into small pieces, being careful to 
reject every particle of skin and bone. Melt the 
butter in the blazer, add the flour, yolks of eggs 
rubbed through a sieve, chicken, seasonings, chicken 
stock, and the cream. Stir and cook for five minutes, 
then add the sherry wine and serve hot with fried 
croutons of bread. 

CHICKEN WIGGLE 

i can or some cold cooked Salt, pepper and paprika to 

chicken taste 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) i pint (2 cups) milk 

butter i can peas 

^2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour Buttered graham bread 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
and blend well, then add the milk and stir and cook 
for five minutes. Add the chicken cut into small 
pieces, the drained peas, and the seasonings. Make 
very hot and serve with slices of buttered Graham 
bread. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 



27 



CHICKEN WITH CHEESE 



i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) but- 
ter 

4 ozs. (i cup) grated cheese 

i*4 pints (2>^ cups) milk 

3 eggs 

y? pint (i cup) cooked diced 
chicken 



y^ pint (y cup) chopped 
pimientoes (canned red 
peppers) 

y^ pint (y cup) chopped 
cooked mushrooms 

i chopped green pepper 

y$ teaspoonful paprika 

^2 teaspoonful salt 

Toasted bread 



Melt the butter in the blazer, add the cheese, being 
careful not to overcook, add the eggs well beaten, and 
the milk, and when the mixture begins to thicken add 
the chicken, pimientoes, green pepper, mushrooms, 
and seasonings. Make very hot and serve on slices 
of toast. 



CHICKEN WITH PEPPERS 



1 pint (2 cups) diced cooked 

chicken 

2 green peppers 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 
butter 



y4. pint (i cup) chicken stock 
y4. pint (i cup) cream 
y? teaspoonful salt 
y^ teaspoonful pepper 
y^ teaspoonful celery salt 
^ oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour Rounds of toast 

Remove the seeds from the peppers, boil them for 
ten minutes in boiling salted water then drain; chop, 
and add to the chicken. Melt the butter in the chafing 
dish, add the flour, and cook for a minute; then add 



28 Chafing Dish Recipes 

the chicken stock, seasonings, and cream. Stir un- 
ceasingly until the mixture is well blended and boils 
for five minutes. Add the chicken and peppers and 
let stand until thoroughly heated, stirring occasionally. 
Serve hot on rounds of toast. 



CLAMS, HUDSON STYLE 

3 pints clams Salt, black pepper, and pap- 
i lemon rika to taste 

4 ozs. (yZ cup) butter Fried or toasted bread 



Clean the clams, and cut off the hard black parts. 
Cook them in their own liquor until they are quite 
tender, then drain them. Put them into the chafing 
dish with the butter, strained lemon-juice, and season- 
ings and cook until very hot. Serve on rounds of 
fried or toasted bread. 

CORN OYSTERS 

1 can corn % teaspoonful paprika 

2 eggs i oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) flour 
i teaspoonful salt i tablespoonful butter, melted 
y teaspoonful pepper Hot fat 

Beat the eggs separately, add to the yolks, the corn, 
seasonings, butter, and flour, then mix well and fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 

Drop the mixture by tablespoonfuls into hot fat 
and fry and drain. Serve hot. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 29 



CRABS A LA CREOLE 

4 soft-shelled crabs >^ pint (i cup) strained to- 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) mato juice 

butter i gill (y cup) chicken broth 

i small onion or stock 

i small chopped pimiento ^ teaspoonful celery salt 

(canned red pepper) Toast 

Clean the crabs and cut them in halves. Melt the 
butter in the hot-water pan, add onion and pimiento, 
chopped fine. Stir while frying, and add the tomato 
juice, chicken broth, celery salt, and the crabs. Sim- 
mer for seven minutes and serve on toasted bread. 



CRAB FLAKES WITH RED PEPPERS 

5 hard-cooked eggs >^ pint (i cup) cooked crab 

2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs meat 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped y^ teaspoonful salt 
pimientoes (canned red ^ teaspoonful powdered nut- 
peppers) meg 

2 ozs., (4 tablespoonfuls) X teaspoonful paprika 

butter i teaspoonful lemon-juice 

% pint (i cup) cream 

Shell the eggs, chop the whites, and mash the yolks. 
Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the eggs, 
breadcrumbs, peppers, cream, crab meat, and when 
hot add the seasonings. Make very hot and serve at 
once in hot ramequins. 



30 Chafing Dish Recipes 

CRAB MEAT SANDFORD 

i pint (2 cups) crab meat 2 tomatoes 

i garlic clove ^ pint (i cup) white wine 

i small onion 4 tablespoonfuls tomato 

1 green pepper sauce 

6 mushrooms Salt and paprika to taste 

3 tablespoonfuls olive oil Timbale cases 

Chop the onion and cut the garlic, pepper, and mush- 
rooms into very thin slices. Heat the oil in the blazer 
and fry the onion, garlic, pepper, and mushrooms for 
eight minutes without browning them; add the 
tomatoes peeled and cut in small pieces; cook for 
eight minutes, add the wine, and simmer for five 
minutes. Now add seasonings, crab meat, and tomato 
sauce, and bring to boiling-point. Serve hot in hot 
timbale cases. 

CRAB MEAT WITH EGGS 

2 large cooked crabs i pint (2 cups) milk or cream 

4 hard-cooked eggs ~%. teaspoonful made mustard 
i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) but- Salt and paprika to taste 

ter i^" gills (2/4 cup) sherry wine 

i oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) flour Toasted bread 

Break the meat of the crabs into large pieces. 
Blend the butter and flour in the blazer over hot 
water, add the sieved yolks of eggs, and the milk or 
cream; cook and stir for ten minutes, then add the 
seasonings, whites of the eggs chopped fine, the sherry 



Chafing Dish Recipes 31 

wine and the crab meat. Make very hot and serve 
on toast. Canned crab meat may be used. 



CREAMED BEEF 

i lb. round steak Salt and pepper to taste 

}/2 oz. (i tablespoonful) }4 pint (i cup) cream or milk 

butter Hot buttered toast 
i tablespoonful flour 

Run the meat through a food-chopper. Heat the 
blazer, put in the meat, and turn it quickly with a fork 
until it is all seared. Add the butter, flour, and 
seasonings, and when well mixed and browned add the 
milk. Simmer for ten minutes and serve on the hot 
toast. 

CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE 

1 lb. finnan haddie i tablespoonful grated cheese 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) i tablespoonful cold water 
butter ^4 teaspoonful paprika 

i tablespoonful flour i egg-yolk 

% pint (i cup) milk Squares hot toast 

Remove skin and bones from fish and pick it into 
small pieces. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, 
add the fish, and allow it to cook for a few minutes; 
then add the milk, and when this is hot, stir in the 
flour mixed with the cold water. Stir constantly 
until boiling; then add the cheese and seasoning, 
and when the cheese is melted, the yolk of egg. Serve 



32 Chafing Dish Recipes 

immediately on the toast. If liked, one hard-cooked 
egg, chopped fine, may be added. 

Or soak a finnan haddie in a mixture of milk and 
water until it can be separated easily into edible 
pieces. Cover the pieces with a rich cream sauce and 
simmer until tender. Season nicely and serve very 
hot. 

CREAMED HALIBUT 

1 pint (2 cups) boiled, i pint (2 cups) milk 
flaked halibut 3 hard-cooked egg-yolks 

2 ozs. (y cup) butter i tablespoonful anchovy es- 
2^2 tablespoonfuls flour sence 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the flour, 
and stir until well blended; then pour on gradually, 
while stirring constantly, the milk. Bring to boiling- 
point and let simmer for two minutes. Mash the 
yolks of eggs and mix them with the anchovy essence. 
Add to the sauce; and then add the fish; season to 
taste, and serve hot. 

CREAMED SHAD-ROES 

2 shad-roes 2 egg-yolks 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) i lemon 

butter Salt, pepper, and paprika to 
i teaspoonf ul chopped onion taste 

^2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Buttered toast 

flour Parsley 

}4 pint (i cup) cream Small tomatoes 



Chafing Dish Recipes 33 

Parboil the roes in slightly acidulated water for 
twenty minutes. Remove the membrane and mash. 
Melt the butter in the blazer, add the onion, and 
cook for five minutes; add the roe and sprinkle the 
flour over it. Add the cream and cook slowly for 
five minutes; then add the yolks of eggs, well beaten, 
and strained juice of the lemon, and season highly with 
salt, pepper, and paprika. Spread on thin buttered 
toast and garnish with parsley and small tomatoes. 



CURRIED CHICKEN 

i tablespoonful chopped i teaspoonful chopped red 

onion peppers 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) ^ Ib. (i cup) diced cooked 

butter chicken 

i tablespoonful flour i teaspoonful lemon-juice 

i teaspoonful curry powder ^ P^t (i cup) milk 

}/2 teaspoonful salt Squares of hot toast 

Melt the butter in the blazer, stir in the onion, and 
cook until browned ; then add flour and curry powder 
moistened with the milk. Stir and cook until thick, 
add the chicken and the peppers, place over hot water, 
and cook for five minutes. Season with the salt and 
lemon-juice and serve on the toast. 



34 Chafing Dish Recipes 



CURRIED MEAT 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Left-over meat 

butter or drippings ^ teaspoonful salt 

i teaspoonful corn-starch ^ lemon 

i teaspoonful curry powder ^ pint (1^2 cups) stock or 

i teaspoonful curry paste water 

i teaspoonful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls chopped co- 

i small onion coanut 

i tart apple i pint (2 cups) boiled rice 

Cut some left-over meat in neat pieces and slice 
the onion and apple thin. Melt the butter or drip- 
pings in the chafing dish, add the corn-starch, curry 
powder and paste, sugar, onion, apple, cocoanut, and 
stock. Cook for five minutes, stirring all the time; 
then add the meat and salt, and simmer for fifteen 
minutes. Add the strained lemon-juice and serve 
very hot with the rice. 

CURRIED OYSTERS 

i Spanish onion y^ pint (i cup) skinned, diced 

i^ ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) tomatoes 

butter ^ oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour 

3 tablespoonfuls curry i teaspoonful salt 

powder i teaspoonful curry paste 

}4 apple i teaspoonful lemon-juice 

^ pint (i cup) stock Boiled rice 
i quart oysters 

Chop the onion and fry it brown in two tablespoon- 



Chafing Dish Recipes 35 

fuls of the butter in the blazer. Add the curry 
powder, curry paste, salt, remainder of butter, and 
the stock. Peel and chop apple and add it to mixture 
and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. In another 
chafing dish put the oysters with their liquor and the 
tomatoes. When the edges of the oysters begin to 
curl, put the two mixtures together. Moisten the 
flour with a little stock or water, add it, with the 
strained lemon-juice, stirring constantly, and boil for 
five minutes. Serve with a dish of hot boiled rice. 

DEVILED EGGS 

4 hard-cooked eggs 3 tablespoonfuls tomato 

Buttered toast sauce 

Anchovy paste i tablespoonful mushroom 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) catchup 

butter i tablespoonful Worcester- 

]/z teaspoonful mustard shire sauce 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt the butter in the blazer, and stir in the mustard, 
sauces, and catchup. Cut the eggs in quarters, 
season them with salt and pepper, and put them into 
the hot sauce. Spread the toast with anchovy paste 
and serve the hot eggs on this. 

DEVILED LOBSTER 

i cooked or canned lobster 2 tablespoonfuls tomato 

i tablespoonful mustard sauce 

% teaspoonful salt Toasted bread 

i teaspoonful lemon-juice Y^ Ib. (}4 cup) butter 

J<4 teaspoonful paprika 



36 Chafing Dish Recipes 

Beat two tablespoonfuls of the butter to a cream 
and add the seasonings. Cut the lobster into neat 
pieces and saute in the remainder of the butter in the 
chafing dish, and, when nearly done, add the creamed 
mixture. Heat thoroughly and serve on toast. 



DEVILED MEAT 

Cold left-over meats i teaspoonful vinegar 

y* teaspoonful Kitchen ^ pint (i cup) boiling water 

Bouquet ^ teaspoonful mustard 

}/2 oz. (i tablespoonful) ^ teaspoonful red pepper 

butter 

For this dish cold rare beef, rare mutton, or lamb, 
or wings, drumsticks, and side bones of roast turkey 
or of large roast chicken may be used. Melt the 
butter in the chafing dish, add the vinegar, Kitchen 
Bouquet, seasonings, and water, and cook for five 
minutes; add the meat and heat thoroughly. Serve 
hot. 

DEVILED SARDINES 

1 can sardines i saltspoonful salt 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) i tablespoonful lemon-juice 
butter Buttered toast or crackers 

i teaspoonful paprika ^ teaspoonful mustard 

Prepare the sardines by draining them free from oil 
and scraping off the skin. Melt the butter in the 
chafing dish, add the seasonings mixed with lemon- 



Chafing Dish Recipes 37 

juice, lay in the sardines, and cook until they are very 
hot, turning them once. Serve on toast or crackers. 

DEVILED SHRIMPS 

i can shrimps Salt, paprika, and dry mus- 

i tablespoonful chopped tard to taste 

onion Tabasco or Worcestershire 

1^2 ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) sauce to taste 

butter Brown bread sandwiches 
3 tomatoes 

Open the can and remove the shrimps from it. 
Allow them to stand for one hour in the air before 
using. Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing 
dish; add the onion and cook for five minutes; add 
the tomatoes, peeled and sliced, and cook for fifteen 
minutes; season highly with the seasonings and add 
the shrimps. Serve, when thoroughly heated, with 
brown bread sandwiches. 

Cooked fresh shrimps and canned tomatoes may be 
used. 

EGGS A LA BENONI 

12 eggs 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 
Salt and pepper to taste butter 

i green pepper 4 skinned tomatoes 

i pimiento (canned red pep- 1 2 oysters 

per) Buttered toast 

Cut the red and green peppers and tomatoes into 
small pieces; melt the butter in the blazer, add the 



38 Chafing Dish Recipes 

tomatoes and peppers, and cook for five minutes. 
Add the eggs well beaten and the seasonings and stir 
until cooked; then add the oysters, and serve on slices 
of toast. The oysters should be half cooked in a little 
butter before they are added to the mixture. 

EGGS A LA NEWBURG 

6 hard-cooked eggs l / 2 tablespoonful sherry wine 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) y teaspoonful salt 
butter y$ teaspoonful red pepper 

^2 pint (i cup) cream Toast points 

2 eggs 

Cut the hard-cooked eggs in slices or quarters. 
Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the cream, 
and hard-cooked eggs, and when hot, stir in the 
beaten eggs very slowly. Season with wine, salt, 
and red pepper and serve very hot with the toast 
points. 

EGG TOAST 

Stale bread 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 

2 eggs butter 

^ pint (i cup) milk Quince preserves 

y^ teaspoonful salt 

Cut the bread into half slices, but not too thin. 
Beat up the eggs, add the milk and the salt. Dip the 
slices in this mixture and lay them in the butter which 
has been melted in the chafing dish. Brown nicely 
on both sides. While hot, butter each slice lavishly 
and place on a hot dish. Serve with quince preserves. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 39 

FRIED CAULIFLOWER WITH EGGS 

i boiled cauliflower Toasted or fried bread 

3 eggs 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 
% teaspoonful salt butter 

^ teaspoonful pepper 

Drain the cauliflower and break it into flowerets; 
melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the cauli- 
flower, then break the eggs on the top of it; season 
with salt and pepper and stir until ready. Serve the 
mixture very hot on pieces of toasted or fried bread. 
The number of eggs used must be according to size 
of the cauliflower. Olive oil may be used in place of 
the butter. 

FROGS' LEGS IN THE CHAFING DISH 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) ^ pint (i cup) white stock 

butter i tablespoonful flour 

i gill (^4 cup) white wine i tablespoonful chopped 

Salt and black pepper to parsley 

taste 2 Ibs. frogs' legs 

i teaspoonful powdered nut- 2 egg-yolks 

meg Triangles of hot toast 

Melt one tablespoonful of the butter, add the frogs' 
legs, and cook them for a minute, then add the wine 
and seasonings. Cook for fifteen minutes, then add 
the stock, and simmer until the frogs' legs are tender. 
Drain and put into a hot, covered dish. Blend the 
remainder of the butter with the flour, and add a cup- 



4O Chafing Dish Recipes 

ful of the liquor in which the frogs' legs were cooked. 
When boiling, add the parsley and yolks of eggs slightly 
beaten. Pour over the frogs' legs, and serve with the 
toast. 

GAME SALMI 

Remains of cold bird i shallot 

i lemon 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) sweet 

i tablespoonful mushroom butter 

catchup i wineglassful red wine 

Cut the remains of a cold bird into convenient 
pieces. Cut the shallot into quarters, add to it the 
catchup and the strained juice of lemon. Melt the 
butter in the blazer over the hot-water pan, then 
add the wine and lemon-juice mixture. Stir until all 
is blended, add pieces of bird and toss in the sauce 
until sufficiently cooked. Remove shallot and serve 
very hot. 

GLAZED ONIONS 

i dozen small white onions ^ teaspoonful salt 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) ^ teaspoonful pepper 

butter ytt teaspoonful Kitchen Bou- 
i tablespoonful sugar quet 

y^ pint (i cup) brown stock Crackers 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish. Trim the 
onions and lay them in the butter; sprinkle over the 
sugar, and cook gently until they begin to brown. 
Then add the stock and the seasonings, and let them 




CQ 



U 



D 
O 

U 



m 





Chafing Dish Recipes 41 

cook until they are tender and well colored and the 
stock has formed a glaze over them, stirring them 
gently now and again to glaze them evenly. Serve 
hot with crackers. 



GREEN PEPPERS WITH EGGS 

4 chopped green peppers 6 eggs 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 4 tablespoonfuls cream 

butter 2 tablespoonfuls grated Par- 
i tablespoonful tomato mesan cheese 

catchup Buttered toasted bread or 
i tablespoonful mushroom crackers 

catchup 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the peppers, 
catchups, and cheese, and cook for two minutes; then 
add the cream and the eggs well beaten and stir and 
cook until thick. Serve hot on buttered toasted 
bread or crackers. 



HAM A LA COUNTRY CLUB 

1 pint (2 cups) chopped Tabasco sauce to taste 
cooked ham i^ ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped butter 
onion Hot toast 

i chopped red pepper Cream 

i chopped green pepper 4 egg-yolks 

6 sliced mushrooms i tablespoonful sherry wine 

i teaspoonful Worcestershire Salt and paprika to taste 
sauce 



42 Chafing Dish Recipes 

Melt the butter in the blazer without the hot-water 
dish; add the onion, peppers, and mushrooms and 
cook without browning; cover with cream and cook 
for five minutes, add the ham, seasonings, and the 
egg-yolks beaten and mixed with a little cream; cook 
and stir until the mixture thickens, but do not let it 
boil; add the sherry wine and serve on hot toast. 

HAM SAVORY 

54 lb. ( i cup) cold boiled ham i gill (y* cup) cream or milk 
3 hard-cooked eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

Scald the cream in the blazer over hot water, add 
two of the egg-yolks rubbed through a sieve, the two 
whites chopped fine, seasonings, and the ham. When 
thoroughly heated, turn into a hot dish and place the 
remaining egg, cut in slices, over the top. 



HOT FRUIT SALAD 

Mixed fruits 4 tablespoonfuls water 

ij/i ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) Whipped and sweetened 

butter cream 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) Powdered nutmeg to taste 

sugar Sweet wafers 
i gill (*/ cup) orange- juice 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the sugar, 
orange-juice, and water, and boil for three minutes; 
add one pint of mixed fruits, such as stoned cherries, 



Chafing Dish Recipes 43 

A 

sliced bananas, diced apples, seeded grapes, grape- 
fruit, dates, etc. Make very hot and serve with 
wafers and whipped and sweetened cream flavored 
with grated nutmeg to taste. 

Maple syrup may be used in place of the sugar. 



KIDNEY A LA BOHEMIAN CLUB 

3 veal kidneys 6 hard-cooked eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls lard i wineglassful sherry wine 

4 medium-sized onions, sliced i teaspoonf ul Worcestershire 
6 small tomatoes sauce 

6 small green peppers Boiled rice 

4 potatoes, peeled and sliced 4 slices fat bacon 
Tabasco sauce and salt to 
taste 

Slice the kidneys, removing the skin and hard mem- 
brane; skin and slice the tomatoes, seed and chop the 
peppers, and cut the bacon into dice. Melt the lard 
in the blazer, add the onions, and saute them until 
brown; add the tomatoes, peppers, the bacon, and 
cook five minutes; then add the potatoes, salt, and 
Tabasco to taste, the kidneys, and enough water 
to cover. Stew until the kidneys are tender, then 
take out with a skimmer, and thicken the remaining 
liquor with the yolks of eggs rubbed to a paste with 
the sherry and Worcestershire sauce. Add the 
chopped whites of eggs and serve with hot boiled rice. 



44 Chafing Dish Recipes 



KIDNEYS AND MUSHROOMS 

6 lambs' kidneys ^ pint (i cup) stock 

^ can button mushrooms i teaspoonful Kitchen Bouquet 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Salt and red pepper to taste 

butter X tablespoonful chopped pi- 
i small onion miento (canned red pepper) 

i tablespoonful flour Crackers or toast 
i bay-leaf 

Halve and skin the kidneys. Chop the onion and 
fry it brown in the butter in the blazer; then stir in 
the flour and the stock; add the bay-leaf, Kitchen 
Bouquet, pimiento, and seasonings. Add the kid- 
neys and mushrooms, and heat until the edges of the 
kidneys are curled. Serve very hot with toast or 
crackers. 

KIDNEY TOAST 

3 sheep's kidneys }/$ teaspoonful meat extract 

i teaspoonful chopped onion >^ teaspoonful salt 

i teaspoonful chopped pars- ^ teaspoonful pepper 

ley 2 teaspoonfuls drippings 

i>2 teaspoonfuls flour Buttered toast fingers 
i gill ( l /2 cup) water or stock 

Skin, core, and quarter the kidneys. Melt the 
drippings in the chafing dish, add the onion and kid- 
ney, and fry until both are lightly browned. 

Mix the flour with the water or stock, add meat 
extract, pour into the chafing dish, and stir until 



Chafing Dish Recipes 45 

the sauce boils. Add the seasonings and parsley, 
place the blazer over the hot-water pan, and cover 
and cook the mixture for ten minutes. Pour over the 
toast and serve at once. 



LAMB CHOPS 

3 lamb chops Salt and pepper to taste 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

Melt the butter in the blazer, and when very hot 
add the chops and sear them to prevent the escape of 
the juices. Turn them often while cooking, and when 
ready, serve hot sprinkled over with salt and pepper. 

LAMB WITH OLIVES 

l /t lb. (2 cups) cooked lamb i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
20 large stoned olives ley 

% pint (i cup) gravy or Salt and pepper to taste 

stock }/2 teaspoonful onion-juice 

Cut the lamb into even pieces and chop the olives. 
Heat the gravy, add the seasonings and the pieces of 
lamb, and cover and cook until very hot. Add the 
olives and serve in dainty hot dishes. 

LEMON CREAM CANDY 

i lb. (2^3 cups) brown sugar 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 
Yt, pint ( l /2 cup) water butter 

i teaspoonful lemon extract 



46 Chafing Dish Recipes 

Dissolve the sugar in the water in the chafing dish 
and boil to 230 F., add the butter, melted, and boil to 
240 F., or until the mixture forms a soft ball when 
tested in cold water. Remove pan from flame, allow 
it to stand for five minutes, add the lemon extract, 
then stir until the syrup begins to "grain." Pour 
quickly into a buttered tin. When half set, mark into 
neat squares; leave until the following day in a cool 
place ; then break up and wrap in waxed paper. 

LENTILS WITH TOMATOES 

}4 pint (i cup) cooked lentils i onion 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) i pint (2 cups) chopped toma- 
butter toes 

3 sweet peppers, green or red Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the peppers 
and onion chopped and cook until browned, add the 
tomatoes, seasonings, and lentils, and cook slowly 
for twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

LOBSTERS A LA BORDELAISE 

2 Ibs. cooked lobster ^ teaspoonful red pepper 
]/2 pint (i cup) tomato sauce 6 large mushrooms 

i tablespoonful brandy i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

Peel the mushrooms and saute them in the butter; 
then cut them in pieces. Return them to the chafing 
dish with the lobster cut in neat pieces and the tomato 



Chafing Dish Recipes 47 

sauce. When hot, add the brandy and the red pepper. 
Serve very hot. 



LOBSTER A LA NEWBURG 

1 cooked medium-sized lob- 3 egg-yolks 

ster i>2 gills (^ cup) cream 

2 ozs. O^ cup) butter 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine 
}/2 teaspoonful salt i tablespoonful brandy 

i saltspoonful paprika Toasted or fried bread 

y% teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

Remove the meat from the lobster and cut it in 
pieces. Melt the butter over boiling water, add the 
lobster, and cook for four minutes. Add the season- 
ings, sherry, and brandy; cook one minute, then add 
the cream and yolks of eggs slightly beaten, and stir 
until thickened. Serve on small rounds of toasted 
or fried bread. Canned lobster may be used. 

Another Method. Cover two cupfuls of diced boiled 
lobster with three tablespoonfuls of sherry wine and 
three tablespoonfuls of brandy and allow to stand in a 
cool place for two hours. 

Melt two and one-half tablespoonfuls of butter in 
the chafing dish, add one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of flour and three-fourths cupful of cream; stir over 
hot water until the mixture is thick. Now add the 
sieved yolks of two hard-cooked eggs, salt, pepper, 
grated nutmeg to taste, and the lobster, and make very 



48 Charing Dish Recipes 

hot. Serve in hot ramequins or timbale cases, and 
decorate with sprigs of parsley. 

LOBSTER ST. STEPHEN 

1 cooked lobster 3^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil y^ teaspoonful pepper 

]/z tablespoonful chopped ^ pint (i cup) white stock 
parsley i tablespoonful white wine 

i tablespoonful chopped onion Triangles toast 

Pick the lobster meat into pieces; saute it in the 
olive oil in the blazer, add the onion, parsley, season- 
ings, stock, and wine, then cook for ten minutes. 
Serve on hot plates with the toast. 

MEXICAN RABBIT 

% lb. cheese i tablespoonful Mexican pep- 

4 tablespoonfuls milk per pulp 

i egg i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

% teaspoonful mustard Toasted bread 

y^ teaspoonful salt 

Boil one or two Mexican peppers in water for ten 
minutes, then reject the skin and seeds and put one 
tablespoonful of the pulp into the chafing dish with 
the butter and the seasonings; mix well, then add 
the cheese cut in small pieces, and when it is melted 
stir in slowly the milk and the beaten egg. Stir and 
cook until sufficiently thickened, and serve on small 
squares of toasted bread. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 49 



MUTTON HASH 

Left-over mutton i tablespoonful grated ham 

i green pepper 2 green apples 

i small onion i teaspoonful salt 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 2 saltspoonfuls white pepper 

butter X P m t (i cup) white stock 
y-i teaspoonful curry powder 

Cut some left-over mutton into small pieces. Chop 
the onion, pepper, and apples. Melt the butter in 
the blazer, add the pepper, onion, and apples, and cook 
to a nice brown color, stirring all the time; add the 
curry powder, ham, mutton, seasonings, stock, and 
cook gently for twenty minutes. Serve hot. 

OYSTERS A LA POULETTE 

50 oysters i teaspoonful salt 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) ]/2 teaspoonful white pepper 

butter i teaspoonful onion-juice 

i oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) i tablespoonful chopped pars- 
flour ley 

>2 pint (i cup) milk 4 egg-yolks 
^2 pint (i cup) cream 

Select freshly opened oysters; scald them in their 
own liquor, drain, and stand aside while the sauce is 
cooking. 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
and blend well; add the milk and cream and cook for 
five minutes; add seasonings and three tablespoonfuls 
4 



50 Chafing Dish Recipes 

of the oyster liquor. Stir in the parlsey, yolks of eggs, 
and oysters; make very hot, and serve on hot plates. 

OYSTERS BROADWAY 

i quart oysters 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine 

Salt and pepper to taste % lemon 

Paprika and Tabasco to taste Hot buttered toast 

% lb. (y cup) butter i pint (2 cups) rich cream 

3 tablespoonfuls sliced celery 

Slice the celery very fine. Melt the butter in the 
blazer, add the oysters and their liquor, the season- 
ings, celery, sherry wine, and strained lemon-juice. 
Cook for four minutes and add the cream, taking care 
that it does not curdle. Serve very hot on toast. 



OYSTER RABBIT 

^2 pint (i cup) oysters i saltspoonful paprika 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) i saltspoonful mustard 

butter 2 eggs 

y lb. (2 cups) cheese Toasted crackers 
i saltspoonful salt 

Put the oysters into the chafing dish with their 
liquor and cook until the edges begin to curl. Turn 
into a hot dish. Melt the butter in the blazer, add 
the cheese finely crumbled or grated, and the season- 
ings. Beat up the eggs and strain the oyster liquor to 
them. When the cheese is melted, stir in the egg 



Chafing Dish Recipes 51 

mixture, add the oysters, and as soon as hot serve on 
toasted crackers. 



PAN ROAST OYSTERS 

i pint (2 cups) oysters i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

Salt and pepper to taste Toast 

Select firm oysters and drain them from their liquor. 
Put them in the blazer and cook, stirring with a fork 
to keep them from sticking to the pan ; add seasonings 
and butter, and when the oysters begin to curl at the 
edges, pour over the toast and serve hot. If the 
oysters are allowed to cook longer, the digestibility is 
destroyed. 

PEA OMELET 

i can peas ^ teaspoonful paprika 

^2 oz. (i tablespoonful) butter 5 eggs 

i teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls warm water 

^/2 teaspoonful pepper Parsley or watercress 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the eggs 
well beaten and the water. Cook carefully, shaking 
the pan, so that the omelet will not stick, and with a 
knife lift the edges, allowing the uncooked portion to 
run underneath. When the omelet is firm, sprinkle 
over with the seasonings ; add some of the peas which 
have been heated, fold, and turn onto a hot platter. 
Garnish with the remaining peas and sprigs of parsley, 
and serve immediately. 



52 Chafing Dish Recipes 



PULLED CREAM CANDY 

2 Ibs. (4 cups) sugar % teaspoonful baking soda 

^oz. (i tablespoonful) butter i teaspoonful lemon extract 
% pint ($4 cup) cream fa teaspoonful vanilla extract 

y$ pint (iJ/2 cups) water 

Put the sugar, butter, cream, and water into the 
chafing dish and boil until the mixture forms a hard 
ball when tested in cold water, or until it registers 
252 F. by the thermometer; then add the soda and 
the extracts and pour into greased tins. Pull as 
soon as cool enough to handle and cut into pieces. 
Wrap in waxed paper. 

RAISIN AND NUT FUDGE 

1 Ib. (2 cups) sugar faoz. ( J tablespoonful) butter 

2 tablespoonfuls cocoa or 2 ozs. (fa cup) chopped nut 
grated chocolate meats 

fa pint (i cup) milk 2 ozs. (fa cup) Sultana raisins 

2 tablespoonfuls thick cream i teaspoonful vanilla extract 

Mix the sugar and chocolate together in the chafing 
dish, add the butter, the milk, and cook to 240 F., 
or until the mixture forms a soft ball when tested 
in cold water. Remove the pan from the flame, add 
the cream, nuts, raisins, vanilla extract and beat until 
creamy. Return to the flame, stir gently until dis- 
solved, and pour into a greased tin. When cool, 
mark into squares. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 53 



RICE FONDUE 

X lb. (i cup) grated cheese 4 eggs 

}/2 lb. (i cup) boiled rice i teaspoonful salt 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) l /2 teaspoonful pepper 
butter Toasted bread 

2 tablespoonfuls milk % teaspoonful meat extract 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the rice, 
meat extract mixed with the milk, eggs well beaten, 
seasonings, and cheese. Cook slowly until the cheese 
is melted and serve on the toast. 

RIO TINTO RABBIT 

2 large Spanish onions 2 drops Tabasco sauce 

i oz. (i tablespoonful) butter i gill (^4 cup) grated cheese 

1 gill (}4 cup) milk i teaspoonful made mustard 
Salt and pepper to taste Buttered toasted bread 

Peel and boil the onions until tender, drain, chop, 
and put them into the blazer of the chafing dish with 
the butter, milk, seasonings, and cheese. Stir until 
very hot, and serve on the toasted buttered bread. 

RUM OMELET 

2 eggs i tablespoonful rum 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) > tablespoonful butter 

sugar 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish. Beat up the 
eggs with the sugar and add the rum. Pour into the 



54 Chafing Dish Recipes 

pan, and cook until set. Then fold in half, pour a 
little rum over, light, and serve on fire. 



SALMI OF TONGUE 

i pint (2 cups) stock or i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

water ^2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour 

% Ib. (2 cups) diced boiled i tablespoonful mushroom 

tongue catchup 

25 stoned olives 3^ teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls sherry % teaspoonful pepper 
wine 

Brown the butter in the chafing dish; add the flour 
and brown again. Pour in the stock and stir until it 
boils for five minutes. Add the seasonings, tongue, 
and olives cut in halves and simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Add the wine and serve at once. 



SAUTE OF SCALLOPS 

^2 pint (i cup) scallops i teaspoonful salt 

2 lemons 1^2 ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) 

^4 teaspoonful red pepper butter 

Strips of toast 

Boil the scallops for fifteen minutes, then drain 
and cut them in small pieces; squeeze the juice of the 
lemons over them and add seasonings. Melt the 
butter in the chafing dish, add the scallops, and stir 
and cook for ten minutes. Serve hot with the toast. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 55 



SAVORY EGGS 

6 hard-cooked eggs ^2 teaspoonful onion-juice 

X pint (i cup) cream sauce 12 stoned olives 

}/2 oz. (i tablespoonful) 6 pieces hot buttered toast 

butter Salt and paprika to taste 
3 tablespoonfuls chopped 

cooked ham 

Chop the whites of eggs and put yolks through a 
ricer. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the 
cream sauce, and, when hot, add one-half of the egg- 
whites, the yolks, ham, seasonings, and olives cut 
into pieces. Make very hot and pour over the toast, 
sprinkle with the rest of the whites, and top with a 
dash of paprika. 

SAVORY HAM 

% lb. (i cup) chopped 2 tablespoonfuls grated cooked 

cooked ham ham 

}/2 pint (i cup) white sauce 3 eggs 

i teaspoonful chopped pars- Salt and pepper to taste 

ley i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 
}/2 teaspoonful onion- juice 

Use two chafing dishes. Put the chopped ham into 
one of the chafing dishes with the sauce, onion-juice, 
and parsley; place over hot water and keep warm. 

Melt the butter in the other chafing dish, add the 
grated ham, the seasonings, and the eggs slightly 
beaten. Cook like an omelet. Put the first mixture 



56 Chafing Dish Recipes 

into a hot dish, turn the omelet on the top, and serve 
hot. 

SCOTCH WOODCOCK 

3 egg yolks i teaspoonful cnopped pars- 

i gill (%. cup) cream ley 

Anchovy paste Red pepper to taste 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 6 rounds buttered toast 
butter 

Spread a layer of anchovy paste on each round of 
toast. Arrange these on a hot platter and keep them 
hot. Melt the butter, add the yolks of eggs beaten 
with the cream, and stir over a low flame until the 
mixture is a creamy mass. Add the red pepper and 
parsley. Pour the mixture over the toast, and serve 
as hot as possible. 

Four or five boned and pounded anchovies may be 
substituted for the anchovy paste. 

SCRAMBLED SCALLOPS 

% pint (i cup) scallops Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

2 beaten eggs taste 

3 tablespoonfuls milk i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

Buttered toast 

Boil the scallops until tender, drain, and pick them 
apart. Mix them with the eggs, milk, and seasonings. 
Melt the butter in the chafing dish, pour in the scallops, 
stir and cook until they thicken, and serve hot on the 
toast. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 57 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

4 ozs. ( l /2 cup) diced bacon 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 

2 ozs. (^ cup) diced bread butter 

6 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

Melt the butter in the blazer, add the bacon and 
bread, and fry until brown. Add the eggs and season- 
ings and scramble them over hot water. Serve hot. 



SHRIMPS A LA CREOLE 

i can shrimps i teaspoonful chopped pars- 

i can tomatoes ley 

i chopped pimiento i clove garlic 

(canned red pepper) 2 onions 

i chopped green pepper 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 
i bay-leaf butter 

Salt and paprika to taste 

Slice the tomatoes, peppers, onions, and clove of 
garlic, then brown them slightly in two tablespoonfuls 
of the butter. Use only one-half of the tomato juice 
in the can. Simmer for twenty minutes. 

Saute the shrimps in the remainder of the butter, 
add them to the other mixture, season to taste, and 
cook for fifteen minutes longer. Serve hot. 



58 Chafing Dish Recipes 

SHRIMPS A LA NEWBURG 

1 can shrimps i egg 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) i tablespoonful lemon-juice 
butter y?. oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour 

YO, teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

Y% teaspoonful white pepper 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine 

^i teaspoonful red pepper Toast or patty shells 

^2 pint (i cup) hot milk 

Drain and rinse shrimps and pick them in pieces. 
Heat them in two tablespoonfuls of the butter in the 
chafing dish with the seasonings and the lemon-juice. 
Turn them out on a plate, then melt the remainder 
of the butter in the pan, add the flour, and, when well 
blended, add the milk and cream and cook until thick. 
Add the egg well beaten and the shrimps, cook for one 
minute, then add the wine, and serve on toast or in 
hot patty shells. 

SMOKED BEEF WITH CHEESE 

4 eggs i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 

^2 lb. shaved smoked beef butter 

}/2 pint (i cup) canned to- i teaspoonful onion- juice 

matoes ^ teaspoonful paprika 

2 tablespoonfuls grated Finger rolls 

cheese 

Melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the eggs, 
beef, tomatoes, cheese, and seasonings and stir just 
long enough for the eggs to become thick and creamy. 
Serve very hot with finger rolls. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 59 

SPAGHETTI WITH MUSHROOMS 

>^ lb. spaghetti ^ pint (1^2 cups) stewed 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) tomatoes 

butter 2 ozs. ($4 cup) chopped mush- 

}4 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) rooms 

flour 

Break the spaghetti into small pieces and cook it in 
plenty of boiling salted water until tender; then drain 
and let cold water run through it and separate the 
pieces, and stand aside until needed. At serving time 
melt the butter in the chafing dish, stir in the flour, 
and when smooth, add the tomatoes and the mush- 
rooms cooked in a little butter and the spaghetti. 
Cook five minutes, and serve hot. 



SPANISH OMELET 

6 eggs 6 mushrooms 

i skinned tomato % lb. sliced bacon 

1 small onion i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 
^4 teaspoonful salt Parsley or watercress 

X teaspoonful paprika i tablespoonful chopped green 

2 tablespoonfuls milk peppers 

Use two chafing dishes for this omelet. Fry the 
bacon until crisp, and brown in one of them ; then add 
the vegetables chopped fine; stir and cook for ten 
minutes. Melt the butter in the second chafing dish, 
pour in the eggs well beaten, add the seasonings and 



60 Chafing Dish Recipes 

the milk, and stir until they are set; then quickly 
pour the mixture from the other chafing dish over the 
omelet, fold over, turn out onto a hot platter, garnish 
with parsley or watercress, and serve at once. 

SPANISH RICE 

^ lb. (i cup) rice i teaspoonful meat extract 

]4 pint (i cup) chopped iK pints (3 cups) boiling 

onion water or stock 

2 chopped green peppers i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) lard 
i teaspoonful salt or drippings 

^ teaspoonful paprika 

Melt the lard in a large chafing dish; when very hot, 
add the rice, peppers, onions, and seasonings. Fry, 
stirring often, until the rice begins to brown. Dis- 
solve the meat extract in the water, pour into the pan, 
cover and simmer for one hour. Serve hot. 

STEWED FISH 

i lb. cold cooked fish i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) ley 

butter or drippings }4 teaspoonful salt 

i tablespoonful chopped ^ teaspoonful pepper 

onion Toasted bread 

^2 pint (i cup) fish stock i tablespoonful flour 
i gill ($4 cup) milk 



Melt the butter in the blazer, add the onion, fry a 
little, stir in the flour, and let it brown. Add the 



Chafing Dish Recipes 61 

stock and milk, stir until it reaches boiling-point, and 
simmer for ten minutes. Free the fish from skin and 
bones, add it with the parsley and seasonings to the 
sauce, and make very hot. Serve with sippets of 
toasted bread. 

STIRRED EGGS 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) Salt and white pepper to 

sweet butter taste 

6 eggs Buttered toast 

Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish, 
drop in the eggs, add the seasonings, and stir them 
gently until sufficiently cooked. Serve hot on but- 
tered toast. 



SWEETBREADS WITH ASPARAGUS 

i lb. sliced cooked sweet- >2 teaspoonful salt 

breads ]4, teaspoonful celery salt 

}4 pint (i cup) boiled as- ^4 teaspoonful red pepper 

paragus tips 2 hard-cooked egg yolks 

French dressing ^ pint (i cup) cream 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine 

butter Timbales or patty shells 

i tablespoonful flour 

Marinate the asparagus tips in the French dressing 
for one hour. Melt the butter in the blazer, add the 
flour, and when blended, add seasonings, the yolks 
of eggs put through a ricer, and the cream. When hot, 



62 Chafing Dish Recipes 

add the sweetbreads, asparagus tips, and sherry wine. 
Serve very hot in hot patty shells or timbale cases. 

SWEETBREADS WITH MUSHROOMS 

2 pairs sweetbreads }4 can mushrooms 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) i tablespoonful flour 
butter i gill ( l /2 cup) cream 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Parboil the sweetbreads, remove all strings and 
fiber, and cut each one into two pieces. Melt the 
butter in the charing dish, add the sweetbreads; saute 
quickly, turning them once; sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and lay them on a hot dish. Cut the mush- 
rooms in halves, drop them into the pan, add the 
cream and flour, and stir and cook until smooth; 
pour around the sweetbreads and serve hot. 

SWEET OMELET IN THE CHAFING DISH 

6 eggs Currant preserves 

2 tablespoonfuls milk Cream cheese sandwiches 

4 tablespoonfuls water i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

Pinch salt Wine 

Beat up the eggs with the milk, salt, and the water, 
and cook gently in the melted butter in the blazer. 
Stir the eggs while cooking, and fold and roll them 
until they are sufficiently cooked. Mix the preserves 
with wine to taste, and serve a tablespoonful with the 
sandwiches and each tablespoonful of the omelet. 




H 

W 
J 

w 



O 

H 

W 
W 



C/3 
< 



Chafing Dish Recipes 63 



TERRAPIN, MARYLAND STYLE 

2 terrapin i tablespoonful sherry wine 

2 hard-cooked egg-yolks i pinch baking soda 

y^ oz. (i tablespoonful) Salt and red pepper to taste 

butter Grated nutmeg to taste 
i gill (\4 cup) cream 



Boil the terrapin, cut the meat into dice, put into a 
chafing dish with water to cover, and just let heat 
through. Mash the yolks of eggs and rub to a paste 
with the butter. Add the soda to the cream, bring to 
boiling-point, and add gradually to the paste. Season 
to taste with salt, red pepper, and nutmeg, and add to 
the stewed terrapin. Bring to boiling-point, add the 
wine, and serve hot. 



TOMATOES AND MUSHROOMS 

y* can tomatoes ^ teaspoonful salt 

^2 can mushrooms % teaspoonful paprika 

i teaspoonful Worcester- i teaspoonful onion-juice 

shire sauce i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
i teaspoonful butter ley 

i teaspoonful corn-starch Olive sandwiches 

Put the tomatoes into the chafing dish, add season- 
ings, mushrooms, parsley, and the butter rubbed with 
the corn-starch, and cook for ten minutes. Serve hot 
with the sandwiches. 



64 Chafing Dish Recipes 

TRIPE WITH TOMATOES 

Thick honeycomb tripe i teaspoonful Worcestershire 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) sauce 

butter i gill (> cup) stock or water 

i small onion i gill (^ cup) strained to- 

i green pepper matoes 

i tablespoonful flour 2 mushrooms 
Salt and paprika to taste 

Cut the boiled tripe into small pieces and wipe as 
dry as possible. Melt the butter in the blazer, and 
add the pepper, mushrooms, and onion cut in thin 
slices. Cook for five minutes, then add the flour, 
seasonings, stock, and tomatoes, and cook for eight 
minutes. Add the tripe and cook for five minutes. 
Serve hot. 



TRUFFLES WITH CHEESE 

}4 lb. truffles Salt and pepper to taste 

% lb. (/4 cup) butter Y^ lb. Swiss cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil Fried bread 

Clean and slice the truffles. Melt the butter and 
the olive oil in the chafing dish ; put in the truffles and 
the cheese cut in thin slices. Mix well and stir over 
a hot flame for ten minutes. Add the seasonings and 
serve very hot with croutons of fried bread. 



Chafing Dish Recipes 65 

TURKISH PILAF 

2 ozs. (^ cup) rice i teaspoonful salt 

X pint (i cup) strained } teaspoonful pepper 

tomatoes % teaspoonful paprika 

% pint (i cup) brown stock i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

Add tomatoes to stock and heat to boiling-point; 
add rice and seasonings, and cook over boiling water 
until rice is soft; then stir in the butter. Serve hot. 

In place of stock use half milk and half water, first 
adding one-eighth teaspoonful of baking soda to 
tomatoes. 

Two tablespoonfuls of chopped green peppers may 
be added if liked. 



VEAL WITH ASPARAGUS 

}4 lb. (2 cups) cooked diced ^ oz. (i tablespoonful) butter 

veal ^2 pint (i cup) milk or cream 

1 can asparagus tips ]/2 teaspoonful salt 

2 hard-cooked eggs X teaspoonful white pepper 

Mash the yolks of eggs with the butter, put them 
into the chafing dish, add the milk or cream, heat, 
stirring well, add the seasonings, veal, and drained 
asparagus tips. Cook for ten minutes and serve 
hot, decorated with the whites of eggs cut in strips. 



66 Chafing Dish Recipes 



VEAL WITH EGGS 

^2 lb. cold cooked veal X teaspoonful paprika 

3 hard-cooked eggs A few grains red pepper 

1 teaspoonful made mustard 2 wineglassfuls sherry wine 
K teaspoonful salt l / 2 pint (i cup) cream 

Cut the veal into neat pieces and put it in the chafing 
dish. Mix together the eggs, seasonings, sherry, and 
cream, and when smooth, pour over the veal and let 
it cook for ten minutes, stirring occasionally Serve 
hot. 

VENISON CUTLETS 

2 venison cutlets ^ teaspoonful pepper 

3 ozs. (6 tablespoonfuls) i gill (>2 cup) red currant 
butter jelly 

% teaspoonful salt 

Trim the venison cutlets. Melt one-half of the 
butter in the blazer, and when hot, put in the cutlets, 
seasoned with the salt and pepper, and fry until 
brown. Take out the cutlets and place them on a 
hot platter. Melt the jelly in the pan, add to it the 
remainder of the butter, make very hot, and serve with 
the cutlets. 

WELSH RABBIT 

^ lb. cheese 2 egg yolks 

i slice fried or toasted bread Salt and red pepper to taste 

i gill ($4 cup) milk or ale Mustard to taste 



Chafing Dish Recipes 67 

Cut the cheese into thin slices, spreading on some 
of these about one teaspoonful of made mustard. 

Put the milk or ale into the blazer, and when it 
boils, add the cheese. Let it cook quickly, stirring 
constantly until it is a soft mass. Now add the 
beaten yolks of eggs, stirring quickly all the time, and 
drawing the pan off the flame. Add seasonings to 
taste and pour the mixture over the bread. Serve hot. 

Another Method. Cut one and one-half pounds of 
cheese into small pieces and put them in the upper part 
of the chafing dish, having water in the lower pan. 
Let the cheese melt and become creamy, add one and 
one-half tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half cupful of 
ale, one teaspoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, and one-third teaspoonful of 
pepper; cook until smooth, and just before serving 
stir in one egg slightly beaten. This prevents the 
rabbit being stringy. Have ready slices of bread or 
toast, dip them into the cheese, and pour more over 
them on the serving plate. 



SANDWICH RECIPES 



SANDWICH RECIPES 

"Like, but Oh ! how di/erent " 



History dates the sandwich from 1758. In that 
year the Earl of Sandwich rebelled once and for all 
against the tyranny of meal times, whereby each day 
the hours of gambling were curtailed. Therefore, 
calling to the waiter, who, having announced dinner, 
hovered uneasily round the table, the Earl ordered 
that pieces of meat should be laid between two slices 
of bread, and brought to him as he sat at play. This 
was done, and the sandwich was born. 

History does not relate whether the Earl's compan- 
ions were sufficiently devoted gamblers to acquiesce 
without demur in the curtailing of their meals, but 
great must have been the relief of cook and waiter 
when this simple substitute for a meal of many courses 
was adopted. 

From the time of George III onwards, sandwiches 
have played no inconsiderable part in gastronomic 
history; year by year their ranks have been enlarged, 
fresh combinations have been discovered, until at the 
present day the number of sandwiches is legion. 

They vary from the ungainly articles made of two 

71 



72 Sandwich Recipes 

great hunks of bread, with meat or cheese between 
them, to artistic morsels in favor at afternoon teas. 
The term " sandwich" is now very elastic, not only as 
to the contents, but, as one writer has it, k they are 
as often made without tops as with": one reason for 
this is said to be that men especially like to see what 
they are eating; hence the sandwich may consist of a 
foundation, and one or more layers of filling, minus its 
cover. 

There is a knack about making really good, appe- 
tizing sandwiches, just as there is about making any- 
thing else. Little knowledge is required in the mak- 
ing of these dainties: ingenuity, cleanliness, taste, a 
little artistic ability and a knowledge of what blends 
well is capital enough to insure a good sandwich maker. 

One of the most important things to be considered 
is the bread. Sandwiches made of new bread are con- 
sidered superior; it is best, however, to use fine grained 
bread about twenty hours old. 

Remove all the crusts from the bread before cutting 
the slices; this prevents the waste of butter and keeps 
the sandwich in good shape. The crusts can be dried 
and crushed for use in breadcrumbing, or for scalloped 
left-overs. Now cream the butter and butter the 
bread and put the slices together in pairs. If the 
whole loaf is sliced at once, and the slices kept in their 
order this will be easy. Next spread the filling which 
has been seasoned and flavored according to its needs; 



Sandwich Recipes 73 

press the second slice of bread over the filling and cut 
into size and form for serving. 

Squares, diamonds and oblongs are all good shapes 
and make little waste. Several varieties of bread-and- 
butter sandwiches may be had by using Boston brown 
bread, Graham, rye, whole wheat, bran, or the nut 
bread that is so delicious when properly made. 

The word sandwich suggests something appetizing 
and tempting, and if one is disappointed at the mere 
sight of the dish then the sandwich has failed in its 
mission. So keep in mind in preparing these little 
tempters to have the bread cut thin, with no ragged 
edges. 

Lettuce, when used, should be used sparingly, as it 
makes a clumsy, awkward looking sandwich. To 
have sandwiches moist without being smeary shows 
the cleverness of the cook. The secret in attaining 
this is to have the mayonnaise dressing thick, then a 
sufficient quantity of it can be used to render the 
filling moist without running over the edges. The 
latter makes an unsightly sandwich. 

Use individuality and taste in the arrangement and 
garnishing. Always remember to garnish lightly, 
and do not have too many sandwiches on a dish. 

Tasty sandwiches can be made of many things be- 
sides meat. In this connection cheese is not at all a 
bad substitute for flesh, and is quite piquant with a 
touch of mustard. Hard cheeses should be grated or 



74 Sandwich Recipes 

toasted, and, if mixed with tomatoes, make a nice 
change from the dry method. 

Many salad vegetables can be utilized for sandwich 
making, among which may be named watercress, 
onion, cucumber, beets, radishes, and peppers. 
These salad sandwiches are very appetizing, and are 
nice to serve at luncheons, teas and parties. Most of 
the salad sandwiches should be eaten soon after they 
are made. 

Certain pastes made from pulses and flavored with 
tomato or celery make tasty sandwiches. Various 
nuts, too, can be ground and mixed with sugar or 
honey for sweet sandwiches. Apple-butter, sliced 
guava jelly, gooseberry, currant and grape jellies make 
excellent sandwich fillings. So do orange and grape- 
fruit marmalade. Any kind of crystallized fruits cut 
in slices and moistened with whipped cream are very 
toothsome served between wafers or in tiny rolls. 

Raw beef sandwiches are excellent for invalids. 
Scrape fine a small piece of juicy, tender raw beef, 
season well with salt and pepper and place between 
slices of hot, crispy toast. 

A combination of sweet and savory can be made by 
putting a thin layer of orange marmalade over ham 
and seasoning with a little paprika. This sounds 
uninviting, but it is very good eating. 

The use of marrons those that come in brandy or 
vanilla syrup may be heartily recommended for sweet 



Sandwich Recipes 75 

sandwiches. Chop them very fine, spread them on 
buttered rounds of bread, cover with rounds from 
which the centers have been cut. Fill the centers with 
whipped, sweetened and flavored cream, and decorate 
with blanched and chopped pistachio nuts or tiny 
candied violets. 

Rolls are very often used instead of bread. Cut a 
slice from the top of each roll, remove the inside 
crumbs, leaving a case, butter the inside, fill with the 
mixture, replace the top cover, and wrap each one in 
waxed paper. 

Those in doubt at any time as to the precise degree 
of seasoning to use, must remember that a sandwich 
mixture should be tasty enough to season the bread. 
That is, what would be pronounced "just right" in 
itself, would be insipid when both bread and meat were 
tasted; so it is no bad plan for the novice to insert a 
morsel of the filling between bread and butter for trial. 

The best seasonings should be used, and such are 
not only the most satisfactory, but also the cheapest in 
the end. 

Sandwiches may be made and set away in a cool 
place for several hours before serving if wrapped in a 
clean, damp cloth. For picnics or travelling they 
should be wrapped in waxed paper. 



76 Sandwich Recipes 

SANDWICH BUTTERS 

1. The butter for sandwiches can be improved by 
working it up with whipped cream, the proportion of 
one cupful of butter to one-half cupful of cream. 
Mash these together with a wooden spoon, and then 
add salt and mustard to taste, or a little grated horse- 
radish, chopped parsley, chopped chives, or curry 
paste or powder. 

With such butter as a foundation most appetizing 
sandwiches can be made of beef, tomato, chicken, 
game, fish, cheese, or eggs. 

2. Scald and dry a small bunch of parsley, strip it 
from the stalks, chop it very fine or rub it through a 
sieve. Wash, bone and pound four anchovies. Cream 
one cupful of butter, add the parsley, anchovies and 
paprika to taste and pound well together. 

3. Rub the yolks of four hard-cooked eggs through 
a sieve, add five washed and boned anchovies and one- 
half cupful of butter. Pound well together and use. 

4. Chop one-fourth pound of cold, cooked ham, add 
one-half cupful of butter, the yolks of two hard-cooked 
eggs and white pepper to taste. Pound together until 
quite smooth, and color with a few drops of red color. 

5. Mix four teaspoonfuls of freshly grated horse- 
radish with two tablespoonfuls of butter and two tea- 
spoonfuls of lemon juice. 

6. Cream five tablespoonfuls of butter with two 



Sandwich Recipes 77 

teaspoonfuls each of chopped pickles, capers and 
olives, two teaspoonfuls each of lemon juice and tarra- 
gon vinegar, one-half teaspoonful each of paprika and 
French mustard and a dash of red pepper. Mix well 
and use. 



AFTERNOON TEA SANDWICHES 

Rich pie crust i oz. (^4 cup) chopped nut 
2 egg-whites meats 
2 ozs. (K cup) sugar > teaspoonful almond extract 
i oz. (Y cup) chopped i oz. (^ cup) chopped pre- 
dates served ginger 

Roll out the pastry very thin, sprinkle with sugar, 
and cut with cutters into fancy shapes, and bake in a 
hot oven to a delicate brown. Spread one-half of the 
pastries with the filling, put together like sandwiches, 
and return to the oven for a few minutes. 

For the filling, beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
then beat in the sugar, add the extract, dates, nuts, 
and ginger. 

ANCHOVY CANAPfiS 

Brown bread Hard-cooked eggs 

Anchovies Watercress butter 

Cut some fingers of brown bread about 1^2 inches 
wide and 2^/2 inches long, and spread with watercress 
butter. Wash, bone, and fillet some anchovies and 



78 Sandwich Recipes 

put four fillets on each finger; fill the spaces between 
the fillets with the sieved yolks of eggs and the whites 
chopped very fine. 

To make the watercress butter, wash and drain 
some watercress, and chop it very fine, then mix into 
it some butter, seasoning it to taste with salt, pepper, 
and lemon-juice. 



ANCHOVY SANDWICHES 

12 anchovies 6 drops green color 

4 tablespoonfuls anchovy i teaspoonful chopped chives 

paste 8 drops red color 

y* Ib. (i cup) sweet butter Buttered brown bread 
6 tablespoonfuls chopped 
parsley 

Cream one-half of the butter, add the parsley, 
chives, and green color, mix well, and spread one- 
fourth of an inch thick on one piece of buttered brown 
bread. Cream the remaining butter, add the an- 
chovy paste, the anchovies skinned and pounded to a 
paste, and the red color, mix well, then spread one- 
fourth of an inch thick on buttered brown bread, 
place on the top of the green, and cut into fancy shapes. 

A sandwich of anchovy paste and whipped cream 
makes its appeal when properly prepared. 




BEEF SANDWICHES 




Courtesy of " T/ze Ladies' Home Journal " 

AN EXCELLENT LAYER SANDWICH 



Sandwich Recipes 79 

AN EXCELLENT LAYER SANDWICH 

Buttered slices bread Pounded hard-cooked egg- 

Chopped olives yolks 

Chopped pimientoes Shredded lettuce 

(canned red peppers) Mayonnaise dressing 

Pounded sardines Salt and pepper to taste 

Chopped parsley 

Spread a slice of lightly buttered bread with the 
olives and a layer of mayonnaise; place another slice 
of bread on top, buttered side up, spread with pounded 
sardines and mayonnaise ; place another slice of bread 
on top, buttered side up, spread with pimientoes and 
mayonnaise; put another slice of bread on top, but- 
tered side up, spread with egg-yolks and mayonnaise; 
again another slice, buttered side up, spread with 
lettuce mixed with mayonnaise, and top with a slice 
of bread; place under a weight. Decorate with 
chopped parsley and serve cut in slices. 



APPLE SANDWICHES 

4 apples 2 ozs. ( l /4 cup) grated cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon-juice Brown bread 

i gill (^4 cup) stiff mayon- White bread 
naise dressing 

Grate the apples and mix them at once with the 
lemon-juice; add the mayonnaise and the grated 



8o Sandwich Recipes 

cheese, and serve between a slice of white bread and a 
slice of brown bread. 

Another Method. Chop two peeled apples, add one 
cupful of stoned and chopped raisins, one cupful of 
chopped pecan-nut meats, the strained juice of a 
small lemon, and two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Mix 
well and spread between thin slices of buttered bread. 



BAKED BEAN SANDWICHES 

Baked beans Salt and pepper 

Grated cheese Lemon-juice 

Butter Buttered bread 
Chopped parsley 

Rub a quantity of baked beans through a sieve, and 
to every cupful of the paste add one tablespoonful of 
grated cheese, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
one teaspoonful of lemon-juice, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and salt and pepper to taste. Spread 
this paste thickly between slices of buttered brown or 
white bread. 

Or cut bread in one-fourth inch slices, spread one- 
half with the mixture, and cut with a round cutter 
having the same diameter as a doughnut cutter. 
Cut the remaining pieces with a doughnut cutter, and 
place these over the spread pieces. 



Sandwich Recipes 81 



BAKING-POWDER BISCUIT SANDWICHES 

Baking-powder biscuits }4 teaspoonful French mus- 
]/2 pint (i cup) chopped tard 

cooked chicken Salt and pepper to taste 

3 hard-cooked eggs 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon 

4 tablespoonfuls grated vinegar 
cheese Salad oil 

Butter 

Cut the baking-powder biscuits in three layers and 
butter them. Pound the chicken with the eggs, add 
the cheese, seasonings, vinegar, and sufficient oil to 
moisten. Rub through a wire sieve and spread on 
the layers; put the slices together and serve on a folded 
napkin. 

BANANA SANDWICHES 

2 bananas Lettuce leaves 

}/2 pint (i cup) chopped ^4 teaspoonful sugar 

English walnut meats Bread 

Mayonnaise dressing Parsley 

Mash the bananas, stir in the nuts and sugar. 
Spread mayonnaise and then the banana filling on thin 
slices of bread. Place lettuce leaves between the 
slices, and serve garnished with parsley. 

BEEF SANDWICHES 

Thinly cut cooked beef Salt and pepper to taste 

Curry butter Parsley or watercress 

Skinned and sliced tomatoes Bread 
6 



82 Sandwich Recipes 

To make the curry butter: Beat one-half cupful of 
sweet butter to a cream, add a tablespoonful of curry 
powder, one-half teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and salt 
to taste. 

Cut some slices of bread and spread with curry 
butter, cover with the beef, add some slices of tomato, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, cover with another 
piece of bread spread with curry butter, and press 
together. Serve garnished with parsley or water- 
cress. 

BEEF-HEART SANDWICHES 

i cooked beef heart ]/2 teaspoonful salt 

]/2 pint (i cup) stock or ]/ teaspoonful pepper 

water >^ tablespoonful chopped 
i teaspoonful meat extract parsley 

_H"oz. (i tablespoonful) butter Hot toast 
i teaspoonful mustard 

Chop the heart, then place it in a pan with the 
butter, water, parsley, extract, and seasonings. When 
hot and thoroughly mixed, serve between thin slices 
of hot buttered toast. 



BEEF-LOAF SANDWICHES 

Beef loaf Worcestershire sauce 

Buttered bread Parsley or watercress 

Put a thin slice of a cooked beef loaf between thin 
slices of buttered bread. Press the slices together and 



Sandwich Recipes 83 

cut into triangles. Serve decorated with watercress or 
parsley. 

If liked, a few drops of Worcestershire sauce may 
be sprinkled over the slices of beef loaf. 



BROWN BREAD CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Brown bread 4 tablespoonfuls cream 

Chopped English walnut Salt and pepper 

meats i teaspoonful vinegar 

Chopped celery or cucumber Lettuce leaves or watercress 

y 2 lb. cheese Paprika 
2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) sweet 

butter 

Rub the cheese through a sieve, put it into a basin 
with the butter, cream, vinegar, salt and pepper to 
taste, and mix until smooth. Cut some brown bread 
into thin slices and spread it about one-fourth of an 
inch thick with the cheese mixture. Sprinkle this 
with a little paprika, and on it put a sprinkling of 
finely chopped walnut meats, and some very finely 
chopped celery or cucumber. Cover this with an- 
other slice of bread that has also some of the cheese 
cream spread on it, and cut out the sandwiches with a 
plain or fancy cutter. 

Garnish each sandwich with a little of the cheese 
cream, using a bag with a small star tube for the 
purpose. Serve on a dish on a fancy paper, garnished 
with tiny lettuce leaves or watercress. 



84 Sandwich Recipes 



CARMEN SANDWICHES 

4 slices cold boiled ham Cream cheese 

8 slices buttered bread Mayonnaise dressing 

4 skinned and sliced toma- Lettuce leaves 

toes Green onions 
X pint ($4 cup) chopped 

English walnut meats 

Trim the crusts from the slices of bread, and on four 
slices place a slice of boiled ham and spread over with 
mayonnaise dressing. Over these put the remaining 
slices of bread, buttered sides up, and on these spread 
the cheese; then place thinly sliced tomatoes on the 
top. Cover generously with mayonnaise dressing, 
sprinkle over with the nuts, and serve on crisp lettuce 
leaves garnished with the green onions. 

CHEESE AND CAVIAR SANDWICHES 

Buttered bread . Caviar 

Cream cheese Black pepper 

Cream 

Butter some thin slices of white bread; soften some 
cream cheese with cream until it will spread easily; 
spread this on the buttered bread, and on this spread 
a little caviar. Spread both sides of the sandwich 
with butter and cheese, but only one side with caviar. 
Season with pepper. Trim the crusts from the slices 
and cut them into dainty shapes with cutters. 



Sandwich Recipes 85 

Another Caviar Sandwich. Mix one-half can of 
caviar with one teaspoonful of onion-juice and one 
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Spread between thin 
rounds of buttered bread or crackers. 

Or, add chopped nut meats or chopped olives to 
caviar, mix with a little sherry wine, and use as a fill- 
ing for sandwiches. 



CHEESE AND JELLY SANDWICHES 

Cream cheese Blanched and chopped pis- 

Currant jelly tachio nuts 

Buttered bread 

Stamp out thin slices of white bread with a cutter. 
Butter and spread half of these with cream cheese and 
currant jelly mixed to a pink cream. On the top 
place a second round of bread buttered and sprinkled 
with the chopped nuts. 

Another Cheese Recipe. Chop some canned pine- 
apple fine and drain off the juice. Spread bread 
thinly with cream cheese, sprinkle with the chopped 
pineapple, and press together. Cut in thin, slender 
strips. 

A delicious sandwich filling may be made by mixing 
orange marmalade, finely chopped pecan-nut meats, 
and cream cheese. Spread this mixture between 
slices of buttered whole-wheat bread and cut in long 
narrow sandwiches. 



86 Sandwich Recipes 

CHEESE AND PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICHES 

% pint ( i cup) peanut butter Salt and pepper to taste 

^2 pint (i cup) cream cheese ^2 tablespoonful orange-juice 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter Brown bread 

Cream the butter, add the peanut butter, cheese, 
and seasonings, and spread on small rounds of thinly 
cut brown bread. Serve on a dainty sandwich tray. 

Another Method. Chop tender and crisp radishes 
fine; chill on the ice; then mix with them grated 
American cheese and whipped cream. Spread be- 
tween dainty rounds of buttered bread. 

Or mix peeled and chopped cucumbers with grated 
Parmesan cheese and a little red pepper, and spread 
between thin slices of either white or brown buttered 
bread. Cut into triangles. 



CHEESE AND PICKLE SANDWICHES 

i lb. moist cheese Salt and paprika to taste 

}/-t pint (i cup) sour pickles Brown or white bread 
i lb. (2 cups) butter 

Put the cheese and pickles through a food-chopper 
and season to taste with salt and paprika. Cream the 
butter and combine gradually with the cheese mixture. 
Chill and spread evenly on thin slices of bread and 
press together. 



Sandwich Recipes 87 



CHEESE CANAPES 

34 lb. cheese Salt and red pepper to taste 

8 rounds bread i teaspoonful made mustard 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 2 teaspoonfuls sherry wine 
butter 

Cut rounds of stale or toasted bread ; fry the rounds 
a golden color in hot fat. Cut the cheese into small 
pieces and pound it to a paste with the butter; then 
add the seasonings and the sherry wine. When 
mixed, spread on the croutes of bread; place in the 
oven until hot through and serve immediately. 

CHESTNUT SANDWICHES 

y*. pint (i cup) boiled Salt and pepper to taste 

chestnuts i teaspoonful lemon-juice 

i gill (y? cup) cream Buttered bread or cake 

^oz. (i tablespoonful) butter 

Put the chestnuts through a food-chopper. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan, add the chestnuts, stir for a 
minute, then add the cream and seasonings and cook 
until slightly browned. Cool and use between thin 
pieces of buttered bread or cake. 

CHICKEN LIVER AND BACON SANDWICHES 

Chicken livers Crisped bacon 

Salt Buttered bread 

Pepper Parsley 



88 Sandwich Recipes 

Cook and cool the required amount of chicken- 
livers; mash them to a paste, season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and spread over thin slices of buttered 
bread. Cover with shreds of crisped bacon and place 
other slices of bread on the top. Cut into rounds, 
ovals, triangles, or fingers, and serve garnished with 
parsley. 

- CHICKEN AND PIMIENTO SANDWICHES 

i boiled chicken 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

i can pimientoes (canned i tablespoonful Worcestershire 

red peppers) sauce 

3 small pickles Buttered bread 
6 hard-cooked eggs 

Drain the pimientoes and put them through a food- 
chopper with the meat of the chicken, pickles, and eggs. 
Moisten with the oil from the pimientoes, then add 
the vinegar and sauce. Mix and spread on thinly 
sliced buttered bread and cut in diamond-shaped 
pieces. Sufficient for four dozen sandwiches. 

CHICKEN AND CRANBERRY SANDWICHES 

Buttered white bread }4 tablespoonful chopped 

^2 pint (i cup) chopped gherkins 

cooked chicken i glass cranberry jelly 

i tablespoonful chopped 2 tablespoonfuls orange-juice 

celery 

Whip up the jelly with a silver fork, add the celery, 



Sandwich Recipes 89 

gherkins, chicken, and the orange-juice. Mix and 
spread on slices of buttered bread and cut into shapes. 
Serve in a sandwich paper holder decorated with 
chopped pickles. 

CHICKEN AND HAM SANDWICHES 

Puff pastry i hard-cooked egg, chopped 

y. pint (i cup) diced cooked 3 tablespoonfuls thick cream 

chicken 2 raw egg-yolks 

y, pint (]4 cup) diced Salt and pepper to taste 

cooked ham 

Mix the chicken, ham, egg, cream, raw yolks, and 
seasonings together, and beat them with a wooden 
spoon. 

Roll out the pastry rather thin, and spread thickly 
with the mixture; cover over with pastry, brush over 
with a little beaten egg, mark out with a knife in any 
shape, and bake for fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 
Cut in shapes, and serve either hot or cold. 

CHOCOLATE SANDWICHES 

1 lb. (2 cups) sugar 2 tablespoonfuls grated choco- 
*/t pint (i cup) milk late 

% oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) % oz. (i tablespoonful) butter 
flour Pinch cream of tartar 

2 tablespoonfuls corn syrup i teaspoonful vanilla extract 

Bread or cake 

Put into a saucepan the sugar, flour, milk, syrup 



90 Sandwich Recipes 

and cream of tartar, stir constantly, and when it boils, 
add the chocolate and butter. Boil until a soft ball 
is formed when dropped into cold water, or until it 
registers 240 F., by candy thermometer. Remove 
from the fire, add the extract, and beat until creamy. 
Spread between thin rounds of cake or bread. 

Another Method. Melt two squares of chocolate 
over boiling water, add two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
one cupful of powdered sugar and three cupfuls of 
cream, and cook for five minutes. Add two-thirds 
cupful of blanched and chopped nut meats and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla extract. Cool before spreading 
between thin slices of buttered bread or cake. 

CLUB SANDWICHES 

Breast cold roast turkey or Mayonnaise dressing 

chicken Toasted sliced white bread 

Broiled bacon or ham Parsley 

Crisp white lettuce leaf Butter 
Dill pickles or sliced tomato 

Trim crust from large square slices of bread and 
toast a delicate brown; then butter them. Insert a 
layer of bacon, one of thinly sliced dill pickle or tomato, 
and one of cold fowl. Cover with a lettuce leaf spread 
with mayonnaise, add top slice of toast, trim neatly, 
and cut diagonally into triangles. Garnish with 
parsley and serve immediately on hot plates. 

These sandwiches, to be at their best, should be 
made and served in the shortest possible time. 



Sandwich Recipes 91 

In a club sandwich, which in itself is a very fair 
luncheon, the chicken should be thin, the bacon very 
crisp, the lettuce fresh, and the mayonnaise and butter 
plentiful. 

To make a cold club sandwich use moderately thin 
cut bread in place of the toast, and cold sliced ham 
substituted for the crisped bacon. The chicken, 
lettuce, and dressing remain the same. 

Origin of the Club Sandwich. It will not surprise 
any who knows how frequently most excellent things 
are born of necessity to know that the club sandwich 
originated through accident. 

A man, we are told, arrived at his home one night 
after the family and servants had retired, and being 
hungry, sought the pantry and the ice chest in search 
of something to eat. There were remnants of many 
things in the source of supplies, but no one thing that 
seemed to be present in sufficient abundance to satisfy 
his appetite. The man wanted, anyway, some toast. 
So he toasted a couple of slices of bread. Then he 
looked for butter, and incidentally something to ac- 
company the toast as a relish. Besides the butter he 
found mayonnaise, two or three slices of cold broiled 
bacon, and some pieces of cold chicken. These he 
put together on a slice of the toast, and found, in a 
tomato, a complement for all the ingredients at hand. 
Then he capped his composition with the second slice 
of toast, ate, and was happy. 

The name "club" was given to it through its adop- 



92 Sandwich Recipes 

tion by a club of which the originator was a member. 
To his friends, also members of the club, he spoke of 
the sandwich, and they had one made, then and there, 
at the club, as an experiment, and referred to it after- 
ward as the "club sandwich." As such, its name 
went out to other clubs, restaurants, and individuals, 
and as such it has remained. At least, this is the story 
as it is generally told. 

COLLEGE HILL SANDWICHES 

8 tablespoonfuls peanut % Ib. (i cup) seeded raisins, 

butter chopped 

4 tablespoonfuls lemon-juice Sugar 

l /4 Ib. (i cup) chopped pecan Cream 

nut meats Buttered bread or crackers 

Beat the peanut butter with the lemon-juice, add 
the nuts and raisins, sugar to taste, and enough cream 
to moisten. Mix well and spread between buttered 
bread or crackers. 

CRAB MEAT SANDWICHES 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) ^ teaspoonful baking soda 
butter ^2 Ib. (2 cups) diced cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped i egg 

pimientoes (canned red }& pint (i cup) cooked crab 

peppers) meat 

3^ oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) flour i teaspoonful salt 

i gill (>2 cup) cream ]4 teaspoonful pepper 

1^2 gills (^4 cup) stewed ^4 teaspoonful mustard 

tomatoes Toasted bread 



Sandwich Recipes 93 

Melt the butter, add pimientoes, and cook for three 
minutes, stirring constantly. Add flour and stir until 
blended; then stir in the cream and strained toma- 
toes, to which has been added the soda. Now add 
the cheese, and when melted, the egg slightly beaten, 
seasonings, and crab meat. When heated, spread 
between slices of buttered toasted bread. Cut into 
desired shapes and serve. 

Chopped green pepper may be substituted for the 
pimiento, and canned tuna fish or canned crab meat 
for the cooked crab meat. 

CURRIED EGG AND OYSTER SANDWICHES 

}/2 pint (i cup) chopped Curry powder to taste 

hard-cooked eggs i teaspoonful onion-juice 

X pint (i cup) cooked oysters Cream 

Salt to taste Buttered bread 

Chop the slightly cooked oysters with the eggs, add 
seasonings to taste, and moisten with cream. Spread 
between thin squares of buttered bread. 

CUCUMBER AND LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

}/2 pint (i cup) boiled dress- Vinegar and onion- juice to 

ing taste 

i gill (tf cup) whipped Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

cream taste 

Crisp lettuce leaves Buttered whole-wheat bread 

Peeled and sliced cucumbers Ground nut meats 



94 Sandwich Recipes 

Mix the whipped cream with the boiled dressing 
and spread on slices of whole-wheat bread. Sprinkle 
over with a layer of ground nut meats, and on one 
slice lay two or three thinly sliced pieces of cucumber 
seasoned with vinegar, onion-juice, salt, pepper, and 
paprika. On the other slice of the sandwich place one 
or two lettuce leaves and press the slices lightly to- 
gether. 

The nuts may be omitted. 

Another Method. Delicious sandwiches may be 
made by dipping thin slices of cucumber in well- 
seasoned French dressing or boiled dressing, and plac- 
ing, with a sprinkling of finely chopped fresh mint, 
between thin slices of white bread spread with sweet 
butter. Cut into star shapes. 



DAISY SANDWICHES 

Bread Butter 

Grated cheese Lettuce leaves 

Eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

Allow one slice of light bread, three-fourths of an 
inch thick, and an egg to each person. Cut the bread 
in rounds, spread with butter, and brown lightly. 
Cool and spread with grated cheese. Beat up the 
whites of the eggs, season with salt, pile them on the 
top of the rounds, make a depression in the top of 
each white, and fill with the unbroken yolks of eggs. 



Sandwich Recipes 95 

Sprinkle with pepper and bake in a hot oven until the 
whites are slightly browned. Serve on lettuce leaves. 

DATE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

6 ozs. (1^2 cups) nut meats Lemon-juice 

6 ozs. (\y 2 cups) stoned Thick cream 

dates Whole-wheat bread 
Butter 

Put the nuts and dates through a food-chopper, add 
lemon-juice to taste, and enough cream to make it of 
a consistency to spread. Butter a thin slice of bread, 
then spread with the filling, and finish with an un- 
buttered slice. Cut into fingers. 

DEVILED HAM SANDWICHES 

Buttered bread >^ pint (i cup) milk 

Deviled ham Paprika to taste 

2 eggs Hot melted butter 

Spread thin slices of bread with butter and upon 
half of the buttered slices spread some deviled ham. 
Finish with the other slices of buttered bread and cut 
in halves. 

Beat up the eggs, add the milk and paprika to taste. 
Soak the sandwiches in this mixture until they are 
saturated, then cook in hot butter until browned, 
first on one side and then on the other. Serve hot. 

Grated cheese may be used in place of the deviled 
ham. 



96 Sandwich Recipes 

Another Method. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a 
small saucepan, add one tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with one teaspoonful of mustard, one teaspoonful of 
salt, three tablespoonfuls of sugar; mix well, then add 
one teacupful of vinegar, and stir and cook until it 
boils. Cool and mix with a can of deviled ham and 
spread on crackers. 



DUTCH SANDWICHES 

Smoked ham sausage Sliced gherkins 

White or brown bread Butter 

French mustard 

Cut very thinly the required number of slices of 
smoked ham sausage. Butter some thinly cut slices 
of brown or white bread, spread over each a little 
mustard, and then add a layer of thinly sliced gherkins. 
Lay the slices of sausage between each two slices of 
buttered bread, and trim and cut into the desired 
shapes. 

EGG AND LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

4 hard-cooked eggs 2 tablespoonfuls chopped eel- 

Crisp lettuce leaves ery 

Mayonnaise dressing 4 drops onion-juice 

Buttered bread 

Chop the eggs, add the celery, onion-juice, and 
enough mayonnaise dressing to make the mixture 



Sandwich Recipes 97 

spread nicely, and place with a lettuce leaf between 
buttered bread. 

FIG SANDWICHES 

Y 2 lb. (2 cups) chopped figs >i lb. ( l /4 cup) butter 
i gill (>^ cup) water Bread 

^ lb. (X CU P) sugar 



Put the figs through a food-chopper, add the sugar 
and water, and cook until thick. Cool, add the but- 
ter, and mix well. Spread between thin slices of 
bread. If liked, one-half cupful of chopped nut meats 
may be added. 

Another Method. Put three-fourths cupful of water 
into a saucepan with one and one-half cupfuls of light 
brown sugar, and one teaspoonful of butter, and boil 
to a thick syrup ; then take from the fire and add one- 
half pound of chopped figs, one-half pound of chopped 
cocoanut, and one-half cupful of chopped English 
walnut meats. 

Chill, and use with bread or crackers. 

Or soak eight figs in hot water for two minutes, then 
drain and dry them, slice them in halves lengthwise, 
fill with chopped English walnut meats, and serve 
between crackers. 

FRENCH SANDWICHES 

i pint (2 cups) frogs' legs Lettuce leaves 
Mayonnaise dressing French bread 

7 



98 Sandwich Recipes 

Boil the frogs' legs until tender in slightly salted 
boiling water; then drain and chop the meat and 
mix it with mayonnaise dressing; spread between 
lettuce leaves and lay on thin slices of buttered French 
bread. 

GAME SANDWICHES 

Cold cooked game Salt, pepper, and Paprika to 
2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) taste 

butter Watercress or parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls whipped 3 hard-cooked egg-yolks 

cream Buttered bread 

Take away all skin, bone, and gristle from cold 
cooked game and chop it, making one cupful. Put 
this with the egg-yolks, butter, and seasonings into a 
basin and pound well; then add the cream and mix 
thoroughly. Spread between slices of buttered bread, 
press lightly together, cut into rounds or any shape 
desired. Garnish with watercress or sprigs of parsley. 



GINGER AND NUT SANDWICHES 

y^ pint (i cup) chopped ^4 pint (> cup) chopped 
preserved ginger candied orange-peel 

% pint (i cup) chopped nut Vinegar 

meats Buttered whole-wheat bread 

Mix the ginger, nuts, and peel together; add a few 
drops of vinegar and enough of the preserved ginger 
syrup to bind the mixture. Spread between thin 



Sandwich Recipes 99 

slices of buttered whole-wheat bread. Cut into fancy 
shapes and serve at afternoon tea. 

Another Method. Put two cupfuls of preserved 
ginger through a food-chopper with one-half cupful of 
preserved cherries; add the strained juice of one 
orange and two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream; 
spread between very thin slices of buttered bread, cut 
in circles or squares, decorate with halves of cherries, 
and serve with tea or chocolate. 



GINGERBREAD SANDWICHES 

Gingerbread Honey 

Butter 

Cut very thin slices from a flat cake of gingerbread. 
Butter each slice and spread with honey alternately; 
place two together, spread side uppermost, and then 
cover with a plain slice. Press these triple sandwiches 
gently together, cut in halves or quarters, and serve 
for afternoon tea. 



HAM CANAPES 

% lb. (i cup) chopped i oz. (% cup) grated Par- 
cooked ham mesan cheese 

i gill (J/2 cup) cream Red pepper to taste 

Chutney Bread 

Cut some bread in rounds and fry these to a golden 
color in hot fat. Pound the ham and mix it with the 



ioo Sandwich Recipes 

cream; then spread thickly on the croutes of bread; 
over that put a layer of chutney, then a layer of cheese 
which has been seasoned with a little red pepper. 
Place in the oven to brown the cheese and serve at 
once. 

HAM RUSK SANDWICHES 

Rusks i tablespoonful chopped pars- 
Boiled ham ley 
i skinned tomato Salt and paprika to taste 
i bell pepper Boiled or mayonnaise dress- 
10 stuffed olives ing 

Put some boiled ham through a food-chopper; 
measure two cupfuls, and add the tomato, pepper, 
olives chopped fine, parsley, seasonings, and enough 
boiled or mayonnaise dressing to make a paste. Cut 
some rusks in halves and spread with the filling. 



HARWICH SANDWICHES 

^ lb. (i cup) cooked ham Boiled dressing 

2 sweet pickles i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
2 hard-cooked eggs ley 

X can pimientoes (red pep- Buttered bread 
pers) 

Put the ham, pickles, eggs, and pimientoes through 
a food-chopper; add the parsley and mix with suffi- 
cient dressing to moisten. Spread between thin 
slices of buttered bread and cut into triangles. 



Sandwich Recipes 101 

HIGH-SCHOOL SANDWICHES 

Chopped English walnut X Ib. ( l / 2 cup) sugar 

meats % teaspoonful salt 

Buttered bread i tablespoonful flour 

Crisp lettuce leaves 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

i lemon 3^ z - ( J tablespoonful) butter 

4 egg-yolks y 2 pint (i cup) water 

Strain the juice of lemon into a saucepan; add 
yolks of eggs mixed with the sugar, salt, flour, vinegar, 
butter, and water. Stir and cook until thick, then 
cool and add as many walnut meats as desired. 
Spread this dressing over a crisp lettuce leaf and place 
between thin slices of buttered bread. 

The whites of eggs may be used for cake or meringue. 



HORSERADISH AND TOMATO SANDWICHES 

Y pint (K cup) grated Salt 

horseradish White bread 

Skinned, sliced tomatoes Butter 

y, pint ($4 cup) mayonnaise Parsley 

dressing 

Sprinkle the tomato slices with salt. Spread thin 
slices of buttered bread with the horseradish and the 
mayonnaise mixed together; put the slices of tomato 
between, cut into fancy shapes, and serve garnished 
with parsley. 



IO2 Sandwich Recipes 



JELLIED CHICKEN SANDWICHES 

1 boiled chicken >^ pint (i cup) cream 

2 stalks celery % tablespoonful lemon-juice 

1 teaspoonful grated onion Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered taste 

gelatine Buttered brown or white 

i gill (X cup) hot water bread 



Put the meat of the chicken and celery through a 
food-chopper, then add the onion, seasonings, cream, 
and the gelatine dissolved in the water. Turn into a 
wet, shallow dish and set on ice for two hours. Cut 
into thin slices and place between buttered slices of 
brown or white bread. If liked, a little grated horse- 
radish may be added. 

JELLIED TOMATO SANDWICHES 

i can tomatoes Tabasco sauce to taste 

1 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) 2 chopped pimientoes (canned 
powdered gelatine red peppers) 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls chopped nut 
i teaspoonful sugar meats 

X teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls chopped cel- 
% teaspoonful pepper ery 

^2 teaspoonful celery salt Lettuce leaves 

i teaspoonful Worcester- Mayonnaise dressing 

shire sauce Buttered bread 

Boil and strain the tomatoes, add the gelatine and 
seasonings. When cool, add pimientoes, nut meats, 



1 1 1 1 *.~1 "Vl "VI 




LADY MARY SANDWICHES 



Sandwich Recipes 103 

and celery. Spread when cold on buttered slices of 
bread, add a lettuce leaf dipped in mayonnaise dress- 
ing, and top with a slice of buttered bread. Cut into 
squares and serve on a sandwich tray. 



LADY MARY SANDWICHES 

Stoned and chopped dates Lemon-juice 
Chopped pecan nut meats Lady-fingers 
Honey 

Mix equal quantities of dates and pecan nut meats, 
and moisten with honey and lemon-juice to taste. 
Spread between lady-fingers and serve tied in small 
bundles. These sandwiches are delicious with hot 
chocolate. 

Another Method. Spread apricot or strawberry 
jam between the lady-fingers. Decorate the tops 
with whipped and sweetened cream and candied rose 
leaves. 

LEMON-BUTTER SANDWICHES 

White cake i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) butter 

4 lemons 3 eggs 

i Ib. (2 cups) sugar 

Put the grated rind of one of the lemons, with the 
strained juice of the four lemons, sugar, and butter into 
a saucepan and stir and cook for five minutes. Take 
from the fire and add the eggs well beaten. Return 



IO4 Sandwich Recipes 

to the fire and cook for three minutes longer, stirring 
all the time. Be careful the mixture does not burn. 
Cool and spread between dainty pieces of white cake. 
Or spread slices of bread with the mixture, cover, 
cut into fingers or any other shape preferred, and 
arrange daintily on a silver plate with an ornamental 
paper. 

LENTEN SANDWICHES 

i chopped pickled beet Mayonnaise dressing 

3 small chopped pickles Lettuce leaves 

i tablespoonful chopped 2 chopped hard-cooked eggs 

capers 12 thin slices bread 
}/2 tablespoonful chopped 

parsley 

Put one cupful of mayonnaise dressing into a basin, 
add the eggs, parsley, capers, pickles, and beet. 
Spread a thin layer of this mixture over each slice of 
bread; dip some tender lettuce leaves into mayon- 
naise, lay them over six slices of the bread, and cover 
them with the other six. Trim the sandwiches all 
round, then cut into triangles and serve. 

LETTUCE SANDWICHES 

Lettuce leaves Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

3 onions taste 

3 tomatoes Vinegar 

3 hard-cooked eggs Buttered brown bread 

Rub the tomatoes through a sieve. Chop the 



Sandwich Recipes 105 

onions very fine. Mash the eggs, and add enough 
vinegar to make a smooth paste; then mix with the 
tomato and onion, and season all with salt, pepper, and 
paprika. Cut slices of brown bread and butter them. 
Lay a crisp lettuce leaf on each buttered piece; spread 
the above mixture over them equally, and cover with 
another piece of buttered brown bread. Serve on a 
plate covered with lettuce leaves. 

LIEDERKRANZ CHEESE SANDWICHES 

i Liederkranz cheese Small buttered muffins 

12 stoned, chopped olives 

With a sharp knife cut in halves the required num- 
ber of small thin muffins; butter each half, and spread 
over a thin layer of Liederkranz cheese. Sprinkle 
over with the olives and sandwich muffins together. 

LIVER AND CHESTNUT SANDWICHES 

]/2 lb. (2 cups) boiled liver i pint (2 cups) shelled chest- 
% oz. (i tablespoonful) nuts 

butter i gill ($4 cup) stock 

Salt and pepper to taste Buttered bread 

Boil the chestnuts until soft, then blanch them and 
mash to a fine paste. Add the livers, chopped fine, 
the butter, seasonings, and stock. Heat and mix 
thoroughly, then set away to cool. Spread between 
thin slices of buttered bread. Cut into neat squares 
and serve. 



io6 Sandwich Recipes 

LOBSTER SANDWICHES 

Slices bread Chopped parsley 

Sweet butter Capers 

Salt and paprika Liquid aspic jelly 

Hard-cooked egg-yolk Lettuce or watercress 
Pounded cooked lobster 

Spread some thinly cut slices of bread with sweet 
butter, sprinkle this with a little salt and paprika, 
and on this sprinkle some hard-cooked yolk of egg 
which has been rubbed through a wire sieve. 

Have some more buttered bread spread with the 
lobster, and sprinkled with chopped parsley and capers. 
Close the slices together, the last mentioned on the 
top, then cut out with a round cutter about two 
inches in diameter. Brush over the top side of the 
rounds with a little liquid aspic jelly and sprinkle with 
chopped parsley. 

Place the lettuce or watercress in the center of a 
dish, and arrange the sandwiches round the salad. 
Potted lobster may be used. 

Another Method. Remove meat from a boiled 
lobster and slice into small pieces. Cut bread thin, 
remove crusts, and butter. Mix the lobster with 
mayonnaise dressing and spread thinly between two 
slices of bread. Cut into oblong pieces. 



Sandwich Recipes 107 



MAPLE SANDWICHES 

K pint (i cup) maple syrup i gill (> cup) diced pineapple 

i gill (y% cup) stoned i tablespoonful crushed maple 

chopped dates sugar 

i gill (y 2 cup) blanched, Buttered bread 

chopped almonds 

Put the maple syrup into a saucepan, add the dates, 
almonds and pineapple and cook gently for eight 
minutes. Take from the fire and add the maple sugar. 

Cut the bread in long, thin slices, and remove the 
crusts. Spread with the mixture, and roll up, wrap- 
ping each in waxed paper. Let stand for a few hours, 
when the paper can be removed and they will keep the 
shape desired. 

Another Method. Mix one cupful of grated maple 
sugar with one cupful of blanched and chopped 
almonds and mix to a paste with whipped cream; 
spread on buttered white or Graham bread and cut 
into shapes. Decorate with chopped almonds, and 
serve around a mound of molded cream-cheese balls 
flecked with paprika. 



MARMALADE AND NUT SANDWICHES 

24 blanched and chopped i pint (2 cups) orange or 
almonds grapefruit marmalade 

24 blanched and chopped White or Graham bread 
English walnut meats 



io8 Sandwich Recipes 

Mix the nuts with the marmalade and spread on 
thin slices of buttered white or Graham bread. 



MARSHMALLOW SANDWICHES 

Marshmallows Fingers buttered bread 

Cut some marshmallows in halves and place them 
between small narrow fingers of buttered bread ; then 
toast in a very hot oven, first on one side and then on 
the other. 

MARZIPAN SANDWICHES 

Buttered white or brown Red currant jelly 
bread Angelica 



Almond paste i egg-white 

Glace fruits 

Butter some thin slices of white or brown bread. 
Beat up the white of egg and with it thin some almond 
paste. Spread between the slices of bread. Decorate 
the top with the red currant jelly, putting it through 
a small bag and tube, small pieces of glace fruits, and 
leaves of angelica. Cut into finger-shaped pieces. 

MINT SANDWICHES 

8 large sprigs mint 4 tablespoonfuls cold water 

y!t pint ( i cup) boiling water i oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) 
i pint (2 cups) whipped powdered gelatine 

cream Bread 

Chop the mint, put it into a saucepan with the boil- 



Sandwich Recipes 109 

ing water, and simmer for thirty minutes. Soak the 
gelatine in the cold water and add to mint, and after 
this dissolves, strain. When nearly cold, add the 
whipped cream and mix well. When cold, spread on 
bread. 

Another Method. To four tablespoonfuls of finely 
chopped mint add four tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, four teaspoonfuls of chopped chives, paprika 
to taste, and enough mayonnaise dressing to mix. 
Spread upon thin slices of fine-grained white bread. 

MOSAIC SANDWICH 

i cream cheese i chopped pimiento (canned 

2]/2 tablespoonfuls peanut red pepper) 

butter Salt and paprika to taste 

White and Graham bread 

Mash the cheese and mix it with the peanut butter, 
pimiento, salt, and paprika to taste. 

Cut three slices each of white and Graham bread, 
one-half inch thick. Spread a slice of the white bread 
with mixture and place a slice of Graham bread upon 
it. Spread this with mixture and place on it a slice 
of white bread. Repeat this process, beginning with 
the slice of Graham bread. Put both piles in a cold 
place under a light weight for one hour. Remove the 
weight, and cut each pile in three and one-half inch 
slices. Spread two of them with the prepared 
mixture, and put together in such a way that a white 



no Sandwich Recipes 

block is alternately with a Graham one, making a 
checker appearance. Wrap in damp cheesecloth and 
again place under a light weight in a cool place. Re- 
move the weight at serving time and cut in dice. 

MUSHROOM AND LOBSTER SANDWICHES 

i can or (i cup) cooked Salt and pepper to taste 

lobster meat Tomato catchup to taste 

K pint (i cup) mushrooms Lemon- juice to taste 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) White bread 

butter i small onion 

Stock 

Wash and dry the mushrooms and cut them into 
small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the 
onion chopped and the mushrooms, cover with stock, 
and cook slowly until tender. Drain the mushrooms, 
add the lobster meat to them, and pound until smooth; 
add seasonings and enough of the liquor to moisten. 
Spread on thin buttered slices of white bread. 

MY FAVORITE SANDWICHES 

1 pint (2 cups) cold cooked i tablespoonful lemon- juice 
halibut Mayonnaise dressing 

2 hard-cooked eggs Radishes 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped Lightly buttered white bread 
capers 

Shred the fish and chop the hard-cooked eggs. 
Mix these with the capers, add the lemon-juice, and 




MY FAVORITE SANDWICHES 




XAXTUCKET SANDWICHES 



Sandwich Recipes in 

moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Spread on slices 
of lightly buttered bread, cover with other slices, and 
cut into fancy shapes. Serve with the radishes. 



NANTUCKET SANDWICHES 

Graham and white bread X lb. seeded raisins 

Yi pint (i cup) chopped 24 lb. of figs 

nut meats 12 marshmallows 

2 lemons i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) sugar 

}4 pound stoned dates i beaten egg white 

Put the figs, dates, and raisins through a food- 
chopper, add the strained juice of the lemon, the 
sugar, nut meats, the marshmallows melted, and white 
of egg. Mix and spread on rounds of Graham and 
white bread. 

NASTURTIUM SANDWICHES 

Nasturtium flowers Buttered bread, brown or 

Salt and pepper to taste white 

Chop some nasturtium flowers, season with salt and 
a little pepper, spread on a slice of bread and butter 
very thinly cut, cover, and cut into any desired shape, 
and decorate the sandwiches with a few nasturtium 
blooms. Or flavor some butter with nasturtium 
leaves and blossoms, and with it spread a thin slice of 
moist bread. Press fresh nasturtium leaves and 
blossoms upon the butter, and place one piece of 



H2 Sandwich Recipes 

bread upon the other. These sandwiches may be 
modified by combining thin slices of cucumber with 
the blossoms. The leaves also make a capital addi- 
tion to ordinary chopped or sliced meat or egg sand- 
wiches, and may be recommended to those in search 
of something new for afternoon teas or picnics. 



NUT AND HONEY SANDWICHES 

i gill (yz cup) honey /^ lb. (i cup) butter 

3 ozs. (y^ cup) chopped Biscuits or crackers 
black walnut meats 

Melt the butter, stir in the honey and the walnuts. 
Chill and spread between crackers or biscuits. To 
make honey sandwiches for afternoon tea cut thin 
slices of brown or entire wheat bread and spread quite 
thick with honey. Sprinkle with chopped preserved 
cherries or chopped preserved ginger, and press the 
slices together. Cut into fancy shapes and serve. 



NUT CANAPES 

y$ lb. (i cup) chopped nut 6 chopped sweet pickles 

meats Bread 

Mayonnaise dressing Pimientoes (canned red pep- 

pers) 

Mix the nut meats and the pickles with enough 
mayonnaise dressing to spread. Fry circles of bread 



Sandwich Recipes 113 

in hot fat and spread with the nut mixture. Garnish 
with stars of pimientoes. 

ONION SANDWICHES 

Thinly sliced onions i tablespoonful sugar 

2 beaten eggs i tablespoonful butter 

i gill (Y 2 cup) milk i gill (Yz cup) vinegar 

i tablespoonful salt Bread 
i tablespoonful mustard 

Put the eggs in the upper pan of a double boiler, 
add the milk, salt, mustard, sugar, butter, and vine- 
gar, and cook until as thick as boiled custard. Cool 
and spread on thin slices of bread. Put together 
with a layer of onions between. 

Do not use large white onions or the yellow variety 
for making sandwiches. 

OYSTER CANAPfiS 

Oysters Lemon- juice to taste 

Caviar Buttered brown bread 

Sliced cucumbers Parsley 
Salt and pepper to taste 

Cut some rounds of buttered brown bread, and lay 
a thin slice of crisp cucumber on the top of each. 
Season some oysters with salt, pepper, and lemon- 
juice and place them on the top of the cucumber. 
Surround the oysters with caviar, garnish with sprigs 

of parsley, and serve. 

8 



H4 Sandwich Recipes 

OYSTER SANDWICHES 

i pint (2 cups) oysters 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 

1 gill (fa cup) cream butter 

2 egg-yolks fa teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls cracker % teaspoonful pepper 
crumbs Buttered bread 

Drain the oysters and chop them, put them into a 
saucepan, cover, and let steam for five minutes; then 
add butter, seasonings, beaten yolks of eggs, cracker- 
crumbs, and cream. Cook for two minutes, set aside 
to cool slightly, then spread between slices of white 
buttered bread, and serve at once. 

Another Method. Chop one pint of raw oysters 
very fine, season to taste with salt, pepper, and 
Tabasco, then lay on thinly buttered white bread with 
crisp lettuce leaves between. 



PALO ALTO SANDWICHES 

Buttered bread ^ teaspoonful sugar 

ifa ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) i chopped medium-sized 

butter onion 

2 tablespoonfuls French i teaspoonful chopped capers 

mustard 6 chopped sweet pickles 

i tablespoonf ul grated cheese 1 2 chopped stuffed olives 

Cream the butter, add the mustard, cheese, sugar, 
onion, capers, pickles, and olives. Spread between 
very thin slices of buttered bread and cut in squares. 



Sandwich Recipes 115 



PARMA SANDWICHES 

6 hard-cooked eggs X pint (i cup) English wal- 

}/2 pint (i cup) stuffed nut meats 

olives Mayonnaise or boiled dressing 

Buttered bread 

Chop the eggs, nuts, and olives separately, then mix 
them together and moisten with the dressing. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread and cut into 
fancy shapes. 

PATE DE FOIE GRAS SANDWICHES 

Pate de foie gras (i jar or Oil 

tin) Vinegar 

Brown or white bread Salt and pepper to taste 

Butter Parsley 
Cucumbers 

Cut some thin slices of buttered bread and stamp 
out rounds from them the size of the rounds of cucum- 
ber. Peel and slice the cucumbers and let them lie 
for a short time in a dressing made of salt, vinegar, 
oil, and pepper, then drain. 

Spread one-half of the slices with pate de foie gras, 
lay on a slice of cucumber, place the other slice of 
bread on the top, and arrange in a ring in a dish, the 
sandwiches overlapping each other. Garnish with 
parsley. 

Or spread pate de foie gras on lightly buttered bread, 



n6 Sandwich Recipes 

cover with a layer of chopped watercress mixed with 
French dressing, place slices of bread on the top, and 
cut into finger-shaped pieces, and pile log-cabin fashion 
in a sandwich basket. 

Pate de foie gras mixed with truffles is delicious 
and delicate. 

PEANUT SANDWICHES 

}/2 pint (i cup) shelled and }4 lemon 

chopped peanuts i>2 gills (^ CU P) sour cream 

^3 cupful vinegar Lettuce leaves 

2 ozs. (y^ cup) sugar Buttered bread 

y teaspoonful salt i egg 
y& teaspoonful pepper 

Put the vinegar into a small saucepan and bring to 
boiling-point. Beat up the egg and mix it with the 
sour cream, add the sugar, salt, and pepper, and put 
all into the hot vinegar. Stir until it boils, then 
remove from the fire and allow to cool before pouring 
it over the peanuts. Add enough strained lemon- 
juice to make the mixture tart. Spread between slices 
of buttered bread with a crisp lettuce leaf between. 

Another Method. Secure fresh roasted peanuts or 
buy them shelled, by the pound. Remove the inner 
hull and put them in the oven to brown nicely. Turn 
them out on a board and crush fine with a rolling-pin. 
Place them in a bowl and mix thoroughly with may- 
onnaise dressing. The cooked mayonnaise, without 




^ 

p 




oo 
^ 
W 
H 

D 






Sandwich Recipes 117 

oil, makes a delicious combination. Spread between 
slices of thin buttered bread and cut into cutlet 
shapes. 

If liked, cream cheese may be added and the mixture 
spread between crackers. 



PERSIAN SANDWICHES 

]/2 lb. stoned dates y? lb. preserved cherries 

y-i lb. figs i lemon 

]/2 lb. English walnut meats i teaspoonful almond extract 

y?. lb. peanut butter Unsweetened crackers 

Put the figs, dates, and cherries through a food- 
chopper. Cut the nut meats into small pieces and 
add them, with the peanut butter, almond extract, 
and enough strained lemon-juice to make a paste soft 
enough to mold into flat wafers one-fourth of an inch 
thick. 

Serve between saltines or any unsweetened cracker. 

If liked, a little chopped preserved pineapple may 
be added to the above. 



PICKLE SANDWICHES 

4 chopped pickles i tablespoonful grated fresh 

3 tablespoonfuls whipped horseradish 

cream 8 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise 

Chopped cooked beef or boiled dressing 

Buttered bread 



n8 Sandwich Recipes 

Mix together the cream, mayonnaise, or boiled 
dressing, horseradish, and pickles. Spread buttered 
bread with this mixture, then with a thin layer of 
beef, and cover with more dressing and bread. Cut 
into shapes and serve for supper. 

PINEAPPLE SANDWICHES 

1 pineapple 2 ozs. (^4 cup) chopped mara- 
Sugar schino cherries 

2 ozs. (^2 cup) chopped pre- White mayonnaise dressing 
served ginger Bread 

Peel and slice the pineapple, add sugar to taste, 
and allow to stand in a cool place for three hours. 
Then chop fine, add ginger, cherries, and mayonnaise 
to moisten, and spread between thin squares of bread. 

PORK AND OLIVE SANDWICHES 

2 boiled pork tenderloins ^3 cupful vinegar 

24 pint (\]/2 cups) stoned i teaspoonful mustard 

olives Salt and pepper 

2 eggs Buttered bread 
\yi. gills (^ cup) milk Lettuce leaves 

3 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

Put the well-cooked tenderloins and the olives 
through a food-chopper. Break the eggs into a small 
saucepan, stir in the mustard, add salt and pepper 
to taste, milk, oil, and vinegar, and stir and cook over 
a slow fire until the mixture comes to boiling-point. 








Sandwich Recipes 119 

Boil for two minutes and cool. Then add the pork 
and olives. 

Butter slices of bread, then spread the mixture on 
thick, and put a crisp lettuce leaf between the slices. 

POTTED BEEF SANDWICHES 

iK Ibs. lean beef Salt and red pepper 

*/t lb. (i cup) butter 4 boned anchovies 

Powdered cloves and mace Few drops red color 

Powdered allspice and nut- Bread 
meg 

Cut the beef into tiny pieces, put it into an earthen- 
ware jar with one-half of the butter. Cover the jar, 
set it in a pan of boiling water, and cook. When 
nearly ready, add cloves, mace, allspice, nutmeg, 
salt, and red pepper to taste; then continue to boil it 
until tender and let it get cold. 

Wash and bone the anchovies and pound them with 
the meat, the remainder of the butter, and a few drops 
of red color. Press into small pots and cover with 
melted butter or suet. 

This mixture is suitable for any emergency and may 
be used with rolls or bread. 

RAISIN SANDWICHES 

% lb. (i cup) seeded raisins 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) sweet 

^ lb. (i cup) chopped nut butter 

meats Toasted crackers or brown 

]/2 tablespoonful lemon- bread 

juice A few boiled raisins 



I2O Sandwich Recipes 

Wash, dry, and chop the raisins, add the nut meats, 
lemon- juice, and butter; mix to a paste and spread 
between toasted crackers or thin slices of brown 
bread. Decorate with boiled raisins. 

Or mix equal quantities of chopped raisins and 
chopped pecan nut meats, add four tablespoonfuls of 
boiled or mayonnaise dressing and one teaspoonful of 
lemon- juice; when smooth, spread between slices of 
buttered bread. Cut in crescents or squares. 

ROLLED SANDWICHES 

i long loaf bread ^ pint (i cup) chopped 

Softened butter stuffed olives 

i pint (2 cups) cooked % Ib. (i cup) chopped Eng- 
chopped ham lish walnut meats 

Boiled dressing 

Mix the ham, olives, and nuts with enough boiled 
dressing to moisten them. Use a loaf that is square 
at the ends and one day old. Remove the crusts 
from the loaf and with a very sharp knife cut it into 
even slices, one-eighth of an inch thick. Place these 
slices together in the original form, wrap them in a 
damp cloth, and let them stand for two hours. By 
that time they will be soft enough to roll without 
breaking. Spread each slice with the softened butter 
and the mixture, roll it, and then wrap it in a piece of 
waxed paper that is wide enough to go nearly twice 
around it and long enough to extend beyond the roll 
in a twist at each end. Keep on ice until wanted. 



Sandwich Recipes 121 



ROSE PETAL SANDWICHES 

Rose petals Bread 

Sweet butter 

Put a layer of rose leaves in the bottom of a jar or 
covered dish, put in one-half cupful of fresh, unsalted 
butter wrapped in waxed paper, cover with a thick 
layer of rose leaves, cover closely, and leave in a 
cool place over night. The more fragrant the roses, 
the finer the flavoring imparted. 

Cut the bread for these dainty sandwiches in thin 
strips or circles, spread each with the perfumed butter, 
and place several leaves from fresh roses between the 
slices, allowing the edges to show. 

Rose-leaf conserve is delicious spread between 
slices of angel-cake. 

Violets or clover blossoms may be used in place of 
the rose leaves. 

RUSSIAN CAVIAR SANDWICHES 

Slices bread Chillies or pimientoes 

Butter Watercress 

Russian caviar Liquid aspic jelly 

Aspic cream Hard-cooked eggs 
Lemon slices 

Take some slices of buttered bread, cut about one- 
eighth of an inch thick, and spread them with Russian 
caviar; arrange them in sandwich form, then stamp 



122 Sandwich Recipes 

them out into rounds with a plain round cutter about 
two inches in diameter. Mask the top side over 
thinly with aspic cream, on which place a very thinly 
cut slice of lemon; garnish with tiny strips of chillies, 
or pimientoes, and mask again with liquid aspic jelly. 
Serve each sandwich on a layer of hard-cooked egg 
rubbed through a sieve, and decorate with a little piece 
of watercress. 



SALMON SANDWICHES 

i 

i can salmon i teaspoonful mustard 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) y& teaspoonful paprika 
butter i gill (>< cup) vinegar 

J/2 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) y 2 pint (i cup) milk or cream 
flour 2 egg-yolks 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar Buttered bread 

i teaspoonful salt X tablespoonful lemon-juice 

Sprinkle the lemon-juice over the salmon. Melt 
the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the 
seasonings, milk or cream, and when smooth add the 
vinegar. Stir until thick and pour on the beaten yolks 
of eggs; return to the fire and cook for a few minutes. 
Do not curdle the eggs, add the salmon, and cool. 
Spread between slices of buttered bread and cut into 
square pieces. 

One-half cupful of chopped peanuts may be added 
to the salmon mixture if liked. 



Sandwich Recipes 123 



SARDINE CANAPES 

8 sardines 2 teaspoonfuls chopped pars- 

2 tablespoonfuls lemon- ley 

juice 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 

X teaspoonful Worcester- butter 

shire sauce 2 hard-cooked eggs 

yi teaspoonful paprika Capers or watercress 

Toast 

Toast lightly oval-shaped slices of bread. Skin and 
bone the sardines, rub them to a paste, add the season- 
ings and the butter creamed. Spread this mixture 
on the canapes, garnish with a border of the egg-whites, 
finely chopped, and on the top scatter the yolks of 
eggs rubbed through a ricer, and a few capers or sprigs 
of watercress. 



SARDINE AND ANCHOVY SANDWICHES 

1 2 sardines i teaspoonful chopped parsley 

6 anchovies Salt and paprika to taste 

4 ozs. (>2 cup) butter Buttered bread 

Remove the skin and bones from the anchovies and 
sardines and pound them; add the butter, parsley, 
salt, and paprika, and mix well together; cut some 
thin white bread and butter it; spread freely with the 
sardine mixture, cover with a slice of buttered bread, 
trim off the crusts, and cut into fingers. Decorate 
with sprigs of parsley and serve on a sandwich tray. 



124 Sandwich Recipes 

A pleasing sandwich filling can be made by mashing 
twelve boned sardines with a cream cheese and a little 
of their own oil. Season with red pepper and finely 
chopped parsley. 

Anchovies may be substituted for the sardines, and 
paprika and mint used for seasonings. 



SARDINE AND TOMATO SANDWICHES 

1 can sardines Red pepper 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) Buttered bread 
butter Skinned tomatoes 

Salt Lemon-juice 

Skin and bone the sardines and pound them with 
the butter, seasoning to taste with salt and red pepper. 
Spread this mixture on thin rounds of buttered bread; 
cut the tomatoes the same size as rounds of bread, 
and place a slice between two pieces, first squeezing a 
little lemon-juice over them. Press the rounds firmly 
together. 

Another Method. Skin and bone one can of sardines. 
Beat up one egg, add one-fourth cupful of milk and 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Dip twelve slices of 
French bread in the egg mixture, and fry quickly in 
plenty of smoking hot fat. Place a sardine between 
each two slices of the fried bread, garnish with a slice 
of hard-cooked egg and a sprig of parsley. Serve at 
once. 



Sandwich Recipes 125 

SAVORY CREAM SANDWICHES 

1 gill (^ cup) whipped Unbuttered bread 
cream Salt and pepper to taste 

2 teaspoonfuls anchovy ex- Beaten egg-white or liquid 
tract or shrimp paste aspic jelly 

i teaspoonf ul finely chopped Paprika 
parsley 

Mix the cream with the anchovy extract, parsley, 
salt and pepper to taste. Spread on slices of unbut- 
tered bread and cut into squares or triangles; brush 
the edges with beaten white of egg or liquid aspic jelly, 
and dust these with chopped parsley and paprika. 

SHAD-ROE SANDWICH 

4 ozs. ( l /2 cup) butter 3 chopped olives 

3 hard-cooked egg-yolks Salt and paprika to taste 
i cooked shad roe Bread 

3 drops Tabasco sauce 

Pound the roe and rub it through a sieve with the 
hard-cooked yolks of eggs. Cream the butter, add all 
the other ingredients, then spread between slices of 
bread. Cut into shapes and dish up neatly on a sand- 
wich tray. 

Cooked cod's roe may be used in place of the shad 
roe. 

Another Method. Crush a pair of cooked shad roes 
with a silver fork and moisten with mayonnaise dress- 
ing flavored with tarragon vinegar. Spread one 



126 Sandwich Recipes 

slice of white bread lightly with mayonnaise dressing 
and cover with chopped watercress; spread the 
second slice with butter, and then with the shad-roe 
mixture, and press lightly together. 

SHRIMP SANDWICHES 

4 tablespoonfuls of picked i^ teaspoonfuls anchovy 

shrimps paste 

3 tablespoonfuls whipped Buttered rolls 

cream Sprigs of parsley 

Paprika to taste 

Chop the shrimps, mix them with the anchovy 
paste, paprika, and whipped cream. Spread this 
mixture between buttered rolls, and serve garnished 
with the parsley. 

SPANISH SANDWICHES 

3 pimientoes (canned red i tablespoonful flour 

peppers) i tablespoonful sugar 

y$ Ib. cheese 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

2 hard-cooked eggs i teaspoonful salt 

i small onion y teaspoonful red pepper 

i beaten egg Buttered bread 

i tablespoonful butter Lettuce leaves 

Put the pimientoes, hard-cooked eggs, and cheese 
through a food-chopper, add the onion, chopped, and 
mix well. 

Put the raw egg into the upper pan of a double 
boiler, stir in the sugar and flour, add the butter, salt, 
red pepper, and vinegar, and cook over hot water 



Sandwich Recipes 127 

until a paste is formed. Mix with the other ingred- 
ients and set aside to cool. 

Serve on slices of buttered bread with lettuce leaves 
between. 

STRAWBERRY SANDWICHES 

10 or 12 strawberries i teaspoonful strawberry ex- 

% Ib. (y? cup) butter tract 

6^2 ozs. (i cup) confection- Fresh bread 
ers' sugar 

Cream the butter until soft; add the sugar, the 
strawberries mashed, and strawberry extract. Mix 
all well together and chill on ice. Cut the crusts 
from fresh bread slices, spread with the mixture, and 
wrap in a cloth for several hours. The bread can be 
rolled up after being spread with the mixture, or it 
can be cut into fancy shapes. 

Another Method. Cut some thin slices of bread. 
Spread one-half with whipped cream and sprinkle 
over with sugar. Slightly butter the remaining slices, 
and cover with sliced strawberries. Press the two 
slices together. 

SUNDAY NIGHT CANAPES 

1 finnan haddie Brown breadcrumbs 

2 tablespoonfuls cream Fried croutons 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) i teaspoonful lemon- juice 
sweet butter Salt and pepper to taste 

Grated Parmesan cheese 



128 Sandwich Recipes 

Soak the haddie in milk and water for thirty min- 
utes, then cook it, drain, and rub through a sieve. 
Melt the butter in a saucepan, add seasonings, cream, 
and sieved haddie. When hot, pile on fried croutons, 
sprinkle with cheese mixed with a few breadcrumbs, 
return to the oven for a minute, and serve very hot. 



TANGO SANDWICHES 

Thin dry toast 2 boned anchovies 

Anchovy puree i tablespoonful potted fish 

Chopped parsley or chopped i tablespoonful thick white 

pistachio nuts sauce 

4 hard-cooked egg-yolks Salt and paprika to taste 

2 ozs. (4 tablespooonfuls) Few drops red color 

sweet butter 

Pound the yolks of eggs with the butter, anchovies, 
and potted fish. Add the sauce, red color, and salt 
and paprika, and rub through a wire sieve. Have 
some very thin dry toast made, and, while hot, spread 
it with some of the above mixture. Lay two pieces of 
toast together to make a sandwich, cut them into neat 
squares or oblong shapes, spread the top sides lightly 
with anchovy puree, and on this put a good sprinkling 
of chopped parsley or pistachio nuts. These are 
excellent for afternoon tea. 

To make the anchovy puree: Take eight large an- 
chovies that have been boned and well washed in cold 
water; add to them two hard-cooked yolks of eggs, 



Sandwich Recipes 129 

four tablespoonfuls of sweet butter, paprika to taste, 
and a few drops of red color, and pound all together; 
rub through a wire sieve and use. 

TONGUE CANAPES 

Cooked tongue Paprika 

Buttered brown bread Grated horseradish 

i peeled and sliced tomato Tarragon vinegar 
Whipped cream 

Cut some rounds of buttered brown bread. Place 
a thin slice of tomato on each canape, and cover with 
a thin round of tongue. Whip up some cream, season- 
ing to taste with the vinegar and horseradish, and pile 
a little of this on each round of tongue. Sprinkle with 
paprika and serve on a lace-edged paper. 

TONGUE SANDWICHES 

K pint (i cup) chopped i hard-cooked egg-yolk 

cooked tongue % lemon 

i teaspoonful mustard Pinch grated nutmeg 

i teaspoonful butter Buttered bread 
y teaspoonful paprika 

Mix the tongue with the yolk of egg, add the butter, 
strained lemon-juice, and the seasonings. Spread 
between thin slices of buttered bread and cut in tri- 
angles. 

Another Method. Put one-half pound each of 
cooked tongue and boiled ham through a food- 
9 



130 Sandwich Recipes 

chopper, add salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. 
Stir in one-half cupful of melted butter, one table- 
spoonful of chopped olives, and a small bottle of 
pickles chopped fine. Cut the bread as thin as 
possible. Spread it with some of the meat mixture, 
cover with a layer of washed and drained cress, and 
place another slice of the bread on the top. Cut into 
small sandwiches. 



TRICOLORED SANDWICHES 

6 slices bread Deviled ham 

Potted egg Aspic jelly 

Green butter Butter 

Butter the slices of bread and make three sand- 
wiches, one with potted egg, one with the deviled ham, 
and the other with the green butter. Now put a 
little softened butter on them and stick all three sand- 
wiches together, press them lightly, trim off the crusts, 
and cut them into six pieces; dip each one into liquid 
aspic jelly that is just about to set, and put them in a 
cool place or in a refrigerator until required. 

To make the potted egg: Hard-cook three eggs, allow 
them to get cold, pass the yolks through a sieve, beat 
them with a tablespoonful of butter, season to taste 
with salt and paprika. 





CHICKEX AXD CRAXBERRY SAXUWICHES 




Courtesy cf " The Lidics' Home Journal 

SAXDVVJCHES 



Sandwich Recipes 131 

TUTTI FRUTTI SANDWICHES 

i lb. figs }4 lemon 

X pint ( i cup) seeded raisins i teaspoonful almond ex- 
^2 pint (i cup) stoned dates tract 

^2 pint (i cup) hot water Whipped cream 

3 ozs. ($4 cup) chopped nut Angelica and candied violets 

meats Sweet wafers 

Chop the figs, raisins, and dates, put them into a 
saucepan with the water, and cook slowly until thick. 
Take from the fire, add the nuts, the strained lemon- 
juice, and the almond extract. Cool and spread 
between wafers and decorate the top with whipped 
cream, candied violets, and strips of angelica. 

VEGETABLE AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

i Liederkranz cheese Lettuce leaves 

Radishes Boiled dressing 

Young onions Bread 

Cut the green tops from some young onions and 
some radishes and slice both very thinly lengthwise. 
Let them lie with some crisp lettuce leaves for one 
hour in ice water. Then drain and dry. Dip a leaf 
of lettuce into boiled dressing, and lay it on a slice of 
bread; over this place a layer of cheese, then a layer 
of radish, a layer of onions, some more cheese, then 
another leaf of lettuce dipped in dressing, and a slice 
of bread. 



132 Sandwich Recipes 

VIRGINIA SANDWICHES 

^ pint (i cup) shelled pea- Mayonnaise or boiled dress- 
nuts ing 
2 cans sardines Buttered rye bread 

Put the peanuts through a food-chopper and mix 
them thoroughly with the sardines, pounded to a paste; 
add sufficient dressing to hold together, and spread 
between slices of rye bread. 

Cut in triangles and serve. 



WALKER HOUSE SANDWICHES 

6 green bell peppers > pint (i cup) chopped 

y? pint (i cup) English cooked bacon 

walnut meats Mayonnaise dressing 

1 lettuce heart Bread 

2 hard-cooked eggs 

Chop the peppers, nuts, lettuce, and eggs; add the 
bacon and enough, mayonnaise to bind the ingredients 
together. Spread this mixture on squares of bread, 
and cover with squares which have been spread with 
mayonnaise dressing. These sandwiches are delicious 
served with salad. 



Sandwich Recipes 133 

WELLINGTON SANDWICHES 

^ lb. cooked beef, veal, or i tablespoonful chopped nut 

mutton meats 

6 stoned olives 8 picked shrimps 

4 boned anchovies Parsley 

1 tablespoonful capers Lettuce or endive 

2 hard-cooked eggs Brown bread 

i tablespoonful butter Salt and pepper to taste 

Put the meat through a food-chopper with the olives, 
anchovies, nuts, and capers. Rub the yolks of eggs 
through a sieve, mix thoroughly with the butter, salt, 
and pepper, and add to meat mixture. 

Spread on thin slices of buttered brown bread, 
cover one with another, press together and stamp 
them with a round cutter; sprinkle the surface 
of sandwiches with the chopped whites of eggs. 

Dish them up hi a circular row; put the salad in 
the center, and ornament with the shrimps and parsley. 



SALAD RECIPES 



SALAD RECIPES 

11 Three several salads have I sacrificed, bedew'd with precious oil 

and vinegar" 



Under the generic name of salad we include almost 
any kind of food seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, 
pepper and various other condiments. There are 
six distinct classes: The herb or green salads. Vege- 
table salads. Fish salads. Meat salads. Poultry 
and game salads. Fruit salads. 

In nearly all European languages the word is prac- 
tically the same; it is Salade in French, Insalada in 
Italian, Salat in German, Salate in Russian, and 
Ensalada in Spanish. Etymologically salad is de- 
rived from the Latin Sal (salt), as in classic times it 
appears that this was the only condiment employed. 

The salad is admittedly the poetry of comestibles, 
and has itself inspired its admirers like a muse. An 
Italian poet of the name of Molza is said to have writ- 
ten a poem having Salad for its subject, wherein he 
claimed that Adam in his unfallen state was the first 
concocter and consumer of salad; Cowper, translat- 
ing Virgil, has a poem entitled "The Salad,'' digni- 

137 



138 Salad Recipes 

fying by that name the piquant dish described by the 
Latin poet; Sydney Smith's verses on a Winter 
Salad are familiar enough, especially the concluding 
couplet: 

" Serenely full, the epicure may say, 
' Fate cannot harm me I have dined to-day.' : 

And a very excellent recipe it is that the witty 
canon gives. In its simplest form salad contributed 
to that banquet given by Madame du Barry to Louis 
Quinze, which induced the enraptured monarch to 
confer the cordon bleu on the cook, who, to the ever- 
enduring glory of her sex, was a woman. Learned 
men have not thought it beneath their dignity to 
study the salad. The French chemist Chaptal wrote 
on the subject; the German Schlegel compared the 
shredded vegetables to fleecy clouds; Jean Jacques 
Rousseau expressed the characteristic opinion that 
for salad to be enjoyed in perfection it should be pre- 
pared by a damsel of not less than fifteen or more than 
eighteen summers. Unfortunately, it would seem that 
the name of the sage is unknown to whom we owe the 
immortal aphorism that "for the proper mixing of a 
salad four individuals are essential a miser for the 
vinegar, a spendthrift for the oil, a sage for the salt, 
and a maniac for the mixing." And to these should be 
added, according to many profound authorities, 
sugar. Such, at any rate, we may gather was Gold- 



Salad Recipes 139 

smith's opinion, as evidenced by his couplet on 
Garrick : 



Our Garrick's a salad; for in him we see 
Oil, vinegar, sugar, and saltness agree." 



At Roman feasts salad was an important item in the 
menu. It was eaten at the beginning of the dinner, 
for it was regarded as provocative to the appetite and 
an aid to digestion, and the same order of service ob- 
tained in the dinners of Plantagenet and Tudor days. 

The Roman method of salad mixing would not com- 
mend itself to modern palates, as it included a variety 
of sauces and ingredients that we should find extremely 
distasteful. 

Salad, no matter of what class, is liked by every- 
body. Its presence at any meal is welcome, and it is 
looked upon as a wholesome and refreshing food, and, 
at the same time, as a wonderful aid to digestion. 
When there is no inclination to eat, or when, as is 
commonly said, a person does not fancy his food, there 
is torpidity of the digestive function. With the sight 
of tempting food the work of the digestive organs is 
begun. The mouth waters, and even the gastric 
juice flows in response to a pleasant impression. 

The salad, therefore, may fill a special and impor- 
tant gap in the dietary; and, when it is prepared with 
oil, as every good salad should be, it becomes an ex- 
cellent and agreeable vehicle for conveying fat into the 



140 Salad Recipes 

body. No more excellent adjunct to the cold dish 
can be suggested. The oil modifies and "smooths" 
the peculiar flavors of the juices of the plant while the 
vinegar softens the tissues, renders them more di- 
gestible, and gives an agreeable piquancy to the whole. 

Olive oil is a most valuable form of nourishment, 
in addition to being a medicament. As a nerve tonic 
oil is par excellence. Fats are part of the cure in 
nervous troubles, and certainly the most agreeable 
way of following this prescription is to indulge in 
salad dressed with a liberal supply of oil, accompanied 
by a niggardly one of vinegar. 

Good olive oil may be recognized by its being bright, 
of a fine golden color and possessing a delicate taste of 
the fruit. If it be dark in color and have the least 
bad odor, it may be condemned at once. Oil obtained 
from unripe fruit has a greenish shade and a rough 
peppery taste; over-ripe olives yield a pale oil, defi- 
cient in flavor and liable to become rancid. 

A salad is really good only when it is judiciously 
seasoned, and, as simple as this may seem, it requires 
skill and care. In the ingredients of a salad every 
plant should bear its part, without being overpowered 
by some herb of a stronger taste. 

In salad making good ingredients are of the first 
importance, fresh green stuff, good oil and pure vine- 
gar. 

For a perfect dressing, wine vinegar, as being more 



Salad Recipes 141 

piquant, is to be preferred to malt; tarragon vinegar 
is also very acceptable. 

We must remember that salad dressing has a far 
more important raison d'etre than that of simply 
pleasing the palate, since in the first place it exercises 
a solvent action both upon the lettuce or other ma- 
terial tossed up in it, and upon any comestible with 
which it may be eaten; and in the second, possesses 
in itself a distinct dietetic value. For while the vine- 
gar in its composition assists in the softening and 
renders more easy the digestion of the fibers of meat 
and vegetables, particularly when the latter are 
uncooked, as is so often the case in a salad, the acidity 
of this condiment, which might otherwise disagree with 
delicate persons, is neutralized by the oil or cream 
with which it is blended. These in their turn repre- 
sent a great deal of nourishment, while if egg, either 
raw, or hard or soft cooked, be included among the 
ingredients of the dressing, it obviously adds ap- 
preciably to the aliment contained therein. 

Then too, salt, of which there is usually a liberal 
allowance in these savory compounds, is a recognized 
aid to assimilation, even mustard and pepper in this 
connection acting as something more than mere 
seasoners. 

Nearly all vegetables, meats, fish, and fruits may be 
served as salad. The essential thing is to have the 
salad cold, and, if green, to have the leaves dry and 



142 Salad Recipes 

crisp. If any water is left on the leaves, the dressing 
will not adhere to them, but will run to the bottom of 
the dish, and both the salad and the dressing will be 
poor. 

Eggs make a welcome addition to a salad. They 
blend exceedingly well with the other ingredients, 
consort harmoniously with the oil, and impart a 
pleasing flavor to the whole. 

Tomatoes and cucumbers too are useful adjuncts to 
the salad bowl though some discretion should be ob- 
served in blending. Tomatoes and beets for example 
do not go well together, and too much radish and 
watercress together is not advisable. 

Cucumber may form part of a salad, though it is 
eaten to best advantage alone. 

Onion in salad does not appeal to every palate, 
therefore, if put in a salad, there should be only a 
" suspicion" of it. 

The best vegetable for salad making is the lettuce. 
Curly chicory, too, is a fine basis, also endive. 

It is not necessary to have fresh and green things for 
all salads; the cold cooked vegetables are equally 
good asparagus, potatoes, beans, beets, peas, cauli- 
flower, Brussels sprouts, carrots, etc., or any of them 
mixed, together with slicings of olives; even bread- 
crumbs, when there has been nothing else at hand, 
have been known to make a very satisfying salad. 



Salad Recipes 143 

The remains of roast turkey, chicken, vegetables, 
veal and cooked fish may be utilized for salads. 

Meat for any kind of salad should be cut into dice, 
and it should be marinated before being mixed with 
other parts of the salad. To make the marinade, 
take one part of oil and three parts of vinegar, with 
salt and pepper to taste; stir them into the meat and 
let it stand for two or three hours. Use only enough 
marinade to season the meat, and drain off any which 
has not been absorbed before combining the meat 
with the other parts of the salad. 

The passion for fruit salads is very general. For 
one thing, the fruit is quite prepared for eating and 
there is no tiresome peeling and cutting beforehand. 
Another thing the dainty commingling of different 
species does not detract from the individual flavors, 
and lastly the dressing is a help to its digestion. 
Nothing but the best fruit in perfect condition should 
be allowed to enter the salad bowl. 

The fruits, whole or sliced, according to their char- 
acter, must be piled up in layers, the kinds being 
judiciously chosen, so that drier varieties alternate 
with the juicy ones, allowing their juice to percolate 
through the other fruits. In some cases this is all 
that is necessary to provide an excellent fruit salad, 
with the exception of fine sugar sprinkled on each 
layer, the whole being arranged in the dish in which 
it is to be served, and left in a cool place for some 



144 Salad Recipes 

hours beforehand, so that the juices and flavors may 
become thoroughly blended. 

A sweet syrup is sometimes used for a fruit salad. 
A standing recipe is the favorite one of boiling, till 
thick and ropy, two cupfuls of fine, white sugar in 
two cupfuls of water. When the syrup is getting thick, 
it is ready. It is used half and half with any good wine 
spirits or fruit cordial, as wines and spirits are all 
products of fruit, and contain the natural elements of 
the salad. Any liqueur is also excellent. 

Lemon juice helps every fruit salad. Strawberries 
with the addition of lemon juice are delicious. Oranges 
and strawberries blend excellently, but wherever there 
are strawberries, cherries should be excluded. 

Pineapple should be used sparingly, where there 
are other fruits forming a part of a compound, as its 
strong flavor is apt to predominate and overpower 
that of other ingredients. 

A selection of seasonable products, such as bananas, 
strawberries, raspberries, pineapples, cherries, peaches, 
grapes, and figs, used with discrimination is more than 
sufficient to produce a truly Arcadian dish. 

Always mix the fruits lightly with a silver fork, and 
thoroughly chill before serving. 

A fruit salad and a fruit cup are pretty much the 
same, differing principally in their place on the menu 
and in the method of serving. A fruit salad with 
sweet dressing may take the place of fruit in the des- 



Salad Recipes 145 

sert course. With French or mayonnaise dressing, 
it may be served as a first course at luncheon, or with 
the roast or game, though in the former case the 
French dressing is preferable. 

Fruit salads with meats are becoming fashionable. 
Apples with anything rich in the way of meats have 
always been the cook's mainstay; now cherries as 
salad are being utilized with roast duck, gosling, or 
game dishes. Another salad to be served with cold 
boiled salmon or cold roast meat is one compounded 
of tomatoes and peaches. 

Orange salad, made by slicing oranges and dressing 
them with olive oil and a dust of red pepper (with 
lemon juice if the oranges are sweet), is an excellent 
accompaniment to poultry or game. 

No more welcome addition to the circle of salad 
fruits has been given than to the alligator pear, which 
fills a niche of its own and is happy in combination 
with various vegetables and other fruits. 

The alligator pear is excellent prepared with salt, 
vinegar and oil, and may be served with lobster or 
other shell-fish. It should be eaten when the flesh 
cuts easily with a spoon, but has not begun to soften 
further, when it becomes rancid and unpalatable. 
It makes an excellent salad if mixed with grapefruit 
and with any of the ordinary salad dressings. 

Dressings for fruit salads are sometimes of the 
plainest of French, occasionally varied by the generous 

10 



146 Salad Recipes 

use of paprika for coloring and seasoning. A well 
made and simple mayonnaise dressing is delicious with 
most fruits, but an ideal dressing is the cream mayon- 
naise, in which either sour or sweet cream is substi- 
tuted for the oil, or a small quantity of the whipped 
cream is added to the mayonnaise already made. 
Then there is the cream and olive oil dressing in which 
equal quantities of oil and cream are used, this being 
an excellent one to flavor with brandy or cordials, 
which quite disguise the oil. 

SALAD ACCESSORIES 

DATES STUFFED WITH CHEESE. Put through a food 
chopper equal quantities of Neufchatel cheese and New 
York cheese, add salt, white pepper and finely chopped 
parsley to taste, and enough cream to mix smooth. 
Divide this mixture into washed and stoned dates, then 
roll in ground nut meats. 

STUFFED FIGS. Wash and dry whole figs, and make 
an incision in each. Work a cream cheese with a small 
wooden spoon, moisten with cream, add one table- 
spoonful of finely chopped nut meats and season with 
salt and red pepper. Stuff, the figs with the cheese 
mixture, and arrange on a plate with green leaves. 

CHEESE STRAWS. Sieve one-half cupful of flour and 
a pinch of salt into a basin ; rub in two tablespoonfuls 
of butter lightly with the fingers, add five tablespoon- 
fuls of grated Parmesan cheese, two tablespoonfuls of 



Salad Recipes 147 

grated Cheddar cheese, red pepper to taste, the beaten 
yolk of one egg, and two teaspoonfuls of water. Turn 
the paste out on to a floured baking board; roll it out 
into a strip four inches wide and one-eighth of an inch 
thick and cut into strips. With two cutters, one 
smaller than the other, cut out some rings. Lay the 
straws and rings on a greased baking tin, and bake in 
a hot oven for about ten minutes or until they are a 
golden color. When they are ready, pass the straws 
through the rings, and serve on a hot dish. 

The straws may be reheated. 

CHEESE BISCUITS. Sieve one-half cupful of flour 
into a basin with a pinch of salt and a pinch of red 
pepper; rub in two tablespoonfuls of butter lightly 
with the fingers, add six tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese and make into a stiff paste with a little water 
or a beaten egg. Roll out on a floured board, cut into 
rounds with a cutter, brush them over with beaten egg, 
lay them on greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven 
until ready. When cooked let them get cold. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs in a small pan: add five 
tablespoonfuls of milk, season to taste with salt and 
red pepper and stir over the fire until the mixture 
thickens. Take from the fire, add one tablespoonful 
of butter and four tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. 
Spread some of this mixture over half of the biscuits, 
place the others on the top and serve garnished with 
sprigs of parsley. 



148 Salad Recipes 

CHEESE FINGERS.- -Take some puff pastry that has 
had only four rolls, sprinkling it generously with grated 
Parmesan cheese and rolling the cheese into it. Then 
roll it out into a strip five inches in width, and cut this 
strip across into finger-shaped pieces. Place these on 
a baking tin, brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle 
over with grated cheese, and bake in a hot oven until 
nicely browned. 

CHEESE PUFFS. Put into a saucepan one-half cup- 
ful of water, add one tablespoonful of butter, salt and 
red pepper to taste and bring to the boil. Sieve one- 
half cupful of flour, and add it quickly, beating well 
until perfectly smooth and cooked. Take from the fire, 
add two eggs, one at a time, beat well, and then add 
eight tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Turn out to 
cool, and drop by teaspoonfuls into plenty of smoking 
hot fat. Drain and serve sprinkled with cheese. 

CLOVER VINEGAR. Gather two quarts of clover 
blossoms, look over carefully, w r ash and shake dry. 
Pour nine quarts of boiling water over one quart of 
molasses; when cooled to lukewarm, add one yeast 
cake dissolved in a little warm water, and the clover 
blossoms. Allow to stand for one week, then strain 
and bottle. 

SPICED VINEGAR FOR SALADS. For each gallon of 
vinegar allow six cloves of garlic, six sliced onions, 
two grated horseradish roots, four ounces of bruised 
ginger roots, four ounces of mustard seeds, two ounces 



Salad Recipes 149 

each of black pepper and unground allspice. Put this 
mixture into a stone crock and simmer on the back of 
stove for ten hours, then strain and bottle for use. 

This is especially good to flavor cauliflower, cab- 
bage, cucumber and other vegetable salads. 

BEET VINEGAR. Beet vinegar is made by adding 
cold cooked sliced beets to good vinegar. It is easily 
made and it is ornamental for many purposes. 

SHALLOT VINEGAR. Shallot vinegar is made by add- 
ing three-fourths of a cupful of chopped shallots to 
two pints of white wine vinegar. Do not allow the 
shallots to remain in the vinegar for more than eight 
days, as they will make it too strong. 

HORSERADISH VINEGAR. Horseradish vinegar is al- 
ways appetizing. Add three ounces of grated horse- 
radish to one quart of vinegar, with a chopped clove 
of garlic and a pinch of red pepper. Pour into a bottle 
and seal. Strain when using. 



HOW TO HARD BOIL EGGS 

Put the eggs into cold water and bring to the boil, 
allow to cook for twenty minutes, and then place them 
in cold water. When cold remove the shells, and with 
a cutter or sharp knife cut into slices, rings, cubes, or 
quarters, or lengthwise. 



150 Salad Recipes 

HOW TO CLEAN CRESS 

Cress is best prepared by washing quickly in cold 
water to which has been added a little salt and vinegar. 
Then dry well in a cloth or colander, or wire basket. 

HOW TO BLANCH VEGETABLES 

Blanching is done to extract some of their bitter 
substance or undesirable flavor or to partially soften. 
Place the vegetables in cold water, bring them quickly 
to boiling point, then drain and cool. Use as directed. 

If it is necessary to blanch onions, parsley, tarragon 
or chervil it is best only to plunge them several times 
into boiling water. 

HOW TO CLEAN LETTUCE, ETC. 

Use only the best and tenderest lettuce. Cut off the 
roots and all coarse or discolored leaves and soak in 
cold water for a short time to get chilled. Then break 
off the leaves and shake in a dry cloth or wire basket 
to remove all moisture. Wrap in cheesecloth and lay 
in a cool place until required. 

HOW TO FRINGE CELERY 

Trim the roots and green stalk of a head of crisp 
celery. Wash it well. Cut the head into four even 
portions lengthwise and once across. Use a small, 



Salad Recipes 151 

sharp knife and slit each stick finely and evenly about 
eight times, but leave one-half inch at the bottom end 
uncut. As each is done, put it into a pan of ice water, 
containing a slice of lemon or a tablespoonful of vine- 
gar, and leave it until well curled. 

HOW TO CHOP PARSLEY 

Wash some parsley and dry it well; remove all 
stalks, gather it up in the fingers in a bunch and cut 
it through several times. Then chop it fine with a 
large, sharp knife. 

HOW TO PEEL TOMATOES 

Cover some ripe tomatoes with boiling water and 
leave them for a few seconds. Lift them out of the 
water and the skin is easily taken off with a sharp 
knife. The color is not quite so bright as when un- 
peeled, but it renders them more convenient for eating. 

Tomato tulips are easily made. Scoop out the cen- 
ters of peeled tomatoes, and with a sharp knife cut the 
tomatoes in deep points and then fill with any salad 
mixed with mayonnaise. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSINGS 

Mayonnaise dressing is said to have been an inven- 
tion of that noted bon vivant, the famous Marechal Due 
de Richelieu, but the true origin of the Mayonnaise, 



152 Salad Recipes 

Magnonaise, or Mahonnaise (according to different 
authorities upon its orthography), is still open to ques- 
tion. It is enough for the epicure of today to accept 
it as an altogether delightful culinary achievement, 
which has established itself upon its merits in the 
regards of two centuries of gastronomes. 

No. i. Take one cupful of olive oil, the yolk of a 
raw egg, one tablespoonful of vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful of lemon juice, one-half of teaspoonful powdered 
sugar, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth 
of a teaspoonful of mustard and an eighth of a tea- 
spoonful of red pepper. Mix the salt, red pepper, mus- 
tard, sugar, and yolk of egg. Beat with a wooden 
spoon until slightly thickened. Add a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice and vinegar, and when well blended with 
the other ingredients, add the oil gradually, beating 
constantly. When several teaspoonfuls of the oil have 
been added, a small egg beater may be substituted for 
the spoon, and the oil may be added faster. When the 
mixture becomes too thick to beat easily, add a little 
more lemon juice and vinegar. Then more oil, and 
so on, alternating until all the ingredients are used. 
If liked add more seasonings. 

White mayonnaise is made with cream, lemon juice, 
and white of egg, instead of oil, vinegar and egg yolk; 
or it may also be made in the ordinary way, save that 
the vinegar is replaced by lemon juice, and at the last 



Salad Recipes 153 

stir in one-half cupful of whipped cream or a stiffly 
beaten white of egg is stirred in. 

No. 2. Few persons know that a perfect looking 
and perfect tasting stiff mayonnaise can be made with- 
out an egg. Place a teaspoonful of plain mustard, 
moistened with a few drops of cold water in a small 
bowl. Add oil, not necessarily drop by drop, but still 
rather slowly. Stir vigorously all the time. When it 
thickens too much to handle comfortably, thin with 
lemon juice or vinegar. A little tarragon vinegar is an 
excellent addition. After the mayonnaise is finished 
season according to taste and discretion. There is 
hardly any limit to the quantity of oil that may be 
used, but it must be borne in mind that it is the made 
mustard that holds the oil together. 

It is better to make a large quantity of mayonnaise 
at once, using a dessertspoonful of mustard and as 
much oil as one can afford enough for several meals. 
It keeps excellently in a covered jar in a cool place. 

No. j. Yolk of one raw egg, yolks of two hard- 
cooked eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salt, red pepper, 
to taste, the strained juice of one lemon, and one-half 
cupful of olive oil. 

Rub the hard-cooked yolks through a sieve, mash 
them with the raw yolk, season with salt and red 
pepper; then add the oil and the lemon juice. As the 
mixture thickens add alternately a little more lemon 



154 Salad Recipes 

juice and oil until the quantity desired is made. 
Whipped cream may be added at serving time. 

When preparing a mayonnaise, always make the 
dressing as short a time before it is wanted as possible, 
for this sauce, however carefully made, has a tendency 
to rankness, which grows as it is exposed to the air. 
So if a mayonnaise has to wait, keep the sauce closely 
stoppered in a wide-mouthed but air-tight bottle, and 
only add it to the dish at the last moment; or if the 
meat, fish, etc., are to be coated with the mayonnaise, 
add to the latter, when making it, a cupful of not too 
acid aspic jelly to each half cupful of mayonnaise sauce 
and when this is set on whatever is to be masked with 
it, finish it with a good covering of plain aspic, to 
make it perfectly air-tight. When salad mayonnaise 
is to be used line a mold one-fourth inch thick with 
aspic, put the ready dressed salad into this, run another 
layer of aspic over the top of this, and it will then be 
air-tight and the sauce will not deteriorate, even if it 
waits until next day. 

If mayonnaise dressing curdles, start again with a 
fresh yolk of egg, adding the curdled mixture slowly 
until all is used. 

Or beat in one or two whites of eggs which will im- 
mediately restore the mayonnaise to its former smooth 
consistency. 

No. 4. --Vinegar which has been used over pickled 
beets may be used for making a cooked mayonnaise. 



Salad Recipes 155 

It gives a beautiful rose color to the dressing and im- 
parts a different flavor. 

Vinegar left over from sliced cucumbers need not 
be thrown away; it can be used for making mayon- 
naise and will give the dressing a fine delicate flavor. 
Vinegar that has been used with sliced onions or to- 
matoes can be used in this way also. 

No. 5. Mix in a double boiler one tablespoonful of 
flour, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of mustard, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one 
egg, then add one cupful of sweet milk and two table- 
spoonfuls of butter; when the butter has melted, stir 
in one cupful of vinegar and continue to stir until it 
thickens, remove from the fire and beat well. 

No. 6.- -To one cupful of mayonnaise dressing, add 
four skinned and boned sardines which have been 
pounded with the yolks of three hard-cooked eggs and 
paprika to taste. 

No. 7. Boil one cupful of strained tomato juice, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of paprika 
and two tablespoonfuls of peanut butter for five 
minutes, remove from the fire, stir in gradually one 
yolk of egg and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. Serve 
with tomato salad. 

No. 8. FOR RED MAYONNAISE DRESSING. Cook 
one can of tomatoes until reduced to two tablespoon- 
fuls, then strain. When cold, add to mayonnaise 
dressing until the desired tint has been obtained. 



156 Salad Recipes 

Or use cooked lobster coral. Pass the coral through 
a sieve, mix with the sauce, and season with a few 
grains of paprika. 

No. g. FOR GREEN MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 
Cook together two cupfuls of peas, two sprigs of pars- 
ley, one-fourth peck of spinach and three lettuce 
leaves for thirty minutes, then rub through a sieve. 
When cold, add to mayonnaise dressing until the de- 
sired tint is obtained. 

No. 10. FOR TOMATO MAYONNAISE. Peel three 
tomatoes, cut in halves, and press out all the seeds, 
retaining only the solid, fleshy portion. Chop this 
fine and press through a sieve. Mash the hard- 
cooked yolks of two eggs, add the raw yolk of one egg, 
mix well, and then add slowly one-half cupful of olive 
oil. When thick and smooth, add the tomato, a 
little at a time, and stir in four drops of onion juice, 
salt and paprika to taste. 

No. n. Put into a saucepan one cupful of water 
and one-half cupful of vinegar and allow to come to 
boiling point, then set aside to cool. Moisten one 
teaspoonful of mustard and one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch with four tablespoonfuls of cold water, add the 
yolk of one egg and mix together. Pour these in- 
gredients into the vinegar and water, stirring all the 
time, and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. 

Allow to cool, then add one-fourth teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of sugar and one tablespoonful 



Salad Recipes 157 

of olive oil. If too thick, thin with a little cream. 
One tablespoonful of butter may be added in place 
of the oil and lemon juice instead of the vinegar. 

No. 12. FOR MAYONNAISE JELLY. Melt one cup- 
ful of aspic jelly and when cool add to mayonnaise 
dressing and mix well together. Place on ice until 
required. 

No. 13. FOR BLACK MAYONNAISE. Add chopped 
truffles or pickled walnuts to mayonnaise dressing. 

FRENCH DRESSINGS 

No. i. Measure out three parts of French olive oil 
to one part of lime juice. Have the oil and the juice 
as cold as possible, and drop the oil into the acid, 
beating well. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

No. 2. Put into a small bowl one-eighth of a tea- 
spoonful each of black pepper and paprika, add one 
teaspoonful of salt and mix thoroughly. Then add 
four tablespoonfuls of olive oil and beat for a few min- 
utes. Dilute with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar or 
lemon juice and stir rapidly until the mixture is 
slightly thickened. Mustard may be substituted for 
paprika; or, if preferred, a few drops of onion- juice 
may be used. Or the inside of the salad bowl may be 
rubbed with a slice of onion or a cut clove of garlic. 
Serve as soon as possible after mixing. 

No. j. Put into a basin one cupful of olive oil, 
one-half cupful of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of 



158 Salad Recipes 

salt, one-eighth teaspoonful of white pepper, one- 
eighth teaspoonful of paprika, one and one-half tea- 
spoonfuls of brown sugar and one-half of a small 
onion chopped fine. Beat with egg-beater until 
smooth. 

No. 4. Mix in a basin one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
one saltspoonful of paprika, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of white pepper, add four tablespoonfuls of olive oil 
and blend well together; then add slowly three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, beating continuously until it is 
creamy. A few drops of tarragon vinegar improve 
lettuce and endive salad. 

FRENCH MUSTARD 

Mix together one-fourth cupful of flour, one-fourth 
cupful of sugar, five tablespoonfuls of mustard, one- 
half tablespoonful of turmeric powder, and one-fourth 
of a teaspoonful of salt. Pass through a sieve and 
mix to a smooth paste with cold vinegar; it will take 
about two-thirds of a cupful. Then gradually stir 
in one cupful of hot vinegar, and cook and stir over 
hot water till smooth and thick. Cover, and cook for 
ten minutes. Keep in a covered bottle. 

Or steep three sliced onions in two cupfuls of vine- 
gar for two days, then strain, and add to the vinegar 
one teaspoonful of pepper, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of salt, one tablespoonful of brown sugar, and 
enough dry mustard to make it into a thick, creamy 



Salad Recipes 159 

paste. Mix until smooth, then boil for twenty 
minutes. Cool and keep in a covered bottle. 



ASPIC JELLY 

4 ozs. (4^" tablespoonfuls) i gill (^ cup) sherry wine 

powdered gelatine 12 whole white peppers 

pints (aK cups) stock or i stalk celery 

water i onion 

i lemon i small carrot 

3 bay-leaves i sliced turnip 

i blade mace 2 egg whites 

3 cloves 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon 
i teaspoonful salt vinegar 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

Put the gelatine into a saucepan, add the stock or 
water, vegetables cleaned and cut in small pieces, 
whites of eggs slightly beaten, vinegars, seasonings, 
grated rind and juice of lemon ; and beat over a gentle 
heat until boiling, and until a good froth rises. Allow 
to boil up as high as it will without boiling over, then 
draw the saucepan to one side of the fire, where the 
jelly will keep warm without simmering, and cover it 
with a plate or cloth. Allow it to stand for ten min- 
utes, then strain through a hot jelly bag, and add the 
wine. 

Aspic jelly is very much used in the decorating of 
cold dishes, and for the making of salads and cold 
entrees. 



160 Salad Recipes 

ASPIC CREAM 

Add to one cupful of liquid aspic jelly, one-fourth 
cupful of whipped cream and one dessertspoonful of 
white vinegar, and strain before using. 



BOILED SALAD DRESSINGS 

No. i. Put one tablespoonful of dry mustard into 
the upper part of a double boiler, add one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, salt and pepper to taste, one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter, mix well, and add 
three beaten eggs, one-half cupful of milk, and one- 
half cupful of vinegar. Cook and stir until thick, 
and when cold, stir in one-half cupful of cream. 

No. 2. Scald one-half cupful of vinegar or lemon 
juice, let cool, and stir slowly into the beaten yolks of 
two eggs; add one-half teaspoonful each of curry 
powder and dry mustard and one-half tablespoonful 
of sugar. Thicken over the fire, stirring constantly 
to prevent lumping. Just before using, stir in one- 
half cupful of sweet or sour cream. 

No. j. Mix one-half tablespoonful of dry mustard 
with one-half tablespoonful of salt, one tablespoonful 
of sugar and one tablespoonful of flour. Add yolks 
of two eggs slightly beaten, three tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, three-fourths cupful of milk or cream 
and one-fourth cupful of vinegar. Cook in a double 



Salad Recipes 161 

boiler, stirring constantly until the mixture thickens. 
Strain and cool. 

No. 4. Cream two teaspoonfuls of butter with one 
teaspoonful of salt and two tablespoonfuls of mustard. 
Beat up a large egg and add it to the creamed mixture. 
Heat one-half cupful of vinegar and add it, then stand 
the bowl over boiling water and stir gently until the 
dressing thickens. 

No. 5. Beat one and one-half tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one-half cupful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one teaspoonful of salt and one-half cupful 
of sugar together until very smooth and well blended, 
then add three well-beaten eggs, two cupfuls of boiling 
water and one cupful of vinegar, stirring slowly. 
Place over the fire and stir until it thickens and just 
comes to boiling point. Remove from the fire and 
beat until the mixture is creamy. 

This dressing keeps well. 

No. 6. Boil one cupful of vinegar with one tea- 
spoonful of butter, then add one-half cupful of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of mustard, 
salt, pepper and paprika to taste and allow to boil, 
stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 
one-half cupful of buttermilk, add to the boiling 
mixture, and cook until it thickens. 

This dressing is splendid for cabbage. 

No. j. Put one- third cupful of vinegar into a sauce- 
pan, add one tablespoonful of cornstarch and stir until 
ii 



162 Salad Recipes 

smooth, then add four stiffly beaten whites of eggs 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar creamed with one 
tablespoonful of butter, and cook over boiling water 
until the mixture thickens. Remove from the fire, 
add one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, a few grains of red pepper, a dust of 
paprika and the strained juice of one lemon. Allow 
to chill and use with nut salads. 

No. 8. Melt two cupfuls of butter, add one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of white pepper, 
and two teaspoonfuls of dry mustard. When well 
blended, add six eggs and beat until light; stir in two 
cupfuls of cream and one-half cupful of vinegar and 
bring to boiling point in a double boiler. 

This makes about two quarts of dressing which 
keeps well in a cool place. 

No. g. Beat one egg, add two teaspoonfuls of 
mustard, one-half teaspoonful of salt, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and one and one-half tablespoon- 
fuls of flour; stir until smooth and no lumps of flour 
appear, then add one-half cupful of vinegar and one 
cupful of boiling water; allow to boil for five minutes, 
and add two tablespoonfuls of butter. 

No. 10. Mix together one tablespoonful of mus- 
tard, one tablespoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and four tablespoonfuls of sugar; then add the 
beaten yolks of four eggs, six tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter, one and one-half cupfuls of water and one-half 



Salad Recipes 163 

cupful of vinegar. Stir and cook until it thickens, 
but do not allow to boil. This dressing keeps for a 
long time. 

No. ii. Put one-half cupful of lemon juice into a ( 
small saucepan, add one tablespoonful of olive oil, 
one tablespoonful of sugar and one teaspoonful of 
salt and allow to heat. 

Into another saucepan put one-half cupful of cream, 
and, when hot, add two well-beaten eggs; stir until it 
thickens, but do not allow to boil or it will curdle. 
Remove from the stove, and, when partially cool, beat 
the two sauces together. This is a splendid dressing 
for vegetable salads. 

DRESSINGS FOR FRUIT SALADS 

No. /.--Take one-half cupful of white wine, one- 
half cupful of water, one-half cupful of fruit juice, 
(or syrup from canned fruit), one-fourth pound of 
lump sugar and the strained juice from one-half lemon. 

Boil the fruit juice, sugar and water together until 
the syrup spins a thread. Then let it cool, add the 
wine and lemon juice. Pour over the fruit, and allow 
to stand for an hour or two before serving. 

No. 2. Two tablespoonfuls of butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one and three-fourths cupfuls of 
cream, one-fourth cupful of lemon juice, one-fourth 
cupful of sugar, yolks of two eggs, a pinch of salt and 
a pinch of powdered mace. 



164 Salad Recipes 

Blend the butter and flour in a saucepan over the 
fire, add the cream and cook and stir for eight minutes, 
add the lemon juice, and just before taking from the 
fire, stir in quickly the egg yolks, sugar, salt and mace. 
Chill before serving. This dressing is delicious with 
sliced apricots and cherries, or sliced pineapple, cher- 
ries and nuts. 

No. j. Mix together the strained juice of two 
oranges, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one-half 
cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of cherry juice, 
the unbeaten white of one egg and one-half cupful of 
water mixed with one tablespoonful of sherry wine. 
Simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, then strain and 
chill. 

Claret in which slices of lemon have been steeped, 
sweetened to taste, makes a good dressing, or one or 
two tablespoonfuls of brandy, wine or liqueur may be 
sprinkled well into the salad without admixture. 

No. 4. Put into a small saucepan two tablespoon- 
fuls of almond paste, add one cupful of water, three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and one-eighth teaspoonful 
of salt. Cook until thick, stirring all the time, re- 
move from the stove and add two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon juice and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter 
or olive oil. 

This, instead of French dressing, can be used for 
fruit salads. 

No. 5. Put into a small saucepan the strained 



Salad Recipes 165 

juice of half a lemon, add one-half cupful of pineapple 
juice, one teaspoonful of sugar and the beaten yolks 
of two eggs. Cook until it thickens and, when cold, 
thin with one cupful of thick cream just before serving 
on fruit salad. 

No. 6. Blend one tablespoonful of butter with one 
tablespoonful of flour in a saucepan over the fire, add 
one-half cupful of sugar and one cupful of milk and 
bring to boiling point. Now add one well-beaten egg 
and cook and stir for three minutes, then add two 
ripe bananas which have been mashed to a paste. Take 
from the fire at once and allow to cool. When cold 
fold in one cupful of whipped cream. Do not use this 
sauce on any salad which contains bananas. 



CREOLE SALAD DRESSING 

One-half cupful of olive oil, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of sugar, six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, three tablespoonfuls of chopped green 
peppers, two and one-half tablespoonfuls of chopped 
red peppers, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
one-half of a small onion, chopped, and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of paprika. 

Put all these ingredients into a fruit jar and let them 
stand for one hour; then shake them for five minutes, 
in order to get them well mixed. 

This dressing is delicious when used with cold boiled 



166 Salad Recipes 

potatoes, other vegetables, or lettuce, and is also good 
with cold meat. 



ANCHOVY SALAD DRESSING 

Mash one anchovy with a wooden spoon, add one 
tablespoonful of olive oil and one teaspoonful of French 
mustard, and when quite smooth add five more table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar 
and one tablespoonful of malt vinegar. Stir until 
creamy. 

ITALIAN DRESSING 

Rub the mixing basin with a cut clove of garlic; 
add one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, two drops of 
Tabasco sauce, one teaspoonful of tomato catchup and 
stir until well mixed. Then add six tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil and one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar or 
grape vinegar ; beat thoroughly and pour over skinned 
and sliced tomatoes on lettuce leaves. 

INDIAN SALAD DRESSING 

Pound the yolks of three hard-cooked eggs or rub 
them through a sieve, add one-half teaspoonful of salt, 
and a teaspoonful each of curry paste and curry 
powder, and stir in gradually four tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil, continually stirring until the mixture is 
smooth. Then add slowly two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar or lime juice. Beat until thoroughly mixed 



Salad Recipes 167 

and pour over grapefruit, orange pulp, or avocado 
pear; cut in dice on lettuce leaves. 

GERMAN SALAD DRESSING 

Put one chopped clove of garlic and two tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped onion into one cupful of vinegar and 
cook until tender. Mix one cupful of sour cream 
with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of white pepper, two teaspoonfuls each 
of salt and mustard, four tablespoonfuls of bacon fat 
and the cooked vinegar, garlic and onion. 

This is excellent with potato salads, or salad com- 
posed of chopped celery, potatoes and apples, 

PIQUANT DRESSING 

Mix together one cupful of tomato catchup, add 
one tablespoonful of onion-sauce, three-fourths table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, three drops of 
Tabasco sauce, one tablespoonful of mushroom or wal- 
nut catchup, a dash of paprika and four tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. 

This dressing may be served with cold fish salads. 

Lemon juice may be used in place of the vinegar. 

RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSINGS 

No. i. Gradually beat one-half cupful of olive oil 
into one cupful of mayonnaise dressing, add two table- 



168 Salad Recipes 

spoonfuls of finely chopped canned red peppers, one 
tablespoonful of finely chopped green pepper, one-half 
tablespoonful of grated onion, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, salt and red pepper to taste and one-half cup- 
ful of chili sauce or tomato catchup. 

No. 2. Mix together one teaspoonful of tarragon 
vinegar, one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, one-half 
teaspoonful of paprika, one-eighth teaspoonful of 
red pepper, one-fourth cupful of salad oil, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of salt, and one cupful of chili sauce; 
then beat in slowly one-half cupful of mayonnaise 
dressing. 

THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSINGS 

No. i. Mix one-half cupful of mayonnaise dress- 
ing with one-half cupful of whipped cream, add two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped pimientoes, one table- 
spoonful of chopped green peppers, one chopped hard- 
cooked egg, one-half teaspoonful of chopped chives, 
one-half tablespoonful of tomato catchup and one-half 
tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Stir well together 
and serve with any green salad. 

No. 2. Rub one hard-cooked egg through a sieve, 
add two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onion, two 
small cooked or canned beets, finely chopped, one- 
half cupful of mayonnaise dressing, one tablespoonful 
of sieved chili sauce and four tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream. Chill before using. 



Salad Recipes 169 

No. 3. Put one-half cupful of olive oil into a jar, 
add the strained juice of half a lemon and half an 
orange, one tablespoonful of finely . chopped parsley, 
one teaspoonful of onion-juice, six chopped olives, 
six chopped cooked chestnuts, one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika, one tea- 
spoonful of walnut or mushroom catchup, one tea- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar, a few drops of Tabasco 
sauce and one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard. Cover 
the jar and shake the mixture for eight minutes. 

Serve with lettuce, endive, tomato and combination 
salads. 

GOLDEN SALAD DRESSING 

The yolk of one hard-cooked egg, one tablespoonful 
of finely ground peanuts, two tablespoonfuls of olive 
oil, .one tablespoonful of water, the strained juice of 
one lemon, celery salt and salt to taste. Rub the 
yolk of egg through a sieve into a basin, stir in the 
peanuts, oil, water, lemon juice, and the seasonings. 
Beat until thick like cream and serve with asparagus 
salad. 

HONEY SALAD DRESSING 

Beat one egg with one and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of honey, add one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, 
salt, pepper and paprika to taste; stir well together, 
then add one-half cupful of vinegar, and allow to come 



170 Salad Recipes 

to a boil, stirring all the time. Let cool and add one 
cupful of thick cream just before using. 

A DRESSING THAT WILL KEEP IN BOTTLES 

Rub the yolks of six hard-cooked eggs through a 
sieve and pound them well. Cream together two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar and two tablespoonfuls 
of sweet butter, then add the eggs and mix well. Mix 
together two tablespoonfuls of salt, three tablespoon- 
fuls of mustard, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of white 
pepper and a dash of red pepper. Mix one-third of a 
pint of the best olive oil into the egg mixture, and, 
when thoroughly blended, stir in the seasonings, then 
add one cupful of white wine vinegar and two table- 
spoonfuls of garlic vinegar. When thoroughly mixed, 
put into small, clean, dry bottles and seal. 

VINAIGRETTE SAUCE 

Put into a chilled basin one teaspoonful of salt, one 
chopped clove of garlic, one-fourth teaspoonful of 
paprika, one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one-eighth 
teaspoonful of red pepper, one tablespoonful each of 
chopped pickles or gherkins, green peppers, cooked 
beets, and tarragon, one-half tablespoonful each of 
chopped chives and chili pepper, one cupful of olive 
oil, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and four tablespoon- 
fuls of cider vinegar. Add a piece of ice and stir with 



Salad Recipes 171 

a silver fork until thick. Remove fork and serve 
immediately with lettuce or any green salad. 

CHILI SAUCE 

Cut eight red chili peppers in halves. Remove the 
seeds, then cover with boiling water and cook until 
tender. Drain and rub through a sieve, add two cup- 
fuls of cooked tomato pulp, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika and one 
chopped onion or clove of garlic. Cook for thirty 
minutes, then strain and use. 

ANOTHER METHOD. Skin and chop twelve ripe 
tomatoes, put them into a saucepan, add three chopped 
onions, five chopped red peppers, two tablespoonfuls 
of salt, one-fourth cupful of sugar, two and one-half 
cupfuls of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon and one-fourth teaspoonful of paprika and 
cook gently for one hour. Put into jars and seal for 
future use. 

SPECIAL SALAD DRESSING. Mix equal quantities of 
Chili Sauce and French Dressing or Mayonnaise Dress- 
ing. 

ROQUEFORT CHEESE DRESSING 

Mix one-fourth cupful of Roquefort cheese to a 
paste with one- third cupful of olive oil, add one-half 
teaspoonful of mustard, salt and pepper to taste and 
enough paprika to make it a creamy pink color, then 



172 Salad Recipes 

add one tablespoonful of vinegar and beat the dressing 
while slowly adding more olive oil until it is thin 
enough to serve. This dressing is suitable for lettuce, 
tomatoes and other green vegetable salads. 

REMOULADE SAUCE 

This is a form of French Salad Dressing. Boil 
three eggs hard, shell them at once, and plunge into 
cold water, leaving them for five minutes. Pound the 
yolks with a little salt and red pepper and a dessert- 
spoonful of mustard. Mix well, then add gradually 
three tablespoonfuls of olive oil, beating until it is of 
thick, creamy consistency; stir in the yolk of a raw 
egg, and then very gradually one tablespoonful of 
tarragon or any other flavored vinegar. 

Other variations also are possible, with the sauce as 
the foundation, more or less oil and vinegar being used 
as preferred ; a little parsley or chives or a few capers 
pounded together is recommended. 

This sauce is equally good as a relish with cold meat. 

ONION DRESSING 

Put into a saucepan one-half teaspoonful of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of onion-juice, 
and the yolk of one egg. Stir over boiling water until 



Salad Recipes 173 

the butter melts. Then add the stiffly beaten white of 
egg, mix thoroughly, and remove from the fire. 
This onion dressing is good with potato salad. 

TARTARS SAUCE 

Three yolks of eggs, one cupful of olive oil, two table- 
spoonfuls of white vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of tar- 
ragon vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, 
two teaspoonfuls of chopped gherkins, one teaspoon- 
ful of chopped chives, two teaspoonfuls of chopped 
chervil and one teaspoonful of chopped tarragon, salt 
and pepper to taste. Mix the salt, pepper and mus- 
tard together, stir in the yolks with a wooden spoon, 
add the oil drop by drop, stirring all the time. Then 
add the vinegars and add the chopped ingredients. 

Tartare sauce is not only a delicious accompaniment 
to fish, but it is excellent for a quick rendering of salads, 
broiled or deviled chickens, ham, tongue, cold beef, 
kidneys, crabs, cauliflowers, etc. For a change 
instead of chopping the chervil, etc., run the chervil, 
chives, tarragon and gherkins through a food chopper. 

CHIFFONADE DRESSING 

Put two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley into a 
basin, add two tablespoonfuls of chopped red peppers, 
one teaspoonful of finely chopped shallot, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of black pepper, six 



174 Salad Recipes 

tablespoonfuls of olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of vine- 
gar, and two hard-cooked eggs, the yolks and whites 
chopped separately. Put into a glass jar, cover, and 
keep in the ice box until serving time. Shake well 
before using on any green salad. 

APPLE AND GINGER SALAD 

8 red apples >^ Ib. (i cup) preserved ginger 

2 diced bananas y$ Ib. (i cup) pecan nut meats 

2 oranges Lettuce leaves or watercress 

2 ozs. (>2 cup) preserved i lemon 
cherries Dressing 

Select red apples and polish them. Cut a slice from 
the top of each and scoop out the pulp with a spoon. 
Sprinkle a little lemon-juice in each apple. Cut the 
apple pulp into small pieces, add the bananas, the 
pulp of the oranges, the cherries cut in quarters, the 
ginger cut in small pieces, and the nut meats broken 
in tiny bits. Mix with the following dressing and 
divide into the apple shells. Serve on watercress or 
lettuce leaves. 

For the dressing: Beat the yolks of three eggs until 
light; add four tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one teaspoonful of mustard, two teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar, the strained juice of one lemon, two 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and one tablespoonful of 
the ginger syrup, and cook and stir over boiling water 



Salad Recipes 175 

until the mixture thickens. Take from the fire, and 
when cold add one cupful of whipped cream. 



ARCADIAN SALAD 

Sliced bananas Shredded pineapple 

Sliced oranges Sliced pears 

Sliced Brazilian nut meats Grated cocoanut 

Sliced peaches Whipped and sweetened 
Chopped dates cream 

Into a large salad dish put a layer of sliced bananas, 
a layer of oranges, a layer of nut meats, a layer of 
peaches, a layer of dates, then another layer of the 
nuts, a layer of pineapple, and a layer of pears. 
Sprinkle with the cocoanut, decorate with a few slices 
of nuts and small pieces of peaches, and serve with the 
cream. 

ARTICHOKE SALAD 

6 cooked or canned arti- French dressing 

choke bottoms Peeled and sliced tomatoes 

i green pepper Chopped chives 

i head celery 2 hard-cooked eggs 

i garlic clove Salt and pepper to taste 

Peel and crush the clove of garlic and add to the 
French dressing with the yolks of eggs rubbed through 
a sieve. Cut the artichoke bottoms, the celery and 
green pepper into fine strips, and mix them with the 
dressing. Turn into a flat salad dish, cover with 



176 Salad Recipes 

the sliced tomatoes, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
and decorate with chopped chives. 

Cold sliced boiled Jerusalem artichokes may be 
served with French dressing seasoned with garlic or 
onion. 

Another Method. Boil eight Globe artichokes; 
separate the u fonds' : from the leaves, and cut them 
into small pieces. Place them in a salad bowl with 
an equal amount of cooked asparagus tips. Chop 
one-half cupful of salted almonds, pound with them 
the strained juice of two lemons, add salt and pepper 
to taste, and one-half pint of cream. Pour over the 
salad and serve. 

Or cut four artichoke bottoms in two-inch lengths 
and mix with one-half pound of shredded endive. 
Toss in a French dressing seasoned highly with 
paprika, and serve garnished with slices of hard-cooked 
eggs and sliced olives. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD 

Asparagus ^2 tablespoonful lemon-juice 

Lettuce leaves }4 teaspoonful salt 

Hard-cooked eggs y$ teaspoonful white pepper 

Cheese wafers }4 teaspoonful grated onion 

3 tablespoonfuls olive oil ]4 teaspoonful grated horse- 
i tablespoonful vinegar radish 

Remove the tough ends of asparagus, and, after 
washing the stalks, cook them in boiling salted water 



Salad Recipes 177 

until tender; drain, and when cool, lay on a bed of 
crisp lettuce leaves and cover with the sauce. Garnish 
with the hard-cooked eggs cut in slices, and serve with 
cheese wafers. Mix the olive oil with the vinegar 
and lemon- juice ; add the salt, pepper, onion, and 
horseradish; let stand for one hour, then strain out 
the onion and horseradish. 



ASPARAGUS AND HAM SALAD 

1 bundle cooked asparagus Mayonnaise dressing 
% Ib. cooked lean ham Mashed potatoes 

2 hard-cooked eggs Radishes 
i cucumber 

Cut the ham, cucumber, and eggs into small strips. 
Remove the heads from the asparagus and cut the 
stalks into small lengths. Mix the eggs, ham, cucum- 
ber, and asparagus together and place them in a salad 
bowl and cover with mayonnaise dressing. 

Put the potatoes into a forcing bag with large star 
tube and force them out around the edge of the dish. 
Then stick in the potatoes some tips of asparagus 
and slices of red radishes, sprinkle over with a little 
chopped ham, and serve very cold. 

Another Method. Mix the tender parts of some 
cooked asparagus with tartare sauce. Place in the 
salad dish and serve garnished with sprigs of cooked 
cauliflower and finely chopped green peppers. 

12 



178 Salad Recipes 

AVOCADO AND GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 

i avocado pear i chopped shallot 

% pint (i cupful) grapefruit i teaspoonful salt 

pulp i teaspoonful sugar 

i chopped green pepper 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

X pint (i cup) chopped 6 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

crisp celery 

Peel the pear with a silver knife and cut it into dice. 
Put the pieces in a salad bowl, and mix with the grape- 
fruit pulp and juice. Put the shallot into a small 
bowl, add the salt, sugar, vinegar and oil. Stir and 
mix well. Then add the pepper. Pour it over the 
pear and grapefruit, then mix and chill. At serving 
time, add the celery, mixing it in gently. 

Another Method. Peel and cut an avocado pear, 
and then toss lightly with some grapefruit pulp and 
a few skinned and seeded grapes, using two silver 
forks for the purpose. Chill the ingredients, and at 
serving time arrange on a bed of white, crisp lettuce 
leaves ; then over all pour a fruit mayonnaise made as 
follows: Beat up two yolks of eggs with two table- 
spoonfuls of sifted sugar, add slowly two tablespoon- 
fuls of lemon-juice, stirring all the time, then grad- 
ually add two tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Beat 
thoroughly with an egg-beater. Serve very cold. 
Or put an avocado pear through a potato ricer, add 
onion-juice to taste, and fill into skinned tomato 
shells. Garnish with slices of hard-cooked egg and 
serve on lettuce nests with mayonnaise dressing. 



Salad Recipes 179 

BANANA AND DATE SALAD 

Bananas French dressing 

Stoned and sliced dates Crisp white lettuce leaves 

Shredded celery Cress or parsley 
Broken pecan nut meats 

Take a strip from the top of each banana and dice 
the contents. Add to the banana equal quantities 
of dates, celery, and nut meats, and mix with French 
dressing made with lemon-juice. Fill the banana- 
skin boats with the salad and serve on lettuce leaves 
garnished with cress or parsley. 

Or cut peeled bananas into four strips, chop some 
peanuts fine, and roll the bananas in the chopped nuts. 
When ready to serve, put a crisp lettuce leaf on a plate 
with one-half tablespoonful of green mayonnaise 
heaped on it. Lay a strip of banana on either side 
of the leaf and serve, passing a dish of mayonnaise 
dressing at the same time. 

BEET AND ONION SALAD 

i large cooked Spanish i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
onion ley 

i large cooked beet Salt and pepper to taste 

i teaspoonful chopped tarra- 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

gon 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

Slice the onion, add the beet chopped and the 
seasonings, oil, and vinegar. Mix well and serve with 
cold roast beef. 



180 Salad Recipes 

A little grated horseradish is an improvement to 
this salad if the flavor is liked. 

BERMUDA SALAD 

6 small sliced Bermuda i small cucumber 

onions 8 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

2 pints (4 cups) cooked string- 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

beans >^ teaspoonful salt 

i bunch watercress > teaspoonful pepper 

i lettuce French dressing 

i bunch radishes 

Cut the radishes into roses and dice the cucumber. 
Cut the beans lengthwise, cover them with a little 
French dressing, and leave them in a cool place for 
two hours. Beat up the oil and vinegar together and 
season with the salt and pepper. 

Place the lettuce and cress in a salad dish, add the 
onions, surround with the beans; add the cucumber 
to the dressing and pour over the salad. Decorate 
with the radish roses and serve very cold. 

BLUE BIRD SALAD 

i orange X gill (/4 CU P) olive oil 

} pint (i cup) chopped i lemon 

pineapple i tablespoonful sugar 

X grapefruit i teaspoonful salt 

i banana ^ teaspoonful paprika 

i apple Crisp lettuce leaves 

^ pint (i cup) white grapes Boiled raisins 

l /2 pint (i cup) shredded eel- Mayonnaise dressing 

ery 





in 

Q 

erf 

HH 

CQ 

w 
& 
pj 

CQ 



Salad Recipes 181 

Cut the grapes in half and remove the seeds; free 
the grapefruit and orange pulp from the containing 
membrane, and cut the apple and banana into dice. 
Mix the fruit with the celery. 

Mix the sugar, salt, aid paprika together; add one 
tablespoonful of the oil; stir well, then gradually add 
the rest of the oil, beating constantly. Now add the 
strained juice of the lemon, pour over the fruits, and 
allow to stand for one hour. Drain, arrange on crisp 
lettuce leaves, decorate with one-half cupful of boiled 
raisins, and serve with mayonnaise. 

CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD 

i cabbage i teaspoonful mustard 

i head crisp celery 2 egg-yolks 

Salt and red pepper 4 tablespoonfuls cream 

i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) 3 tablespoonfuls whipped 

butter cream 

i teaspoonful flour i tablespoonful sugar 
1^2 gills (^4 cup) cider vinegar 

Chop the cabbage and the celery, mix well, and 
sprinkle with one teaspoonful of salt. Blend the 
butter and flour together in the upper pan of a double 
boiler, add the mustard, sugar, vinegar, yolks of eggs, 
and the single cream. Cook, stirring constantly 
until smooth and thick. Season with red pepper, 
pour over the cabbage and celery, and stand away to 
cool. At serving time add the whipped cream. 



182 Salad Recipes 

Shredded red cabbage and finely cut celery seasoned 
with onion-juice and served with French dressing 
make an attractive salad. 

Cabbage salad as an accompaniment to a fish course 
is sometimes served in cups of lemon, tomato, or 
cooked beets with a little mayonnaise dressing on the 
top. 

Another Method. Mix together two cupfuls of 
chopped cabbage, two chopped apples, and one-half 
cupful of chopped black walnut meats, and sprinkle 
over with a little salt. Cover with the following 
dressing: Mix together one-half tablespoonful each 
of salt and mustard, one tablespoonful of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, one beaten egg, and one 
cupful of cream. Cook in a double boiler, adding 
one-third cupful of vinegar, and stir until it thickens, 
but do not allow to boil. 

CABBAGE SALAD IN CABBAGE SHELL 

i cabbage }4 teaspoonful black pepper 

4 cucumbers % teaspoonful paprika 

5 onions 10 pimientoes (canned red 
i pint (2 cups) cooked beans peppers) 

i bunch celery Mayonnaise dressing 

i tablespoonful salt Chopped parsley 

Select a crisp head of cabbage, not too large. Re- 
move the outer leaves, and take out the heart of the 
cabbage, leaving a thin shell. Chop the cabbage, 



Salad Recipes 183 

removed, very fine; add the seasonings and the 
beans. Chop the cucumbers, celery, pimientoes, and 
onions, and add them to the cabbage. Mix with the 
mayonnaise dressing and turn into the cabbage shell. 
Decorate with chopped parsley and serve very cold. 

CALF'S BRAIN SALAD 

i set calf's brains 3 stalks celery 
]/2 pint ( i cup) chopped nut Mayonnaise or boiled dress- 
meats ing 
i small bottle stuffed olives Parsley 

Scald the brains with boiling water to cleanse them. 
Boil them until tender in fresh, cold, salted water, 
being careful to remove from the water while yet firm. 
Cut in small pieces and mix with the nut meats, the 
olives cut in halves, and the celery cut in small pieces. 
Chill, and serve mixed with mayonnaise or boiled 
dressing, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. 

CANTALOUPE SALAD 

Cantaloupes Lettuce leaves 

French dressing 

Quarter the cantaloupes, remove the seeds and the 
outer rinds. Place a quarter on lettuce leaves on 
each salad plate, and serve with French dressing made 
with lime- or lemon-juice. 

Another Method. Cut the pulp of cantaloupes into 



184 Salad Recipes 

cubes, season lightly with salt and paprika, and 
serve on shredded endive with mayonnaise dressing 
to which whipped cream is added. 

CASABA MELON SALAD 

i Casaba melon White cream cheese 

Seeded white grapes French or mayonnaise dress- 

Crisp lettuce leaves ing 

Cut a Casaba melon into balls with a potato cutter. 
Peel and seed an equal quantity of white grapes, mix 
them with the melon balls, and put into nests of lettuce 
leaves, then put the cheese through a ricer over each 
nest. Serve with French or mayonnaise dressing. 

CARROT SALAD 

iK pints (3 cups) cooked i egg 

diced carrots i tablespoonful butter 

y^ pint (i cup) cooked as- i teaspoonful salt 

paragus tips K teaspoonful dry mustard 

%. pint (i cup) cooked 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

green peas iK gills (^ cup) vinegar 

Watercress or lettuce 2 tablespoonfuls cream 
Chopped chives or parsley 

Mix the carrots with the asparagus tips and a little 
chopped parsley and one-half of the dressing. At 
serving time serve the salad on the watercress or 
lettuce, decorate with the peas in little heaps, and pour 
over the remainder of the dressing. 



Salad Recipes 185 

For the dressing: Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream in a small saucepan, add the egg beaten, salt, 
mustard, and vinegar, and stir over the fire until 
thick. Cool and add the cream. 



CAULIFLOWER AND BEET SALAD 

i large cauliflower Pickled beets 

i tablespoonful salt Cream salad dressing 

Wash the cauliflower and boil it for thirty minutes 
in boiling water in which the salt has been dissolved. 
Drain, and when cold, divide it into small branches. 
Arrange these in the center of a salad dish and garnish 
the edge with the beets cut in strips. Pour over 
cream salad dressing and serve at once. 

Another Method. Place a cold boiled cauliflower 
on ice until ready to serve; then break into branches 
and set on crisp lettuce leaves. Garnish with pim- 
olas and cover with mayonnaise dressing. 

CELERIAC SALAD 

Some celeriac roots 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon 

Chopped tarragon vinegar 

6 tablespoonfuls olive oil Mustard, salt, and pepper 

to taste 

Peel and wash the roots of celeriac, cut them in 
slices, and boil until quite tender in plenty of boiling 
salted water. Then drain and mix them with a dress- 



186 Salad Recipes 

ing made of the oil, vinegar, mustard, salt, and pepper. 
Sprinkle over with chopped tarragon, then chill and 
serve. 

CHEESE SALAD 

4 heads of lettuce i teaspoonful chopped pars- 
X cucumber ley 

6 spring onions i tablespoonful grated Par- 
Salt and paprika mesan cheese 

2 egg-yolks Salad oil 
2 tablespoonfuls tarragon 2 tablespoonfuls cream 

vinegar Cheese cubes for decoration 

Cut the head of lettuce into quarters and slice the 
onions and cucumber. Put these in layers in a salad 
bowl, sprinkling a little salt and paprika between each 
layer. Mix the yolks of eggs smooth with the tarra- 
gon vinegar, add the chopped parsley, grated Par- 
mesan cheese, cream, and enough salad oil to make a 
thin sauce. Pour this dressing over the salad and 
decorate with the cubes of cheese. 

Another Method. Cut into small pieces one-half 
pound of cheese and a green sweet pepper. Mix 
two tablespoonfuls of peanut butter with one cupful of 
mayonnaise dressing, and add the cheese and pepper. 
Chill and serve with toasted crackers. 

CHERRY AND CREAM CHEESE SALAD 

White or red canned Chopped English walnut 

cherries meats 

Cream cheese Lettuce leaves or endive 

French dressing 



Salad Recipes 187 

Remove the stones from large canned red or white 
cherries and fill with a mixture of cream cheese and 
chopped nut meats. Serve on endive or crisp lettuce 
leaves with French dressing. 

Another Method. Stone one pint of ripe cherries, 
drain well, and mix with one peeled and diced cucum- 
ber and one-half cupful of blanched and chopped al- 
monds. Arrange on lettuce leaves and serve covered 
with the following dressing: Mix four tablespoonfuls 
of cherry juice with two tablespoonfuls of lemon- 
juice, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and two drops of 
almond extract. Serve very cold. 



CHESTNUT AND CELERY SALAD 

i lb. chestnuts Vinegar 

i head celery Salt and pepper 

i crisp lettuce i onion 

i tomato, skinned i clove 

Mayonnaise dressing Herbs 

Chopped parsley Boiling stock 

Oil 

Shell and slit the chestnuts, boil them for ten min- 
utes in water, drain off the water, and peel them care- 
fully; now put them in a stewpan, cover with boiling 
stock, add a small bouquet of herbs and the onion 
stuck with the clove, and boil until tender. When 
done, drain and let cool; wash the celery and trim it, 
then shred it fine; wash and shred the lettuce, cut 



i88 Salad Recipes 

the chestnuts into slices and put them into a salad 
bowl with the celery, season with enough mayonnaise 
sauce to dress the salad, pile up rather high, and sur- 
round it with finely shredded lettuce to form a border; 
cut the tomato into slices, season with oil, vinegar, 
salt, and pepper, and place this in the center, or in 
groups around the chestnuts and celery; sprinkle 
with chopped parsley and serve. 

Other nuts may be used in the same way. 

CHICKEN SALAD NO. i 

i cooked chicken Chopped aspic jelly 

Endive Chopped parsley 

Lettuce Salt and paprika 

6 hard-cooked eggs Whipped cream sauce 

To make the whipped cream sauce: Chop four hard- 
cooked eggs, rub them through a wire sieve into a 
basin, add two dessertspoonfuls of olive oil, two des- 
sertspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
mustard to taste; one-half tablespoonful of capers 
and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; mix well 
with a wooden spoon, then add one cupful of whipped 
cream. 

Take the best white part of the chicken and cut the 
meat into little squares, then place the pieces in a 
basin and mix well with the sauce. Line a salad bowl 
with pieces of endive and lettuce, then turn in the 
chicken mixture, cut the hard-cooked eggs in halves 



Salad Recipes 189 

and place them around the salad, place a tablespoonful 
of chopped aspic jelly between each egg, and sprinkle 
the eggs with salt and paprika to taste and a little 
chopped parsley. 



CHICKEN SALAD NO. 2 

1 cold cooked chicken i teaspoonful made mustard 
Chopped celery 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 

2 hard-cooked eggs 3 teaspoonfuls olive oil 

i raw egg }/?. gill ( l /2 teacup) vinegar 

y* teaspoonful white pepper Lettuce 

i teaspoonful salt 

Chop the white meat of a cold broiled or roasted 
chicken; add three-fourths of the same amount of 
celery, and set aside in a cool place. Rub the yolks 
of the hard-cooked eggs through a sieve, add the salt, 
pepper, sugar, mustard, and oil. Beat up the raw 
egg, beat it into the dressing, and gradually add the 
vinegar, whipping the dressing all the time. Sprinkle 
a little salt over the chicken and celery, add the dress- 
ing, and toss and mix with a silver fork. Serve in a 
lettuce-lined salad bowl, decorated with the whites 
of the hard-cooked eggs cut into rings or flowers. 

One cupful of chopped English walnut meats makes 
a nice addition to chicken salad. 

This salad is delicious served in green pepper cups, 
with nut sandwiches cut in long thin strips. 



190 Salad Recipes 

CHICORY SALAD 

Chicory Garlic or onion- juice 

French dressing 

Wash the chicory and put it into cold water for a 
few minutes; then drain well. Dress with French 
dressing seasoned with chopped garlic or onion-juice. 

Or, if a heartier salad is desired, grate over the 
chicory some Roquefort cheese and mix one table- 
spoonful of chili sauce with the dressing before pour- 
ing over the salad. 

CHIFFONADE SALAD 

Lettuce or endive i grapefruit 

y* pint (i cup) shredded ^2 teaspoonful salt 

celery % teaspoonful pepper 

^ pint (y* cup) cooked y$ teaspoonful onion-juice 

beans i tablespoonful vinegar 

54 pint (^2 cup) cooked i tablespoonful lemon-juice 

beets, chopped i chopped hard-cooked egg 

1 chopped onion i teaspoonful chopped chives 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped i teaspoonful chopped pi- 
parsley mientoes 

1 chopped green pepper 6 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

2 skinned and chopped to- 
matoes 

Mix the shredded celery, beans, beets, onion, pars- 
ley, green pepper, tomatoes, and grapefruit pulp well 
together and arrange on lettuce or endive. Stir to- 



Salad Recipes 191 

gether the salt, pepper, onion-juice, vinegar, lemon- 
juice, egg, chives, pimientoes, and gradually add the 
olive oil. When well blended, pour over the salad 
and serve. 

COLE-SLAW 

Cabbage i gill (y% cup) sugar 

^ pint (i cup) thick sour ]/* teaspoonful salt 

cream ^i teaspoonful white pepper 
i gill (>2 cup) vinegar 



Chop fine one-fourth of a head of cabbage and divide 
into eight small salad dishes. Beat up the cream, 
add gradually and alternately the vinegar and sugar, 
and then add the salt and pepper. Put two table- 
spoonfuls of this dressing upon the top of each portion 
and set in a cool place for fifteen minutes before serv- 
ing. 

CORN, NUT, AND CELERY SALAD 

1 pint (2 cups) cooked % pint (i cup) chopped celery 
grated corn teaspoonful salt 

K pint (i cup) chopped ^ teaspoonful pepper 

English walnut meats i teaspoonful chopped onion 

Salad Dressing 

2 eggs X pint (i cup) scalded milk 
i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) i teaspoonful salt 

butter i teaspoonful sugar 

i gill (y? cup) hot vinegar i teaspoonful mustard 

X teaspoonful white pepper 



192 Salad Recipes 

For Salad. Mix the corn with the nuts and the 
celery, and add the seasonings. 

For Dressing. Mix the seasonings with the beaten 
yolks of eggs and stir until smooth. Melt the butter 
in the vinegar and add it slowly to the eggs in the upper 
pan of a double boiler. Stir in the milk gradually 
and cook until thickened, but do not allow to boil. 
Let cool a little, then stir in the whites of eggs stiffly 
beaten. Thin with a little cream, either sweet or 
sour, when ready to use. Keep in a cool place and 
do not add the salad until thirty minutes before it is 
to be served. 

CRAB-MEAT SALAD 

i quart (4 cups) crab meat Salt and pepper to taste 

1 pint (2 cups) shredded Mayonnaise dressing 
lettuce or celery 2 chopped hard-cooked eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil 2 tablespoonfuls chopped 
4 tablespoonfuls vinegar parsley 

Mix the crab meat with the lettuce or celery, olive 
oil, vinegar, and seasonings. Divide into salad dishes, 
decorate with the eggs and parsley, and serve with the 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Another Method. Mix together two cupfuls of crab 
meat, one-third cupful of cooked asparagus tips, one 
chopped pickled walnut, and two shredded lettuces; 
add salt, pepper, and paprika to taste, and mix with 
mayonnaise dressing. Put on a salad plate and 




'Jl 

o 
o 

W 

33 
,H 

^H 



H 

a 

S 

^ 

U 



Salad Recipes 193 

garnish with slices of hard-cooked egg and strips of 
green and red peppers. 

CREAM CHEESE AND PIMIENTO SALAD 

Cream cheese Crisp lettuce leaves 

Pimientoes (canned red French or mayonnaise dress- 

peppers) ing 

Drain the pimientoes, wipe and chop them, and add 
sufficient to cream cheese to give a decided flavor. 
Roll into balls the size of a walnut, and place four on 
lettuce leaves on individual plates. Pour over either 
French dressing or thin mayonnaise dressing. 

This mixture is also excellent for sandwiches. 

CREAM CHEESE AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

2 cream cheeses i orange 

2 cans pineapple y$ Ib. ($4 cup) sugar 

i lettuce 

Boil the strained juice of the orange, sugar, and pine- 
apple juice together for five minutes and chill. On a 
leaf of lettuce put one slice of pineapple. Put the 
cheese through a potato ricer, covering the pineapple, 
then pour over a little of the chilled syrup. 

DANDELION SALAD 

Dandelion leaves Watercress 

Crisp lettuce Hard-cooked eggs 

French dressing 
13 



194 Salad Recipes 

Wash and dry tender leaves of young dande- 
lions, and mix them with double the quantity of 
shredded lettuce. Mix with the French dressing 
and serve decorated with watercress and chopped 
hard-cooked eggs. 

Chopped spring onions or chopped chives are ex- 
cellent with dandelions and French dressing. 

DANDELION AND OYSTER SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) undeveloped Salt 

dandelion buds Tabasco sauce 

i pint (2 cups) oysters Lemon- juice 

French dressing Dandelion leaves 

Mix the dandelion leaves with French dressing and 
line a salad bowl with them. Scald the oysters, 
drain, and sprinkle them with salt, Tabasco, and 
lemon-juice, and set them in a cool place for two hours. 
Drain them and cut them in halves or quarters, and 
mix them with the dandelion buds. Serve in the pre- 
pared salad bowl. 

Cooked lobster, shrimps, or scallops may be sub- 
stituted for the oysters. 

EGG AND LOBSTER SALAD 

Hard-cooked eggs French dressing 

i boiled lobster Cream cheese 

Celery Whipped cream 

Cucumber Strips of toast 

Mayonnaise dressing Salt and pepper 
Crisp lettuce 



Salad Recipes 195 

Cook a number of eggs according to persons, re- 
move the shells, cut a small piece from the top and a 
slice from the bottom of each the latter to make them 
stand; remove the yolks, fill the whites with lobster, 
celery, and cucumber, all cut fine, and mixed with the 
mayonnaise dressing. Serve one of these to each 
person upon individual salad plates of lettuce garnished 
with the yolks highly seasoned and made into tiny 
balls. Sprinkle over with French dressing, and serve 
with snowballs made of cream cheese and whipped 
cream, mashed smooth, and long strips of toast. 

Canned lobster may be used. 



ENDIVE SALAD 

2 heads endive 2 tablespoonfuls honey 

i chopped shallot 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

3 tablespoonfuls olive oil Salt and pepper to taste 

Remove the outer leaves of the endive; wash the 
inner ones; drain and dry and place in a salad bowl; 
then sprinkle over the olive oil mixed with the shallot. 
Let stand in a cool place until ready to serve, and just 
before sending to table pour over the salad the honey, 
vinegar, and seasonings mixed together. 

If liked, finely shredded celery or sprigs of water- 
cress may be mixed with this salad. 

Another Method. Cover the endive with ice water, 
drain, and shake dry, and serve with French dressing. 



196 Salad Recipes 

Garnish with chopped chives and chopped nuts, or 
with diced tomatoes and grated Parmesan cheese. 

EXTRA-FINE SALAD 

i cooked chicken i Ib. English walnut meats 

i bunch celery 6 sweet pickles 

i orange i can peas 

i can sliced pineapple Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

2> dozen hard-cooked taste 

eggs Boiled salad dressing 

1 6 candied cherries Crisp lettuce leaves 

Chop the chicken, celery, orange, nut meats, eggs, 
pickles, and drained pineapple, then add the drained 
peas and seasonings. Mix with the boiled salad dress- 
ing and serve on lettuce leaves. Place the cherries 
on the top. 

This recipe serves twenty-five persons. 

FISH SALAD NO. i 

Sliced cucumbers Mayonnaise dressing 

Cold cooked lobster or salmon 

Take some scallop shells, allowing one for each 
person, and arrange some thinly sliced cucumber all 
around the shells by folding the slices in halves so as 
not to break; leave a small space in the center, then 
take a few neat pieces of salmon or lobster, or any pre- 
ferred fish, and fill up this space. Cover with may- 
onnaise dressing, and serve on a silver dish. 



Salad Recipes 197 

Another Method. Let cubes of cooked fish roe, 
mixed with paprika, oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and 
lemon- juice, stand in a cool place until ready to serve. 
Drain and add an equal quantity of peeled and diced 
cucumber, also one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
and top with mayonnaise to which one-half cupful of 
whipped cream has been added. Serve on water- 
cress or lettuce. 



FISH SALAD NO. 2 

i lettuce Salt and pepper 

i endive i Ib. cooked fish 

i cucumber Mayonnaise dressing 

1 cooked or canned beet % pint (i cup) whipped cream 

2 tablespoonfuls white 2 tablespoonfuls freshly grated 
vinegar horseradish 

2 tablespoonfuls olive oil 2 tablespoonfuls chopped red 
i teaspoonful mustard or green peppers 

Pick the lettuce and endive into neat pieces, cut the 
cucumber and beet into dice and turn into a basin, add 
the vinegar, oil, mustard, salt, and pepper; mix well, 
and place in a salad bowl or silver dish; then make a 
hole in the center, place in the fish picked into neat 
pieces, and pour over mayonnaise dressing; mix well, 
add one-fourth teaspoonful of salt to the whipped 
cream, place this on top with a bag and tube, and 
decorate with the horseradish and peppers. 



198 Salad Recipes 



FROGS' LEGS SALAD 

2 dozen large frogs' legs 3 ozs. (^ cup) blanched and 

5^ pint (i cup) diced celery shredded almonds 

or cucumbers A few pecan nut meats 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped Nasturtium leaves and blos- 

pimientoes (canned red soms 

peppers) Mild mayonnaise or French 

dressing 

Cook the frogs' legs in boiling salted water until 
tender, then remove the meat from the bones and 
cut it into cubes. Mix it with the celery or cucumber, 
the pimientoes, almonds, and pecan nut meats. 
Place in nests of nasturtium leaves, decorate with the 
blossoms, and serve with the dressing. 

If liked, the salad may be served on watercress or 
lettuce, garnishing with sliced lemon and hard-cooked 
eggs. 

FROZEN TOMATO SALAD 

6 ripe tomatoes ^ teaspoonful sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered 2 tablespoonfuls lemon-juice 

gelatine Lettuce leaves 

}^. pint (i cup) boiling water Mayonnaise dressing 

i teaspoonful salt French dressing 
^2 teaspoonful paprika 

Peel the tomatoes, then chop them and rub through 
a sieve. Add the gelatine dissolved in the boiling 
water and the seasonings. Beat until it begins to 



Salad Recipes 199 

thicken, then pour into a wet ring mold. Pack in 
equal parts of rock salt and crushed ice for four 
hours. Turn out and fill the center with lettuce 
dipped in French dressing and serve with mayonnaise 
dressing. 

FROZEN CHEESE SALAD 

i lb. cheese i pint (2 cups) whipping 

% lb. pecan nut meats cream 

i can pimientoes (canned Salt and red pepper to taste 

red peppers) Crisp lettuce leaves 

K pint (i cup) chopped Mayonnaise dressing 

cucumber pickles Salted wafers 

Put the cheese and nuts through a food-chopper, 
add the pimientoes cut in small strips, the pickles and 
seasonings, and fold in the whipped cream. Divide 
into round molds lined with paper, cover, and pack 
in ice and salt for three hours. Slice into rounds, 
place one on a lettuce leaf for each person, top with a 
spoonful of the mayonnaise dressing, and serve with 
the wafers. 

FRUIT SALADS 

Apples Pineapple 

Celery Mayonnaise dressing 

Bananas Lemon jelly 

No. i. Mix equal quantities of diced apples, ba- 
nanas, celery, and pineapple with mayonnaise dress- 
ing. Serve in a scooped-out pineapple, decorated with 



2OO Salad Recipes 

squares of lemon jelly. The pineapple may be sliced 
at the side and scooped out instead of cutting a slice 
from the top. 

No. 2. Drain twelve canned artichoke bottoms, 
marinate with French dressing, cover, and let stand 
in a cold place until thoroughly chilled. Pile up with 
grapefruit and orange pulp, which has also been 
drained and marinated. Arrange in nests of crisp 
lettuce leaves, pour over French dressing, and garnish 
with shredded Maraschino cherries. 

No. j. Cut in dice twelve strawberries, one apple, 
one orange, one apricot, one banana, and four slices of 
canned pineapple. Mix w^ith one-half cupful of sherry 
wine and set in a cool place for one hour. Serve on 
individual salad plates, covered with whipped and 
sweetened cream, and decorated with strips of French 
endive and halves of ripe strawberries. 

No. 4. Cut thirty marshmallows in small pieces, 
add one-fourth pound of broken pecan nut meats, 
one pound of white grapes, seeded and cut in halves, 
and one can of pineapple, drained and diced. 

Mix the yolks of four eggs with one-half teaspoonful 
of salt, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of mustard, and 
the strained juice of one lemon. Bring to boiling- 
point and cool. Pour over the salad, then add two 
cupfuls of whipped cream. Allow to stand over 
night in a cool place and serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

No. 5. Mix one cupful of grapefruit pulp with one 



Salad Recipes 201 

cupful of diced canned apricots and one cupful of 
seeded grapes. Beat the yolks of four eggs in the 
upper pan of a double boiler, add four tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, and one- 
fourth cupful of butter; cook until thick, take from 
the fire, and add salt and pepper to taste. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of powdered gelatine dissolved in one- 
half cupful of boiling water; then cool and add one 
cupful of cream and the fruit. Pour into a mold, 
cover, and pack in ice and salt for three hours. Turn 
out and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

No. 6. Wash three ripe persimmons, but do not 
skin, as their skins are nutritious and add to the taste, 
then slice in one-fourth inch slices, add three-fourths 
pound of seeded grapes cut in halves. Serve on let- 
tuce hearts, with French dressing poured over. 
Decorate with chopped nut meats. 

No. 7. Cut up one box of marshmallows, add three 
diced bananas, one cupful of chopped English walnut 
meats, one can of grated pineapple, and three crackers 
rolled fine. Make a syrup of one-half cupful of sugar 
and one-half cupful of vinegar; when cool, add one- 
half cupful of whipped cream and pour over the salad. 

No. 8. Mix one-half cupful of blanched and chop- 
ped almonds with four medium-sized peeled and diced 
apples, two diced bananas, the pulp of two oranges, 
one cupful of stoned white cherries, one cupful of 
peeled and seeded grapes, and one-half cupful of 



2O2 Salad Recipes 

stoned and chopped dates. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs in a small saucepan, add five tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of water or fruit- juice, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, and one-fourth teaspoonful 
of salt. Cook slowly over hot water until thick, 
stirring constantly, but do not boil. Add one tea- 
spoonful of butter, beat well, and set aside to cool. 
When cold, add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs 
and one-third pint of double cream whipped very 
stiff. Fold the fruit into the dressing and serve on 
lettuce leaves or in orange or grapefruit shells. 

No. p. Rub a salad bowl with lemon slices and 
sprinkle in some powdered sugar. Put in a layer of 
ripe raspberries, sprinkle with sugar, and so on until 
the dish is full. Over it pour a wineglassful of sherry 
wine and chill before serving. Or have liquid wine 
jelly, and just as it is about to harden pour over the 
raspberries. 

No. 10. Arrange a border of crisp white endive 
leaves around a salad dish. Mix together two sliced 
bananas, one cupful of fresh or preserved stoned 
cherries, the pulp of two grapefruit, and one cupful of 
pineapple cut into cubes. Mix one cupful of mayon- 
naise sauce with one cupful of whipped cream, season 
to taste with salt, pepper, paprika, and mushroom 
catchup, and serve with the salad. 

No. ii. Peel and chop three apples, dice enough 
pineapple to make one cupful, mix with one diced 



Salad Recipes 203 

banana and one cupful of orange- and lemon- juice 
mixed, then add one-half cupful of blanched and 
shredded almonds, and stand on ice. Beat the yolks 
of four eggs in a saucepan, add one cupful of vinegar, 
and cook until it thickens; add one tablespoonful of 
sugar, salt, pepper, and paprika to taste. When cold, 
add one cupful of whipped cream and pour over the 
fruit. Serve in orange or lemon shells, garnish with 
whipped cream and strips of angelica. 

No. 12. Dice four bananas, and sprinkle over with 
lemon-juice; add the unbroken sections of four 
mandarin oranges, a small shredded pineapple, and 
one cupful of seeded and skinned white grapes. Chill 
and serve with the following dressing : Put into a small 
saucepan one cupful of sugar and one-half cupful of 
water and boil for five minutes; then pour this syrup 
over the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, stirring all 
the time. Cook in the upper pan of a double boiler 
until it thickens, then chill and add the strained juice 
of two lemons. 

Fruit salads may be served for the middle course of 
a dinner, or as a sweet, or as the principal dish of a 
simple luncheon. They should be served in dainty 
cups or glasses. A doily on the plate, with a flower 
or a fern leaf, completes the service. 



204 Salad Recipes 

FRUIT SALAD A LA RUSSE 

Ripe strawberries Powdered sugar 

Raspberries or loganberries Brandy 

Red and white currants Lemon jelly 

Stoned cherries Grapes 

Oranges Pastry fingers 
Bananas 

Mix equal quantities of strawberries, raspberries, 
currants, grapes, and cherries, add two or three 
oranges diced, two or three bananas cut up small, and 
turn into a salad bowl. Sprinkle over with powdered 
sugar and brandy to taste. Whip up some liquid 
lemon jelly to a stiff froth, pile in rough heaps on the 
top of the fruit, and chill before serving. 

Pass small pastry fingers with this salad. 

GINGER-ALE SALAD 

i>2 ozs. (4^2 tablespoonfuls) 2 tablespoonfuls lemon- juice 

powdered gelatine Lettuce leaves 

6 ozs. (^4 cup) sugar Mayonnaise or French dress- 
i> pints (3 cups) ginger ale ing 

K pint (i cup) water Chopped nut meats 

Mix the sugar and gelatine and dissolve them in the 
water over the fire; add the lemon- juice and ginger 
ale, divide into small wet molds, and set in a cool 
place to chill. Turn out on heart leaves of lettuce, 
sprinkle over with finely chopped nut meats, and serve 
with French or mayonnaise dressing. 



Salad Recipes 205 

If liked, the jelly may be poured into a flat, wet tin, 
and when firm, cut into squares. 



GENEVA SALAD 

Aspic or lemon jelly Broken English walnut meats 

Canned or cold cooked peas Watercress 

Green mayonnaise dressing Cut lemons 
Whipped cream 

Mold the jelly in small individual charlotte russe 
molds, and turn out at serving time on to individual 
salad plates. Fill with the peas and garnish with the 
watercress and fancy cut lemons, and serve with green 
mayonnaise dressing to which has been added a little 
whipped cream and walnut meats. 

The jelly may be molded in cups, and the centers 
removed with a warm spoon. 

GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 

2 grapefruit i teaspoonful lemon-juice 
2 apples i tablespoonful sugar 
i gill ( l /2 cup) 'Maraschino i teaspoonful strawberry ex- 
liqueur tract 
i teaspoonful Kirschwasser 

Pare and divide the grapefruit into sections, re- 
moving all white skin and saving the juice. Dice the 
apples and mix them with the grapefruit sections and 
juice. Mix the Maraschino with the Kirschwasser, 



2o6 Salad Recipes 

add the lemon-juice, sugar, and strawberry extract. 
Pour over the fruit and serve in the grapefruit shells. 

Another Method. Prepare two grapefruit as above, 
mix with the pulp of two oranges, one-half cupful of 
shredded celery, and serve on endive or lettuce leaves 
with mayonnaise dressing made without mustard or 
with French dressing made with fruit-juice. 

Or mix grapefruit pulp with French dressing, sub- 
stituting one tablespoonf ul of sherry wine for vinegar ; 
drain and place on lettuce leaf, and sprinkle with a 
little sugar. Decorate with shreds of almonds and 
chopped dates and put a generous spoonful of boiled 
dressing made with whipped cream on each plate. 
Lay around the base whole dates stuffed with equal 
quantities of Neufchatel cheese and ordinary cheese, 
one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, salt, and white 
pepper to taste, and cream to moisten, then rolled in 
finely chopped nut meats. 

GREENGAGE AND BANANA SALAD 

> pint (i cup) diced green- i tablespoonful sugar 

gages i>2 gills (% cup) vinegar 

% pint (i cup) diced ba- ij/2 gills (^ cup) thick cream 

nanas i teaspoonful corn-starch 

i egg-yolk i tablespoonful milk 

>2 teaspoonful salt White lettuce leaves 

y& teaspoonful paprika 

Mix the bananas and greengages and set them in a 



Salad Recipes 207 

cool place. Put the yolk of egg into a small sauce- 
pan, add the seasonings and sugar. Mix well, and 
add gradually the vinegar, cream, and the corn-starch 
moistened with the milk. Stir and cook slowly until 
as thick as custard. Chill and mix with the fruit. 
Serve at once on the lettuce leaves. 



HERRING SALAD 

3 pickled herrings y* teaspoonful paprika 

4 cold boiled potatoes 7 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

2 tart apples i tablespoonful lemon-juice 

i tablespoonful celery seed 2 tablespoonfuls malt vinegar 

i tablespoonful tarragon i teaspoonful French mustard 

vinegar Watercress or endive 
i teaspoonful salt 

Skin and cut the herrings into small pieces; slice 
the potatoes and the apples, and mix them together 
with the celery seed and tarragon vinegar; set in a 
cool place until wanted. Put the salt and pepper 
into a bowl, add the oil, and stir and rub until the salt 
is dissolved; then add the lemon-juice and malt 
vinegar; mix well, and add the French mustard. 
Line a salad bowl with watercress or endive, place 
in the fish and vegetables, pour over the dressing, and 
serve. 

Chopped hard-cooked eggs and cooked beets and 
small pickles may be added to this salad if liked. 



208 Salad Recipes 



HORSERADISH AND CELERY SALAD 

}/2 oz. (1^2 tablespoonfuls) Few drops green color 

powdered gelatine ^2 pint (i cup) finely chopped 

1 pint (2 cups) boiling water celery 

2 lemons i gill (^ cupj chopped nut 
4 ozs. (y cup) sugar meats 

i tablespoonful freshly Lettuce leaves 

grated horseradish Mayonnaise dressing 

Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the strained 
juice of the lemons, the sugar, horseradish, and green 
color. Pour this over the celery and the nut meats 
and pour into a wet mold. Turn out when firm on to 
lettuce leaves and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 



HOT SLAW 

i cabbage ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Salt y& teaspoonful red pepper 

Butter }4 teaspoonful mustard 

4 tablespoonfuls milk i beaten egg 

i tablespoonful vinegar i gill (% cup) boiling cream 
i teaspoonful sugar 

Shred the cabbage very fine, measure it, and put it 
into an enameled saucepan ; to every two cupf uls of it 
allow one-half cupful of boiling water and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt and cook until perfectly tender. 

Add the milk and one tablespoonful of butter, and 
continue to cook until the cabbage is dry; then serve 



Salad Recipes 209 

with the following sauce: Put the seasonings and 
vinegar into a pan, bring to boiling-point, add the 
egg, one teaspoonful of butter, and the boiling cream. 
Serve hot. 

HOT VEGETABLE SALAD 

24 P^t (i/^ cups) shredded i teaspoonful vinegar 

cooked string-beans i teaspoonful meat extract 

3/ pint (i^ cups) cooked or Salt and pepper to taste 

canned peas 2 sprigs parsley 

% pint (i>2 cups) cooked i bay-leaf 

whole young carrots $4 pint (i cup) stock or water 

% pint (y cup) cooked i teaspoonful chopped chut- 

shredded salsify ney 

1 boiled lettuce, shredded }4 teaspoonful Worcester- 

2 large tomatoes shire sauce 
2 slices onion 

Slice the tomatoes into a saucepan, add onion, 
vinegar, meat extract, salt and pepper to taste, parsley, 
bay-leaf, and stock or water; boil for twelve minutes, 
strain, and add the Worcestershire sauce and the 
chutney, the peas, beans, and lettuce. Mix and pile 
high in the center of a hot dish ; now arrange the car- 
rots around the edge, points upward, with the pieces of 
salsify between; set in the oven to get smoking hot, 
and serve at once. 



14 



2io Salad Recipes 

IMPERIAL SALAD 

Melted aspic jelly >2 pint (i cup) cooked 
Watercress string-beans 

12 heads cooked asparagus Mayonnaise dressing 

2 cooked potatoes i hard-cooked egg 
i cup) cooked green peas 



Line a plain, wet ring mold with aspic jelly, decorate 
with leaves of watercress, fill up with aspic jelly, put 
in a cool place until set, then turn out and decorate 
the outside base with the white of egg cut in small 
pieces. 

Dice the potatoes and mix with them the heads of 
asparagus, peas, beans, and mayonnaise. Turn into 
the center of the aspic mold, and decorate with the 
yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. 

Canned asparagus may be used. 



ITALIAN SALAD 

2 cold boiled potatoes Anchovies 

i cooked beet Pickles or olives 

Mixed cooked vegetables Tartare sauce 
Ham, fowl, or game 

Cut the potatoes and beet in slices one-half inch 
thick, cut them into neat round shapes with a cutter, 
and put them into a salad bowl with equal quantities 
of green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, asparagus tips, 
string-beans, diced celery, Brussels sprouts, beans or 



Salad Recipes 211 

lentils, according to what is in season; add to these a 
little shredded cooked ham, fowl, or game, anchovies, 
pickles, or olives, and mix with tartare sauce. 

If liked, the salad bowl may be rubbed with a cut 
clove of garlic. 

JELLIED BEET AND NUT SALAD 

i bunch boiled beets }4 oz. (i>^ tablespoonfuls) 

% pint (y-i cup) chopped powdered gelatine 

nut meats % pint (i cup) hot water or 

3^ pint (i cup) heavy may- stock 

onnaise dressing Shredded lettuce or cabbage 

Boiled dressing 

Chop the beets. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, 
then cool and mix with the mayonnaise dressing, beets, 
and nuts. Divide into wet individual molds and set 
away to firm. Turn out on the shredded lettuce or 
cabbage and serve with boiled salad dressing. 

JELLIED CHICKEN AND RICE SALAD 

1 oz. (3 tablespoonfuls) \]/2 gills (^4 cup) cold boiled 
powdered gelatine rice 

3 cupfuls boiling water y% pint (i cup) diced cold 
Salt and pepper to taste cooked chicken 

Celery salt and paprika to Endive 

taste Mayonnaise dressing 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped i gill (^2 cup) chopped olives 
canned red peppers 

Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the red 
peppers and seasonings. Wet a square mold and 



212 Salad Recipes 

scatter over the bottom some of the olives, rice, and 
chicken; now pour over this a layer of the gelatine 
and set on ice to stiffen; keep the rest of the gelatine 
where it is warm enough to prevent its hardening. 
When the first layer is firm, repeat the process; then 
put in the refrigerator until ready to serve. Turn out 
and cut into small squares and serve on endive with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

JELLIED FRUIT AND CELERY SALAD I 

Sour lemon jelly Apples 

Few drops red color Oranges 

Crisp lettuce leaves Fresh or canned pineapple 

Stiff mayonnaise dressing Celery 

Blanched English walnut Whipped cream 
meats 

Slice or shred the fruits and celery into small wet 
molds. Fill up with the lemon jelly colored red with 
red coloring and set away to firm. Turn out at serving 
time on the lettuce leaves, decorate with the walnut 
meats, and serve with stiff mayonnaise to which 
whipped cream has been added. 

JELLIED HAM SALAD 

X pint (i cup) chopped Xpint (i cup) whipped cream 

cooked ham i> gills (^ cup) stock 

X teaspoonful paprika 2 tablespoonfuls water 

X teaspoonful onion-juice Crisp lettuce leaves 

i teaspoonful made mustard Mayonnaise dressing 
i tablespoonful powdered 
gelatine 



Salad Recipes 213 

Soak the gelatine in the water, then dissolve it in 
the stock over the fire; strain over the ham, add the 
seasonings, and stir over chopped ice until it begins 
to thicken; then stir in the whipped cream. Pour 
into a wet ring mold. Turn out on to crisp lettuce 
leaves, fill the center with heart lettuce leaves, and 
cover these with mayonnaise dressing. 

KUMQUAT SALAD 

12 kumquats i banana 

i canned pear Lettuce leaves 

i apple French dressing 

i shredded red or green i grapefruit 
pepper 

Cut up the kumquats, free them from skin and seeds, 
add the pear cut in dice, the apple cored, peeled, and 
cut in cubes, the pulp of the grapefruit, the pepper, 
and the banana peeled and cut into small pieces. 
Mix with French dressing and serve on the lettuce 
leaves. 

Another Method. Line a salad bowl with endive 
or lettuce hearts and arrange in it a layer of thinly 
sliced apple; sprinkle over a little lemon-juice, than 
a layer of thinly sliced kumquats, then a layer of 
skinned and seeded grapes, and sprinkle over with 
chopped pecan nut meats. Serve with boiled dress- 
ing to which one cupful of whipped cream has been 
added. 



214 Salad Recipes 

LETTUCE SALAD AND ROQUEFORT 

DRESSING 

Lettuce hearts 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

i clove garlic Olive oil 

X teaspoonful dry mustard 3 tablespoonfuls Roquefort 

i saltspoonful salt cheese 

i saltspoonful paprika 2 hard-cooked eggs 

Place the lettuce hearts in a salad bowl which has 
been rubbed over with the cut clove of garlic. Mix 
together the mustard, salt, paprika, vinegar, and 
beat in olive oil until thick; then gradually add the 
cheese and the hard-cooked yolks of eggs rubbed 
through a sieve. 

Pour over the lettuce and serve garnished with the 
whites of eggs cut in rings. 

LOBSTER SALAD NO. i 

1 cooked lobster Shredded lettuce leaves 

2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) Paprika 
butter Lobster coral 

Fresh mushrooms Mayonnaise dressing 

i lemon Capers 

Divide the meat of the lobster into small pieces. 
Melt the butter, add the lobster, and fry it for a few 
minutes with about one-half its quantity of mush- 
rooms cut in quarters. Drain, cool, and arrange on 
the lettuce in a salad dish, season with lemon-juice 



Salad Recipes 215 

and paprika, and cover with a mayonnaise dressing. 
Decorate with capers and lobster coral. 

Another Method. Cut the meat of a cooked lobster 
into thin strips, then into dice. Season with two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of oil, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Add one tablespoonful of 
chopped olives and a chopped dill pickle. Mix with 
mayonnaise and serve on lettuce leaves, with a garnish 
of stiff mayonnaise and coral from the lobster. 



LOBSTER SALAD NO. 2 

i cooked lobster Anchovy fillets 

Shredded lettuce A medium-sized gherkin 

Mayonnaise dressing 

Remove the flesh of the lobster from the shell and 
cut or break it into neat pieces. Brush over the shell 
while it is hot with salad oil, and wipe or brush it off 
again. Wash, dry, and shred the lettuce and put some 
of it into a salad dish; then some slices of the lobster, 
and coat them with mayonnaise dressing. Add more 
lettuce and lobster and dressing until all are used. 
Put the head end of the shell cut one-fourth of an inch 
from the eyes at one end of the salad and the tail at 
the other end. Make a latticework at one side with 
anchovy fillets, and place the gherkin cut like a fan at 
the other. Keep on ice until required. 



216 Salad Recipes 

MACARONI SALAD 

]/2 pound (58 sticks) mac- i teaspoonful sugar 
aroni X teaspoonful salt 

2^/2 tablespoonfuls fresh i pint (2 cups) whipped cream 
grated horseradish Crisp lettuce leaves 

Break the macaroni into small pieces, boil in plenty 
of boiling salted water until tender, then drain and 
cool. Mix the horseradish with the sugar, salt, and 
whipped cream; fold in the macaroni and serve 
heaped on the lettuce leaves. 

Another Method. Boil one package of macaroni, 
then rinse it with cold water and drain. Cut it into 
short lengths, place one-half of it in a jar of vinegar 
in which boiled beets have been pickled, and let it 
remain until colored a pretty pink. 

Line a salad dish with crisp lettuce leaves and ar- 
range the pink and white macaroni in alternate rings. 
Garnish with sprigs of parsley and tiny leaves of 
lettuce. Serve with boiled salad dressing. 

Spaghetti may be used in the same way. 



MACEDOINE SALAD 

Cooked string or French Cooked green peas 

beans Cooked lima or haricot beans 

Cooked asparagus tops Cooked cauliflower 

Cooked carrots Mayonnaise dressing 

Cooked turnips Whipped cream 




MACARONI SALAD 




PARK LANE SALAD 



Salad Recipes 217 

The cauliflower should be broken into small pieces, 
and the carrots and turnips should be cut into dice- 
shaped pieces before cooking. Drain and dry all the 
vegetables, then mix them with a rich mayonnaise 
dressing to which some whipped cream has been added. 
Arrange all the vegetables carefully in a salad dish, 
and decorate with pieces of the various vegetables. 

Prepared macedoine of vegetables, sold in bottles or 
tins, may be used for this salad; these require to be 
rinsed in water and drained before using. 

Another Method.- -^^Q a ring mold, butter it, and 
press into it three and one-half cupfuls of hot boiled 
rice, seasoned to taste with salt, pepper, and paprika 
and three tablespoonfuls of melted butter. When 
cold, turn out on to a salad dish and fill with a mace- 
doine of vegetables mixed with French dressing. 
Decorate with strips of green and red peppers. 

MINT SALAD 

Shredded lettuce Chopped cooked lamb or 

Chopped mint chicken 

French dressing 

Wash, dry, and shred some young lettuce and 
sprinkle it liberally with chopped mint. Cover with 
a layer of chopped cooked lamb or chicken and cover 
with French dressing. Garnish with sprigs of mint 
and serve. 

Another Method. Mix two cupfuls of diced cold 



218 Salad Recipes 

lamb with one cupful of cold sliced potatoes, season 
with salt and red pepper, and mix with mayonnaise 
dressing. Garnish with slices of hard-cooked eggs and 
mint jelly cut in squares. 

MERRY WIDOW SALAD 

Romaine lettuce Cucumber peel 

Grapefruit Cream cheese 

Oranges Chopped green peppers 

Pimientoes (canned red pep- French dressing 
pers) 

Place three or four long stalks of crisp Romaine 
lettuce on individual salad plates, lay across sections of 
grapefruit and oranges; then place two strips of pi- 
mientoes lengthwise on the oranges and grapefruit, 
and garnish with tiny spirals of green cucumber peel. 
Cover with French dressing, and on each plate place a 
ball of the cream cheese into which pieces of the green 
peppers have been creamed. 

French or Belgian endive may be used in place of 
the Romaine. 

NASTURTIUM SALADS 

Nasturtium leaves and bios- Cream cheese 
soms French dressing 

For this salad not only the blossoms, but the 
leaves and stems come into play. Arrange on a low 
glass dish a layer of spicy nasturtium leaves which 



Salad Recipes 219 

have been well washed in ice water and shaken until 
very dry. On each leaf place a blossom with its stem 
to the center. Have ready some cream cheese rolled 
up to form good-sized pistils and tuck them into the 
blossoms. Where the stems converge, put a few of 
the cheese pistils and dress with French dressing. 

Another Method. Pick a quantity of nasturtium 
blossoms and leaves, wash them well in cold water, 
and shake dry on a clean towel. Arrange them in 
a shallow bowl, the leaves and flowers forming a 
border. Arrange peeled and sliced tomatoes in the 
center, sprinkle over with a little salt and pepper, add 
a layer of cold sliced potatoes; sprinkle over a chopped 
onion and one tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. 
Chill and serve with French dressing. 

Or chop fine one cupful of celery; add two table- 
spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley and one table- 
spoonful of chopped chives. Mix with French dress- 
ing and stir in gently sixteen nasturtium blossoms. 
Serve this salad with crisp lettuce leaves and garnish 
with nasturtium blossoms and leaves. 

NUT AND PRUNE SALAD 

i lb. large prunes Crisp lettuce leaves 

Chopped English walnut Mayonnaise dressing 
meats 

Wash, soak, and cook the prunes until tender. 
Drain, and when cold, pit and fill the cavities with 



22O Salad Recipes 

chopped nut meats. Serve four of these stuffed prunes 
in nests of lettuce and cover with mayonnaise dress- 
ing made with lemon-juice. 

Another Method. Pit some cold cooked prunes and 
cut each in four pieces lengthwise. Mix with half 
the quantity of broken nut meats and serve on lettuce 
leaves covered with whipped cream seasoned to taste 
with salt and paprika. 

A little sherry wine may be added if liked. 

NUT SALAD 

y pint (i cup) chopped > pint (i cup) seeded grapes 

mixed nut meats i orange 

^2 pint (i cup) shredded Boiled dressing 

celery Whole nut meats 
Lettuce leaves 

Mix the nut meats, celery, and grapes with the 
strained orange-juice. Serve on lettuce leaves, dec- 
orate with the whole nut meats and boiled dressing. 

Or, mix one cupful each of chopped hickorynuts and 
almonds, two cupfuls of chopped celery, and one cup- 
ful of whipped cream with boiled salad dressing. 
Chill and serve. 

OKRA SALAD 

2 dozen cooked okra pods 2 green peppers cut in shreds 
4 skinned and sliced toma- Boiled rice 

toes Mayonnaise dressing 

Crisp lettuce leaves 



Salad Recipes 221 

Cut the okra pods into neat pieces, add the toma- 
toes and peppers. Arrange boiled rice in a border on 
a salad dish, put the okra in the center, and garnish 
with lettuce leaves mixed with mayonnaise dressing. 

OLIVE AND CELERY SALAD 

i crisp head lettuce i teaspoonful mustard 

i bunch watercress >^ teaspoonful salt 

i green onion 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 

1 pint (2 cups) chopped olives 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 
Yi pint (i cup) chopped eel- 2 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) 

ery butter 

2 skinned tomatoes i raw egg 

3 hard-cooked eggs 4 tablespoonfuls cream 

Cut the onion, lettuce, and watercress in fine pieces, 
add the olives, celery, the tomatoes cut in pieces, and 
one of the hard-cooked yolks of eggs rubbed through 
a sieve. Mix and put away to chill. Put the mus- 
tard, salt, and sugar into a double boiler, add the 
vinegar, butter, and egg well beaten, and cook and 
stir until thick. Cool, add the cream, and pour over 
the salad. Serve garnished with the hard-cooked 
eggs. 

ORANGE AND TOMATO SALAD 

3 peeled and sliced tomatoes % teaspoonful chopped tarra- 

3 peeled and sliced oranges gon 

> lemon, peeled and sliced > teaspoonful chopped chives 

Salt and paprika to taste 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

*/L teaspoonful sugar 4 tablespoonfuls brandy 



222 Salad Recipes 

Mix the fruits, season with salt and paprika, add 
the sugar, tarragon, and chives. Mix the oil and the 
brandy together, add them to the salad, and mix well. 

Grapefruit, if liked, may be substituted for the 
oranges. 

Another Method. Peel some oranges and tomatoes 
and slice them; then arrange alternately in a salad 
bowl. Mix equal quantities of orange-juice and 
tarragon vinegar with a little salad oil, and pour over 
the fruit. Decorate with chopped parsley and serve 
very cold. 

OYSTER AND EGG SALAD 

2 dozen oysters i tablespoonful tomato cat- 

6 hard-cooked eggs chup 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar i teaspoonful chili powder 

i tablespoonful melted y? teaspoonful salt 

butter y lemon 

Shredded celery and celery 
tops 

Dry the oysters and place them on the ice. Rub 
the yolks of eggs through a sieve, add the butter, 
vinegar, catchup, salt, chili powder, and strained 
lemon- juice. Toss the oysters in the sauce and serve 
them on shredded celery garnished with celery tops. 

The whites of eggs may be used in another salad or 
in sandwiches. 

Another Method. Parboil two cupfuls of oysters. 
Drain, cut into quarters, drain again, and cover with 



Salad Recipes 223 

French dressing. Serve on watercress in individual 
dishes with sauce tartare. 

Or, if preferred, have a mayonnaise dressing and 
into it stir a little grated horseradish and two drops of 
Tabasco sauce. 

OYSTER SALAD 

i can oysters i oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) sugar 

i pint (2 cups) cracker- ^ teaspoonful black pepper 

crumbs ^ pint (i cup) chopped celery 

i gill (>2 cup) vinegar 5 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 
i tablespoonful salt 

Chop the oysters fine, and add the cracker-crumbs, 
salt, sugar, pepper, and vinegar. Mix well, and add 
the eggs, celery, and enough of the oyster liquor to 
make soft. Serve very cold. 

Another Method. Pour oysters and juice from one 
can into a salad dish, cut up the oysters, add enough 
rolled crackers to take up all the liquid, then add one 
bunch of celery, chopped, six chopped sweet pickles, 
three chopped hard-cooked eggs, and one-half cupful 
of chopped nut meats. Pour over thick mayonnaise 
dressing, and decorate with heart lettuce leaves. 

PARK LANE SALAD 

Apples Chopped nut meats 

Celery Toasted crackers 

Mayonnaise dressing Cream cheese 

Pimientoes (canned red pep- 
pers) 



224 Salad Recipes 

Cut some apples and celery in small cubes, mix 
equal quantities with nicely seasoned mayonnaise 
dressing. Serve in individual salad plates, decorated 
with strips of pimientoes and chopped nuts. Hand 
cream cheese and toasted crackers with this salad. 



PEA AND PICKLE SALAD 

>2 pint (i cup) cooked peas i small onion 

2 tablespoonfuls grated Mayonnaise dressing 

cheese Crisp lettuce leaves 
6 sweet pickles 

Chop the onion and the pickles, add the peas and 
cheese, moisten with the mayonnaise dressing, and 
serve on the lettuce leaves. 

Another Method. Mix a can of drained peas with 
one cupful of chopped peanuts and six chopped sweet 
pickles; moisten with mayonnaise dressing and serve 
on tender lettuce leaves. 



PEA AND WALNUT SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) blanched Salt to taste 

English walnut meats Crisp lettuce leaves 

i pint (2 cups) cooked or Boiled dressing 

canned peas Mint leaves 

i large green pepper 

Chop the pepper fine and chop the nut meats, then 
mix them with the peas and add salt to taste. Ar- 



Salad Recipes 225 

range on crisp lettuce leaves on a salad dish, cover with 
the dressing, and garnish with the mint leaves. 

Equal quantities of blanched and broken English 
walnut meats and stoned and quartered olives mixed 
with French dressing make a dainty salad when 
served in lettuce nests. 

PEANUT AND CELERY SALAD 

> pint (i cup) peanuts 12 pitted or stuffed olives 

Olive oil Mayonnaise dressing 

i pint (2 cups) fine cut celery Lettuce leaves 

Soak the peanuts from which the brown skins have 
been removed in sufficient olive oil to moisten for 
two hours. Slice the olives, add the celery and pea- 
nuts, mix with mayonnaise dressing, and serve on 
crisp lettuce leaves. 

It is much easier to serve a salad if the lettuce leaves 
are put together in such a way as to form little cups or 
nests. Equal quantities of diced crisp celery and 
diced canned pineapple mixed with mayonnaise dress- 
ing make a delicious salad. 

Another Method. Pare, core, and chop slightly 
acid apples and mix with them one-half as much 
chopped white celery. Mix five tablespoonfuls of 
lemon-juice with one tablespoonful of peanut butter, 
and salt and red pepper to taste, and mix with the 
apples and celery. Chill and serve on lettuce leaves 
garnished with halves of roasted peanuts, 
is 



226 Salad Recipes 



PEACH SALAD 

i can peaches Salt, black pepper, and red 

3 ripe bananas pepper to taste 

i egg Grated cheese 

i tablespoonful vinegar Sugar to taste 

i gill (y cup) whipped cream 



Drain the peaches and lay them on a salad dish. 
Beat up the egg in a small pan, add the vinegar, and 
cook until thick, stirring constantly. Add the season- 
ings, then cool and add the cream. Dice the bananas, 
mix them with the dressing, and divide into the hol- 
lows of the peaches. Cover with grated cheese and 
serve. 

Another Method. Place two eggs into the upper 
pan of a double boiler, add four tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one-fourth teaspoonful of mustard, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful of sugar. 
Cook and stir until thick and then allow to cool. Add 
one cupful of whipped cream and one can of sliced 
pineapple cut into dice. Cover individual salad 
plates with shredded lettuce; on this lay half of one 
peach, and cover with the pineapple dressing. Sprinkle 
over with chopped nuts or chopped glace cherries. 
Or fill canned peaches with cottage cheese, place on 
lettuce leaves, and cover with boiled salad dressing, 



Salad Recipes 227 



PEAR SALAD 

Canned pears Chopped preserved ginger 

Chopped raisins Whipped and sweetened 
Chopped figs cream 

Chopped dates Candied cherries 

Chopped nuts Ferns or grape leaves 

Drain the pears and lay them on ferns or grape 
leaves on individual salad plates. Mix equal quanti- 
ties of the raisins, figs, dates, nuts, and ginger, and 
heap into the pears. Top each one with whipped 
cream and a candied cherry. 

Another Method. Fill large canned Bartlett pears 
with a mixture of chopped celery and English walnut 
meats mixed with red mayonnaise dressing. Serve 
with cream cheese balls seasoned with paprika. 

Or take quarters of canned pears and sprinkle over 
with orange-juice. Place balls of cream cheese 
seasoned with salt and paprika in the center of the 
pears. Place on lettuce or endive, and pour over the 
following dressing: Beat one-fourth cupful of olive 
oil with two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, one-half tea- 
spoonful each of salt and mustard, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of paprika, a dust of red pepper, and one-half cup- 
ful of chili sauce, and when well blended, add one- 
half cupful of mayonnaise dressing very slowly. 
Decorate the salad with shreds of red peppers or stars 
of pimientoes. 



228 Salad Recipes 

PIMIENTO SALAD 

Pimientoes (canned red Mayonnaise dressing 

peppers) English walnut meats 

Grapefruit Lettuce 

Oranges 

Cover individual salad plates with shredded lettuce 
leaves. Empty out the pimientoes and wipe them off 
gently with a clean cloth. Stuff them with diced 
grapefruit and oranges mixed with mayonniase 
dressing. Place them on the lettuce leaves and dec- 
orate with the walnut meats. 

PINEAPPLE AND GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 

Sliced pineapple English walnut meats 

Small grapefruit French dressing 

Strawberries 

Choose well-shaped grapefruit and cut in halves 
crosswise. Remove the hard piece of core and the 
seeds; with a teaspoon scoop out all the pulp, includ- 
ing the juice. Drop the shells into ice water. Take 
the sliced pineapple, invert a glass or cup over each 
portion, and, with a very sharp pointed knife cut all 
the way around. Put the slices to marinate in French 
dressing made with part lemon, grapefruit juice and 
olive oil. Set in a cold place for one hour. Mix the 
small pieces of pineapple and grapefruit together, 
when ready to use, with a few strawberries cut in 



Salad Recipes 229 

halves. Mix with the dressing and divide into the 
grapefruit shells, and lay on top the slice of pineapple, 
which has been cut in small pieces, but laid together 
again to make the slice complete. Sprinkle the top 
with nut meats cut fine, and in the center place the 
strawberries. Serve on plates covered with doilies. 

Fruit salad or cream mayonnaise dressing may be 
used instead of French dressing. 

Or place slices of pineapple on crisp lettuce leaves 
on individual salad plates, top with sections of grape- 
fruit and oranges, cover with the following dressing 
and sprinkle over with blanched and chopped pis- 
tachio nuts. Beat six tablespoonfuls of olive oil with 
two tablespoonfuls of lemon- juice, one tablespoonful 
of sherry wine and one-fourth teaspoonful each of salt 
and paprika. 

POTATO SALAD NO. i 

Boiled potatoes i Dutch herring 

i small onion i tablespoonful chopped 

i pickled beet boiled ham 

i peeled and sliced cucumber i tablespoonful vinegar 

4 sardines i pickled walnut 

Peel small boiled potatoes while warm, slice very 
thin, and, for every two cupfuls of potatoes, add a 
chopped onion, diced pickled beet, cucumber, herring, 
sardines broken in small pieces, and the ham. Mix 



230 Salad Recipes 

together with the vinegar. Serve garnished with the 
pickled walnut cut in small pieces. 

Another Method .--To two cupfuls of left-over 
mashed potatoes, add two and one-half tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of chopped 
parsley, salt to taste, two teaspoonfuls of onion-juice, 
and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mix and chill. 
Shape into balls, place on lettuce leaves, and serve 
with boiled salad dressing. 

POTATO SALAD NO. 2 

Boiled potatoes French dressing 

Onions i clove 

Chopped parsley or chives 

Boil as many peeled potatoes as needed with an 
onion stuck with a clove. When tender, remove 
from the water and let cool, throwing the onion away. 
When cold, slice as thin as possible; also slice one 
small onion for every two potatoes. Mix carefully, 
sprinkle with a little chopped parsley or chives, chill, 
and when ready to serve pour over French dressing. 

To make hot potato salad: Prepare the potatoes as 
above directed, then chop the onions and mix them 
with the potatoes. Cut four slices of bacon in dice 
and fry brown. Remove the meat and stir into the 
hot fat four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mix the 
bacon with the potato and onion, and pour over all 
the hot sauce. Serve hot. 

German potatoes make excellent salads. 



Salad Recipes 231 



POTATO SALAD NO. 3 

1 quart cold boiled potatoes 2 tablespoonf uls butter 

2 tablespoonfuls capers i teaspoonful made mustard 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

parsley i saltspoonful salt 

i slice onion Pepper and paprika to taste 

Boiled beets Lettuce leaves 

Rub the salad bowl with the onion, and into it put 
the potatoes that have been diced. Stir the capers 
and the parsley through the potatoes. Melt the 
butter, add the seasonings and vinegar, and heat to 
boiling-point. Pour over the potatoes while the 
sauce is hot, and set away to get cold. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves, sprinkling the beets, finely chopped, 
over the top. 

QUEEN OF SALADS 

X can pimientoes (canned Cracker crumbs 

red peppers) 2 yolks hard-cooked eggs 

Celery Garlic 

% pint (i cup) tiny cheese French dressing 

balls Crisp lettuce leaves 

Drain the peppers and dry them in a towel. Slice 
them in rings and add an equal quantity of celery cut 
fine. Make the cheese balls and roll them in the 
cracker-crumbs. Blend the oil from the peppers with 
the yolks of the eggs. Rub the salad bowl with a 



232 Salad Recipes 

cut clove of garlic, put in the peppers, celery, and 
cheese balls, and pour over the oil and egg mixture. 
Toss together with sufficient French dressing and a 
few crisp lettuce leaves. 

RADISH SALAD 

3 bunches radishes Mayonnaise dressing 

Crisp lettuce leaves 

Cut the stems from the radishes, wash carefully, 
and chop them into dice with the red skins left on. 
Mix with mayonnaise dressing and serve on the let- 
tuce leaves. 

Another Method. Mix equal quantities of cleaned 
and sliced radishes and peeled and diced apples, mar- 
inate in French dressing, drain, and mix with boiled 
dressing. Serve on watercress or lettuce leaves. 
Sliced radishes blend nicely with chopped chives and 
French dressing. 

RED KIDNEY BEAN SALAD 

1 can red kidney beans 2^2 teaspoonfuls made mus- 

2 stalks sliced celery tard 

5 sliced sweet pickles Pinch of salt 

1 egg i l /4 gills (Y$ cup) cider vinegar 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar 2 teaspoonfuls Worcestershire 

sauce 

Drain the beans and mix them with the celery and 
the pickles. Beat up the egg, add the sugar, mus- 
tard, salt, vinegar, and Worcestershire sauce. Mix 



Salad Recipes 233 

the salad with this dressing and set in a cool place for 



three hours before serving. 



ROMAINE SALAD 

Crisp Romaine leaves % teaspoonful mustard 

6 tablespoonfuls salad oil y^ teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls claret ^ teaspoonful sugar 

vinegar X teaspoonful black pepper 

Wash and dry the Romaine leaves and arrange them 
in a chilled salad bowl. Put the oil, vinegar, and 
seasonings into a bowl and mix them with a piece of 
ice. Pour this dressing over the Romaine a few min- 
utes before it is to be served. 

RUSSIAN ASPIC SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) aspic jelly i head celery 

12 filleted anchovies ^2 pint (i cup) canned peas 

1 can salmon 2 tablespoonfuls capers 
J/i can mushrooms 2 chopped gherkins 

2 hard-cooked eggs y can caviar 

i cooked beet Chopped cucumber or lettuce 

i boiled carrot leaves 

i boiled potato Mayonnaise dressing 

Chop all the vegetables except the peas, put a mold 
into a basin of ice, and pour in a little of the aspic 
jelly; arrange the anchovies and vegetables in this 
with the gherkins and capers, then a layer of mush- 
rooms, then one of the salmon, then the anchovies, 
vegetables, and fish as before. When the mold is 



234 Salad Recipes 

nearly full, pour over all the aspic, which should be 
cool, not hot, and put in a cool place over night. 
Turn out on to a salad dish and garnish with chopped 
cucumber or shredded lettuce leaves, the hard-cooked 
eggs cut in slices, and the caviar cut in small dice. 
Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

RUSSIAN SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) mixed cooked 2 gherkins 

vegetables i tablespoonful capers 

y?. pint (i cup) diced cooked Mayonnaise dressing 

ham and tongue Russian caviar 

1 gill ( l /2 cup) cooked Chopped aspic jelly 
shrimps or prawns 

Place in a basin the vegetables, such as peas, beans, 
carrots, turnips, beets, and asparagus tips, add the 
ham and tongue, the gherkins cut in small pieces, the 
capers, and the shrimps or prawns. Mix all together 
with mayonnaise dressing and arrange in a pyramid 
on the center of a silver dish. Decorate with alter- 
nate layers of various vegetables, stamped out with a 
small cutter, the caviar in small pieces, and the chop- 
ped aspic jelly. 

SALAD OF FRUITS GLACE 

2 egg whites Small bunches fruits 
2 wineglassfuls water Whipped cream 

2 dessertspoonfuls confec- Pink or green color 

tioners' sugar Fruit syrup 

Hot sifted granulated sugar Liqueur 



Salad Recipes 235 

Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the 
water and stir in the confectioners' sugar, and strain 
through a fine sieve into a basin. Have ready the 
fruits, such as bunches of red and white currants, 
small bunches of grapes, cherries, strawberries, slices 
of oranges, etc. ; dip them into the icing, give them a 
gentle shake, and roll them carefully and thoroughly 
in plenty of hot sifted white sugar; place them upon 
a wire sieve in a warm oven to dry, when they will 
present a very dainty appearance. Arrange them 
in pyramid form* in the center of a glass dish, surround- 
ing them with a border of whipped and sweetened 
cream, colored pink or green, according to taste. 
Hand round with this salad a fruit syrup flavored 
with any liqueur preferred. 

SALMON AND OYSTER SALAD 

1 lb. cooked or canned sal- Salad oil 
mon Vinegar 

12 oysters i tablespoonful chopped 

% pint ( l /2 cup) picked tarragon 

shrimps J/z tablespoonful chopped 

6 filleted anchovies chervil 

2 hard-cooked eggs Tomato salad dressing 

1 cucumber Pepper and salt 

2 heads of lettuce 

To make the tomato salad dressing: Beat two raw 
yolks of eggs, add gradually one-half cupful of salad 
oil, salt and pepper to taste, one teaspoonful of French 



236 Salad Recipes 

mustard, one dessertspoonful of vinegar, the pulp 
from two large ripe tomatoes, and the strained juice 
of one lemon. Mix well. Cut the heads of lettuce 
into six pieces, and lay them on a plate; sprinkle 
them over with the tarragon and chervil and season 
to taste with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Arrange 
this salad as a border on the serving dish. 

Flake the salmon, add the oysters, shrimps, and the 
anchovies cut in small pieces. Place this mixture in 
the center of the pieces of lettuce, and pour over the 
dressing. Garnish around the edge of the salad with 
slices of the hard-cooked eggs and little bunches of 
diced-shaped pieces of the cucumber that have been 
seasoned with a little salt. 

SALMON SALAD 

i can salmon } pint (i cup) diced celery 

1 diced apple Crisp lettuce leaves 
% pint (i cup) broken Eng- Mayonnaise dressing 

lish walnut meats Lemon-juice 

2 chopped gherkins > pint (i cup) whipped cream 

Free the salmon from oil, skin, and bones; pick the 
fish apart and add the apple, sprinkled with lemon- 
juice, walnut meats, chopped gherkins, and the celery. 
Arrange in a salad dish, garnish with lettuce leaves, 
and serve with mayonnaise to which has been added 
the cream. 

Another Method. Wash and dry two heads of let- 



Salad Recipes 237 

tuce. Dip the outer leaves in oil and vinegar and lay 
them in the salad bowl. On this lay a ring of pieces of 
cold boiled salmon, cover it with mayonnaise dressing; 
place the heart of the lettuce in the center, pour a 
little mayonnaise over it, and garnish with rings of 
hard-cooked eggs and slices of cooked beets. 

SAN DIEGO SALAD 

1 can sardines 4 cucumbers 

2 apples 2 hard-cooked eggs 

^4 pint ( l /2 cup) celery Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

2 ozs. ( l /2 cup) pecan nut taste 

meats Mayonnaise dressing 

4 potatoes Crisp lettuce leaves 

Pare and core the apples and chop them with the 
celery, nut meats, eggs, and cucumbers. Boil the 
potatoes until done and mash fine with the sardines, 
then add seasonings and mix with mayonnaise dressing. 
Combine mixtures. Serve cold on lettuce leaves. 

SARATOGA SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) chopped i gill (J/2 cup) cream 

cooked ham Boiled dressing 

lyZ pints (3 cups) cottage Lettuce leaves 

cheese Cubes tomato jelly 

4 ozs. (i cup) nut meats 

Put the cheese and ham each through a meat- 
chopper; moisten the cheese with the cream, add the 



238 Salad Recipes 

ham and a little salt if necessary. Add enough boiled 
salad dressing to form into balls the size of a walnut. 
Roll in the finely chopped nut meats, and serve three 
balls on a lettuce leaf garnished with cubes of tomato 
jelly. 

SCALLOP SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) scallops Chopped chives 

% pint (i cup) diced celery Chopped gherkins 

French or mayonnaise Chopped hard-cooked egg 

dressing Watercress 
Chopped olives 

Soak the scallops in salted water for one hour. 
Drain and boil for five minutes in slightly acidulated 
boiling water, then plunge in ice water. When cold, 
cut in thin slices, add the celery, and mix with the 
dressing. 

Serve on watercress, garnishing with the olives, 
chives, gherkins, and egg mixed together. 

The scallops may be mixed with shredded cabbage, 
shredded lettuce, chopped green peppers, or peeled 
and sliced cucumbers. 

SHRIMP, CELERY, AND NUT SALAD 

> pint (i cup) cooked or }^. teaspoonful salt 

canned shrimps Paprika to taste 

^2 pint (i cup) broken pe- 2 lemons 

can nut meats 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

}/2 pint (i cup) chopped Pickled beets 

celery Crisp lettuce leaves 

4 sliced hard-cooked eggs 



Salad Recipes 239 

Mix the shrimps with the nuts, celery, and salt. 
Rub the yolks of eggs through a sieve, add salt and 
paprika to taste, the oil, and the strained juice of the 
lemons. Beat for five minutes and pour over the 
salad on lettuce leaves. Garnish with the rings of 
hard-cooked eggs and slices of beets. 



SPANISH ONION AND SARDINE SALAD 

3 medium-sized Spanish Mayonnaise dressing 

onions Curry powder 

Butter Hard-cooked eggs 

Watercress Parsley and tarragon 

6 sardines Salt and paprika to taste 

Peel the onions, scoop a spoonful out of the cen- 
ter of each, and put in the hollow a generous tea- 
spoonful of butter. Season with salt and paprika to 
taste, place in a buttered baking-pan, and bake in 
a moderate oven until they are brown. When cold, 
cut into quarters and place in a bed of watercress. 

Skin and bone the sardines, cut them into halves, 
and lay them on the pieces of onion. Pour over some 
mayonnaise dressing to one cupful of which one tea- 
spoonful of curry powder has been added. Garnish 
with the eggs cut in slices, and sprinkle over a mixture 
of chopped parsley and tarragon. 



240 Salad Recipes 

SPINACH SALAD 

Cold boiled spinach Lettuce leaves 

Salt and pepper to taste Hard-cooked eggs 

Grated nutmeg to taste Mayonnaise or French dress- 

ing 

Chop the spinach, season with salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg and mold in small buttered cups. Turn out at 
serving time on lettuce leaves and garnish with hard- 
cooked eggs sliced, or with the yolks put through a 
ricer. Strips of canned red peppers may be used as a 
garnish if preferred. Serve with mayonnaise or 
French dressing. 

Another Method. Cook one-half peck of spinach; 
chop when cold, and add salt, pepper, and grated nut- 
meg to taste, five tablespoonfuls of olive oil, and then 
beat in three tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Mold the 
spinach in a ring on a salad dish, fill the center with 
slices of hard-cooked eggs, and surround with thin 
slices of cold boiled ham. 

STRAWBERRY SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) ripe straw- i teaspoonful white pepper 

berries i teaspoonful sugar 

i gill (y<2 cup) chopped nut 2 tablespoonfuls lemon- or 

meats other fruit-juice 

y pint (i cup) celery cubes 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

X teaspoonful salt Crisp lettuce 

i saltspoonful paprika 



Salad Recipes 241 

Arrange three of the inner leaves of head lettuce on 
each salad plate, sprinkle in a layer of nut meats, 
place a few strawberries in the center, add a layer of 
celery cubes, and cover with the following dressing. 
Mix the salt, peppers, and sugar with the lemon-juice, 
add gradually the oil. Beat well together and pour 
over the fruit. A little whipped cream may be added 
to the dressing before serving. 

Or mash one pound of small strawberries with a 
silver fork, and sprinkle a little sugar over them; let 
them stand in a cool place for two hours, then add two 
cupfuls of sherry wine and rub all through a sieve. 
Pile large ripe strawberries pyramid fashion on a 
pretty glass dish, and sprinkle a little powdered 
cinnamon over them; then pour over the mashed 
mixture. 

Or mix one quart of strawberries cut in halves 
with one-half pound of marshmallows cut in quarters 
and one-half cupful of blanched and chopped pis- 
tachio nuts, and serve on lettuce leaves with whipped 
cream dressing. 



STRING-BEAN SALAD 

2 quarts string-beans 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil 

1 onion ^2 teaspoonful made mustard 
Shredded lettuce leaves Paprika to taste 

2 tablespoonfuls claret vine- i small chopped green pepper 

gar 
16 



242 Salad Recipes 

Put the beans and onion into plenty of boiling salted 
water and cook until tender. Discard the onion, 
drain the beans, and let them get quite cold. Mix 
the oil with the vinegar, add the mustard, paprika, 
and the pepper. Place the beans on the lettuce, 
pour the dressing over, and let stand on ice for one 
hour before serving. 

STUFFED TOMATO SALAD 

Medium-sized tomatoes Oil and vinegar 

Chopped cucumbers Salt and black pepper 

Chopped chives Lettuce or watercress 
Caviar 

Peel the tomatoes and take from the stem-end of 
each a round piece for a lid for later use. Scoop out 
the tomatoes, and to the pulp add some chopped 
cucumber, chopped chives, and caviar. Season to 
taste with oil, vinegar, salt, and black pepper. Chill, 
divide into the tomato shells, and serve in individual 
dishes on watercress or shredded lettuce. 

Another Method. Season skinned tomato shells 
with vinegar, salt, and paprika and drain them well. 
Cut two cupfuls of asparagus tips into small pieces, 
boil them in boiling salted water until tender, and 
drain. Add grated nutmeg, paprika, and red pepper 
to taste, and mix with tartare sauce. Divide into the 
prepared tomatoes and cover the surface with a little 
mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with sliced stuffed 
olives and serve. 



Salad Recipes 243 

Or fill the tomato shells with cooked or canned corn, 
mixed with chopped green or red peppers and seasoned 
with French dressing. Top with mayonnaise dressing 
and place in lettuce leaves. Chill before serving. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

i pair cooked sweetbreads 4 tablespoonfuls chopped nut 

y-L pint (i cup) chopped meats 

celery Mayonnaise dressing 
4 hard-cooked eggs 

Chop the eggs and shred the sweetbreads, mix them 
together with the celery, nuts, and mayonnaise dress- 
ing. 

Another Method. Mix one cupful of diced cooked 
sweetbreads with one cupful of cooked and drained 
peas and one cupful of shredded celery. Serve on 
lettuce leaves with mayonnaise dressing. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 

i pint (2 cups) tomato juice i tablespoonful chopped 
YA, oz. (2*4 tablespoonfuls) parsley 

powdered gelatine i tablespoonful vinegar 

y^ pint (y cup) water i tablespoonful lemon-juice 

% teaspoonful celery seeds }4 pint (^4 cup) cooked 

1 tablespoonful onion-juice chopped meat 

2 bay-leaves i blade mace 

3 cloves Mayonnaise dressing 

i teaspoonful salt }4 pint (i cup) whipped cream 

y^ teaspoonful paprika Lettuce leaves 

A few drops red color 



244 Salad Recipes 

Put into a saucepan the tomato juice, gelatine, water, 
celery seeds, onion-juice, bay-leaves, cloves, mace, 
salt, and paprika, and bring to boiling-point; then 
strain. Add the parsley, red color, vinegar, lemon- 
juice, meat, and cream. Pour into a wet ring mold, 
and set away to firm. Turn out on a salad dish, fill 
the center with lettuce leaves, and serve with the 
mayonnaise dressing. 

TONGUE SALAD 

1 small boiled beef tongue i tablespoonful flour 
Salt and pepper to taste l /$ teaspoonful mustard 
>2 pint (i cup) chopped i beaten egg 

celery or cabbage i>2 gills (^ cup) vinegar 

3 chopped hard-cooked eggs > gill (J4 cup) water 

3 chopped cucumber pickles i gill (^ cup) sweet cream 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Put the tongue through a food-chopper, add the 
celery, eggs, and pickles; add a little salt and pepper 
and set in a cool place. Mix the sugar and flour to- 
gether in a small saucepan, add one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-eighth teaspoonful pepper, the mustard, 
egg, vinegar, and water. Cook and stir until it 
thickens. Cool, add the cream, and mix with the 
salad. 

Another Method. Mix two cupfuls of diced cooked 
tongue with one cupful of diced celery, add one cup- 
ful of chopped nut meats and a small can of chopped 




Q 
< 

J 
< 

cn 



H 



Salad Recipes 245 

pimientoes. Mix with mayonnaise dressing and 
serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

TRIPE SALAD 

Pickled tripe Chopped capers 

Mayonnaise dressing Chopped gherkins 

Chopped parsley Shredded lettuce leaves 
Chopped olives 

Cut the required amount of pickled tripe into fine 
strips. Make a good mayonnaise dressing, and add 
to it chopped parsley, olives, capers, and gherkins to 
taste. Mix the tripe with the dressing and serve on 

lettuce leaves. 

Another Method. Mix diced cooked tripe with an 
equal quantity of finely cut celery, add one table- 
spoonful of capers, and mix with mayonnaise or 
French dressing. Serve on endive garnished with 
stoned olives or slices of hard-cooked eggs. 

TUNA FISH SALAD 

i can Tuna fish 2 tablespoonfuls lemon-juice 

Shredded lettuce Mayonnaise dressing 

Salt and red pepper to taste i tablespoonf ul capers 
i tablespoonful vinegar i hard-cooked egg 

2 or 3 stuffed olives 

Line a salad dish with shredded lettuce. Break the 
fish into pieces and place it on the top of the lettuce. 
Mix the salt, red pepper, lemon-juice, and vinegar 



246 Salad Recipes 

together and pour over the fish. Chill, and when 
ready to serve, decorate with the capers, slices of 
hard-cooked egg, and the stuffed olives. Serve with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Another Method. Flake one can of Tuna fish with 
a silver fork, add one and one-half cupful of diced 
celery and one-half cupful of broken English walnut 
meats, mix with mayonnaise or boiled dressing. 
Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

TURNIP SALAD 

i quart (4 cups) scraped i egg white 

turnips i gill (%. cup) vinegar 

1 oz. (2 tablespoonfuls) i tablespoonful water 
sugar i tablespoonful cornstarch 

2 tablespoonfuls cream i tablespoonful butter 

Select medium-sized good turnips and peel and 
scrape them. Put the fluffy scraped turnip into a 
dish, and add the sugar, cream, and stiffly beaten 
white of egg. Mix the cornstarch with the water in 
a saucepan, add the vinegar and the butter, and stir 
constantly over the fire until it thickens; pour hot 
over the turnips and mix well. Leave in a cool 
place for two hours before serving. 

UNIQUE SALAD 

1 head celery Mayonnaise dressing 

2 endives 6 olives 

14 English walnuts 6 anchovies 



Salad Recipes 247 

Chop the celery, cut the hearts of the endives into 
small pieces, add the walnuts peeled and broken into 
small pieces, mix with a good mayonnaise dressing, 
and serve garnished with the olives and the anchovies 
cut into fillets. 



VEGETABLE SALAD IN RAMEQUINS 

Cold cooked vegetables Boned anchovies 

Chopped parsley Picked shrimps 

Chopped shallot Thick mayonnaise dressing 

Vinegar and salad oil Shredded celery 

Skinned and sliced tomatoes Red radishes 

Salt, pepper, and sugar Lettuce or endive 

Take some cold cooked vegetables, such as potatoes, 
carrots, turnips, peas, beans, cauliflower, and Brussels 
sprouts; cut these all separately into little square 
pieces and put them into a basin, seasoning with a 
little salt, sugar, pepper, parsley, shallot, vinegar, and 
oil. 

Have some ramequins or scallop shells, and in each 
arrange a tablespoonful of the prepared vegetables. 
Season the tomatoes with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, 
and arrange a slice on the top of each of the vegetables ; 
put here and there around the vegetables one or two 
washed and boned anchovies, and a few of the shrimps, 
and form the whole into a dome shape. 

Spread the mayonnaise dressing over the vegetables, 
and decorate with the celery and the radishes that 



248 Salad Recipes 

have been cut into roses. Serve the ramequins on a 
flat dish with a nice fresh salad in the center, allowing 
one to each person. 

VICTORIA SALAD 

Bananas Grapes 

Stoned cherries Apples 

Diced pineapple Pears 

Melon Ginger cordial 

Peaches Sugar 
Apricots 

Prepare the fruits and slice and dice them. Cover 
one pound of sugar with one pint of water and cook 
until the syrup is thick and ropy. Cool and flavor 
to taste with ginger cordial. Any other preferred 
cordial or liqueur may be used. 

Mix the fruits in a salad bowl decorated with 
cherries, and serve with the flavored syrup. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Apples Pimientoes (canned red pep- 
Celery pers) 
Mayonnaise dressing Lettuce leaves 
Curled celery 

Mix equal quantities of finely cut apples and celery, 
and moisten with mayonnaise dressing. Place in 
lettuce and garnish with curled celery and pimientoes 
cut in strips or fancy shapes, or with hazelnuts and 



Salad Recipes 249 

Maraschino cherries cut in halves. An attractive 
way of serving this salad is to remove the tips from 
red or green polished apples, scoop out the pulp, 
leaving just enough adhering to the skin to keep the 
apples in shape. Refill the shells thus made with the 
salad, replace the tops and serve on crisp lettuce 
leaves. 

Red apple shells are delicious filled with the follow- 
ing mixtures: Salted almonds mixed with peeled 
white grapes, cubes of pineapple, and mayonnaise 
dressing. Garnish the top with candied rose leaves 
and serve the apple cases on grape leaves. 

Cold green peas, mixed with cut celery, and diced 
cold chicken and boiled dressing. Top with very 
thin slices of lemon and chopped parsley and garnish 
with radish roses. 

WATERMELON SALAD 

i watermelon i gill (J/2 cup) olive oil 

Spanish onions y% gill (^4 cup) vinegar 

Salt, pepper, and paprika Yz gill (> cup) lemon- juice 
to taste 

Peel and slice the melon into a deep dish, add some 
thin slices of Spanish onions and the seasonings, and 
cover over with a plate or a small dish ; let it stand in 
a cool place for thirty minutes. Pick out the pieces 
of onion, dress the melon with the oil, vinegar, and 
lemon-juice, dust with a little paprika, and serve. 



250 Salad Recipes 

Watermelon used alone makes an excellent salad 
with a mayonnaise used for its dressing. It should be 
cut into small squares, thoroughly chilled, acidulated 
with a little lemon-juice, then dressed with the may- 
onnaise, and served on lettuce leaves or not as one pre- 
fers. 

The mayonnaise dressing should be made without 
mustard and have a little whipped cream added to it. 

WESTERN SALAD 

^ pint (i cup) sliced olives ^2 can pimientoes (canned 

i gill (yt, cup) diced sour red peppers) 

pickles Mayonnaise dressing 

% pint (i cup) small cubes Lettuce leaves 

stale bread 

Mix the olives with the pickles, bread, and the 
pimientoes cut in small pieces. Chill, and add the 
mayonnaise dressing just before serving on the lettuce 
leaves. 

YAMOSA SALAD 

i quart (4 cups) finely i quart (4 cups) whipped 

shaved cabbage cream 

i can sliced pineapple 4 ozs. ($4 cup) sugar 

4 ozs. (i cup) blanched i tablespoonful flour 

and chopped almonds 2 egg-whites 

i pint (2 cups) marshmallows 3 lemons 
3 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

Cut the marshmallows in small pieces and mix them 



Salad Recipes 251 

with the almonds, dried and diced pineapple, and the 
cabbage which has stood in ice water for one hour, 
then been drained and dried. 

Mix the sugar and flour in a small saucepan, add the 
whites of eggs beaten slightly, the strained juice of 
the lemons, and the vinegar, and stir over the fire 
until it thickens. Thin and cool with the pineapple 
juice. Mix with the salad ingredients and fold in the 
whipped cream. 



INDEX 

CHAFING DISH RECIPES PAGE 

Apple Rings 17 

Asparagus in Rolls 17 

Banana Compote 18 

Barbecued Ham 18 

Blanquette of Turkey 19 

Breaded Tongue with Tomato Sauce 19 

Browned Fish Hash 20 

Calf's Brains with Mushrooms 20 

Calf's Liver a la Minute 21 

Carrots with Peas 21 

Cauliflower Hongroise 22 

Celeried Oysters 22 

Celery Toast 22 

Cheese Dreams 23 

Chicken a la King No. i 23 

Chicken a la King No. 2 24 

Chicken a la Newburg 25 

Chicken Livers with Oysters 25 

Chicken Terrapin 26 

Chicken Wiggle 26 

Chicken with Cheese 27 

Chicken with Peppers 27 

Clams, Hudson Style 28 

Corn Oysters 28 

Crabs a la Creole 29 

Crab Flakes with Red Peppers 29 

Crab Meat Sandford 30 

Crab Meat with Eggs 30 

Creamed Beef 31 

Creamed Finnan Haddie 31 

Creamed Halibut 32 

253 



254 Index 



PAGE 

Creamed Shad-Roes 32 

Curried Chicken 33 

Curried Meat 34 

Curried Oysters 34 

Deviled Eggs 35 

Deviled Lobster 35 

Deviled Meat 36 

Deviled Sardines 36 

Deviled Shrimps 37 

Eggs a la Benoni 37 

Eggs a la Newburg 38 

Egg Toast 38 

Fried Cauliflower with Eggs 39 

Frogs' Legs in the Chafing Dish 39 

Game Salmi 40 

Glazed Onions 40 

Green Peppers with Eggs 41 

Ham a la Country Club 41 

Ham Savory 42 

Hot Fruit Salad 42 

Kidney a la Bohemian Club 43 

Kidneys and Mushrooms 44 

Kidney Toast 44 

Lamb Chops 45 

Lamb with Olives 45 

Lemon Cream Candy 45 

Lentils with Tomatoes 46 

Lobsters a la Bordelaise 46 

Lobster a la Newburg 47 

Lobster St. Stephen 48 

Mexican Rabbit 48 

Mutton Hash 49 

Oysters a la Poulette 49 

Oysters Broadway 50 

Oyster Rabbit 5 

Pan Roast Oysters 51 

Pea Omelet 5 1 

Pulled Cream Candy 52 

Raisin and Nut Fudge 5 2 



Index 255 



PAGE 



Rice Fondue 53 

Rio Tinto Rabbit 53 

Rum Omelet 53 

Salmi of Tongue 54 

Saute of Scallops 54 

Savory Eggs 55 

Savory Ham 55 

Scotch Woodcock 56 

Scrambled Scallops 56 

Scrambled Eggs 57 

Shrimps a la Creole 57 

Shrimps a la Newburg 58 

Smoked Beef with Cheese 58 

Spaghetti with Mushrooms 59 

Spanish Omelet 59 

Spanish Rice 60 

Stewed Fish 60 

Stirred Eggs 61 

Sweetbreads with Asparagus 61 

Sweetbreads with Mushrooms 62 

Sweet Omelet in the Chafing Dish 62 

Terrapin, Maryland Style 63 

Tomatoes and Mushrooms 63 

Tripe with Tomatoes 64 

Truffles with Cheese 64 

Turkish Pilaf 65 

Veal with Asparagus 65 

Veal with Eggs 66 

Venison Cutlets 66 

Welsh Rabbit 67 

SANDWICH RECIPES 

Sandwich Butters 76 

Afternoon Tea Sandwiches 77 

Anchovy Canapes 77 

Anchovy Sandwiches 78 

An Excellent Layer Sandwich 79 

Apple Sandwiches 79 

Baked Bean Sandwiches . So 



256 Index 

PAGE 

Baking Powder Biscuit Sandwiches 81 

Banana Sandwiches 81 

Beef Sandwiches 81 

Beef-Heart Sandwiches 82 

Beef-Loaf Sandwiches 82 

Brown Bread Cheese Sandwiches 83 

Carmen Sandwiches 84 

Cheese and Caviar Sandwiches 84 

Cheese and Jelly Sandwiches 85 

Cheese and Peanut Butter Sandwiches 86 

Cheese and Pickle Sandwiches 86 

Cheese Canapes 87 

Chestnut Sandwiches 87 

Chicken Liver and Bacon Sandwiches 87 

Chicken and Pimiento Sandwiches 88 

Chicken and Cranberry Sandwiches 88 

Chicken and Ham Sandwiches 89 

Chocolate Sandwiches 89 

X^lub Sandwiches 90 

College Hill Sandwiches 92 

Crab Meat Sandwiches 92 

Curried Egg and Oyster Sandwiches 93 

Cucumber and Lettuce Sandwiches 93 

Daisy Sandwiches 94 

Date and Nut Sandwiches 95 

Deviled Ham Sandwiches 95 

Dutch Sandwiches 96 

Egg and Lettuce Sandwiches 96 

Fig Sandwiches 97 

French Sandwiches 97 

Game Sandwiches 98 

Ginger and Nut Sandwiches 98 

Gingerbread Sandwiches 99 

Ham Canapes 99 

Ham Rusk Sandwiches 100 

Harwich Sandwiches 100 

High School Sandwiches 101 

Horseradish and Tomato Sandwiches 101 

Jellied Chicken Sandwiches 102 



Index 257 

PAGE 

Jellied Tomato Sandwiches 102 

Lady Mary Sandwiches 103 

Lemon Butter Sandwiches 103 

Lenten Sandwiches 104 

Lettuce Sandwiches 104 

Liederkranz Cheese Sandwiches 105 

Liver and Chestnut Sandwiches 105 

Lobster Sandwiches 106 

Maple Sandwiches 107 

Marmalade and Nut Sandwiches 107 

Marshmallow Sandwiches 108 

Marzipan Sandwiches ' 108 

Mint Sandwiches 108 

Mosaic Sandwiches 109 

Mushroom and Lobster Sandwiches no 

My Favorite Sandwiches no 

Nantucket Sandwiches in 

Nasturtium Sandwiches in 

Nut and Honey Sandwiches 112 

Nut Canapes 112 

Onion Sandwiches 113 

Oyster Canapes 113 

Oyster Sandwiches 114 

Palo Alto Sandwiches 114 

Parma Sandwiches 115 

Pate de Foie Gras Sandwiches 115 

Peanut Sandwiches 1 16 

Persian Sandwiches 117 

Pickle Sandwiches 117 

Pineapple Sandwiches 1 18 

Pork and Olive Sandwiches 118 

Potted Beef Sandwiches 119 

Raisin Sandwiches 119 

Rolled Sandwiches 120 

Rose Petal Sandwiches 121 

Russian Caviar Sandwiches 121 

Salmon Sandwiches 122 

Sardine Canapes 123 

Sardine and Anchovy Sandwiches 1 23 

17 



258 Index 



PAGE 

Sardine and Tomato Sandwiches 1 24 

Savory Cream Sandwiches 125 

Shad-Roe Sandwiches 125 

Shrimp Sandwiches 1 26 

Spanish Sandwiches 1 26 

Strawberry Sandwiches 127 

Sunday Night Canapes 127 

Tango Sandwiches 1 28 

Tongue Canapes 129 

Tongue Sandwiches 129 

Tricolored Sandwiches 130 

Tutti Frutti Sandwiches 131 

Vegetable and Cheese Sandwiches 131 

Virginia Sandwiches 132 

Walker House Sandwiches 132 

Wellington Sandwiches 133 

SALAD RECIPES 

Salad Accessories 146 

Dates Stuffed with Cheese 146 

Stuffed Figs 146 

Cheese Straws 146 

Cheese Biscuits 147 

Cheese Fingers 148 

Cheese Puffs 148 

Clover Vinegar 148 

Spiced Vinegar for Salads 148 

Beet Vinegar 149 

Shallot Vinegar 149 

Horseradish Vinegar 149 

How to Hard Boil Eggs 149 

How to Clean Cress 150 

How to Blanch Vegetables 150 

How to Clean Lettuce, etc 150 

How to Fringe Celery 150 

How to Chop Parsley 151 

How to Peel Tomatoes 151 

Mayonnaise Dressings 151 

French Dressings 157 



Index 259 

PAGE 

French Mustard 158 

Aspic Jelly 159 

Aspic Cream 160 

Boiled Salad Dressings 160 

Dressings for Fruit Salads - 163 

Creole Salad Dressing 165 

Anchovy Salad Dressing 166 

Italian Dressing 166 

Indian Dressing 166 

German Salad Dressing 167 

Piquant Dressing 167 

Russian Salad Dressings 167 

Thousand Island Dressings 168 

Golden Salad Dressing 169 

Honey Salad Dressing 169 

A Dressing that Will Keep in Bottles 170 

Vinaigrette Sauce 170 

Chili Sauce 171 

Roquefort Cheese Dressing 171 

Remoulade Sauce 172 

Onion Dressing 172 

Tartare Sauce 173 

Chiffonade Dressing 173 

Apple and Ginger Salad 174 

Arcadian Salad 175 

Artichoke Salad 175 

Asparagus Salad 176 

Asparagus and Ham Salad 177 

Avocado and Grapefruit Salad 178 

Banana and Date Salad 179 

Beet and Onion Salad 179 

Bermuda Salad 180 

Blue Bird Salad 180 

Cabbage and Celery Salad 181 

Cabbage Salad in Cabbage Shell 182 

Calf's Brain Salad ... 183 

Cantaloupe Salad 183 

Casaba Melon Salad 184 

Carrot Salad. 184 



260 Index 

PAGE 

Cauliflower and Beet Salad 185 

Celeriac Salad 185 

Cheese Salad 186 

Cherry and Cream Cheese Salad 186 

Chestnut and Celery Salad 187 

Chicken Salad No. i 188 

Chicken Salad No. 2 189 

Chicory Salad 190 

Chiffonade Salad 190 

Cole-Slaw 191 

Corn, Nut, and Celery Salad 191 

Crab Meat Salad 192 

Cream Cheese and Pimiento Salad 193 

Cream Cheese and Pineapple Salad 193 

Dandelion Salad 193 

Dandelion and Oyster Salad 194 

Egg and Lobster Salad 194 

Endive Salad 195 

Extra-fine Salad 196 

Fish Salad No. i 196 

Fish Salad No. 2 197 

Frogs' Legs Salad 198 

Frozen Tomato Salad 198 

Frozen Cheese Salad 199 

Fruit Salads 199 

Fruit Salad a la Russe 204 

Ginger Ale Salad 204 

Geneva Salad 205 

Grapefruit Salad 205 

Greengage and Banana Salad 206 

Herring Salad 207 

Horseradish and Celery Salad 208 

Hot Slaw 208 

Hot Vegetable Salad 209 

Imperial Salad 210 

Italian Salad 210 

Jellied Beet and Nut Salad 211 

Jellied Chicken and Rice Salad. 211 

Jellied Fruit and Celery Salad 212 



Index 261 

PAGE 

Jellied Ham Salad 212 

Kumquat Salad 213 

Lettuce Salad and Roquefort Dressing 214 

Lobster Salad No. i 214 

Lobster Salad No. 2 215 

Macaroni Salad 216 

Macedoine Salad 216 

Mint Salad 217 

Merry Widow Salad 218 

Nasturtium Salads 218 

Nut and Prune Salad 219 

Nut Salad 220 

Okra Salad 220 

Olive and Celery Salad 221 

Orange and Tomato Salad 221 

Oyster and Egg Salad 222 

Oyster Salad 223 

Park Lane Salad 223 

Pea and Pickle Salad 224 

Pea and Walnut Salad 224 

Peanut and Celery Salad 225 

Peach Salad 226 

Pear Salad 227 

Pimiento Salad 228 

Pineapple and Grapefruit Salad 228 

Potato Salad No. i 229 

Potato Salad No. 2 230 

Potato Salad No. 3 231 

Queen of Salads 23 1 

Radish Salad 232 

Red Kidney Bean Salad 232 

Romaine Salad 233 

Russian Aspic Salad 233 

Russian Salad 234 

Salad of Fruits Glace 234 

Salmon and Oyster Salad 235 

Salmon Salad 236 

San Diego Salad 237 

Saratoga Salad 237 



262 Index 



PAGE 

Scallop Salad 238 

Shrimp, Celery, and Nut Salad 238 

Spanish Onion and Sardine Salad 239 

Spinach Salad 240 

Strawberry Salad 240 

String Bean Salad 241 

Stuffed Tomato Salad 242 

Sweetbread Salad 243 

Tomato Jelly Salad 243 

Tongue Salad 244 

Tripe Salad 245 

Tuna Fish Salad 245 

Turnip Salad 246 

Unique Salad 246 

Vegetable Salad in Ramequins 247 

Victoria Salad 248 

Waldorf Salad 248 

Watermelon Salad 249 

Western Salad 250 

Yamosa Salad 250 






MAR 1 8 193C 



