Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2006 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/coronaclubcookboOOcororich 



I ... 



X,; 

/ 



m/dSu/IivaniSi 



253 POST ST. 



Ladies 
Doii*t Forget 

That v/e carry the nicest 
line of '^ ailored Suits in 
San Francisco. 

Evening Gowns and 
Wraps of exclusive 
makers. 

All distinctive styles. 

Prices reasonable. 



Smart Wear for Smart Women 



?s"Brr» 




Ci^4*^i{.'lM 



EACH IXGUK 



LK1>IENT IX EVEliV RECIPE M Ay BE . / f 
'OBTAIXEI> FROM THE ' ' 



GKOCKItS AMI TK.V MKRfHAXTS 

"' ' S76 VAI.EXCrA STKEKT 
Telephone Market 1395 



■-.%• 




l^^^^A 




IGlobe Mills! 

^^ SAN FRANCISCO.. 



:IV 





"Al" 



A HOME PRODUCT 




Real Estate 

Fire Insurance 
Renting, Collecting 

Houses and Lots Sold on the 
InstaHment Plan 

2565 Mission St., bet. 21st &* 22d 
■ SA.y FRANCISCO, C AL. 

Tel. Mi.ssion oOi'b'; Home >[ 1212 



V «-''^' f 



r 



Ladies* Shopping Trade a Specialty 




ffiaft 



Corner Market and Eddy Streets 



A. BECKER 



A. J.-'feECKEU 



GLYCO- 
MENTHOL 

ANTISEPTIC 
PROPHYLACTiC 
DISINFECTANT 

Gargle and ]Mouth Wash 

BOYSON'S PHARMACY 

TWENTY-FIRST AND VALENCIA STREETS 
San Francisco, Cal. 



ENGRAVING, DIE STAMPING, PRINTING 



CALLING CARDS, At 
Home Cards, Wed- 
ding Invitations and 
Announcements, Club 
Notices, Concert and 
Ball Programs taste- 
fully printed. 



Altvater Printing Co. 

J. C. INIARSIIALL, Manager. 

2 5 (» 5 M I S S I O X STREET. 

Next to the Wigwam Theatre 

Phone Mission 292. 



Golden West Clothing Renovatory 

805 VALENCIA STREET 

SUITS CLEANED AND PRESSED, $L00 

CLEANING DYEING ALTERING REPAIRING 

Our INIonthly Contract System— FOUR SUITS (one a week) 
CLEANED and PRESSED $1.50 a Month. , 

Ladies' and Children's Garments Cleaned and Dyed 

Tek'phoiies: Mission 2706— Home M 2706. 






Alcazar Theatre 

~~ SUTTER AND STEINER STREETS 

Phones: West 1400— Home S 4242 



BELASCO & MAYER 

Owners and Managers 



The Alcazar Stock 
, Company 

Playing Only High-Class Royalty Plays 

PRICES.- Night, 25c to $1; Matinee, 25c to 50c 

MATINEE SATURDAY AND SUNDAY 

Change of Bill Weekly 



Telephone Mission 1354 Open Evenings 

H. Steinberg 

Ladies' Tailor 
and Importer 

Imported Materials 

Exclusive Styles 

Latest Designs 

Moderate Prices 

3115 22nd Street, Bet. Mission and Howard 
SAN FRANCISCO 




^v. 



■v^' 



■X 



V,. 



"V 



r-a 



Less Rubbing- 
Cleaner Clothes 



The less clothes are rubbed, the longer 
they wear. Clothes in the wash con- 
tain more or less dirt and grease. The 
problem is how to get this dirt and 
grease out quickly with the least amount of rubbing. 

'v Soap alone takes longer to dissolve thg dirty, greasy 
particles which have been ground into the clothes. 

Many housewives have long known a simple process which does away with the 
hard rubbing of clothes, and yet cleans them better than the old way. Their method 
is to add the Parowax brand of Pure Refined Paraffine to the boiling water and 
.soap in the boiler. 

• They simply put one-half teacup of shaved Parowax and the usual quantity of 
shaved soap in the hot water in the boiler, which is sufficient for one boiler of wash. 
,The Parowax and the soap dissolve quickly and loosen the dirt, so that the old 
amount of hard rubbing is unnecessary. 

Parowax so thoroughly loosens the dirt that every atom slips away from the 
fabric. After the clothes have been boiled, you rinse them in warm water. You 
will be astonished to see how clean and white they come out — like new. Parowax is 
odorless and tasteless and leaves no odor in the clothes. 



I' 



To protect the u.-^er. the trade-mark '"Parowax" has been given to the sratle of Pure 
Pvefined Paraffine sold by this Company for years. This absolutely pure parafRne has been 
used all these years for sealing jellies, etc., and for washing and ironing 



Dealers everywhere sell the Parowax brand of Pure Refined Paraffine. Beware of articles h 

offered as substitutes. . Look for the name of the t( 

Standard Oil Company 




s - ','■-■ ^ . - ■■-;.^^ 



~T^ "^-. ^ -.' ■ ■v.r-.^ ■_ i,;/ ,i 



Many Delicious Sweets to be found at the 



V "ALOHA" 

5 - • 1744 FILUMORE STREET, Near Sutter. 

\ Only manufacturers of the famous \1CTORIA CHOCOLATES in the city. 
Theater parties a specialty. 



.., AFTER DINNER... 

SMOKE "V 

La Flor de Sanchez y Hay a 
Havana Cigars 

FACTORY NO. h TAMPA, FLA. 



Phones: Mission 231 — Home M 1857 

PRINTING, MOUNTING, DEVELOPING, ENLARGEMENTS 
COMMERCIAL VIEWING A SPECIALTY 

PERRY 

Photo Supplies 

Hand Painted China Art and Picture Framing 

2460 MISSION ST.. Near 21st, San Francisco 



RESULTS ME OBTAINED 

AVlieii yoii use the best inj^redients 

EVERYTHING 

To make the i-ecipes given in this 
lMK>k a success may be obtiiinetl from 

L D. McLean Co. 

GROCERS 

1158-68 SUTTER ST., Near Polk. 
Phones: Franklin 2810 — Home C 2810. 



Jkmerican Qirl 
Chocolates 

Delicious, hi^h-«Ta<le Chocolates of the greatest; 
excellence. Packed in half and one-pound boxes, 
lieautiful hand-painted book mark with each box. 

'fleu r de J^is" 
Ma rshmalloMs 

An incomparable MarshnuUlow confection. Daintily 
flavored. Packed in handsome half and one-pound 
boxes. Also sold in bulk. Insist on the genuine. 



Pacif ic Coast ^isGuitCompanif 






-.^- 



i 



I 



JUVENILE CLOTHES 
AND ACCESSORIES 

Have distinction and orig[inality in effect; every- 
thing that combines HIGHEST QUALITY 

For the 2-y6ar-old to the fellow who measures 40 chest 

Ihe JUVENILE, 130 Grant Ave 



GUARANTEED TWENTY YEARS 



THE OUAUTY KIND 




#-- 



The Marifeof^Ferfechon 



VACUUM CLEANER 

SOLD BY 

LAUGENOUR SALES COMPANY 

833 Market Street San Francisco 



CLOTHES SPECIALISTS 

FOR YOIXG MKX A\J) HOYS 

AVe Invite Inspection 

Clothing, Ftirnisiimgs, Hats 

136 GEARY STREET. SAX FRAXCISCO 






i!.-i>ii-; 






Phones: Pacific, Park 4186; Home, S 3518 



W. Preugschat 



GROCER 



600 FILLMORE STREET, CORNER FELL 
San Francisco, CaL 



DON'T BLAME 

THE EECIPE OR THE COOK. 
THE STOVE MAY BE AT FAULT. 

LACHMAN BROS. 
SUCCESS RANGE 

IS GUARANTEED 

and Sold on Easy Payments. 
WE ARE COMPLETE 

Home Furnishers 







mmiom^^KiSTK 



Phones: Mi.ssion 4930; Home M lf)91 Clnbs and Parties Supplied 

Jaenicke ^ Co. . 

IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC 

. . . delicacies . . . 

;]2r,0 TWENTY-SECOND STREET, CORNER BARTLETT 
San Francisco 



i~ '. 



'.>!»^- 



JLouise Hallahan 

CATERER 

2019 Webster Street— Telephone West 1625 



Clubs 



Receptions 



Parties 



A SPECIALTY 




An Easy Device for 
Cutting Noodles 

Every time you roll the "I-DO-ALL" 

NOODLE CUTTER over the dough it 

cuts out eight noodles ready for the 

kettle. Price 25c each; postage 3c. 

THE A\ ILLLVM PECK CO. 

2803 Folsom Stieet, San Francisco 



Boardman Bros. ^ €®. 

Members of San Francisto Real Estate Board 

IXSIKAXCE 
Fire, Accident, Health, Automo- 
bile, Burglary, Life; all classes of 
Liability and Fidelity. 

.508 CALTFOrSiA STKEET, sax FRAXCISCO, CATj, 

Telephones: Kearny 711; Home C 1955 



RRAT. ESTATE 

CITY, SUBURBAN, COUNTRY, 
LEASING, RENTLNG, 
RENT COLLECTING 



F LJ R S 



Tailor-made Suits 

Evening Dresses 
Street Coats 

Evening Wraps 
Millinery 

Silk Waists 
Lace Waists 

Silk Petticoats 
Corsets and Hosiery 



\Vc nuike a specialty of these goods and have won an 
enviable reputation for out beautiful styles and reason- 
able prices. 




I. 



THE CORONA CLUB YEAR BOOK was 
printed by us, and is a fair example of the 
class of work we are doing. While equipped 
for all manner of commercial work, our spe- 
cialty is club and society printing. 



• THE H. C. MORRIS CO. 



Phones Kearny 4208 
Home C 1567 



PRINTERS 



343 Front Street 
San Francisco 



W. G. STAFFORD & CO. 




234 Steuart Street 

San Francisco 
TEIi. KE.\RN1 2901 

Brancli Yard, Ninth Ave. and Clement St, 
Phone Pacific 1016 




Renting and Insurance— Loans Negotiated 

F. R. Webb 6 Co. 

REAL ESTATE 

Houses Built to Suit on Easy Payments 

McEnerney Title, $C5.00 

:>5«7 MISSiOX STKKET 

Bet. 21st and 22nd, San Francisco, Cal. 

Phones: Mission 2562; Home M 1758 






HEADQUARTERS FOR HOME INDUSTRY •' 

Good Mm io Eat and Dnnl( 

Xom Corcopaiin 

MISSION GROCER— 1203 VALENCIA STREET 
Telephones: Mission 117; Home M 2598. 



Wme Caadtes 

770 JHarhd Strcet^ficlan iBmliing 

ircin^fcssAve. '^^injr'Rfl^lrp^t. Fillmore.^ 



Joost, Lloyd & Mm 

Tlie Pioneer Coftee Roastei's of the Westera Addition 

For dependable Tea, Coffee, Baking Powder, Olive Oil and Pea- 
nuts, give ns a call. All of our Coffees are roasted on the premises 
in plain view by the most improved, modern and sanitary methods. 
We invite inspection. "Why shouldn't our Coffees be better?" 
♦'THE COFFKE HOUSE" — 1346 FILLMORE STREET 
Phones: West 9296; Home S 2996 



8o 



CORONA CLUB 
COOK BOOK 



How to get a husband 

Most of us know, 
How to keep a husband 

Our "Cook Book" will show. 




AGRICULTURE 



Copyright, 1910. 

by 
CORONA CLUB 

San Francisco. 



SAN FRANCISCO. 

Rincon Publishing Company. 

IflO. 






TABLE OF CONTENTS 



Page 

Soup 19-2!) 

Fish 31.39 

Entrees 41-4.J 

Poultry and Game ." . 47-51 

Meat 53-03 

Meat Sauces and Dressings 65-67 

Luncheon Dishes 69-73 

Chafing Dish Recipes 7.5-77 

Casserole 79-80 

Fritters and Croquettes 82-8:5 

Salads 85-90 

Salad Dressings 93-9«> 

Pickles and Relishes 98-102 

Vegetables 104-116 

Spanish and Italian Dishes 118-121 

Cheese and Egg Dishes 123-128 

Bread, Biscuits, etc 130-138 

Pancakes 140 

Sandwiches 142-14.5 

Cracker Dishes 147 

Cakes 1.50-167 

Cake Fillings and Frcstings 169-172 

Cookies 174-180 

Pastry : 182-189 

Light Desserts 191-200 

Frozen Desserts 202-204 

Puddings 207-211 

Pudding Sauces 213-214 

Apple Dainties 216-217 

Preserves, Jellies, etc 219-224 

Confectionery 226-230 

Invalid Cookery 232-2.33 

Coffee. Tea and other Beverages 235-238 

Miscellaneous \ 240-241 

Table of Weights and Measures 243 

Facts Worth Knowing 245 

Household Hints 245-247 

Lemon Remedies 247 

Suggestions 248 



757 



PREFACE 



In presenting to our friends this compilation of recipes, all 
tested by Corona Club cooks or their friends, we feel that we are 
offering something which will prove a helpful addition to the 
culinary department of the home. 

In selecting from the many splendid recipes submitted, we 
have endeavored to combine the practical with the novel, and the 
dainty with the economic, avoiding duplicates and trying to 
make each department as complete as space would permit. 

We sincerely thank the members and friends who have made 
this publication possible by sending material for its pages, 
either in the form of recipes or of advertisements which have 
insured its financial success. 

We acknowledge our indebtedness to the advertisers. We 
have endeavored to solicit from firms and persons of high stand- 
ing only, and we earnestly request that you favor them with 
your patronage when possible. 

This little volume is sent forth with the hope that through 
it Corona Club may be enabled to lay the corner stone for 
its club house, thereby realizing the fulfillment of a fond and 
worthy ambition. 

May each purchaser like it so well that she will be filled with a 
desire to send a copy to her freind, and may her friend, posses- 
sing it, desire to enrich her friends in turn. 

CLUB HOUSE FUND COMMITTKE. 



The art ot cooking 
is proper seasoning 

The blending of the various sauces and 
flavoring extracts is a science in itself. 

One of the most necessary ingredients 
in cooking is olive oil. 

To get it pure, wholesome, and with 
the full Rich, Natural Olive flavor is the 
question. 

"SIERRA MADRE" 
OLIVE OIL 

is absolutely pure and of distinct olive 
flavor. 

It is the first pressing of the selected, 
fully ripened olives. 

The most noted chefs and cooks use olive oil in broil- 
ing and roasting meats, game and sea foods. 

For Salads, sauces and dressings, '* Sierra Madre" 
Olive Oil Blends perfectly, and rapidly assimilates with 
all the other ingredients used. 

We carry the largest stock of Spices, Sauces, both dry 
and liquid flavoring extracts west of New York. 

If an article has merit and is absolutely pure, we sell it. 

Our Catalogue contains a complete list of both Domes- 
tic and Imported seasonings. It suggests many rare and 
palatable kinds. 

Goldberg, Bowen & Co. 

GROCERS 
Main City Store, Sutter Sfreet above Kearny 




19 



SOUP 

Almond Ci-eain Soup — Take 1 quart seasoned stock, either 
beef, veal or chicken, a half pound blanched almonds, pound the 
almonds fine, use a few drops of the stock occasionally 
while pounding, lest the almonds become oily; when the almonds 
are fine enough add a tablespoonful of grated celery and 
a teaspoonful minced parsley to the stock and allow to heat; 
set the saucepan on back of stove and allow to simmer for half 
an hour. Put half a teacup of sweet cream, whipped to a stiff 
froth in the bottom of the soup tureen, pour the hot soup 
through a sieve over the cream and serve. — F. D. 

Asparagiis Soup — Boil 1 quart asparagus cut in inch lengths 
in 1 quart of water until tender; rub through a colander and 
return to the water in which it was boiled. Heat 1 pint milk, 
stir into it 1 tablespoonful butter rubbed with 1 of flour and cook 
a few minutes. Season and pour into asparagus. Let get boil- 
ing hot, pour into tureen over toasted bread cut into dice. Serve 
at once. — Mrs. A. M. 

Beef Soup AVith Okra — Cut a round steak in small pieces and 
fry in 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, together with 1 sliced 
onion, until very brown; put into a soup kettle with 4 quarts 
of cold water and boil slowly an hour; add salt, pepper and 1 
pint of sliced okra, and simmer 3% hours longer; strain before 
serving. — F. D. 

Black Bean Soup — One pint black beans, 2 quarts cold water, 
1 small onion, 2 stalks celery or ^ teaspoon celery salt, V^ table- 
spoon salt, Vs teaspoon pepper, i/i teaspoon mustard, few grains 
cayenne, 3 tablespoons butter, IVo tablespoons flour, 2 hard boiled 
eggs, 1 lemon. Soak beans over night; in the morning drain 
and add cold water; slice onion and cook 5 minutes with half 
the butter, adding to beans with celery stalks broken in pieces; 
simmer 3 or 4 hours, or until beans are soft; add more water^ 
as water boils away; rub through a sieve, reheat to the boiling 
point and add salt, pepper, mustard and caj^enne well mixed; 
blend with remaining butter and flour cooked together. Cut eggs 
in thin slices and lemon in thin slices, removing seeds; put in 
lureen and strain the soup over them. 



20 



Bouillon — (Three pints. Time, 5 hours.) Three pounds 
of beef cut from under side of round and chopped to a mince, 3 
quarts of cold water, 1 onion, l^ carrot, 1 sprig of parsley, 2 
sticks of celery, 1 bay leaf, 2 cloves, 6 peppercorns, 1 teaspoonful 
of salt added just before taking the soup from the fire. Take 3 
pounds of beef cut from the lower part of the round, remove all 
the fat, and chop to a fine mince. Place the chopped meat in a 
saucepan with 3 quarts of cold water, and let it stand 1 hour; 
then put it on the fire, cover, and let it come slowly to the boil- 
ing point, taking off any scum that rises. Then place it where 
it will only simmer. After is has simmered for 4 hours add the 
vegetables cut into dice, and the spices, and let it simmer 1 
hour longer. Strain into an earthen bowl and let it cool without 
covering. This stock will not jelly, as no bones are boiled with 
it. When ready to use remove grease, season, if necessary, with 
salt and pepper, and put into saucepan with % of a pound of 
lean meat chopped fine, and the white of an egg. Stir until it 
boils. Let it boil 15 minutes. Lay a fine cloth on a sieve and 
strain through it the bouillon without pressing. It should be 
perfectly clear and of the color of amber. It can be served in 
cups. — A. B. D. 

Bouillon or Stock Soup — Four pounds of solid fresh beef from 
the round, the same amount of bones, beef, veal or chicken 
which are on hand some time in a large family, put the same on 
a slow fire with cold water, taking care the meat is well covered 
with water, allow to boil slowly while scumming until clear; sea- 
son with salt, then add your vegetables, which should have been 
pared only a little while before to be fresh; celery root, 1 carrot 
sliced, turnip, onion, leak and parsley; you can use more seasoning 
to taste; tie all together and let boil with the soup slowly for 3 
hours; take floating grease off and pass through a strainer or 
napkin; you will then have a strong, clear soup. — F. D. 

Brazilian Soup — One can tomatoes, 1 onion, chopped, 3 sprigs 
parsley, 1 teaspoon salt, 31> teaspoon peppercorns, 3 tablespoons 
butter, 1 cocoanut, 3 cups boiling water, 3 tablespoons flour. 
Stir together the tomatoes, onion, salt and peppercorns and rub 
through a sieve. Shell the cocoanut, saving the milk. Put the 
cocoanut meat through a food chopper. Pour over it boiling 
water and let it cool, stirring occasionally. Strain through cheese 
cloth. Melt butter in a saucepan, add the flour and blend. Add 
the cocoanut water slowly and let mixture boil. Have the to- 
mato puree hot and add it to the cocoanut slowly. Serve at 
once with bread-sticks, croutons or toasted crackers. — M. C. 

Chicken Gumbo, Southern Style — Cut up in very small pieces 
1 round lean ham, 3 onions, 4 chili peppers, a little white celery, 



21 



3 eschalotes (dry) and 1 old hen chicken; cut in small pieces, 
put all in a thick bottomed pan with two ounces of butter; cook 
30 minutes on slow fire; add 1 gallon of mashed and strained 
tomatoes and let cook till chicken is done, add pint of okra, salt, 
pepper, 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce, 4 of catsup, let come 
to boil and serve very hot. — F. D. 

Chicken Gumbo — Take a young chicken or a half grown one. 
Cut it into smooth nice pieces; mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour (scant 
measure), with 1 level teaspoonful of salt, ^/.j coffeespoon of 
pepper together; roll the chicken in this mixture and fry a nice 
brown in lard or drippings. Have the okra (1 quart cup) cut up 
into rounds until there is a quart of it; add to the chicken and- fry 
for about 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Do not let it brown. 
Now add 2 quarts of boiling water and a small slice of ham. Boil 
down to li^. quarts. Serve with boiled rice in separate dish. It 
is greatly improved by the addition of 2 dozen fresh oysters, 
with their juice; about 10 minutes before serving, or if the 
oysters cannot be obtained add 2 teacupsful of corn freshly cut 
from the cob or ^ can of canned corn fried with the okra. — 
Mrs. F. D. 

Clara Bisque — Two dozen clams, 1 small onion, 2 tablespoon- 
fuls butter, 3 tablespoonfuls flour, 14-cup rolled cracker crumbs, 
% green pepper, 2 stalks celery, 1 yolk of egg; place 1 table- 
spoonful butter in the pan, melt, slice in the onion and green 
pepper and fry to a light brown, drain the clams, pouring over 
them ^4-pint cold water. Add this liquor to the contents of the 
saucepan, slice in the celery and boil for 10 minutes, skimming 
carefully. Next add the clams, very finely chopped. Boil up 
again and cook 5 minutes more, skimming again. Rub up the 
remaining tablespoon of butter with the 3 of flour and add to the 
soup, cooking and stirring carefully until it thickens. Take from 
the stove and pass through a sieve. Place in the same pan again, 
add the cream, into which the yolk of eggs should have been 
beaten, cook up once, serve immediately with croutons of fried 
bread; season to taste. — F. D. 

Clam Chowder — One quart claims, opened; 1 quart fresh 
milk, 3 medium sized potatoes, 1 onion, butter, pepper and salt 
to taste, 14 pound salt pork, buttered crackers. Clean clams, 
washing thoroughly and remove black portion from soft part. 
Chop hard parts fine and stew with clam liquor; skim, and boil 
until the other ingredients are all prepared and ready to mix. Cut 
pork into dice and fry brown in kettle to be used for chowder. 
Boil onion in 2 waters. More onion may be used if desired. 
Cover the pork scraps with a layer of sliced potatoes, a portion 
of the cooked onion cut fine, a portion of the clams. Sprinkle 



22 



with pepper and repeat layers, pouring tlie liquor over all; cover 
and place -where it will simmer. Shake the kettle frequently 
to prevent burning and cook till potatoes are done; then pour 
over the milk, which has been brought to the boiling point; and 
set on the back of the stove, where it will keep hot without boil- 
ing, as otherwise the milk will curdle. Butter 4 Boston crackers, 
halved, on both sides and drop in the chowder or serve with 
buttered crackers browned in the oven. Add a little salt if 
necessary, and butter. — M. C. 

Clam Chowder — Take M of a pound of bacon, cut in small 
pieces and brown well in pot, then acid a small onion cut in 
fine pieces, and brown; add half can warmed tomatoes, after 
which pour in clam juice (which should be the little neck 
variety), and a quart of boiling water; let all boil and then add 
6 small potatoes cut in small cubes, a little parsley, and boil 
until potatoes are tender. Season with salt and pepper and 
thicken with 4 soda crackers, rolled fine; let all simmer gently 
till ready for use. — F. D. 

Soup Consoiiiine — One shin of beef, 1 knuckle of veal, 1 
teaspoon sugar, 14-cup chopped onions, M^-cup water, 1 table- 
spoonful salt, 1 onion, 6 cloves (whole), V-j-cup chopped green 
tops of celery, 1 carrot, sliced, 1 turnip, sliced, 2 bay leaves, 1 
teaspoon pepper corns.. Directions — Wipe meat with damp cloth, 
cut from the bones, put kettle over a hot fire and sprinkle over 
the bottom the sugar; brown and allow it to smoke a moment; 
then add the chopped onion and the ^A-cup water; cook 5 min- 
utes; place bones in kettle first, then meat, cover with 5 quarts 
of water and bring to a boil. Skim carefully and place kettle 
over moderate fire to simmer for 4 hours. At the end of the 
3rd hour add vegetables and seasoning. At the end of 4 hours 
strain stock and put in cool place. When cold remove fat from 
surface. — Mrs. J. 

Corn Soup a la Royale — Take the water chicken was cooked 
in and place on the fire; add the remaining chicken meat and 
bones to the stock, of which there should be 2 quarts; simmer 
until the meat leaves the bones, then strain, flavor with a tea- 
spoonful of salt and pinch of cayenne and celery salt; add a 
small cunful of sweet corn cut from the ear, place where will 
cook slowly for I-* hour and before serving add 1 cupful sweet 
crep.m or milk. — F. D. 

Corn Chowder — One pint of milk, small piece of fat salt pork. 
1 small onion, 1 pint sliced r^w potatoes, 1 pint rav/ sweet corn, 
cut from ear, V2 teaspoon salt, 1 saltspoon pepper, 1 rounding 
Tablespoon butter, 1 rounding tablespoon flour. Fry out pork, 



23 



cut in small pieces, add onion "and cook slowly for 5 minutes, 
stirring often; then strain fat into a saucepan. Cook potatoes 
in boiling water to cover for o minutes, and add to fat, also 
add corn, salt and pepper and boiling water to cover. Simmer 
until both potatoes and corn are tender. Melt butter, add flour 
and gradually milk. Let boil a few minutes, add to chowder; 
boil up and serve very hot, with crackers. Jf preferred may be 
strained or 1 cup of tomatoes pared and sliced may be added. — 
M. E. J. 

Corn Chowder — One slice of bacon, cut small, 1 onion, cut 
small; fry brown; 2 potatoes, cut into cubes, ^^ can of corn, 2 
cups of water; boil all % of an hour; add milk to serve 6 peo- 
ple and thicken with a little flour and butter. — M. B. 

Cucumber Soui) — Four cucumbers, 4 stalks celery, 4 cups 
milk, 2 slices onion, 1 tablespoon chopped pepper, 4 tablespoons 
butter, 4 tablespoons flour, salt and pepper, cayenne and celery 
salt, 1 cup of cream. Chop cucumbers and celery; add onion 
and pepper; cook in milk in double boiler 20 minutes. Add 
flour and butter cooked together, and seasonings. Cook 5 min- 
utes, strain, add cream; reheat and serve. — C. S. M. 

Bisque of Clams — Boil 1 quart of clams in their juice for 5 
minutes, skim; drain the juice into a bowl to use. Put 2 table- 
spoons of butter with 3 of flour; add clams which have been 
chopped and pounded, their juice; 2 pinches of salt, a little pep- 
per and 2% pints of milk. Stir constantly just as it begins to 
thicken and boil. Strain again and serve. — M. C. 

Com Soup — One can grated corn, 3 V2 cups sweet milk; put 
in double boiler and cook for 20 minutes, then strain through 
colander, pressing the com with spoon to get all small parts 
through; melt 2 tablespoons butter and mix in 2 tablespoons 
flour; when smooth strain into the soup and let it cook until it 
thickens, stirring all the time (about 3 minutes). Now place 
in your soup tureen yolks of 2 eggs beaten, then pour the hot 
soup over the eggs, stirring quickly all the time so it won't curdle 
the eggs. — C. N. S. 

Cream of Celery Soup — Make a good meat stock. Add 6 or 7 
stalks of celery cut fine and boil V2 hour. Boil a small cupful of 
rice in a quart of milk until very soft. Press through a sieve. 
Strain the stock and thicken it with the rice paste. Add a 
generous piece of butter. — M. T. M. 

Cream of Celery Soup — One bunch celery, washed and cut in 
inch pieces; put in saucepan with little salt and water to cover. 



24 



Boil % of an hour. Pass through' a colander. Put 2 tablespoons 
butter in pan with 2 tablespoons flour and cook till they bubble, 
then add 2 cups heated milk and 2 cups white stock. Stir until 
thick and smooth. Mix with the celery puree, season and serve. 
— M. C. 

Delicious Dumplings for Soup — Marrow from about 15 cents 
shank bones, cream with fork, add salt, pepper and little nutmeg, 
1 egg and cracker crumbs enough so that the mixture can be 
molded into balls about size of a quarter. Also add a little 
chopped parsley. Have soup boiling hot, drop dumplings in and 
let boil about 10 minutes. — Mrs. W. 

Delicatesse Soup — Take a large heavy fresh-cooked crab, after 
thoroughly cleaning it, shred the meat fine, save the marrow that 
is in the back of the shell and rub it smooth in bowl with 1 
tablespoonful of cornstarch and 1 egg. Put 1 pint of cream and 
1 quart of milk on the fire to boil, put in 1 tablespoonful but- 
ter, % small saltspoon paprika and salt, according to taste; watch 
very closely to prevent burning; when it comes to a boil pour it 
slowly, stirring all the time, over the cornstarch, egg and crab 
marrow; return it to the fire and when it is sufficiently thick 
stir in the crab meat. Serve steaming hot, with delicate oyster 
crackers. — F. D. 

Halibut Soup — Three-fourths cup cold boiled halibut, 1 pint 
of milk, 1 slice onion, a blade of mace, 3 tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, 1% tablespoonfuls flour, % teaspoonful salt, few grains of 
pepper. Rub fish through a sieve. Scald milk with onion and 
mace. Remove seasonings and add fish. Thicken with flour 
mixed with l^ of the butter and cooked together. Add salt and 
pepper and the remaining butter in small pieces. — M. C. 

Lentil and Tomato Soup — Cook together 1 cup of lentils 
thoroughly sorted and washed, 1 cup of stewed tomatoes, 1 cup 
of water, 1 tablespoonful of butter and a stalk of celery. When 
done add sufficient water to make soup proper consistency. Boil, 
removing celery. Season with salt to taste. Add 1 teaspoonful 
of browned flour, rubbed to a paste with a little water. Boil 
and serve. A teaspoon of whipped cream to each plate is a 
most satisfying addition. — C. L. B. 

Cream of L»ima Bean Soup — One cup of dried lima beans, 3 
pints cold water, 2 slices onion, 4 slices carrot, 1 cup of cream 
or milk, 4 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon 
salt, y2 teaspoon pepper. Soak beans over night; in the morning 
drain and add cold water; cook until soft and rub through a 
sieve. Cut vegetables in small cubes and cook 5 minutes in 



half the butter; remove vegetables, add flour, salt and pepper, 
and stir into boiling soup. Add cream, reheat and strain and 
add remaining butter in small pieces. — F. V. M. 

Marrow Balls for Soup — One-half cup of beef marrow, 1 cup 
bread or cracker crumbs, 2 eggs, pinch salt and little pepper, i^ 
teaspoon chopped parsley. Place marrow in bowl over teakettle 
to melt. When melted pour in fine strainer and with spoon stir 
through all you can. Set aside to cool; when about the con- 
sistency of cream, stir in about % of the crumbs, mixing well, 
then add 1 egg at the time (not beaten) ; mix well with a fork. 
When both eggs are thoroughly mixed with the above add ^alt, 
pepper and parsley, then the rest of the crumbs, little at a time. 
Take about i/^ teaspoonful of mixture and roll into small ball-^.. 
Try one in a little boiling water; if it falls in pieces add few 
more crumbs. When ready put the balls into boiling soup and 
boil about 10 minutes. Enough for 10 or 12 plates of soup. — 
J. B. S. 

Mushroom Soup — One quart rich milk, 1 pint mushrooms 
(juice and all), 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 tablespoonful flour, 
one minced onion, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Stew the 
mushrooms and onion with I/2 cup of milk until tender, then rub 
them through a colander, pour this into the quart of mirv and 
place saucepan in a pan of boiling water. Rub to a cream but- 
ter and flour, and when milk is boiling pour about a cupful into 
the creamed flour and butter; stir well; pour this mixture into 
the boiling milk; stir constantly until as thick as cream; add 
cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Serve hot with cubes of toast. 
— F. D. 

Onion Soup — Cut up 4 large onions, not sliced; add 6 ounces 
of butter, salt and cayenne, stock and milk, yolks of 4 eggs, 
-4 of a loaf of French bread, cut in thin slices and dried; 2 table- 
spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; slowly stew the onions 
in butter, stirring frequently and being very careful not to let 
them get brown; let them stew for an hour, then add salt, pepper, 
cayenne and stock, and cook for another hour; add a third as 
much milk as stock; place in the tureen the bread and cheese, beat 
up the eggs, mix with a ladle of soup, pour this on the bread, 
cover close and let it stand 5 minutes; add the rest of the soup 
and serve at once. — F. D. 

Cream Onion Soup — Slice 4 large onions thin and boil until 
tender in salted water. Drain well. Melt a large piece of but- 
ter in frying pan, sprinkle with salt, black pepper and a pinch 
of cayenne. Toss onions in and shake well, heating thoroughly 



26 



but not allow to burn. Add this to 2 quarts of rich soup stock 
which has been made from beef, veal, mutton and the usual com- 
plement of vegetables. Let all come to a boil, then stir in a 
tablespoonful cf cornstarch which has been moistened with 
milk. Season to taste. Heat a pint of ci-eam, pour into the 
soup, but do not allow to boil. Stir in a spoonful of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Serve at once in hot tureen with toasted 
squares of bread of croutons. — E, L. P. 

Potato Soup — Put some potatoes on to boil; when boiled, re- 
move from the fire; mash the potatoes and save the liquor; then 
take a good sized piece of butter, brown some chopped onions to 
a nice color and add a big spoonful flour and bvown also, tb."n 
add the liquor of potatoes, a little more water or soup stock, for 
as much as needed; add salt, pepper, cayenne pepper and little 
garlic, and let boil, then add the mashed potatoes. Wheu almost 
ready to serve add a little minced sausage, croutons of bread, 
toasted in butter, in square pieces, and some finely choppe.l 
parsley. — F. D! 

Cieam of Spinach Soup — Wash thoroughly and boil spinach 
till tender. Chop and rub it through a sieve. To 2 cups vegetable 
pulp add a quart of soup stock or a quart of milk or half of 
each. Rub together 1 tablespoonful of butter with 2 of flour. 
Put this in the soup over the fire and stir ail together till it 
thickens a little. Season with pepper and salt and add from K to 
i cup of cream. Beat it w€!ll with an egg v.'hip and serve at 
once. It should have the consistency of cream. 

Dried or Split Pea Soup — One pint dried or split peas, 1 
quart boiling water, 1 bunch celery, 1 small bunch parsley, 1 
quart cream or milk, 2 onions, salt and pepper. Soak peas over 
night. In the morning drain, cover with quart of boiliu.'^ water 
and set over a low fire to cook till tender. Cut celery, parsley 
and onions fine and add to boiling peas. When tender press 
through a sieve and season with pepper and salt to taste. Let 
boil up once and just before serving add hot cream or milk 
Stir well. A ham bone improves the flavor, if skim milk is 
used add piece of butter to taste. 

Oyster Soup — Wash 1 quart of oysters and add 1 pint of 
water; drain, heat the liquor and skim well. Add the oysters, 
cook slowly 10 minutes, then rub the o.vsters through a sic;v<\ 
Melt 3 tablespoonfuls of butter, add si ice of onion and bit of 
mace and tablespoonfuls of flour. Pour on slowly 1 quart 
milk (hot), add the oysters and liquor. Salt and pepper to 
taste. — M. C. 



OrigiuiiJ. Soup — Put 1 tablespoon fill butter into a granite 
saucepan (butter or olive oil); when the butter melts put into it 
1 carrot sliced, 2 cloves of garlic sliced, 1 small onion, a stalk 
of celery sliced, a sprig of parsley and thyme, 1 dried red pep- 
per and a slice of bacon diced; let all this simmer slowly for i/^ 
hour; then stir into it a tablespoonful flour; add a can of tomatoes 
and let it simmer for another half hour, then remove from the 
stove and strain through a soup sieve; replace on the stove, add 
1 teaspoonful sugar, 1 of Durley's celery salt, 1 pinc-.h of pounded 
cloves and pinch of pounded thyme, 1 pinch of powdered mar- 
joram, salt to taste, then add about a pint of good rich soup 
stock, let it simmer a few minutes; add one teaspoonful corn- 
starch dissolved in cold water. Let the soup cook four minutes 
longer and serve with croutons. Stock can be added to this 
soup for ten persons. Always use a granite spoon for th?s soup. 
— F. D. 

Perfection Oyster Soup — For 2 persons open 1 dozen large 
Eastern or 2 dozen California oysters, being careful to preserve 
every drop of liquid, which place in chafing-dish. The oysters 
divide evenly — 6 or a dozen — as may be, on the plates in which 
the soup is to be served. To the liquid in the chafing-dish add 
1 pint fresh rich milk, a piece of choice butter the size of an 
egg, salt and pepper to taste and a dash of cayenne pepper and 
>2 rolled crisp soda crackers. Let all boil up just once, remove 
immediately and pour half and half over the oysters in the 
plates. Serve at once with oyster crackers. 

P. S. — Should fresh oysters not be available choice canned 
oysters may be used. They will make a good but not perfection 
oyster soup. — F. D. 

Potato Chowder — Six good sized potatoes. 1 tablespoonful 
flour, 1 good sized onion, ^4 pound bacon or ham, 1 tablespoonful 
chopped parsley, 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 pint milk, 1 pint water. 
Pare and cut potatoes into dice and chop the onion fine. Cut 
bacon or ham into small pieces. Put bacon or ham and the 
onion in a frjing pan and fry until a light brown. Now put a 
layer of potatoes in the bottom of a saucepan, then a sprinkling 
of the ham or bacon, onion, parsley, salt and pepper, then a 
layer of potatoes, and so on until all is used. Add the water, 
cover closely and simmer 20 minutes. Then add the milk. Rub 
the butter and flour together. Add to the boiling chowder and 
stir carefully until it boils. Taste to see if properly seasoned; 
if not, add more salt and pepper and serve. — Mrs. Dewey CoflSn. 

Cream of Spinach Soup — Tavo quarts spinach. Wash in sev- 
eral waters. Throw the leaves into a hot kettle, closely covered, 



28 



and cook 5 minutes. Drain them, saving tlie liquid. Chop leaves 
fine and press through a sieve. Return them to kettle. Add a 
tablespoon grated onion and 1 quart milk. Rub together 2 table- 
spoons butter and 2 of flour. Add to the soup, stirring constantly 
until smooth and thick. Press this again through the sieve. 
Add 1 teaspoon salt and a dash of white pepper. Serve with 
croutons. — J. P. 

' Cream of Salmon Soup — One can salmon or 2 lbs. fresh boiled 
salmon, 2 cups white stock, 2 cups milk, 2 tablespoons butter, 
1 tablespoon flour. Cover flaked fish in saucepan with water and 
simmer 20 minutes. Drain off water and rub fish to smooth 
paste. Cook butter and flour in saucepan and add hot milk and 
stock, cooking until it thickens, stirring constantly. Stir in the 
salmon, season to taste and remove from the fire just before it 
comes to a boil. Serve at once. 



Tapioca Soup — To about a quart of clear stock, add 1 table- 
spoon of instantaneous tapioca, cooked until almost clear. Cook 
for 5 minutes or until clear, and just before serving season 
and add 1 tablespoonful of sherry. — E. L. W. 

Tomato Bouillon — Put V2 can of tomatoes with 1% pints of 
stock over the fire, add 1 tablespoon chopped onion, 1 bay leaf, 
2 whole cloves, ^ teaspoon celery seed, V4. teaspoon pepper. 
Cook 20 minutes, and strain through a sieve. Beat the whites 
of 2 eggs until partly light, add to soup and boil rapidly 5 
minutes. Strain through cheese cloth. Reheat, add 1 teaspoon 
salt, and serve with croutons. — E. McE. 

Cream of Tomato Soup — Make a sauce of 3 tablespoons but- 
ter, 3 tablespoons flour, 1 teaspoon salt, l^ teaspoon pepper and 
1 pint of milk. Heat 1 pint of strained tomatoes to near boil- 
ing point and add ^A teaspoon soda and 1 pint boiling water. 
Then add the tomato to the cream sauce and serve with croutons 
of bread cut in squares and browned in the oven. — L. M. C. 

Tomato Soup — Three cups rich milk or cream, 2 cups strained 
tomatoes. Stir tomatoes slowly into cream, turn into a double 
boiler, add a small tablespoonful flour and a slice of onion. Do 
not cover this while it is heating, but stir often to keep from 
curdling. When it is piping hot, add a dash of red pepper, lump 
of butter, and salt and serve at once. If the salt is added last 
and the soup is cooked quickly and not allowed to stand, it will 
never curdle. — M. F. 



29 



3Iock Turtle Soup — One calf's head, 1 gallon of water, 1 
carrot, 1 tHrnip, 8 cloves, ^ teaspoon minced onion, 1 table- 
spoon salt, 1 teaspoon minced parsley, 2 tablespoons butter, 2 
tablespoons of browned flour, 1 wine glass sherry, 4 hard-boiled 
eggs, lemon sliced. Wash head in vinegar and water, cut in 
pieces, fry with carrot and turnip, sliced very fine, in hot butter; 
add cloves, onion, parsley and flour, then water; boil about 4 
hours; strain soup; add 9 eggs, sliced lemon and 1 cup of meat 
from calf's head; cut in small pieces. — M. B. 

Ox Tail Soup — One ox-tail, 2 lbs. lean beef, 4 carrots, 3 
onions, thyme. Cut tail into pieces and fry brown in butter. 
Slice the onions and 2 carrots and when you remove ox-tail 
from pan put these in and brown them also. When done, tie 
them in a bag with a bunch of thyme and drop into the soup 
pot. Lay the pieces of ox-tail in the same; then meat, cut in 
small slices. Grate over them the whole two carrots, add 4 
quarts of cold water with salt and pepper. Boil from 4 to 6 hours 
in proportion to the size of the tail. Strain 15 minutes before 
serving it; thicken with two tablespoons of browned flour; boil 
10 minutes longer. 

A>getable Soup — Three lbs. lean beef; boil in enough cold 
water to cover three hours; add 1 onion, 1 tomato, 1 carrot, tur- 
nip, celery, salt and pepper to taste. — Mrs. F. W. 

Wine Soup — One quart boiling water, ^ teacupful of sago, 
the peeling of % a lemon; boil until sago is gone; then add 1 
teacupful of claret wine and sugar to taste. — F. D. 



JUST HINTS 



A teaspoonful of whipped cream on top of each portion will 
improve any cream soup, and the addition of a chopped bell 
pepper in cream of clam and many other cream soups is also 
good. 

, A slice of apple, pear or cantaloupe is an improvement to 
any meat and vegetable soup, adding a flavor that can be secured 
in no other way. 



so 



MEMORANDA 



31 



FISH 

Baked Fish — Clean, rinse and wipe dry a white fish or any 
fish of 3 or 4 lbs. Rub fish inside and out with salt and pepper; 
fill with stuflang made like that for poultry, but dryer. Sew it 
up and put in a hot pan with some drippings and lump of butter; 
dredge with flour and lay over the fish a few thin slices of salt 
pork or bits of butter. Bake V2 hour, basting often. — S. S. 

Baked Fish — A fish weighing from 4 to 6 lbs. is a good size 
to bake and should be cooked whole. Make a stuffing of bread 
crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, a little salt pork, chop fine parsley, 
and a little onion; mix in 1 egg. Thoroughly fill body of fish 
and sew it up; lay in a large dripping pan and lay across the 
top 3 or 4 strips of salt pork; put a pint of water in the pan 
and bake 1^ hours, baste often. After taking up the fish 
thicken gravy and pour over it. — Mrs. F. D. 

Baked Fish — Clean and wipe dry any fish weighing 3 lbs. 
Rub inside and out with salt and pepper, and fill with stuffing 
of bread soaked in milk and water with a little butter and sage 
and onion chopped fine. Sew it up; put fish in dripping pan 
with a little water; thin slices of pork on top; bake 1% hours. 
Serve ,with the following sauce: 1 cup vinegar; beat yolks 2 
eggs with tablespoonful salad oil and 2 tablespoonfuls prepared 
French mustard and a little red pepper; then add the vinegar, 
a little at a time; beat well together. — Mrs. F. D. 

Fish Au Grautiii witli Oysters, Tomatoes and Mushrooms — ■ 

Two fish (any kind of large fish), boned; 1 spoon tabasco, % 
pint tomatoes, 50 oysters, 1 pint mushrooms, 1 wine glass sherry, 
2 teaspoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, 1 cup browned bread 
crumbs. % cups butter, 1 cup stock, % teaspoon minced parsley, 
2 teaspoons salt. Put fish in platter with above ingredients and 
bake about 1 hour. — Mrs. B. 

Baked Crab — One large crab, 1 green pepper, 5 tablespoons 
butter, 1 egg yolk. 3 tablespoons powered cracker, salt. Make 
shredded crab moist with milk; mix balance of ingredients and 
let all come to boiling point. Clean the crab shell thoroughly. 



32 



put in the mixture, cover with powered cracker and bits of 
butter and brown in the oven. Use only the outside of the green 
pepper, chopping fine. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Salt Codfish Balls — One cup raw codfish, 1 pint raw potatoes, 
V2 tablespoon butter, 1 egg, Vs teaspoon pepper, a little cream — 
2 to 4 tablespoons. Shred the codfish, measure and wash in 
cold water. Pare and cut potatoes in small pieces about 1-in. 
cubes and measure. Put both in stewpan, cover with hot water 
and boil till potatoes are done. Drain; add butter and pepper, 
then mash and beat to a cream. When cool, add the beaten 
egg and beat again. If potatoes are dry and mealy a little cream 
may be added to moisten and a little salt may be needed, but 
not as a usual thing. This may be mixed one day and, used the 
next or at once if preferred. Have deep fat smoking hot. Take 
a heaping teaspoon of the mixture between floured hands and 
roll in a ball delicately; drop few at a time in fat and fry light 
brown. This quantity makes about 1 dozen. Served as a course 
at luncheon. A cream sauce is an agreeable addition. Sauce — 1 
cup cream, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 of flour, salt and pepper to 
taste and a few grains of cayenne. Cream butter and flour and 
mix slowly with hot cream. Season and cook till the flour is 
well done. — Mrs. L. 




BOOTH'S 

Crescent Brand Sardines 



If you want a feast direct from King Neptune's table, try a can of 
this delicious sea-food. These dainty little fish are taken from the ocean, 
fresh, crisp and delicate and cooked the same day, by methods which 
the most fastidious house-wife will approve. Being larger than the 
European sardine, they can be used in a greater variety of ways. Below 
we mention a few ways in which they are served: 

FRIED SARDINES — Dip into beaten egg, roll in corn meal or crumbs 
and fry until nicely browned and crisp. Serve on slices of hot toast. 

SALAD — Break the sardines into pieces with a fork. Cut some crisp 
lettuce leaves, some celer.v stalks, small pickles and stuffed olives. Add 
enough mayonnaise dressing to make it creamy and toss the whole 
lightly together with a fork. Serve on lettuce leaves with mayonnaise 
and olives. 

A booklet containing forty recipes mailed upon application. 




MONTEREY PACKING CO. 

F. E. BOOTH, Sole Agent, 

San Francisco. 



33 



Baked Halibut — Ciean a piece of halibut weighing 2 or 3 
lbs; season with salt and pepper. Put some strips of salt pork 
in a dripping pan and fry brown; add a bit of bay leaf, a sliced 
onion. Place the fish in the pan and brown in the oven; then 
add a little water and bake one hour, basting the fish frequently. 
Serve with a creamed oyster sauce. Put a good sized piece of 
butter in a pan and thicken same with one cup of oyster juice 
and 1 cup of cream or milk. Season to taste with salt and cay- 
enne and lastly, add the oysters. Just before serving add a little 
nutmeg to the sauce. 

Baked Halibut — Put a few thin slices of onion in a baking 
dish. Lay fish on this; dot with butter, season with lemon 
juice and pour around ^/^ cup of white wine or chicken stock. 
Cook ^ hour, basting often. Serve with Hollandaise sauce and 
cucumbers if possible. 

Halibut a la Creme — One can tomatoes, 3 cloves, 1 teaspoon 
sugar, 2 teaspoons butter, 1 teaspoon flour, 2 lbs. halibut. Cook 
tomatoes and cloves about 20 minutes, melt butter, add flour 
and thicken the sauce, season with pepper and salt. Put halibut 
(skinned) in pan to bake with \^ the sauce, basting often; bake 
35 minutes. Serve with the remaining sauce poured over. 

Halibut or Codfish Ci*oquettes — Melt 3 tablespoons butter with 
5 tablespoons of flour; add 1 cup hot cream or milk; ^ cup fish 
stock, % teaspoon salt, dash of pepper and nutmeg, l^ tea- 
spoon onion juice, 1 teaspoon minced parsley, 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice and '^^ tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. Cook and 
add 2 cups of cold flaked fish. When cool shape in croquettes, 
roll in egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Halibut a la Rai-ebit — Sprinkle 2 small slices halibut with 
salt and pepper, brush over with melted butter. Place on greased 
fish sheet in dripping pan; bake 12 minutes. Serve with Welsh 
rarebit over it. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Fish Pie — Take 2 lbs. halibut and boil in salted water until 
tender; drain cool and break in small pieces. Then take one 
quart sweet milk; simmer with small sliced onion and piece of 
thyme; strain and thicken with 3 tablespoons butter and 3 of 
flour with salt to taste. Take baking pan, put in layer of fish, 
cover with cream mixture; repeat until all is used. Cover with 
bread crumbs, bits of butter and bake 20 minutes. This will 
eevYe 8 people. — Mrs. C. E. 

Fish Pie — Take 3 lbs. of white fish and boil in salted water 
until cooked, then shred it. For dressing take 1 quart of milk 
in which ha^s been boiled 3 onions cut up, a good sized bunch of 



34 



parsley, 1 nutmeg, 1 even tablespoon pepper, 1 tablespoon thyme, 
1 teaspoon salt. Tie up the pepper and thyme in a cloth when 
boiling. Then strain through a sifter. Take 3 tablespoonfuls 
flour, wet it and stir until smooth; then put into the strained hot 
milk. Add a good piece of butter and stir until it thickens — 
it wants to be quite thick. In a baking dish put a layer of 
dressing, then a layer of fish, a little chopped parsley, and so 
on until fish is used. On the top have a layer of dressing and 
bread crumbs and bake % of an hour. — Mrs. C. H. 

Fish Timbales — One cup cooked fish (cold), 2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 cup milk (hot), 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons flour, i/^ tea- 
spoon salt, V2 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon minced parsley, 
pinch of cayenne. Cream flour and butter; add hot milk, stir 
and cook to the boiling point; season. Add the fish which may 
have been eit^her boiled or broiled. Heat thoroughly and add the 
slightly beaten yolks of eggs. Take from fire and when cold 
stir in lightly the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Fill small 
molds, cups or ramequins, buttered, % full and set in a pan of 
hot water in the oven to bake 15 or 20 minutes. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Finnan Haddie — Soak the haddie 10 minutes in cold water. 
Lay in buttered pan, cover with thin cream and bread crumbs 
and bake in a hot oven till brown. 

Frienl Fillets of Halibut or Flounder — Clean fish and cut in 
long or short fillets. If cut long roll and fasten with wooden 
skewers. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in egg and crumbs, 
fry in deep fat and drain on brown paper. Serve with sauce 
tartare. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Rock Cod with L»emon Sauce — One large tablespoon butter, 
1 small onion, cut very thin. Cook tender without getting it brown; 
add water enough for gravy; season with salt and pepper. Put 
fish in and cook until tender. Remove body of fish and cook 
the head to shreds; then strain gravy through a hair sieve. Let 
it come to a boil; then add 4 eggs, well beaten and juice of 3 or 4 
lemons, removing from the stove and stirring the eggs in well. 
Put on stove again and allow to cook for a few minutes. When 
thickened, pour over fish in platter and garnish with parsley and 
slices of lemon. — H. M. K. 

Fricassee Oysters — Drain the liquor from 1 quart of oysters. 
Heat the liquor, thicken with corn starch; boil up once; add 
oysters (cook 3 minutes); off fire add juice l^ lemon, and add 
little nutmeg, butter size of an egg, salt, pepper. Stir in yelk 
of 1 egg last — L. E. N. 



35 



Oyster Cocktail — 100 California oysters for 6 people, 10 
tablespoons of the juice, 4 tablespoons tomato catsup. 1 tea- 
spoon Worcestershire sauce, 1 white pepper. 1 drop tobasco sauce, 
juice of 2 lemons, salt to taste. Mix and pour over the oysters, 
which must be very cold. Don't mix. 

Oyster Cocktail — (For each person.) One tablespoon lemon 
juice, V2 teaspoon vinegar, 8 drops tobasco sauce, V2 teaspoon 
horseradish, ^ teaspoon tomato catsup. Add 6 small California 
oysters and juice. — Mrs. M. A. L. 

Clam Cocktails in Green Pepper Cups — Cut off the ?tem end 
of as many small bell-shaped green peppers as there are persons 
to be served. Remove all the seeds. Put 3 or 4 small little-neck 
clams in each pepper and cover with a sauce made of % pint 
of tomato catsup, the juice of 1 large lemon, a tablespocnful of 
onion juice, 10 dashes of tobasco sauce, a teaspoorful of salt, a 
saltspoonful of black pepper, a teaspoonful of horseradish and 
a little finely chopped parsley. Set on ice until thoroughly 
chilled. Lay a lettuce leaf on each plate; stand the pepper on 
the leaf; put on the slice with the stem — the cover — and serve 
with dainty crackers. — Mrs. H. B. A. 

Salmon a I>a Pacific — Prepare 2 lbs. salmon by cutting into 
pieces 3 inches square and peppering it. Into the saucepan cut 
1 carrot, 1 onion, and pour over 1 cup of cold water; allow this 
to boil until the water becomes colored. Put in the fish and cook 
15 minutes. Then add 1 tablespoonful of butter and continue to 
cook 5 minutes. Add 1 sliced large lemon, 1 stick of cinnamon, 
few cloves, V2 cup vinegar; allow this to come to a boil; add 
enough sugar to sweeten. Have prepared in a mixing bowl a 
sauce made of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 3 of vinegar. Pour 
gravy from fish into this sauce, stirring it. Put fish on gar- 
nished platter, pour gravy back into the pot and allow it to be- 
come thoroughly heated, stirring all the time; pour gravy over 
the fish and serve cold. — Mrs. F. D. ^ 

Fillet de Sole — Take the strips of the boned sole, and season 
with salt and pepper, and other herbs if liked. Roll each strip 
up and tie with string or fasten with toothpicks. Boil in salted 
water 10 minutes. Sauce — Melt a full tablespoon of butter in a 
saucepan, stir in a smaller measure of flour and let simmer 3 
minutes, but do not brown; season with a few drops of onion 
juice if liked, salt and white pepper; pour in enough milk to 
make a cream sauce. When this boils up, put into it % cup of 
California oysters, pour over the fish rolls and serve. This may 
be served au grautin. Arrange the rolls in a baking dish, over 



36 



them pour part of the sauce, arrange the oysters on this, then the 
remainder of the sauce. Sprinkle grated cheese with bits of 
butter over all and set in the oven until a light brown. Be care- 
ful to lift out the rolls separately. — E. L, B. 

Salmon Saute — Cut 1 Vz lbs, of salmon in pieces 1 inch 
square. Put pieces in a pan with Vz cup water, little salt, little 
white pepper, 1 clove, 1 blade of mace, 3 pieces sugar, 1 heap- 
ing teaspoonful mustard mixed smoothly with ^ teacupful vine- 
gar. Let this boil up once and add 6 tomatoes peeled and cut 
into tiny pieces, a few sprigs parsley minced, with 1 wineglassful 
sherry; let simmer gently % hour. — Mrs. F. D. 

Grilled Sardines — Drain sardines and cook in chafing-dish 
till heated, turning often. Place on dry toast and serve with 
lemon butter; ^ cup butter, 1 tablespoon lemon juice; cream 
butter and add lemon juice slowly. 

Shrimps a la Newberg — One pint shrimps opened and cooked 
3 minutes in 2 tablespoons of butter. Add % teaspoon satt, 
dash of cayenne, 1 teaspoon lemon juice; cook 1 minute. Re- 
move shrimps, and add to sauce 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon 
flour and Vz cup of cream. When thickened add yolks of 2 eggs 
slightly beaten, the shrimps and 2 tablespoons sherry. Serve 
with toast. 

Smelts a la Meunier — Clean 6 selected smelts and cut 5 diag- 
onal gashes on each side. Season with salt and pepper and lemon 
juice, cover and stand 10 minutes; roll in cream, dip in flour 
and saute in butter, place on platter. To butter in frying pan 
add 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup white stock, 1% teaspoons an- 
chovy essence and few drops lemon juice. Lastly add 1^4 tables- 
poons butter, 1 teaspoon minced parsley and pour around smelts. 

Baked Smelts — Clean smelts, wipe and lay in baking dish. 
Pour over them a wine glass of white wine. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and add V2 dozen whole mushrooms — Mrs. Cornell. 

Fish Souffle — One cup of cooked fish picked up fine, 2 cups 
of mashed potato, 1 cup of milk, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 generous 
tablespoonful of butter. Mix the fish and potato thoroughly, add 
the butter, salt and pepper to taste, the hot milk, then the 
beaten eggs. Bake 10 or 15 minutes. — Mrs. J. C. 

Boiled Fish, Tjemon Sauce — Two lbs. salmon, 1 quart water, 
2 lemons, 1 onion, yolks of 3 eggs, 1 small rutabaga, 1 table- 
spoon salt, 3 bay leaves, 3 tablespoons sugar, dash of pepper. 



37 



Cut onion and rutabaga in slices and boil in water 15 minutes. 
Add the fish; when it boils skim carefully; then add sugar, salt, 
pepper, bay leaves, juice of 1 lemon and other cut in slices, re- 
moving seeds; boil ^ hour. Put fish in deep platter, strain the 
liquor and pour slowly on the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs; re- 
turn to stove and when thickened pour over fish. Oarnish with 
parsley and slices of lemon. Serve cold. — Mrs. J. McC. 

Salnion Cups — Flake and bone cold boiled salmon; put in 
custard cups about % full. Make a custard of 2 cups scalded 
milk, yolks of 3 eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Pour this on 
the fish and bake till set. Turn out and serve with Holland- 
aise sauce. 

Salmon Croquettes — Two lbs. cold flaked salmon, mixed with 1 
cup thick white sauce seasoned with pepper, salt, lemon juice 
and a little minced parsley. When cold shape, roll in 
egg and crumbs, fry in deep fat, drain and serve with a garnish 
of parsley. 

Lobster a la Xewberg — One large lobster, 1 tablespoon butter, 
1 gill of wine (sherry), 3 egg yolks, % pint cream, salt and 
pepper to taste. Cut lobster in small pieces not chopped fine; 
put in chafing-dish with butter, a little salt and pepper and the 
wine; cook 10 minutes; then add beaten yolks of the eggs and 
the cream. Let come to the boiling point and serve immedi- 
ately. — Mrs. W. 

Steam Fish — Place tail of fish in its mouth and secure. Lay 
on a plate and pour over it ^ pint vinegar; season with pepper 
and salt. Let it stand an hour in the refrigerator; pour off the 
vinegar, put in steamer over boiling water, steam 20 minutes 
or longer if the fish is very large. Drain well and serve with 
drawn butter. — Mrs. F. Dalton. 

Trout — Dip in flour, fry them in butter till a rich brown. 
Fry some green parsley crisp and melt some plain butter, put 
in one teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and one glass of 
white wine. — Mrs. F. D. 

Baked Stuffed Codfish — Split codflsh and bone. Fill with 
meat made by mincing to a paste 1 lb. raw fish mixed with 1 
finely chopped onion; season with salt and pepper and moisten 
with 1 cup cream which has been brought to a boil and thick- 
ened with 2 eggs. — Mrs. C, 

Codfish Delmonico — Split and bone a small cod. Put in a 
■outtered baking pan, spread skin down, coat it with melted 



3S 



butter, sprinkle with salt, pepper, juice of 1 lemon, 1 table- 
spoon chopped parsley, 1 of chopped onion; sprinkle with fine 
bread crumbs and bake till crumbs are brown. Serve on platter 
garnished with lemon. — Mrs. C. 

Baked Cgdlish — Clean 4 lbs. cod, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, brush over with lemon juice; stuff with 1 cup cracker 
crumbs, i/4 cup melted butter, l^ teaspoon of salt, y^ teaspoon 
pepper, Vz teaspoon lemon juice. Serve with cream sauce. — Mrs. C. 

Eel Stifle — Cut eels which have been skinned in 24nch 
pieces. Try out salt pork in deep pan. Lay in a layei of eels, 
one of sliced onion, one of raw sliced potato; salt and pepper each 
layer. Cover with a little water and simmer till potatoes are 
done. — Mrs. C. 

Tenderloin of Sole Spanish Style — Four ripe tomatoes or ^/^ 
can, 2 onions fried brown, 2 chili peppers chopped fine, i/^ lb. 
salt pork cut into scraps and fry; pinch of salt. Boil all together 
until tender, then thicken with teaspoonful cornstarch and set 
aside to simmer while preparing sole. Put ^/^ teaspoonful best 
oil in frying pan, which must be hot, then roll fish in corn meal 
and fry. Put fish in center of dish and pour sauce over it. — Mrs. 
F. D. 

Tenderloin of Trout or Any Other Fish — Three lbs. of boned 
fish, 1 cup milk, 1 cup mayonnaise, Vz teaspoon chopped parsley, 
1 tablespoon capers, i/4 teaspoon grated onion, i/^ cup flour. 

Salt and pepper fish, dip in milk, then in flour and fry. Serve 
with sauce made of mayonnaise, capers and parsley and onion. — 
Mrs. B. 

Turbot — Three lbs. turbot or white fish; boil until done; pick 
and season with salt and pepper. Cook 1 quart milk with 3 
slices onion, ^4 cup butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 eggs and cook 
until it thickens; take onion out and put away to cool. When 
ready put layer of fish into dish and cover with dressing. Repeat 
until dish is full; dust with cracker crumbs and bake twenty 
minutes. — E. A. B. 

Fish Balls — Two lbs. salmon or halibut, 2 heaping table- 
spoons soaked bread, 1 tablespoon chopped walnuts, 1 table- 
spoon each grated onion and chopped celery, 2 raw eggs, 2 hard 
boiled eggs chopped fine, butter size of egg, salt and pepper to 
taste, pinch of sugar, parsley. Chop fish very fine after remov- 
ing bones and add all ingredients; roll into balls and serve on 
lettuce leaves with the following: 



39 



Egg Sauee for Fish Balls — Slice a small onion, carrot and 
piece of parsnip in 1 quart water and boil 15 minutes. Drop fish 
balls and cook \^ hour; remove fish balls and strain. Pour the 
liquor slowly into 3 well beaten yolks; return to stove; stir till 
thick. When cold add 2 hard boiled eggs chopped fine. — Mrs. 
J. McC. 

Striped Bass — Bone 2 or 2 lbs. of bass; steam, being careful 
to preserve the shape of the fish. Then remove the skin, pre- 
pare a cream sauce and add 1 cup of picked shrimps, 150 Cali- 
fornia oysters. Place fish in deep platter and pour over it the 
sauce. Garnish with oysters and shrtmps. — Mrs. F. D. 



40 



MEMORANDA 



41 



ENTREES 

Swedish Timbales — One teaspoon sugar, ^ teaspoon salt, 1 
cup milk, 2 eggs, 1 cup flour. Beat eggs slightly with sugar and 
salt. Add cold milk. Dip timbale iron in hot fat, then in 
batter. Fry in deep fat. — A. L. B. 

Angels on Horseback — Mix in saucer a little lemon juice, 
cayenne, essence of anchovy; then dip in mixture nice Eastern 
oysters and roll each one in thin slice of bacon. Put these so 
prepared oysters on a skewer and fry them in clarified butter. 
Place each oyster on a piece of fresh made toast and serve 
very hot. — Chef of Occidental Hotel, S. F. 

Stuffed Artichokes (Entree) — Boil till tender, remove center, 
lea\'ing enough of outside to form a cup. Slice the tender part 
of 6 artichokes, chop 2 hard boiled eggs, mix with sliced arti- 
chokes, make thick white sauce. Pour over egg and artichoke. 
Fill artichoke cups, bake 10 minutes, pour over drawn butter 
sauce. Serve in ramequins. — A. L. B. 

Brains a la Newberg — Take 6 brains. Soak in cold water 
(salted). Skin them and put them in water and boil until done, 
but not too soft. When cold cut in small pieces. 1 tablespoon 
butter, 1 tablespoon flour. Put on stove in pan and blend. Then 
pour in 1 cup of the water the brains were boiled in and 1 cup 
milk. Both must be hot when added to the butter mixture. 
Cream Sauce: One cup cream. Add salt, pepper and Worcester- 
shire sauce and 1 tablespoon Snider's Cocktail sauce. Can 
mushrooms, chopped and fried brown in butter. Add the brains 
and mushrooms to cream sauce and serve on toast. 

Chanteeler Entree — One can tomatoes, cooked and strained. 
Thicken with drawn butter. 1 can mushrooms, veal loaf, chopped 
in large squares, celery salt, kitchen bouquet, paprika. Pour the 
contents of the tomato can over the meat; add to this the mush- 
rooms and seasoning as given. Serve for chafing-dish order in 
ramequins. — N. H. M. 

Creamed Chicken — Boil a 4-lb. chicken until very tender, 
set aside in the liquor to cool. When cold cut in small pieces. 
In the meanwhile or when ready to serve, put in a double boiler 



42 



5 tablespoonfuls of flour and 4 of butter and stir together. 
Slowly add, stirring all the time, 1 quart of cream (part milk 
may be used). Season with salt, pepper, a dash of cayenne 
pepper, a dash of nutmeg and a little sherry wine. Into this 
stir the chicken, and one can of mushrooms cut in half and pre- 
viously fried in butter. Heat thoroughly and serve in patty 
cases. — Mrs. L, A. B. 

Chicken and Oysters a la Metropole — One-fourth cup butter, 
1^ cup flour, Vz teaspoon salt, Vs teaspoon pepper, 2 cups cream. 
Of these ingredients make a cream sauce to which add 2 cups 
of cold chicken cut in dice, 1 pint of oysters (cleaned and 
drained). Cook until oysters are plump and serve sprinkled 
with Vs cup finely chopped celery. 

Chicken Souffle — To a pint of cold chicken chopped fine, add 
1 teaspoon salt, l^ saltpoon pepper and a tablespoon of chopped 
parsley. Cream 1 tablespoon butter and 1 of flour and add V2 
pint of milk and stir until boiling. Add this to the chicken 
and then stir in carefully the well beaten whites of 4 eggs. Turn 
into a baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 15 minutes. — 
Mrs. H. L. S. 

Crab Chops — Two cups crab meat, 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 cup of milk, 
yolks of 2 eggs. Make white sauce of flour and butter. Gradu- 
ally stir in milk. Add crab meat, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg 
and egg. Turn on a platter, spread thin, let it cool, shape into 
chops, roll in crumbs. Try in deep hot fat. — Mrs. L. A. B. 

Baked Creamed Crab — The meat from 2 large crabs, 2 soda 
crackers rolled fine, 2 cups of thin cream, teaspoon salt, pepper 
and paprika to taste. Bake in slow over until set. Boiled fish 
is also good prepared in this manner. — M. V. W. 

Crab Creole (in Ramequinfe) — One crab, 1 large onion, V2 
can tomatoes, 1 chilli pepper or pinch cayenne, 1 tablespoon 
water, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, V2 cup cream, piece butter size 
of walnut, salt. Cut up onion and chilli pepper. Put in pan 
with tablespoon water. Boil briskly for 15 minutes. Add 
tomatoes. Boil until soft. Strain mixture. Put liquid back on 
stove, adding butter, salt and pepper and thicken with corn- 
starch made smooth in water. When smooth add shredded crab 
and cream. Serve hot on toast. — B. B. 

Deviled Crab — Shred the meat of 1 small crab, V2 cup bread 
crumbs, 1 hard boiled egg minced fine. Mix above ingredients 
and season with V2 tablespoon of melted butter, V4, teaspoon 



43 



pepper, ^^ teaspoon salt, % cup milk, a pinch of mustard. Mix 
all together^^and put into shells. Sprinkle dry bread crumbs on 
top and bake quickly 20 minutes. Serve hot on the shells with 
a slice of lemon. — Mrs. G. F. 

Entree of Giblets — Cook thoroughly hearts, livers and giz- 
zards of several chickens. Chop rather fine. Thicken the 
liquor. Season highly, adding a few drops of Hayard's burnt 
onion juice, lemon juice, some chopped mushrooms and a little 
of the liquor, as well as sherry, the quantities depending on the 
quantity of giblets. Put all into buttered ramequins or indi- 
vidual baking dishes. Put bread crumbs and bits of butter on 
top and bake for 5 or 10 minutes. Chopped veal may be added 
to the giblets to increase the quantity. — E. L. U. 

Herring a la Terrapin — Wash and clean 2 Holland milch 
herring. Soak over night in clear cold water. Then put the 
meat of the herring in a chopping bowl, a medium sized onion, 
an apple, a thick slice of soaked bread and a hard boiled egg. 
Chop all together until very fine. Then beat the milch until 
smooth. Add 2 tablespoonsful good vinegar and sprinkle with 
pepper. Throw this over the herring and mix well. Lay on a 
platter and put on top layers of round thin sliced hard boiled 
egg, with a few leaves of celery and red radishes. — Mrs. F. D. 

Entree la Medley — Two pairs sweet breads, 1 pair brains, 1 
cup mushrooms, 1 lemon, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon truflfle 
peeling, V2 tablespoon parsley, 2 tablespoons butter, '%, tea- 
spoon cayenne, 1 ^ cup milk and cream. Soak breads and brains 
in salt water, clean, boil with lemon juice salt and pepper, chop 
fine with mushrooms. Make sauce by boiling milk or cream, 
butter, parsley and flour, then stir in breads and brains and 
truffles. Fill patties. — Mrs. B. 

Creamed Oysters — Melt a lump of butter the size of a walnut 
in a sauce pan. Stir into it 1 tablespoon of flour. Let this cook, 
but not brown. Then add 1 large cup of cream, a dash of 
cayenne, salt, and a little Worcestershire Sauce. This is for 
3 dozen large oysters or 100 small California. Add oysters to 
well cooked cream and as much of the oyster juice as judgment 
and taste dictate. A few drops of lemon juice may be added 
at the last. The oysters should not be added to the cream 
mixture until just ready to serve. Fill patties or serve on toast. 
— C. L. B. 

Entree of Oysters — Take V2 pint of milk and ^ pint of 
oyster juice, boil together, then take butter the size of an egg 
and 2 heaping tablespoons flour. Whip to a cream. When the 
milk is boiling add to the butter and flour slowly. Add about 
1^^ dozen Eastern oysters. When done fill patty shells and 
serve. — Mrs. F. D. 



RADKC & COMPANY'S 
Suggestion Page 

Established in California 1867—219-223 Post St. 

Diamonds, Jewelry, Silverware and Gut Glass 

Latest Novelties in Suitable Gifts for Christmas and Anni- 
versaries Suggested in the Following List 

For ladies and Misses 



TOILET SILVER SILVER NOVELTIES 



Hand Mirrors 

Hair Brushes 

Cloth Brushes 

Velvet Brushes 

Bonnet Brushes 

Whisk Brooms 

Combs 

Powder Boxes 

Cold Cream Jars 

Rouge Jars 

Pin Cushions 

Jawel Boxes 

Cologne Bottles 

Tooth Powder Bottles 

Tooth Brush Bottles 

Smelling Salts Bottles 

Nail Polishers 

Nail Brushes 

Nail Files 

Nail Scissors 

Cuticle Scissors 

Cuticle Knives 

Tweezers 

Shoe Horns 

Shoe Hooks 

Curling Tongs 

Glove Stretchers 



Mesh Bags 

Mesh Purses 

Card Cases 

Vanity Cases 

Chatelaines 

(CombinaitODs) 

Lorgnettes 

Memo Tablets 

Coin Holders 

Lip Salve Tubes 

Lead Pencils 

Photograph Frames 

Hat Pin Holders 

Eye Glass Cases 

Bonbon Boxes 

Belt Buckles 

Bridge Sets 

Traveling Cups 

Flasks 

Violet Pins 

Veil Pins 

Lorgnette Chains 

Pocket Photo Cases 

Silver Lockets 

Lavalliers 

Tablets and Pencils 

Thermometers 



TABLE SILVER 

Teaspoons 
Soup Spoons 
Bouillon Spoons 
A. D. Coffee Spoons 
Orange Spoons 
Salt Spoons 
Sherbet Spoons 
Kerry Spoons 
Berry Spoons 
Preserve Spoons 
Jelly Spoons 
Pea Spoons 
Ice Spoons 
Bonbon Spoons 
Olive Spoons 
Salad Sets 
Fish Sets 
Pie Servers 
Cake Servers 
Asparagus Servers 
Tomato Servers 
Cucumber Servers 
Oyster Forks 
Salad Forks 
Pastry Forks 
Fish Forks 
Dessert Forks 



GOLD AND 
DIAMOND JEWELRY 
Lavalliers 
Brooches 
Bar Pins 
Necklaces 
Beauty Pins 
Barrettes 
Back Combs 
Buckles 
Bracelets 
Lockets 
Lorgnettes 
Pendants 
Lace Pins 
Hat Pins 
Veil Pins 

Collarettes f 

Shirt Waist Rings 
Rosaries 
Crucifixes 
Crosses 
Neck Chains 
Amethyst Bead 
Necklaces 

Coral Bead Necklaca. 
Topaz Bead Necklace. 
Lapis Bead Necklaces 



TRAVELING ARTICLES 



BABY GIFTS 



Traveling Colognes 
Tooth Brush Bottles 
Tooth Powder Bottles 
Talcum Boxes 
Soap Boxes 
Salts Bottles 
Scissors Sets 
Sewing Cases 
Jewel Cases 



Collapsible Cups 
Bodkin Sets 
Thin Cloth Brushes 
Thin Velvet Brushes 
Thin Hair Brushes 
Thin Combs 
P'lasks 

Traveling Clocks 
Hair Pin Boxes 



Mush Sets 
Feeding Spoons 
Bib Holders 
Rattles 
Silver Cups 
Dress Pins 
Hair Brushes 
Napkin Rings 
Dress Buttons 



Combs 

Gold Feeding Spoons 

Photo Frames 

Neckchains 

Lockets 

Rings 

Birth Month Spoons 

Stork Spoons 

Pap Spoons 



COMPLETE DESK SETS 



COMPLETE SEWING SETS 



Gifts for Men and Boys 



SILVER NOVELTIES 



GOLD JEWELRY 



Cravat Holders 
Cigar Cutters 
Pocket Knives 
Pocket Pencils 
Pocket Scissors 
Pocket Match Safes 
Pocket Cigarette Cases 
Pocket Card Cases 
Pocket Cigar Cases 
Pocket Stamp Cases 
Key RinRS 
Key CbaiDS 



Pocket Electric Lights 
Briar Wood Pipes 
Pipe Cleaners 
Automobile Match 

Boxes 
Fraternity Card Cases 
Smokers' Sets 
Cigar Jars 
Tobacco Jars 
Pocket Fruit Knives 
Cigarette Paper Cases 
Reading Glasses 



Full Dress Studs 
Full Dress Cuff Button 
Scarf Pins 
Watch Fobs 
Watch Chains 
Double Watch Chains 
Platinum Watch Chains 
Collar Buttons 
Outing Sleeve Links 
Outing Shirt Buttons 
Watch Chain Charms 
Masonic Charms 



Fraternity Charms 
sLapel Buttons 
Lapel Watch Chains 
Monogram Fobs 
Signet Rings 
Signet Watch Fobp 
Cravat Holders 
American Watches 
Thin Model Watches 
Cigar Cutters 
Match Safes 
Cigarette Case* 



COMPLETE TOILET SETS FOR MEN AND BOYS 



45 



Rechauffe Fish — Make a sauce of 2 teaspoons butter and 
flour, V2 cup cream and stock mixed. Season well, add pint 
chopped cooked fish and yolk of 1 egg. Turn into buttered 
paper cases and bake. Sift hard yolk of egg on top and white 
cut in rings. Celery plume in middle of each. — Mrs. J. Ellison. 

Tongue and Prunes — Scrape well and wash as many tongues 
as needed and boil slowly with soup greens until the skins are 
ready to come off. Strain stock, peel and split tongues and re- 
turn to stock with spices and bay leaf to suit taste, sugar and 
vinegar and prunes and cook until tender. Thicken with 3 or 4 
ginger snaps rolled fine, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 1 or 2 bay leaves.— Mrs. W. M. 

Salmon Timbales — One lb. cooked salmon, skinned, boned 
and chopped fine. Mix with ^ cup soft bread crumbs, 1 table- 
spoon of butter, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, a little cayenne and 
salt, and moisten with 4 beaten eggs. Pack closely in small 
buttered cups or pans set in hot water in a baking pan and bake 
30 minutes. Turn out and serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

Cream Shrimps — One tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour, 
1 cup of milk, 1/^ cup strained tomatoes, 1 pint of shrimps, salt, 
nutmeg, pepper. — S. J. P. 

Shrimp a la Maryland — Two cups of shrimps, 2 cups milk, 
1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons butter, a suggestion 
of nutmeg. Melt butter, add flour, then hot milk. Pour 
over shrimps. Toast crackers, pour shrimps with sauce over 
crackers. Place in hot oven 5 minutes. 

Southern Entree — One large chicken, ^ pint stock, ^ cup 
butter, 1 pint cream, 8 sliced truflles, 1^ pint mushrooms, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 of minced parsley, ^ onion juice, 1 and % table- 
spoon flour, 1 wine glass sherry, 1 coffeespoon cayenne pepper. 
Boil chicken until tender. Cut in pieces 1 inch in size. Add 
onion, salt, pepper. Boil cream and stock, thicken with flour 
and butter, sliced mushrooms and truflles. Cook 5 minutes. 
Then add chicken and parsley. When cold add sherry. Put in 
shells, cover with crumbs and pieces of butter. Bake a few 
minutes. — Mrs. B. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms in Fontage Cups — Two cups 
cooked sweetbreads, 2 tablespoons butter, ^ cup mushrooms, 
3 tablespoons flour, 1 tablespoon oil, % cup cream, ^ tablespoon 
vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne. Melt butter; add flour, season- 
ing and cream; codk 5 minutes. Cover sweetbreads and mush- 
rooms with oil and vinegar and let stand 20 minutes. Drain; add 
to sauce. Reheat and serve in fontage cups. — H. B. F. 



46 



MEMORANDA 



47 



POULTRY AND GAME 

A Delicate Way to Cook Young Chickens — Prepare a baking 
pan by putting little pieces of butter or good drippings in it; 
then cut up young chickens as for frying and put them closely 
together in the pan. Have ready a little flour, pepper and salt 
mixed and rub this on the top and afterwards small bits of 
butter; then carefully just at the last moment put a little water 
at the sides so as not to touch the flour. If the water becomes 
absorbed you can add a little more. Chickens require about Mi 
an hour to bake or more, according to size. Make a cream gravy 
after the chickens have been taken out of the pan. Make some 
dainty biscuit and put them around a platter; then lay the pieces 
of chicken in center and serve with the cream gravy. — 
Mrs. J. McC. 

Baked Young Chicken — Clean, remove fat and cut in quar- 
ters; put in frying pan with lots of butter; season with a little 
pepper and salt; place in oven, covered with a deep pan and let 
cook 1 hour. Older chickens may be cooked in this manner, 
but must be parboiled or steamed first. 

Baked Chicken — Butter a baking dish, add 1 can corn, seas- 
oned with salt and pepper and butter; add 1 can chicken well 
minced; season also. Cover with bread crumbs and bake in oven 
about 20 minutes. — I. L. P. 

Baked Ci-eain Chicken — Boil a chicken in just enough . hot 
water to cover until tender enough to slip easily from the bones; 
when cool remove from the bones. In a buttered pudding dish 
place a layer of chicken, then a layer of French mushrooms, then 
chicken and next a layer of hard boiled eggs. Alternate until the 
dish is almost full, seasoning each layer with butter, pepper and 
salt. Put a heaping teaspoonful of butter in a saucepan on the 
stove. As it melts stir in slowly 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; add 
a pint of cream and ^^ pint of the chicken broth. Cook until 
very thick. Pour over the chicken and bake ^^ hour. — Mrs. F. D. 

Chicken Loaf — Boil a fowl till meat and bones separate; 
strain and put liquor in saucepan; reduce to 1^^ pints; add V4, 
box soaked gelatine; fill mold with alternate layers of white and 



48 



dark meat; season the liquor and pour over the meat; set away 
to harden when it will become a jelly. 

Chicken Pie — Two chickens cut in small pieces and parboiled 
V2 hour. Have sufficient water (3 pints) for plenty of gravy; 
season this with pepper, salt, i/^ teaspoon mace and about ^ 
pound of butter; boil this to season chicken % hour longer. 
Make a rich pastry to line sides of dish; place a cup in center to 
prevent the gravy from boiling out; place the chicken around it; 
pour over the gravy thickened with a great spoonful of flour; 
drop over this 4 raw eggs; cover with upper crust gashed to let 
out gas and bake i/^ hour. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Galaiitiua — Dress a large, fat hen (a young chicken is not 
good); lay the fowl breast down and beginning at the back, cut 
the skin at the neck, pulling the skin and flesh, leaving the bones 
all in one piece; keep cutting the meat from the bones without 
cutting it into pieces, so you can stuff it. You must have it whole 
without any bones and only cut on the back. Make the stuffing 
with yolks of 4 eggs, 1 glass sherry wine, 2 cupfuls sausage meat, 
salt, pepper and a little mace, nutmeg, a little sage. Then begin 
and put in a layer of the stuffing, then some strips of fat pork 
(fresh) cut in squares and in each square a slice of a truffle. 
Repeat until the chicken is completely filled. Now sew up the 
opening and wrap a napkin around it and sew so as not to separ- 
ate from the chicken. Put into a kettle 2 calves' feet, the bones 
of the chicken and on top of these the stuffed chicken wrapped 
up. Salt the water and boil for 3 or 4 hours to insure proper 
cooking of the stuffing, enough of the water to cover all. When 
cooked remove the napkin, now put a glass of sherry with the 
calves' feet, break a fresh egg into it, still all together and strain 
through a fine strainer and when the gelatine sets place around 
the chicken on a plate. Gelatine is best eaten cold, but can be 
relished either warm or cold. P. S. — A little garlic should be 
put into the dressing. — Mrs. F. D. 

Old-fashioned English Chicken Pie — Cover chicken (cut in 
pieces for serving) with boiling water; add 2 sprigs of thyme, 1 
sprig of marjoram, bit of bay leaf, 2 sprigs parsely, tied in a bag; 
simmer gently until tender. One-half hour before chicken is 
done, add V2 pound bacon cut in small pieces. Arrange on the 
bottom of baking dish slices of hard cooked eggs; cover with 
sauted mushrooms; then a layer of chicken meat and continue 
until dish is filled; add 3 cups of sauce made from the liquor in 
the pan and thickened with 2 tablespoons butter and 4 table- 
spoons flour cooked together; reheat in oven and garnish with 
pastry points cut in shape of triangles and parsley and serve. — 
H. B. I. 



49 



Spring Chicken a la Yenor — Dress, wash and dry 3 half grown 
chickens; c'ut in half and thoroughly rub over, inside and outwith a 
clove of garlic and then salt and pepper; dredge with flour and 
fry in olive oil. The oil must be sufficient in quantity to sub- 
merge the chicken. When brown arrange on platter and pour 
over the following sauce: Put 3 heaping tablespoonfuls of butter 
in small frying pan and cook slowly until a rich brown; then add 
the strained juice of 1 lemon; let all boil for % a second and 
pour over the chicken, which has been sprinkled with chopped 
parsley. Delicious. 

Poularde Renaissance — Take the breast of a good fat pullet, 
add 2 or 3 foies gras (or goose livers or giblets) according to 
their size, and 2 pounds of truffles (or mushrooms) trimmed. 
Season well, and let it simmer for some hours. Prepare a good 
chicken stuffing, and put a part of it in the inside of the fowl. 
The rest of the stuffing mix with the truffles and the foies gras 
and then fill up the fowl with it. Bind the fowl up, put lard 
on it, and prepare a rather firm pastry with water. Cover the 
fowl with it and take great care that it is completely enclosed; 
that no air can get through. Then put it in a very hot oven for 
1 hour and Vz. When done take the fowl out of the pastry, 
take off the lard, and put it on a rice foundation. Put round 
it quantities of truffles, mushrooms, sweetbread of lamb, and 
cretes volaille Villeroy (cock's comb). Have ready a good sauce 
made with the remnants of the truffles and fresh mushrooms, 
and finish with a little cream. Cut the breast of the pullet across 
in escalopes. Put a little of the sauce over the fowl, and send 
the rest of it to the table in a sauceboat. 

Poulet au Riz — Put into a frying pan a piece of butter size 
of 1 egg. When quite hot put in pieces of chicken dried and 
dredged with flour. Brown slightly, turning from time to time; 
soon as pieces are cooked put in stew pan; cut up a good sized 
onion, clove of garlic, few parsley leaves, celery, pinch of thyme, 
1 bay leaf, 1 clove, 1 dry pepper-corn. Fry all until onion is 
brown; add 1 quart clear soup and cook slowly ^ hour; strain 
and rub through fine sieve; add the liquid to the chicken in stew 
pan and cook slowly until tender. Chicken must be tightly cov- 
ered while cooking. To be served with rice. — L. E. N. 

Canvasback Duck — This bird requires no spices or flavors 
to make it perfect, as the meat partakes of the flavor of the food 
the bird feeds upon, being mostly wild celery and the flavor is 
best preserved when roasted quickly with a hot fire. After 
dressing the duck in the usual way by plucking, singeing, draw- 
ing, wipe it with a wet towel; truss the head under the wing; 
place it in a dripping pan, put it in the oven, basting often and 



50 



roast it y^. an hour. It is generally preferred a little underdone. 
Place it when done on a hot dish; season well with salt and 
pepper; pour over it the gravy it has yielded in baking and serve 
it immediately while hot. — L. M. M. 

Rabbit Stew (German style) — Clean and joint a young rabbit. 
Place in a deep dish and cover with vinegar; allow to stand 36 
hours; drain vinegar and dip pieces in flour and brown in butter; 
place in saucepan.. Cover well with boiling water and cook 
for about 2 hours or until meat is tender; add 1 large onion, 
which has been minced, also 4 slices of fried bacon cut in small 
strips; salt to taste. Season with 2 bay leaves, 6 cloves, 6 
pepper-corns, 2 tablespoonfuls sugar; add either i/^ glass sherry 
wine or vinegar and thicken gravy with browned flour, diluted 
with water. Serve on a large platter surrounded with potato 
dumplings. — M. V. B. 

Belgian Hai-e a la Maryland — Cut the hare in pieces for serv- 
ing, after wiping with clean, damp cloth. Dip first each piece in 
flour; then in beaten egg, seasoned with pepper and salt only; 
finally dip in sifted bread crumbs. Butter a roasting pan and 
bake the hare 4 5 minutes in good oven, basting every few 
minutes after the first 15, with y^. cup butter melted in ^ cup 
water. Serve with cream sauce and bread toasted and cut in 
fancy shapes or plain. 

Roast Turkey — Select a young turkey, remove feathers care- 
fully, singe and draw it, removing the crop carefully; cut off the 
head and tie the neck close to the body by drawing the skin 
over it; rinse the inside with several waters, and in next to the 
last mix a teaspoon of baking soda. After washing, wipe the 
turkey dry inside and out with a clean cloth, rubbing the inside 
with some salt. Then stuff with "dressing for fowls". Sew up 
with a strong thread, tie legs and wings to the body, rub it over 
with a soft butter, season with salt and pepper and dredge with 
a little flour. Place it in a dripping pan; pour in a cup of boil- 
ing water and set in oven; baste often, turning it around oc- 
casionally so that every part will be uniformly baked. When 
pierced with a fork and the liquid runs out clear, the bird is done. 
A 15 pound turkey requires 3 and 4 hours to bake. Serve with 
cranberry sauce. 

Turkey Gravy — When you put the turkey in to roast put the 
giblets into a stew pan with a pint of water; boil until they 
become tender,, adding water from time to time; remove from 
liquor, chop, then return to liquor and set aside until turkey is 
done. Skim fat from surface of dripping pan; thicken with 
flour; add liquor from giblets and enough boiling water to make 
sufficient quantity; then season and add chopped giblets. 



51 



Wild Duck — Prepare the duck for the oven over night by 
rubbing inside and outside with % clove of garlic chopped fine; 
pepper and salt. When ready to bake, stuff with dry bread, 
pepper, salt, parsley, celery, onion and 1 egg; place a little beef 
drippings on, basting often for 1 hour. Take the long neck and 
skin it whole; make a similar stuffing with addition of a little 
flour; fill the skin and tie at both ends with a piece of cotton; 
put it in a saucepan with 1 quart of water, neck, liver, heart and 
gizzard. After the duck is done take brown gravy, thicken it and 
add to saucepan. — S. S. 



52 



MEMORANDA 



53 



MEAT 

MEAT HINTS. 

When browning a pot roast add a tablespoonful of sugar to 
the fat. It produces a beautiful brown and delicious flavor. 

After cTiops are fri-ed pour about ^ cup of catsup or chut- 
ney into the hot drippings; let boil up until thoroughly mixed and 
beginning to darken in color; into this pour l^ cup of milk; 
stir until it thickens, but do not let it boil; pour over the hot 
chops and serve. 

When serving French chops with green peas, fry the chops 
in butter and arrange about the edge of the chop plate; turn the 
cooked peas into the hot pan in which the chops were fried; 
stir until the browned butter has been well taken up; then pour in 
a mound shape in the center of the chop plate. The small canned 
peas are delicious served this way. 

Instead of frying fish, broilers and veal cutlets breaded, 
place in a baking pan well larded with drippings; place a gen- 
erous supply of drippings on the top and bake in quick oven, 
basting frequently. Serve on hot platter; sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and pour melted butter over. 

In frying steak or chops let the pan get very hot before 
putting in the butter or drippings; spread the grease over the 
bottom of the pan quickly and have the meat ready to put right 
in. You can get the pan hotter and have less smoke than by 
putting the grease into the cold pan. 

Do not stick a fork into meat that is frying, or otherwise 
cooking. Put the fork under, or into the fibrous part to turn. 

Allow chops or steak to cook thoroughly on one side before 
turning. Move them about in the pan, but do not turn until 
a grey appearancB shows that the cooking process has reached 
up around the edges. 

Try putting a tablespoonful of milk instead of water into the 
pan after the steak is fried; let it boil up once and pour over 
the hot steak. 

For thickened meat gravy, or sauces, try mixing the salt and 
^pper with the dry flour in a cup before moistening. This will 
prevent lumping. Do not put too much water in at first; make 
a thick paste without lumps and you can thin it to pour as de- 
sired. 



54 



Albuiidigas (Monterey Spanish dish) — Twenty-five cents worth 
Hamburg steak, % cup germea. Season with salt, pepper, 
thyme and summer savory. Mix together into balls not too 
large; fry 3 onions cut fine, 2 cloves of garlic and some parsley; 
add to some meat soup stock (water can be used); when well 
cooked drop in meat balls and cook 1 hour. Heat V2 can to- 
matoes and add the last thing. Season with 2 tablespoons of 
catsup and 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce. Use liquor for 
soup; reserve just enough for sauce; thicken with cornstarch 
and pour over balls before serving. — Mrs. L. A. B. 

A Supper Dish — To each pint of fine chopped cold meat, 
add % cup of milk, 1 egg, V4, cup dried bread crumbs, 2 table- 
spoons of butter, i/^ a teaspoon each of salt and pepper. Put 
milk in sauce pan; add bread crumbs; cook until smooth; take 
from fire; add butter and egg (well beaten); add seasoning; 
then mix thoroughly and add meat to the bread mixture. Put 
in greased custard cups; stand in shallow pan of hot water; 
bake in oven about 25 minutes. While these are baking open a 
can of green peas; flavor with salt, pepper and small piece of 
butter; thicken with a little flour and cook. Take meat out 
of oven; put on a large platter; pour peas over and garnish. — • 
Mrs. L. A. B. 

Boneless Birds — Take round steak of medium thickness, cut 
in strips about 4 inches long and 2 inches wide. Lay on each 
strip a thin slice of bacon and slices of onion; season with 
pepper and salt; roll and pin together with 2 tooth picks. Have 
ready a frying pan with drippings or olive oil (very hot); place 
birds in this and fry a golden brown. Then place in kettle, 
cover with boiling water and simmer for 1^^ hours. Just be- 
fore removing from kettle thicken the gravy (salt and pepper 
to taste). A few olives added to the gravy is an improvement. 
— Mrs. G. H. F. 

Beefsteak Rolls — Get a slice oif the round the beef, cut thin 
enough to roll; cut into pieces about 5 inches each way; put a 
small piece of onion, another of ham or salt pork on the meat 
and shake on a little salt, pepper, sage and thyme. Roll each 
piece and tie with string; try out a little salt pork and brown 
the meat in it; add flour and enough hot water to make a 
gravy to half cover the meat; simmer 3 hours, adding a little 
hot water now and then as needed; cover closely. — Mrs. H. W. M. 

Breaded Chops — Take shoulder rib chops, trim caTefully; 
beat an egg, add 3 tablespoonfuls of milk, salt and pepper. Have 
ready some fine bread crumbs and a baking pan with a gener- 



55 



ous amojunt of lard and butter smoking hot; dip chops into egg 
and roll In bread crumbs; place close together in pan and bake 
in hot oven until rich brown. If there is fat left in the pan 
add a tablespoon of flour and make a little gravy by adding 
milk or boiling water, salt and pepper. Round steak cut into 
small pieces may be used in place of chops. — Mrs. G. H. F. 

Bobotee — One pound Hamburg steak, 1 egg, 1 cup bread 
crumbs, 1 teaspoon ground herbs, ^ cup almonds or peanuts, 
3 tablespoons tomato. Mix all ingredients thoroughly; season 
with salt and pepper and onion juice or grated onion; pack 
tightly into a well greased pan and bake 1 hour. Serve with a 
tomato sauce. Sauce — Two tablespoons flour, 2 tablespoons 
butter. Melt butter; add flour and while cooking stir in slowly 
1 cup strained tomato juice. — J. P. 

"Cousin Jack" Pasties — Make a pie crust of 1 cup of lard to 
3 of flour, a little salt and just water enough to mix. Divide 
into 8 parts; roll each piece as for pie, but have all the same 
size; take a pie plate about 6 inches in diameter, cover with 
crust and trim off the surplus. Have ready a filling of raw top 
round steak and raw potatoes. Cut in dice ( ^/4 or more), 1 large 
onion cut fine; season well with salt and pepper. Place as 
much on each round of crust as will fill it when folded to meet 
on top; wet the edges of the crust, put a few bits of butter 
on top of the meat, etc., and then fold the crust to meet, press- 
ing the edges together carefully, making a long shaped turn- 
over. Do not prick; place side by side in baking pan and bake 
in moderate oven for 1 hour. When crust is nice brown cover 
with another pan until done. Serve one to each person. To- 
matoes cooked with onions and peppers go well with patties. — 
Mrs. G. H. F. 

Curry From Original India Receipt — Procure lamb or young 
mutton from shoulder. Cut in pieces about twice as thick as 
the usual chops and then cut in pieces about 2 inches; trim 
fat from mutton, or take beef drippings if preferred. Heat it 
boiling hot in thick pot or frying pan; put in the meat and 
brown it; then to 25c. worth of meat take about 1 large table- 
spoon of curry powder; sprinkle over meat while it is browning 
and let it come in contact with every part. Care must be taken 
not to scorch the curry or the flavor will be spoiled. Pan can 
be partly removed from fire while stirring in the curry; add 
water to cover, 1 green onion, a dried onion, a carrot cut in 
thick slices, a little parsley and potatoes on top, salt to taste. 
Allow to cook 2 hours. Before serving remove potatoes, thicken 
with flour. Serve boiled rice with this dish. — Mrs. J. K. 



5G 



Chops a la Maintenon — Put 1 teaspoon butter in frying pan; 
add 1 teaspoon flour when hot. Let the flour cook a few- 
minutes; add 4 teaspoons chopped mushrooms, 1 of parsley, V2 
teaspoon salt and a dash of pepper. Moisten with 3 teaspoons 
stock; mix and cool. Have the chops cut 1 inch thick. Split 
the chops in two without separating from the bone; spread 
the mixture between the chops. Press the edges together and 
broil 8 minutes. Serve with olive sauce. Olive Sauce — One 
dozen stoned olives, 1 cup brown stock, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 
tablespoon flour. 

Dumplings for Stew — One pint flour, 2 teaspoons yeast pow- 
der, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 egg beaten in 1 cup of milk. Drop batter 
from spoon into boiling stew and cook just 10 minutes. — J. S. 

Dumplings for Stew — One and one-half cups flour, Vz tea- 
spoon each of salt and sugar, l^^ tablespoon softened butter, 
1 teaspoon baking powder. Rub shortening into flour; then stir 
in % cup milk for a stiff batter. Drop by spoonfuls on a plate 
and steam l^ hour. Serve on platter with the meat stew. — 
C. B. D. 

Fillet of Beef — Have your fillet arranged with salt pork, 
sliced salt pork and over this a layer of the following chopped 
vegetables: 1 small onion, 1 French carrot, 1 small turnip, 2 
stems of celery, a little parsley. Lay the fillet on the vegetables; 
season with ^ teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon pepper, 1 bay leaf, a 
small pinch ground cloves. Pour into pan 1 cup stock and roast 
in hot oven i/^ hour, basting frequently. Remove meat and 
keep warm; skim fat off gravy; strain. Place pan in which 
fillet was cooked on stove; add 2 tablespoons butter, 1 of flour. 
Stir until brown, being careful not to burn. Add slowly the 
strained gravy and a little cream. Stir until it boils; adding 
a little water if necessary. Drain a can of French mushrooms and 
simmer same for 5 minutes in gravy. Too much cooking will 
make them hard. Gravy should be of consistency of cream. 
Season, if desired. Place fillet on hot platter and pour gravy 
around. Should be rare and hot. 

Beef Loaf — Two pounds of chopped beef and l^ of a pound 
of chopped salt pork, a little salt, pepper and trifle of garlic, 3 
soda crackers, rolled finely, 1 well beaten egg, 1 small cup of 
milk and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix well to- 
gether; shape into a loaf and bake 1 hour, basting frequently 
with its own juice. A little thyme may be added as seasoning.— 
Mrs. M. M. ■ : 



57 



French 3feat Balls — Make into a ball 2 pounds round l^eef 
steak, minced fine; 3 slices bread crumbed, 1 egg. Season with 
salt and pepper. Fry considerable salt pork with an onion and 
brown meat ball thoroughly. Strain fat from pork into enough 
boiling water to cover meat ball and boil 2% hours. Season 
with salt, pepper, onions and parsley. Stew 1 or more quarts 
tomatoes and add to meat ball; also a little Worcestershire 
sauce the last hour of boiling; thicken gravy and serve. — Mrs. 

w. s. u. 

Ham Toast For Bi'eakfast — One pint lean chopped ham, 1% 
ounce butter, 2 beaten eggs. Melt butter and put in ham. 
Season well with pepper and when hot stir in the beaten eggs. 
Cook until the eggs begin to set; spread on toast. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Ham Timbales — Soak Vz tablespoon gelatine in 1^ table- 
spoons cold water and dissolve in % cup chicken stock; add 1 
cup chopped cooked ham and stir till the mixture begins to 
thicken; then add 1 cup whipped cream; add 1 tablespoon sherry 
wine and few grains of cayenne. Mould, chill and serve on let- 
tuce leaves. 

Boned Ham (fine substitute for turkey) — Take a good salted 
but unsmoked ham; remove the bone so as to leave the meat as 
solid as possible. In place of the bone put dressing made same 
as for turkey and bake. It is good hot or cold. 

Curried Meat — One pint cold diced mutton, veal or chicken, 
2 tomatoes, 1 small onion, 1 green chilli pepper, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, 1 cup stock or water, 1 tablespoonful curry powder, salt 
to taste. Put thinly sliced pepper, onion and tomatoes in granite 
baking dish; pour over ingredients 1 cupful of stock, or water 
in which event use a little more butter; let boil until vegetables 
are partly cooked. Then put in diced meat, salt and curry 
powder. Rub powder to paste in water before using; simmer 
until meat is thoroughly hot; thicken with spoonful of cornstarch 
in water. To serve — Six good sized potatoes, l^ cup cream, 1 
tablespoonful butter, salt to taste. Pare and boil the potatoes, 
then mash them; add cream, butter and salt; beat until very 
light. Drop this from spoon on top of curried meat, leaving hole 
in center for escape of steam. Place in quick oven until light 
brown. Serve. — Mrs. D. C. 

Chilli Colorado — One pound lean beef, the tenderloin pre- 
ferred; 1 spoonful lard, ^ teaspoonful vinegar, 1 spoonful flour, 
1 small onion chopped fine, salt to taste, cloves, garlic. Cut the 
beef into small pieces, fry brown in lard; add vinegar, flour and 



58 



salt; stir well; then add the following sauce: Take out seeds of 
8 large chilli peppers after they have turned red; put peppers in 
a porcelain kettle and cover with boiling water; let peppers 
remain in this at boiling heat on back of stove until tender; then 
drain and chop until they are a fine pulp. Press through a 
sieve, put back on the stove and let boil thoroughly. Should be 
the consistency of catsup; add the meat already prepared; bring 
to a boil and serve. If preferred you may add an onion chopped 
fine and a clove of garlic, also olives. 

Double Chops— Ask butcher for double chop. They should 
be very thick; have them rolled like rib roast and fastened with 
toothpick. Place in well buttered pan; sprinkle with sifted 
bread crumbs; place small piece of butter on each chop; bake 
in very hot oven 20 minutes. — A, L. B. 

Ham, Southera Style — Put ham on to boil, cooking slowly; 
when done let cool in its own essence; when cold, remove skin; 
gash the top with a knife; sprinkle on top of ham 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar, a little dry mustard, teaspoon of celery salt, 
cracker crumbs, wine glass of sherry. Put in oven and bake a 
few minutes; garnish with parsley. 

A Very Good Pat Roast — Take 4 or 5 pounds of beef (cross 
rib is the best), brown on all sides in olive oil; then add enough 
water to cover it; put in 1 whole carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 1 
bay leaf, 1 red pepper, 6 small pieces of celery, 1 small piece 
of garlic; put on back of the stove and let simmer for 3 hours. 
Half an hour before dinner salt to taste; put in pot of boiling 
salted water 1 pound of spaghetti; let boil 20 minutes, at the 
same time put in with your pot roast 1 can of tomatoes, 1 can 
mushrooms. Let cook till the spaghetti is done; drain and put 
on a very hot platter; thicken gravy with browned flour; at last 
put in chopped parsley. Pour over spaghetti and sprinkle the 
top with grated cheese. Serve at once. — C. I. M. 

Rump Steak — Two slices of rump steak (1 inch thick), 1 
cup of stale bread crumbs, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon 
chopped onion, 1 teaspoon of chopped parsley, Vs teaspoon 
pepper, % teaspoon sage, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 egg. Moisten bread 
crumbs slightly with hot water; then add the beaten egg, sage, 
onion, parsley and butter (which has been melted); stir well 
together and spread between the slices of rump steak and tie 
together with a stout cord. Put into the baking pan and bake 
in a hot oven until tender. Baste often with hot water to which 
a little strained tomato has been added. 



59 



Hungafiiui Goulasch — Cut a round steak into inch square 
pieces. Put a tablespoonful of drippings and a tablespoon of 
butter into an iron frying pan and carefully brown an onion 
finely sliced into the mixture, being careful it does not burn; 
then add a teaspoouful of Hungarian pepper, taking care not to 
have the grease too hot, as the pepper burns easily and the 
gravy will not have the proper color; then add your meat and 
salt and turn the meat so as to brown it slightly all round, 
again being careful not to burn the onion. Then add a very 
little water and cover tightly and let simmer slowly until tender; 
sift a little flour over it and stir slowly into gravy; adding water 
enough to make the quantity; salt to taste. — B. B. 

Hungarian Goulasch — In a hot saucepan put 1 heaping table- 
spoonful of butter and 1 of flour; add 3 onions chopped fine and 
5 cloves, salt, pepper and red pepper; add 1 cup hot water. Take 
a spider and put in 1 lb. of Hamburg steak; fry until it 
changes color. Heat and strain 1 quart can tomatoes; boil 1 lb. of 
spaghetti broken up; drain off water; grate plenty of cheese; 
stir all together. Butter a baking dish; fill with mixture and 
bake brown (about ^ hour). — Mrs. E. H. M. 

Goulasch a la Italiaua — One thick slice round steak, small 
salt pork, 1 pound tagliarini, 1 V^ cups grated cheese. Cut salt 
pork into small pieces. Place in stew pan, when well fried add 
1 small onion chopped fine; simmer slowly; then add 1 full can 
tomatoes. When stewed about 10 minutes, add steak cut in 
small square pieces; salt, pepper, little bay leaf, Worcestershire 
sauce. Stew slowly until perhaps about 2 hours, maybe more, 
depends on the tenderness of meat. If tomatoes cook away as 
they sometimes do, add little water to keep meat moist; stir 
frequently so it will not burn. Have good sized kettle of boiling 
water well salted; break tagliarini into small pieces; boil % 
hour; drain. When done then place in baking dish a layer of 
meat, then layer of tagliarini well sprinkled with cheese, also 
little paprika and so on until dish is filled. You may need more 
cheese than the above. Place in oven and bake until cheese is 
a nice brown color, probably about 20 minutes. — Mrs. J. B. S. 

Lamb Stewed AVith Peas — Cut the neck or breast in pieces; 
put in stew pan with some salt pork sliced thin and enough 
water to cover it; cover closely and let it stew until the meat 
is tender; then skim free from scum; add a quart of green peas, 
shelled and more hot water if necessary. Cover till the peas are 
done well and tender; add bit of butter rolled in flour and pepper 
to taste; let simmer a few minutes. — S. S. 



60 



Spiced Roast Beef — Take a roast from the round, some 3 
inches thick, and with a sharp knife cut across clear through 
the meat. Into this insert a slice of bacon. Several such in- 
cisions may be made. Rub well with salt and pepper fend 
sprinkle with flour. Put the roast into the pan and pour over it 
a dressing made of one-half cup vinegar, into which has been 
stirred 1 tablespoon sugar, 14 teaspoon mustard and a few whole 
grains of allspice; add a little water for basting. Good hot. 
Delicious cold. 

Mock Sweetbreads-^Twenty-five cents worth of chopped veal 
with a little suet, 1 onion, 1 bell pepper, and 1 clove of garlic. 
Chop 'all fine. Soak 2 slices of bread in milk and add to the 
above. Mix all together with 2 well beaten eggs; add salt and 
pepper. Make into balls and fry brown. Sauce for above — One 
pint of strained tomatoes; boil and add a pinch of soda; melt a 
little butter and mix a tablespoon of flour with it; then add a 
cup of milk and salt. Slowly mix with tomatoes; add a small 
can of French m.ushrooms; let come to a boil and serve with 
meat. — Mrs. G. M. B. . 

Mutton Stew — Cover the meat with hot water; simmer until 
about half done; then pour off the liquid; set to one side. Then 
put on meat a small quantity of water; simmer until tender; 
add milk and butter; thicken with flour. Dumplings are good — 
One teaspoon of yeast powder, 1 cup flour, a little salt. Stir in 
milk. Batter should be very stiff. Boil 15 minutes. — Mrs. A. 
H. MacD. 

Mutton Soup — Now take the stock you have saved from the 
stew; let it get cold; remove all of the grease; use anything you 
like for flavoring. Rice and tomatoes we prefer. — Mrs. A. 
H. MacD. 

Ragout of Beef — For 6 pounds round beef, take V2 dozen 
ripe tomatoes, cut up fine 2 or 3 onions in a vessel with a tight 
cover; add V2 dozen cloves, stick cinnamon and a little whole 
pepper. Cut gashes in meat, stuff V2 pound fat port, cut in 
square bits. Place meat on the other ingredients and pour over 
them V2 cup vinegar and a cup of water; cover tightly and bake 
in moderate oven, cooking slowly 4 or 5 hours. When half 
done salt to taste; when done, take out meat; strain gravy 
through colander and thicken with flour. — S. S. 

Scrappel — Scrapel is a most palatable dish. Take the head, 
heart and lean scraps of pork and boil until the flesh slips easily 
from the bones; remove the fat, gristle and bones, then chop fine. 



61 



Set the liquor in which the meat was boiled aside until cold; 
take the cake of fat from the surface and return to the fire; 
when it boils put in the chopped meat and season with pepper 
and salt, also a little thyme and sage. Let it boil again, then 
thicken with cornmeal as you would in making ordinary corn 
meal mush, by letting it slip through the fingers slowly to pre- 
vent lumps. Cook an hour on the range, stirring constantly 
at first, afterwards putting back on the range in a position 
to boil gently. Or it can be placed in a Fireless Cooker to 
complete the cooking. When done pour into a long square pan, 
not too deep and mould. In the cold weather this can be kept 
several weeks. Cut into slices when cold and fry brown as you 
do mush. This makes a cheap and delicious breakfast dish. 

Spanish Tongue — Soak a tongue in cold water for 1 hour; 
then boil 3 hours and remove skin when tender. Sauce made 
same as for Spanish macaroni; adding to it 4 cloves and 4 all- 
spice. — Mrs. S. 

Swedish Meat Balls — Three slices stale bread, 1 small onion, 
% cup milk, 1 egg, ^ teaspoon allspice, V2 teaspoon 
pepper, 2 cold cooked potatoes mashed, 4 big cups 
of Hamburg meat. Grind the bread and onion; mix all together 
thoroughly; make into small balls and fry in butter, lard or 
drippings. After removing the meat balls on platter, stir 3 
tablespoons flour in pan and thin it with 2 cups of milk. Pour 
over the meat balls. — A. A. D. 

Tomato Beef — Place a thick layer of the meat in the bottom 
of a baking dish well greased; sprinkle with pepper and salt and 
with dot of butter; on this arrange the solid portion of a can 
of tomatoes, or if fresh tomatoes use medium thick slices; 
cover with another layer of beef, top with buttered crumbs; pour 
a cupful of beef stock or tomato liquor; bake in moderate oven. 
—Dr. G. L. 

Leg of Lamb (French style) — Pound the meat until the 
fibers are well broken. This makes the meat tender and pre- 
vents shrinkage in cooking; rub with small quantity best olive 
oil; then with vinegar sufficient to cut the oil. Roast in moder 
ately hot oven. — M, E. J. 

Tagliarini (Italian) — Put 4 pounds veal pot roast in sauce- 
pan with 1/^ teacup olive oil; brown meat on all sides; to this 
add a can of tomatoes and chillies, chopped onion, 3 cloves, gar- 
lic and bay leaf; simmer all this for 3 hours. One hour before 



62 



removing, salt to taste. Now boil a heaping dinner plate of 
tagliarini (or small macaroni) in salted water about 25 minutes; 
grate a teacupful of cheese. Remove pot roast from saucepan 
and strain gravy through sieve after mashing mixture well; put 
layer of tagliarini in baking dish and spread on layer of cheese 
and gravy; repeat for 3 layers; then simmer in the oven slowly 
for 15 minutes. — Mrs. S. 

Veal Croquettes — One pint minced cooked veal, ^/^ pint milk, 
2 tablespoons flour, 3 tablespoons butter, 1 level teaspoon salt, 
^A teaspoon pepper, y2 teaspoon onion juice. Put milk in sauce- 
pan; beat butter and flour together; stir in milk soon as it boils; 
when sauce is smooth and thick, add seasoned meat and cook 3 
minutes; beat 3 eggs together and pour % of them over the 
cooking meat; remove from fire at once and stir well; pour into 
a platter and set away to chill. When chilled make into cylindri- 
cal shapes; roll in bread crumbs; drop in the beaten eggs; then 
in crumbs and fry in deep fat. — Mrs. L. A. B. 

Veal Jelly Mould — Knuckle of veal covered with boiling 
water; add 2 tablespoons onion, 1 tablespoon celery, 1 teaspoon 
each of salt and parsley, i/4 teaspoon ground cloves and dash of 
cayenne. Simmer until tender; chop meat fine and strain 
liquor; return to fire with 1 tablespoon vinegar and boil till 
reduced to 1 pint; then add to meat. — Mrs. C. H. W. 

Veal Loaf — One pound beef, 1 pound veal, 1 pound pork, 
chopped; quarter loaf of bread, soaked; 2 eggs. Season with 
salt, pepper, chopped parsley and nutmeg. — Mrs. W. 

Veal with Oysters — Fry 2 pounds tender veal, cut into thin 
bits and dredged with flour, in sufficient hot lard to prevent 
sticking; when nearly done add l^/^ pints of oysters. Thicken 
with flour, season with salt and pepper and cook until done. 
Serve hot in covered dish. — S. S. 

Stewed Kidney — Boil kidneys night before until very tender, 
turn meat and gravy into dish and cover. In the morning, boil 
for few minutes, thicken with flour and water; add part of an 
onion, chopped fine, pepper and salt and lump of butter. Pour 
over toasted bread well buttered. — S. S. 

Veal Scallop — Cold roast veal, or mutton finely chopped, 
cracker crumbs, butter, milk, salt, pepper, thyme. Put a layer 
of meat in a buttered pudding dish. The meat should be well 
seasoned. Then a layer of cracker crumbs seasoned with salt. 



63 



pepper and- thyme. Put bits of butter on this layer and wet 
with a little milk. Then more meat, crumbs, butter and milk. 
When dish is full, wet with left over gravy diluted with water. 
Cover and bake about 45 minutes. Remove; cover a few minutes 
before done. — L. L. P. 

Yorkshire Pudding (Serve with Hot Roast Beef) — Three 
eggs, 1 pint of milk, 2 cups of flour, salt. Mix and put in an 
extra pan and place in oven beside the pan of roast beef, about 
20 minutes or % hour before serving the roast beef. Baste the 
pudding with the juice of the roast beef. Very fine. 



64 

MEMORANDA 



£5 



MEAT SAUCES AND DRESSINGS 

Mrs. Secretary Noble's Chicken Sauce, which has driven some 
epicures to whom it has been served to rise and exclaim! "With 
such a sauce one could eat one's grandfather." 

Sauce for Pheasants, Quail, Croquettes and Chicken — Take a 
heaping tablespoon butter and 1 tablespoon sifted flour; mix 
thoroughly; add V2 pint stock and 1 teaspoon mushroom catsup, 
2 tablespoons cream, 2 teaspoons lemon juice and boil, stirring 
well; add yolks of 2 eggs beaten light and never allow it to boil 
or it will curdle. When thickened, serve or place in hot water 
until desired. — A. A. F. 

Chicken Dressing — Three teeth garlic, 1 small onion, chicken 
liver, 4 slices of bacon, little parsley, all chopped very fine and 
mixed with ^ pound chopped veal, % loaf bread soaked in hot 
water and squeezed out quite dry. Cook in frying pan about 10 
minutes; when cold add 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon of sherry wine and. 
salt and pepper to taste. This makes enough dressing for 2 
chickens; for 3 add a little more bread. — H. H. S. 

Ci*eam Sauce — One heaping tablespoonful of flour, 1 heap- 
ing tablespoonful butter rubbed together; then add 1 pint of 
sweet mlik (cold) and let the whole boil slowly, stirring con- 
stantly; when it boils add some chopped parsley, a chopped hard 
boiled egg and season with salt and pepper. 

Dressing for Cold Slaw (nice for salads and cold meats) — 
Two eggs, 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 teaspoon of mustard, speck 
of pepper, V2 cup of cream or water, i^ cup of vinegar, butter 
size of V2 an egg. Beat eggs; add the dry ingredients smoothly 
rubbed together; then the cream and finally the vinegar; add the 
butter when it begins to cook; cook until it is a soft custard. 
Covered and put away in a cold place it will keep good for days. 
If for any reason it curdles while cooking, add a little cornstarch 
moistened in water and finish cooking. — M. Z. T. 

Dumplings from Poultry Dressing — Fresh dressing of soaked 
bread, etc., may be made, or left-over dressing utilized. Beat 



66 



well; add 2 or 3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately), 
a very little flour and baking powder. Roll lightly into balls; 
float on top of stew or gravy of any kind; cover tightly and boil 
for about 10 minutes. 

Jellied Cranberries (for game) — One pound of berries, 1 
pound of sugar (granulated), ^ pint of water. Boil sugar and 
water together, stirring constantly; when boiling throw in the 
berries; they will soon heat through and burst; stir frequently 
until well cooked, mashing with a spoon any of the berries that 
do not readily burst. It will take 10 or 15 minutes after they 
begin to boil. Turn in a mould that has been previously rinsed 
in cold water and not dried. (Will keep if covered.) 

English Stuffing for Goose — One-fourth cupful chopped salt 
pork, 1 onion chopped; cooked 10 minutes; then add iy2 cup- 
fuls of mashed potatoes, 1^/^ cupfuls bread crumbs, 1% cupfuls 
of celery, V^ cupful English walnuts, 1 egg, salt, pepper, sage to 
taste. — C. M. B. 

Horseradish Sauce (to eat with boiled beef or Hamburg 
steak) — One cup milk, 1 tablespoon flour, 2 tablespoons butter. 
Melt butter; add flour; pour hot milk over mixture and let boil, 
beating well; add 1 tablespoon grated horseradish. To be eaten 
hot. — A. L. B. 

Italian Sauce — Three or 4 tablespoons of best Italian oil. Heat 
in pan. Add 1 green onion, 1 dried onion, a clove or 2 of garlic; 
cut in pieces and fry, then add canned tomatoes, pepper and salt. 
Let boil together about 10 minutes. Strain. Fresh mushrooms 
can be added, or dried Italian mushrooms. (A few steeped in a 
cup of water for an hour and the water added to the sauce.) This 
sauce is nice with any kind of meat, rice or spaghetti. — Mrs. J. K. 

Sauce for Macaroni or Pot Roast — Put in a frying pan some 
salt pork; chop 1 onion fine, 1 tablespoon flour. Stir well and 
brown. Add 1 can tomatoes, parsley, thyme, red pepper, black 
pepper and salt. Cover and cook slowly 1 hour. Strain. — J. S. 

Port Wine Sauce for Game — One-half glass currant jelly, Vz 
glass port wine, i^ glass stock, V2 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
lemon juice, 4 cloves and speck cayenne. Simmer the cloves and 
stock together for Vz hour. Strain upon the other ingredients 
and let all melt together. Part of the gravy from the game may 
be added to it. — Mrs. A. E. E. 



67 



Tomato Sauce — One quart canned tomatoes, 2 tablespoonfuls 
butter, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 12 cloves, small slice onion. Cook 
the tomato, clove and onion together 10 minutes. Heat the 
butter in a small frying pan and add the flour; stir over the flour 
until smooth and brown, then stir it into the tomatoes: Cook 2 
minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper, then strain. 
This is also nice for fish or macaroni. 

Dressing for Turkey — Use stale bread cut in small pieces. 
The quantity must be in accordance with the size of the turkey. 
Season with salt, pepper, sage, thyme, to suit the taste; a slice 
of butter ^ an inch thick for a 12-pound turkey. I use about 
50 oysters and liquor and milk enough to make the dressing 
moist. Last, stir in 2 well beaten eggs. — S. G. B. 

Dressing for Turkey — Soak stale bread in water, then squeeze 
dry, and brown in frying pan containing melted butter and a 
little minced onion; add contents of 1 can oysters and 1 can 
mushrooms chopped together, also a little chopped celery (the 
young tender leaves are nice). Moisten with oyster liquor. 
Season with salt, pepper, sage and thyme. 



68 



MEMORANDA 



69 



LUNCHEON DISHES 

Apple Pancake for Luncheon — Two cups of flour, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls yeast powder, or V2 teaspoonful soda and 1 of cream tartar, 
1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 apple cut in small pieces, sour milk if 
preferred. A little cornmeal, '^^ teaspoon salt and a tablespoon 
or 2 of cooked cereal mixed with milk to make a thick batter. 
Make cake full size of pan; when done on one side, disperse bits 
of butter over it and turn. Lessen the heat and cover pan with 
close cover, and cake will be found to be light and delicious. 
— Mrs. J. K. 

Belvedere Egg Toast — Make a nice cream gravy. Boil eggs. 
Remove the whites and chop. Put them in the cream gravy. 
Season well. Mash the yolks well. Season with butter, pepper 
and salt, but put the cream, gravy and whites on top of toast. 
Then put the yolks through the ricer over the top of it all. Nice 
for luncheon. — Mrs. S. 

Brains — Scald 2 calves' brains. Clean well. Roll 4 soda 
crackers. Add 1 egg, a piece of butter size of a walnut, 1 table- 
spoon milk, pepper and salt. Beat all together. Bake in oven or 
cook on top stove. This will cook in 10 minutes. Nice for lunch or 
breakfast. This will serve 4. Serve on hot cracker or toast. 
— Mrs. W. A. B. 

Creamed Chicken in Bread Tjoaf — Take a round loaf of bread, 
cut the top off in one slice, and remove all the crumb; brush the 
inside over with melted butter and put into the oven till the 
whole inside is browned. Fill with creamed chicken, dust with 
crumbs and bits of butter, and brown in the oven. Serve hot. 

Chicken and Com — Butter baking dish. One can chicken, 1 
can corn. Cut chicken, put in baking dish, pepper and salt. Pour 
can corn over and season. Add bread crumbs. — Mrs. G. M. 

Egg Vermicelli — Two hard boiled eggs. Make a rich white 
sauce of drawn buter; 1 tablespoon flour stirred into 1 table- 
spoon melted butter and 1 cup milk. Separate the yolks and 
whites of the hard boiled eggs. Chop up the whites of eggs 
finely and mix with the sauce. Have ready on a platter some thin 



70 



triangles of buttered toast. Pour the sauce on the toast, and 
grate the yolks over the top. This is very nice for lunch in 
place of meat. — C. B. D. 

Finnan Haddie — Select a nice fish and let soak for a couple 
of hours. Then pick into small pieces. Have a rich 
cream sauce ready. Place fish in frying pan in which a 
large piece of butter has been melted. Sprinkle a little cayenne 
and shake well on the stove for a few minutes. Add the cream 
sauce, a cupful of picked shrimps, a small can of mushrooms 
which have been cut in halves, and 2 sliced boiled eggs. Let 
the mixture simmer for about 15 minutes. Add 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of sherry wine. Have delicately browned buttered toast on 
hot platter in which pour the finnan haddie. Serve with sec- 
tions of lemon. Served this way, makes a royal special break- 
fast dish, or it may be served in ramequins for lunch course. — 
Mrs. E. L. P. , 

Macaroni and Ham — Three-fourths cup macaroni cooked in 
salted water until tender, 1 cup finely minced ham, 2 eggs well 
beaten, 1 generous cup of milk. Put layer of macaroni in well 
buttered baking dish, then a layer of ham sprinkled well with 
grated Swiss cheese, salt, pepper and bits of butter, then another 
layer of macaroni, etc. Pour over this custard and bake in 
slow oven. — Mrs. G. M. 

Minced Veal — Take some gravy that has been left over from 
roast veal, put in a pan with 2 cups of cold veal, cut up in small 
pieces; 1 cup of bread crumbs. Add salt and pepper, and a piece 
of butter. Let it heat through, and just before serving break 
3 or 4 eggs over it and stir all together till the eggs are cooked; 
if not gravy enough, add a little water. — Mrs. W. P. 

Oyster Crousades — Cut slices of stale bread about 1 inch 
thick, remove crust; cut a square hole in center of each slice, but 
not clear through. Soak the bread in milk, then dip bread in a 
beaten egg and cook in deep hot lard like doughnuts. When 
brown place bread on a cloth, or blotting paper to absorb grease. 
Filling and Sauce — Tomato, green pepper, California oysters. 
Cook the tomato, green peppers and oyster liquor until tender 
and thick; if too thin, use a little flour to thicken. Add a piece 
of butter and salt. Add oysters the last thing and remove from 
the fire. Pour the oysters and sauce over the slices of bread 
and serve immediately. — A. A. D. 

Escalloped Oysters — Boil macaroni soft. Put a layer of maca- 
roni in baking dish. Cover with oysters, pepper, salt and butter. 



71 



Then another layer of macaroni. Then a layer of oysters until 
the dish is filled. Bake. — A. A. F. 

Kidney Stew — Boil 1 beef's kidney 30 minutes, skim, and 
remove from fire. Strain liquor through cheesecloth and wash 
kidney thoroughly. Remove all tough portions and fat and mem- 
brane. Cut in small pieces and stew in liquor seasoned with 
salt, pepper and Worcestershire sauce 2^ hours. Thicken with 
flour and serve with buttered toast. A little sherry may be 
added to make variety. 

Fried Oysters — Clean and dry oysters between towels. Dip in 
batter, fry in deep fat, drain and serve with lemon and garnished 
with parsley. Or dip wiped oysters in beaten egg, then cracker 
crumbs and fry in spider with plenty of sweet oil. Oj^sters may 
be parboiled and drained first and then proceed to prepare for 
frying. 

Oysters in Brown Sauce — One pint oysters, li cup butter, ^, 
cup flour, 1 cup oyster liquor, % cup milk, ^/^ teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon anchovy essence, % teaspoon pepper. Parboil and 
drain oysters, straining liquor for sauce. Brown butter; add 
flour, % cup, and stir till well browned; then add oyster liquor, 
milk, seasonings, and oysters. Serve on toast, in timbale cases 
or patty shells. 

Oyster Fricassee — Melt a cup of butter in a frying pan and 
put into it 2 quarts of oysters, 1 cup of cream, salt and pepper 
to taste, and a teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little 
cold milk. Let boil until the oysters are fully cooked, then re- 
move from fire and add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten. Pour 
over a platter of hot toasted crackers and serve while hot. — 
Mrs. F. D. 

Panned Oysters — 100 oysters, 1 lemon, Mi cup butter, 1 tea- 
spoon minced parsley, ^ teaspoon cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon 
salt. Have the pans hot. Put in oysters, salt and pepper. Cook 
about 5 minutes; then add butter, parsley, lemon juice. Serve 
in pans oysters were cooked in. — Mrs. B. 

Patitas as a Lunch Disii — Get some sheeps' feet, properly pre- 
pared, at the market. Boil until very tender, then remove all 
the bones. Then beat up 4 eggs well. Dip the feet, which have 
previously been dipped in flour, into the egg. Then put into a 
pan of hot lard and fry a golden brown. Add pepper and salt to 
suit. For the sauce — Put into a separate pan half a can of to- 
matoes, 1 onion, chopped fine, salt and pepper and then cook 



72 



half an hour. Then put the sheeps' feet into the sauce and let 
the whole simmer for 10 minutes. Serve on a very hot plat- 
ter. — Mrs. F. D. 

Shrimp Curry and Rice — Take good sized spoon of butter. 
Place in frying pan. When melted add small sized onion cut fine; 
simmer slowly. When thoroughly done, add spoonful flour, % 
teaspoon curry powder. Mix all well. Stir until smooth. Then 
add boiling water, stirring all the time, until it is the consistency 
of thick cream; a little Worcestershire sauce, a dash of cayenne 
(not salt, as shrimps are apt to be salty), little chopped parsley. 
To this add ^/^ pound picked shrimps, but do not add shrimps till 
nearly ready to serve, possibly about 10 minutes, as shrimps are 
apt to get hard while standing. Two cup rice, boiled in plenty 
of boiling water well salted V2 hour; When done drain and use 
as soon as possible, while each kernel of rice is separate. Place 
shrimps in center of platter, with spoonful of rice all around the 
border. — J. B. S. 

A Splendid Italian Dish Easily Made — Salsa a la Pomidoro — 

Buy 15 cents' worth of sausage meat (%) and hamburger steak 
(Vs) mixed. Add 1 medium sized onion, chopped fine, 1 table- 
spoonful of olive oil and place the above in a frying pan, season- 
ing well with salt and pepper. Cook until brown, stirring con- 
stantly. Just before removing from stove, add a piece of butter — 
large. Then place 1 can of tomatoes in a large pot and add 
to this a small "Italian clove" chopped fine. To this mixture 
add the cooked meat and cook slowly, say about 1^/^ hours, stir- 
ring to prevent sticking. Boil marcaroni in a large kettle for at 
least % of an hour. Strain well. After the macaroni is cooked 
place it on an attractive platter, sprinkle with grated Parmesan 
cheese, and cover the entire whole with the concoction of Salsa 
a la Pomidoro. — Mrs. N. H. M. 

Sweetbread Croquettes — Boil in salted water 20 minutes 2 
pairs of sweetbreads. Throw them into cold water for a few 
minutes, remove the skins and little pipes; cut them into dice; 
also V2 can of mushrooms. Put 1 large teaspoonfnl of butter into 
a saucepan; when it bubbles add 1 teaspoonful of flour. Cook 
well and add 1 gill of cream or soup stock. Cook and add sweet- 
breads and mushrooms; heat well; take from the fire and add 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs. When cold form into croquettes, roll 
in beaten eggs and cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. — Mrs. 
F. D. 

Fried Sweetbreads — One pound of sweetbreads, % cup of 
cracker crumbs and 1 egg. Parboil the sweetbreads; roll in the 



73 

egg, then irf the cracker crumbs, and fry in fat in a frying pan. 
Season with salt and pepper. — Mrs. A. D. 

"tomato Rarebit — Melt 1 tablespoon butter, add ^ pound 
diced American cheese, % teaspoon soda, % teaspoon salt, % 
teaspoon paprika. Stir until cheese is melted. Then stir in 
yolks of 2 eggs beaten, and mix with % cup tomato puree 
(cooked tomato forced through a sieve). Serve on toast. 

Pea Timbales — One cup bread crumbs soaked in 1 cup milk, 
1 tablespoon butter, % teaspoon chopped parsley, few drops onion 
juice, salt, pepper, 1 egg, 2 cups cooked and mashed peas. Bake 
in ramequins. Serve with cream sauce in which are whole peas. 
—Mrs. C. H. H. 

Squash Timbales — Use yellow winter squash steamed and 
dried. Put through a sieve and proceed as for pea timbales. 

Toast a L/a Cream — Eight slices of nicely toasted bread cut 
in squares (an inch or so), 3 or 4 hard boiled eggs, 1 quart of 
milk, butter size of small egg, salt, pepper. Put in the butter 
when melted; add 1 rounding tablespoon of flour; stir; then add 
the milk (warm) let cook in the double boiler for a time until 
it thickens up; then add the squares of bread; put on a good 
sized hot platter, then add the eggs; put through the ricer or 
fruit squeezer; put in yolks first, then whites, and put over the 
toast. Nice for breakfast, lunch or supper. — Mrs. B. R. K. 



74 < 

MEMORANDA 



75 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES 

Chicken Terrapin — One chicken boiled in as little water as 
will cook it. When cooked cut the meat into small pieces. Put 
scant % cup of butter in sauce pan with 2 tablespoons flour 
rubbed smoothlj' together. Then add % teaspoon mace or nut- 
meg, % of a pint of the liquor in which it was boiled, 1 dozen 
mushrooms cut in small pieces. Boil for a few minutes. Then 
add 4 hard boiled eggs cut fine, a sherry glass of sherry wine, a 
good pinch of red and white pepper. Let all boil 2 or 3 minutes 
and serve hot. This is excellent. — Mrs. J. D. D. 

Crab a la Creole — Put into a saucepan a large piece of butter 
and 4 young onions cut in rings, 2 green chilli peppers chopped 
fine, 1 small sliced tomato, salt, cayenne and black pepper. Stew 
gently 5 minutes; dredge in a little flour and 1 cup of crdam; 
pick the meat from 2 crabs; put into the sauce; stew 2 minutes 
and serve on toast with sliced lime. — Mrs. F. D. 

Cream Shrimps — Thoroughly mix 1 even tablespoonful of but- 
ter, 1 full tablespoonful of flour; as soon as hot add 1 teacupful 
of cream or rich milk and cook until it thickens. Flavor with 
the grated rind of 1 lemon and the juice of ^^ lemon, pinch of 
mace, ^ teaspoonful ginger extract, salt and cayenne pepper to 
taste; then add 1 cupful of strained potatoes. Into this throw 1 
quart of shrimps. Cover for a few minutes and serve hot on 
toast. — Mrs. F. D. 

Cream Crab or Shrimp — One large picked crab or 1 pint of 
shrimps. 1 cupful of cream, ^ cupful of milk, 1 heaping table- 
spoonful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
1 cracker, 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, dash of cayenne. 
Put crab or shrimp into cream and heat. Mix milk and flour and 
add to hot cream with other ingredients. Put into 6 shells, dust 
rolled cracker over and just a little butter in each center. Bake 
brown. Instead of baking in shells serve on toast if preferred. — 
Mrs. J. F. B. 

English Monkey — One cup Eastern cheese (grated), 1 cup 
cream, 1 cup bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 egg (beaten 



76 



prika, dash cayenne. Melt butter and cheese, add bread crumbs 
soaked in cream, then salt, etc., lastly egg. Serve on toasted 
cracker. — Mrs. E. D. K. 

Welsh Rarebit — One tablespoon butter, 2 cups finely cut 
American cheese, y2 cup milk or stale beer, i/^ teaspoon pre- 
pared English mustard, 2 eggs, salt to taste. Melt butter and 
cheese, add liquid. Stir until smooth. Put in mustard and 
then the beaten eggs. Cook 1 minute longer. Serve on toast. — 
Mrs. C. E. 

Welsh Rarebit — One and one-half pounds American cheese, 
1 tablespoonful butter, 1 teaspoonful dry mustard, cayenne, ^^ 
pint beer or ale and toast. Put butter into chafing dish, when 
nearly melted add cheese cut in small pieces or grated, add mus- 
tard and cayenne; stir all the time. Add beer or ale slowly to 
prevent burning. Pour hot on toast. Have plates very hot 
and do not cook too long. — B. B. 

Welsh Rarebit — One cup grated cheese (must be dry), 1 
cup milk, butter size walnut, cook until cheese melts; add heap- 
ing teaspoon cornstarch stirred in a little milk. When it thick- 
ens remove from fire. Add slowly 1 egg beaten very light, cay- 
enne and salt to taste. Pour over toasted bread. — E. A. B. 

Scotch Woodcock — Cut 4 hard boiled eggs into dice. Make a 
milk gravy and put a generous piece of butter into it and pour 
over the eggs. Take 1 or 2 tomatoes, peel and cook until soft, 
strain and pour into the milk gravy after it is removed from the 
fire. Season with salt and pepper and a dash of paprika. Serve 
on slices of toast. — Mrs. H. W. M. 

Crab a la Newberg — One-fourth pound butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, yolk 4 eggs boiled and mashed, V2 teaspoon salt, dash 
cayenne, pint boiling milk. Put all in dish and cook a few min- 
utes; add meat of 1 crab (or white meat of a lobster), and 
chopped whites of eggs. When ready to serve add 1 glass 
sherry. — Mrs. J. W. P. 

Crab — One crab, can tomatoes, 10 cents' worth of cream. 
Cook tomatoes with pepper, salt and lump of butter, pinch of 
baking soda. Add cream. Let it come to a boil. Add crab 
picked fine, and serve at once on hot buttered toast. — Mrs. W. 

Midnight Oysters — ^Wash 1 pint of oysters and place upon 
coarse linen towel to drain for about 3 minutes; put lump sweet 



77 



butter about the size of a walnut; when hot put in the oysters 
with a pinch of salt, cayenne pepper and celery salt. Let sim- 
mer for about 3 minutes, then add % teaspoonful Worcester- 
shire sauce. Serve hot with buttered toast. 

Cheese Fondu — One cup bread crumbs, 2 cups milk, % pound 
dry cheese grated, 3 eggs whipped light, 1 small tablespoonful 
melted butter, pepper and salt, a pinch of soda dissolved in hot 
water, and stirred into the milk. Soak the crumbs in the milk, 
beat into these the eggs, butter and cheese. Bake until deli- 
cately browned. Serve at once. — ^Mrs. H. A. 

Deviled Crab — To the shredded meat of 1 good sized crab add 
the crumbs of 4 soda crackers, 1 saltspoon mustard, 1 saltspoon 
salt, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 tablespoon vinegar, or lemon 
juice if preferred, shake of cayenne pepper. Blend together and 
add enough milk to make moist, but not sloppy. Bake in but- 
tered shells until yellow-brown. Serve with quartered lemons. — 
Mrs. A. L. S. 

Lobster Xewberg — Season 1 pint of diced lobster with % 
teaspoonful of salt, dash of cayenne pepper, pinch of nutmeg. 
Put in saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of butter; heat slowly. 
Add 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry wine. Cook 5 minutes. Add % 
cupful of cream beaten with yolks of 2 eggs; stir until it thickens. 
Take quickly from the fire. — C. M. B. 

Oyster Omelette — Twelve large oysters, 6 eggs, 1 cup milk, 

1 tablespoon butter, parsley, salt and pepper. Chop oysters fine, 
beat yolks and whites separately. Heat 3 tablespoons butter in 
frying pan. Stir yolks, seasoning and milk together. Pour in 
melted butter, chopped oysters and beaten whites. Pour in the 
hot buttered pan. When it begins to stiffen slip a broad bladed 
knife under the omelette. When fairly set, place a moment in 
hot oven, then upset on platter. Good for chafing dish. — Mrs. 
H. G. 

Pasadena Rarebit — Two onions, 4 green bell peppers, 3 me- 
dium sized tomatoes, 2 tablespoons minced parsley. Fry all in 

2 tablespoons of butter ^ an hour, stirring constantly. To this 
add l'^^ cups thinly cut cheese (mild). Serve on slices of toast 
or crackers. — A. A. F. 



78 



MEMORANDA 



CASSEROLE 

Beefsteak en Casserole — Select a sirlon or tenderloin steak 
at least an inch thick. Have ready cooked in brown stock until 
tender, balls cut from carrots and turnips, % dozen of each for 
each service; also for each service 2 small onions. For a steak 
weighing about 2 pounds, melt and brown 3 tablespoonfuls of 
butter; in it stir and cook 5 tablespoonfuls of flour until the flour 
is well browned, then add half a teaspoonful of salt and 1% cups 
of rich, dark-brown broth; stir the sauce constantly until it boils, 
then add the cooked vegetables and about a dozen canned mush- 
rooms, and let the whole stand over hot water while the steak 
is being cooked; also let a low, uncovered casserole become thor- 
oughly heated. Rub over the surface of a hot iron frying pan 
with a bit of suet, then lay in the steak, turn it 
every 10 seconds, at first, keeping the pan very hot, 
then let cook more slowly, turning less frequently for about 
6 minutes in all. Set the steak in the hot casserole, turn the 
vegetables and sauce over it, and set the dish into a hot oven to 
stand about 4 minutes; sprinkle steak with a teaspoonful or 
more of the fine-chopped parsley, and serve at once. The cas- 
serole being low, the steak is easily carved in the dish. 

Fish a la Casserole — Take 3 pounds of any fish that is white 
and boil in salted water until cooked. Then shred it. For the 
dressing take 1 quart of milk, 3 onions cut in halves, a whole 
nutmeg, good sized bunch of parsley, 1 even tablespoon of pep- 
per, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon thyme. Tie pepper and thyme 
in piece of cloth and boil all in milk until onions are soft. Then 
strain. Take 3 tablespoons flour, wet and stir until smooth. 
Add to the hot strained milk. Add good sized piece of butter. 
Stir until it thickens. It should be quite thick. In baking 
dish put layer of dressing, then layer of fish, and little chopped 
parsley and so on until fish is used. On top have a layer of 
dressing and bread crumbs. Bake % of an hour. It is delicious. 
—Mrs. B. 

Mutton en Casserole — Slices of cold mutton in buttered cas- 
serole. On top slice tomatoes and bell peppers. Pour a little 
onion over gravy left from mutton. Bake very slowly 1 hour. 
—A. L. B. 



so 



Potted Chicken — Clean and truss a small broiler; put in a 
casserole dish; brush over with 2^ tablespoons melted butter. 
Cover and cook 20 minutes; then add a cup of rich stock and 
continue cooking until chicken is tender. The sauce may be 
thickened or not as desired. Add to the sauce a few minutes 
before serving % cup cooked potato balls, ^/i cup canned string 
beans cut small, i/4 cup cooked carrots cut in fancy shapes. 
Serve in casserole dish. — Mrs, C. 

Quail or Pigeon en Cass«role — Take 6 birds or more, 8 small 
onions, V2 head cauliflower divided in pieces, 1 turnip divided in 
pieces, 6 small French carrots, 6 small round potatoes (scooped 
all one size), 1 cupful green peas, salt and pepper to taste. Line 
a tight fitting kettle with thin slices of salt pork larding. Tie 
birds so as to retain shape and put in the kettle. Spread the 
vegetables over the birds and cover over the top with thin slices 
of larding. No water will be required. Put on tight-fitting cover 
and set on back of range or bake in slow oven for 3i/^ hours. — 
Mrs. W. M. 

Veal en Casserole — Three pounds round veal. Brown on top 
of stove in frying pan. Put in casserole. Pour over 1 can mush- 
rooms, 1 teaspoon flour creamed with 1 tablespoon butter. Sea- 
son to taste. — A. L. B. 



81 



MEMORANDA 



82 



FRITTERS AND CROQUETTES 

Fritter Batter for Bananas or Apples — One cup flour, % 
teaspoon salt. Beat yolks of 2 eggs. Gradually add 1 cup milk, 
slowly sift in flour. Then add 1 teaspoon melted butter. — E. 
V. B. 

Fritters — One cupful of flour, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 
teaspoon baking powder, 1 saltspoon of salt, 1 egg, Vs cup of 
milk. Mix flour, sugar, salt and baking powder together. Add 
egg beaten light, and milk. Beat until light and and smooth. 
Drop by spoonfuls into very hot grease. Sprinkle with sugar. 
Serve with any preferred sauce. In oyster fritters omit sugar. 

Banana Croquettes — Peel banana, cut in two lengthwise; dip 
in crumbs, beaten egg and more crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Clam Fritters — Make a batter of a cup of milk, 3 eggs, beaten 
light, V2 teaspoonful of salt, and a heaping cup of flour that has 
been sifted with an even teaspoonful of baking powder. Stir in 
30 clams, chopped fine, and, if the batter is too thin, add a little 
more flour. Drop by the spoonful into deep boiling lard, and 
fry to a golden brown. Remove as soon as done, drain in a 
heated colander, lay for a moment on tissue paper to absorb the 
grease, and serve at once on a very hot dieli. 

Corn Fritters — One can corn, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder, 2 teaspoons salt (scant), l^ teaspoon paprika, 2 eggs. 
Mix corn with dry ingredients. Add egg, yolks beaten, then 
whites beaten stiff. Cook in a frying pan in fresh hot lard. 
Drain and serve with a slice of crisp bacon to each fritter. 

Corona Cecils With Tomato Sauce — One cup cold roast beef 
or rare steak, finely chojjped, salt, pepper, onion juice, Wor- 
cestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon 
melted butter, yolk 1 egg, slightly beaten. Season beef with 
salt, pepper, onion juice and Worcestershire sauce; add remain- 
ing ingredients; shape after the form of small croquettes, pointed 
at ends. Roll in flour, egg and crumbs. Fry in deep fat, drain 
and serve with tomato sauce. 



Hli 



Orange Fritters — Beat 1 egg very light, add ^ cupful sugar, 
% cup milk. Then stir to a smooth batter with 1 cupful flouii, 
into which 1 teaspoonful baking powder and pinch salt have been 
added. Dip sections of oranges in batter and fry in deep, hot 
lard. — E. V. B. 

Rice Croquettes — Wash 1 cup rice; boil in 1^^ cups meat 
stock until soft, about 20 minutes; add 1 cup strained tomato, 
few drops onion juice, salt and pepper to taste. Cook 5 minutes. 
Add 2 well beaten eggs and 4 tablespoons cheese. Shape. Roll in 
egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Rice Fritters With Jelly — A delicious luncheon dish is rice 
fritters served with currant jelly or plum jam. To make them 
put a cupful of rice in a saucepan, cover with cold water, set it 
over the fire, and let it boil just nine minutes; then drain 
through a colander; rinse it off with cold water and return to the 
same pan. Add 1 pint of milk, a level teaspoonful butter, and 
boil gently until the rice is soft, and the milk quite thick. Turn 
the whole into a large bowl and let stand until cool. When cold 
mix with the rice 3 tablespoonfuls sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 
tablespoonfuls prepared flour. Mix all together thoroughly. Beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and fold them in the batter. 
Have a little smoking hot fat over the fire and drop the batter 
into same from a spoon and let it fry a golden brown. When 
done, dust powdered sugar over the fritters, pile them on a dish 
covered with a fringed napkin and serve with currant jelly or 
plum jam in a separate dish. — Mrs. J. W. R. 

Tomato Fritters — Use large firm tomatoes, unpeeled, and cut 
in rather thick slices. Sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper be- 
fore dipping in batter. Batter is made by mixing a cupful each 
of warm water and sifted flour, a teaspoonful of butter being 
first melted in the water, a saltspoon of salt and beaten white of 
1 egg, folded in last, just before adding ^4 teaspoonful baking 
powder. 



84 

MEMORANDA 



85 



SALADS 

Artichoke Salad — Hearts of 6 artichokes cut into small dice. 
Add crisp celery cut fine, then 2 hard boiled eggs, the yolks 
rubbed to a paste and the whites chopped very fine. Mix and 
add mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce. — L. S. 

Asparagus Salad in Pepper Rings — Remove seeds from either 
red or green peppers; cut rings i/4 of an inch wide and slip 
through them asparagus stalks, canned or fresh. Serve with 
mayonnaise. — Mrs. H. B. A. 

Banana and Peanut Salad — Peel ripe bananas and cut each 
in two pieces crosswise; also cut off the ends and make them 
look like croquettes. Moisten the pieces with mayonnaise dress- 
ing and roll same in chopped peanuts; then lay each piece 
on a crisp lettuce leaf and cover with mayonnaise or French 
dressing. — S. T. 

Beet Winter Salad — Drop in weak vinegar water boiled beets. 
After scooping out small portion in the middle, mix together 
beans, asparagus tips, peas or any bits of green vegetables with 
mayonnaise and a few capers or chopped sweet pickles. Pour 
French dressing over the beets and fill each with the mixture. 
Serve. — E. N. H. P. 

California Salad — Two cups cooked peas, ^cup_cold^water, 12 "T^^ 
olives, ^ cup lemon juice, 1 hard boiled egg, 2 cups -^ / 

boiling water; 2 ^tablespoons gelatine, ^ cup sugar, > j t>**-^ 

green coloring paste size of small pea. Soak the ^ J^ 

gelatine 10 minutes in cold water, pour on boiling 5a>- 

water; add sugar. When dissolved add lemon juice. Moisten 

the coloring paste with 1 teaspoon of the liquid and put enough 

of this back into the lemon mixture to give it a delicate green 

color — set away to cool. Chop the olives fine; cut the egg in 

fine pieces; mix these and parsley with the peas. When the 

gelatine has begun to set mix with the other ingredients; turn 

into individual molds or 1 large mold. When ready to serve 

turn out on bed of lettuce and serve with mayonnaise dressing. 

—J. P. 



I 



86 



Cherry Salad — Stone ripe cherries and place a blanched filbert 
in the cavity left by the stone. Arrange on lettuce leaves and 
serve with mayonnaise or cream salad dressing. — Mrs. J. C. 

Chicken Salad — One pint lettuce or celery, 1 scant pint of 
chicken cut fine, French dressing, 1 gill of grated bread crumbs, 
2 gills of mustard dressing or mayonnaise. Mix the chopped 
chicken and crumbs with French dressing. When ready to serve 
add the mayonnaise and celery or lettuce. — Mrs. J. G. 

Chicken Mousse — One cup chicken stock, 2 teaspoons granu- 
lated gelatine, ^/^ teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons cold water, paprika 
and celery salt, 1 cup beaten cream, 1 cup cold cooked chicken, 
1 tablespoon chopped olives, 2 egg whites. Heat chicken stock, 
add seasoning, gelatine, which has been soaked in water. When 
dissolved, add chicken finely chopped, beaten cream; beat well; 
cut and fold in the beaten whites; pour into buttered molds 
and chill for two or three hours. Serve as a salad with mayon- 
naise. — H. B. F. 

Com Salad — Cut corn from the ear and when cold mix with 
mayonnaise. Cut tomatoes In halves. Scoop out the center and 
fill with corn mixture. Lay on lettuce leaves, chill and serve. — 
Mrs. Cornell. 

Crab Salad — Shred crab meat. For a cup of meat mix a few 
grains each of salt and pepper with 3 tablespoons olive oil. Add 
1 tablespoon vinegar gradually and mix thoroughly. Mix this 
dressing through crab and let stand till very cold. Dispose on 
beds of lettuce leaves and sprinkle with 1 or 2 tablespoons 
chopped olives or capers. Mayonnaise may be added to garnish 
or sauce tartar. With the latter, omit the olives or capers. — - 
Mrs. Cornell. 

Cucumber and Asparag:us Salad — Pare and dice 2 medium 
sized cucumbers and place in ice water seasoned with saltspoon 
of salt. When ready to use, drain and dry cucumbers. Drain 
and cut in small pieces a can of asparagus. Half an hour before 
serving mix 2 vegetables lightly together, adding as you do so 
1 teaspoon onion juice and 1 tablespoon minced cress and French 
dressing to moisten well. Arrange in mound on heart of lettuce, 
garnish with chopped hard boiled eggs and pimolas. 

Cucumber Baskets for Salads — Cut about ^ off the cucum- 
bers lengthwise, half way to form ^^ inch wide handles. Scoop 
out and fill with most any salad mixture. Serve on lettuce 
leaves. Very appetizing. — Mrs. H. B. A. 



87 



Cuban -Salad — Lay 6 bananas on ice till chilled. Peel, slice 
thinly in glass bowl and scatter over Maraschino cherries. Make 
a syrup of ^^ cup lemon juice and % cup granulated sugar and 
1 tablespoon sherry. Pour over the fruit. Set on ice and serve 
very cold. 

Stuffed Cucumbers — Cut 3 cucumbers in half lengthwise. 
Scoop out the good portion and drop into a basin of salt water. 
Put boat shaped halves into cold water. Cut into cubes 2 or 3 
cold boiled potatoes and into fine bits pimientoes to taste (about 
1/^ a one). Drain cucumbers and mix with potatoes and pimien- 
toes; add mayonnaise and season. Pile into half cucumbers and 
place on lettuce halves. — Mrs. H. P. S. 

Cucumber Jelly — Peel 3 large cucumbers, cut in slices. Boil 
in 1 cup cold water until soft; force through a sieve; add 3 
tablespoons granulated gelatine dissolved in 1 cup of cold water, 
4 drops onion juice, few grains cayenne, 1 tablespoon vinegar 
and salt to taste. Color with vegetable green and strain. — Mrs. 
Cornell. 

Eggs a la Mahon Salad — Scoop out tomatoes for a shell. Boil 
eggs 1 minute. Put ^ egg in each tomato shell; then add 
mayonnaise dressing. Put boiled peas through a sieve and make 
a good paste by adding a little cream or melted butter and put 
this over the mayonnaise. Serve on lettuce leaves. — Mrs. B. 

Egg liily Salad — Boil 1 egg in cold water for each lily, about 
10 minutes; then drop in cold water, remove shell and while 
warm cut with silver knife in strips from small end nearly to 
base. Very carefully lay back the petals on a few leaves of 
bleached lettuce. Remove yolks and rub them with a spoon- 
ful of butter, one of vinegar, a little mustard, salt and paprika; 
form cone shaped balls and place on petals, sprinkling tiny bits 
of parsley over balls; 2 or 3 stuffed olives carry out the idea 
of buds. Serve on cut glass dishes to carry out water effect. 
With care this is not hard to make and its beauty repays all 
trouble it has cost. 

Stuffed Eggs — Boil 6 eggs hard, about 20 minutes. Put in 
cold water, shell and cut open carefully; take out the yolks; 
mash with a fork; chop very fine 1 radish, pickle, some heart of 
lettuce, green onion, little celery and parsley. Mix together 
with the yolks; also add some chopped shrimps with a little 
olive oil and vinegar; salt and pepper slightly and make the 
mixture into little balls to fit back into the whites of eggs and 



ss 



close same tightly. Lay onto a crisp lettuce leaf and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. Garnish with olives and slices of 
lemon. A delicious salad. — Mrs. M. M. 

i>ecoration for any kind of Fruit Salad — Three lettuce leaves 
from heart of lettuce, fastened at stem with a tooth pick, a 
flower with a soft stem such as violet or nasturtium; run 
through tip end of each leaf and bring together over the top 
fastened with a narrow ribbon bow. This forms a sort of basket, 
in which may be placed a salad of most any kind, fruit salad 
being the most effective. Very pretty. 

Fruit Salad — Two eggs, 4 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon corn 
starch, 2 teaspoons butter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup sweet cream. 
Use apples cut in cubes, bananas in slices, oranges in half seg- 
ments, and grapes cut in two, with seeds removed. Tokay or 
Muscat grapes. Serve on whites of lettuce leaves. Boil the in- 
gredients of dressing till thick; adding cream, however, when the 
rest of the dressing is cool. — Mrs. M. 

Fruit Salad — Take equal parts orange, pineapple, bananas 
and white grapes. Cut in pieces, sprinkle with sugar and pour 
over all a wine glass apricot brandy. — Mrs. C. 

Fruit Salad — Two oranges (large), 6 slices of pineapple 
(large), 2 or 3 bananas, V^. cup of green grapes, % cup English 
walnuts. Can add more or less of any or use all of one kind. — 
Mrs. B. R. K. 

Salad Dressing for Fruit Salad — Two-thirds cup sugar, ^/^ 
cup vinegar. Fill cup with water, heat; when boiling stir in 
2 tablespoons (heaping) of flour with Vz teaspoon salt and 
mustard wet with water; 2 eggs beaten separately, yolks added 
first, whites folded in just before removing from the fire; butter 
size of a walnut added after taking off. It will seem stiff, but 
add from 10 to 20 cents worth of (or cup) whipping cream 
when you want to use it. Put in a glass jar, seal and keep in 
a cool place for two weeks or more; can add more or less sugar 
or vinegar. — Mrs. B. R. K. 

Cold Ham With Egg Salad — Six eggs boiled hard. Cut in 
halves and mix the yolks with salt, cayenne and cream to form a 
paste. Stuff whites with this mixture, put on lettuce leaves and 
cover with mayonnaise. Serve with a slice of cold ham. — Mrs. C. 

Peach Salad — Put halves of peaches on lettuce leaves with 
mound of mayonnaise, then mound of whipped cream and cherry 
in center. — Mrs. J. L. P. 



89 



PimieiUo Salad — One can pimiento morrones, oil from pimien- 
to, celery, juice h^ lemon, 2 hard boiled eggs, salt and pepper, 
lettuce. Cut pimiento in thin rings, slice celery fine, cut egg 
whites in thin slivers. Mix oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper and 
yolks mashed fine. Beat with Dover egg beater. Pour over 
peppers, celery, eggs, and mix well. Serve in nests of lettuce. — 
W. B. H. 

Pimiento Salad — The following is enough for one dozen: 2 
cups cold minced veal, 1 cup mashed potato or soaked bread 
crumbs. Use salt, pepper and paprika to taste, 2 teaspoons onion 
juice, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, 1 small piece chopped 
tarragon. Mix lightly with mayonnaise dressing, fill the pimientoes, 
place on lettuce leaves, and place a teaspoon of mayonnaise on 
top of each — Mrs. A. E. E. 

Jellied Pecan Salad — To 1 pint of lemon jelly, when nearly 
hard, add 1 cup of broken pecans; mold in wine glasses and 
serve on lettuce leaves with finely shaved sweet green peppers 
and mayonnaise. 

Pineapple and Banana Salad — Place crisp lettuce leaves on 
plate, then a slice of pineapple either fresh or canned, a banana 
which has been scraped and cut in halves. Sprinkle with 
chopped walnuts or pecans. Serve with maj^onnaise heaped in 
the center. — Mrs. E. L. P. 

Pineapple and Celery Salad. — Mix 1 part of canned (whole) 
pineapple cut in bits with 2 parts celery cut in pieces. Mix 
well with mayonnaise and garnish with sweet Spanish peppers. 

3Iolded Salmon — One can salmon, ^ tablespoon salt, 1^ 
tablespoons sugar, % tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon mustard, few 
grains cayenne, yolks of 2 eggs, 1% tablespoons melted butter, 
% cups of milk, ^4 cup of vinegar, % tablespoon granulated 
gelatine, 2 tablespoons cold water. Remove salmon from can and 
rinse thoroughly with hot water, separate into flakes. Mix dry 
ingredients, add egg yolks, butter, milk and vinegar. Cook in 
double boiler till it thickens, stirring constantly. Add gelatine 
soaked in cold water; strain and add to salmon. Fill individual 
molds; chill and serve with cucumber sauce. Two cucumbers 
peeled and grated. Drain and season with salt, pepper and vine- 
gar. 

Salmon Salad — One cupful salmon, 1 cupful celery, 3 hard 
boiled eggs, 2 tablespoonsful of oil or melted butter, 1 teaspoon- 
ful mustard, a little salt and cayenne. Mix chopped salmon 




90 



and celery and whites of eggs, rub yolks smooth with oil and 
other ingredients; add vinegar or lemon juice to taste. When 
dressing is well mixed pour over the salmon and serve. Garnish 
with celery, celery tips or lettuce hearts. — J. G. K. 

Tomato Jelly — Soak 1 package Knox's gelatine in 1 cup cold 
water; add red tablet to color; l^^ teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, few drops celery extract, 1 teaspoon grated onion. Stir 
into this mixture 1 quarfiOf strained, boiling hot tomato juice. 
Mold and serve on beds of crisp lettuce leaves with mayonnaise. 
Powdered yolks of hard boiled eggs may be sprinkled on top. 

Stuffed Tomato Salad — Peel and hollow out tomatoes. Salt 
inside and invert until ready to fill. Fill with the inside of the 
tomato, onion, parsley, bell pepper and celery chopped fine and 
well seasoned with salt and pepper mixed well with French 
dressing. Serve on beds of lettuce with mayonnaise. — Mrs. 
H. L. S. 

Tomato a la Belmont — For this salad a head of lettuce is 
used to a person. Select carefully and remove all useless leaves; 
wash, cut off stump, but do not cut so much that the good por- 
tion will fall apart. Remove the small inner blossom and very 
carefully spread the lettuce open so that it resembles a large 
rose. Put on ice to crispen for use. Later — Drop in hot water 
firm 'tomatoes and remove skin. Scoop out small bit from cen- 
ter. Remove this; set tomatoes on ice. Make a mixture of 
chicken and celery cut fine and the tomato which you have re- 
moved and mix with it plenty of mayonnaise; season. Fill 
tomatoes with mixture, adding a spoonful of mayonnaise on top 
sprinkled with paprika. Place a head of lettuce on each plate, 
set tomato into each. Serve. This is very delicious and while 
elaborate can all be prepared the day ahead except the last mix- 
ture. The secret is to have the lettuce crisp and the tomatoes 
cold. The lettuce is improved if dipped into French dressing, 
but this is not essential. — E. N. H. P. 

English Walnut Salad^ — Chopped walnuts, 2 good sized apples 
and mayonnaise dressing mixed together. Put a little dressing 
on the top of each. Serve with a little Cottage cheese made into 
long rolls, with half of walnut on the top. Place this in the 
side of the tomato. This receipt is for the stufling of the tomato. 

Winter Salad — One quart cooked beets, 1 quart raw cabbage, 
chop very fine together; V2 cup horseradish, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, salt and pepper to suit taste and enough cider vinegar to 
make quite moist. This salad will keep a few days and is much 
liked. — Mrs. E. D. K. 



91 



MEMORANDA 



PHONE MISSION 476 



OPEN EVENINGS 



(^M, MINK ^ 




Model 
Ladies* 
Tailor 



Workmanship and Fit 
Guaranteed 



1068 VALENCIA STREET 



Near Twenty-second 



San Francisco 



H.S, ELLIOTT & CO 



Wholesale and Retail 
GROCERS 

2637 MISSION STREET 

Phones — Mission 768 
Home M 3518 

San Francisco 



F. HARTJE 

GROCER 

CORNER TWENTY-SECOND 

AND CHATTANOOGA STS, 

San Francisco, California 



THE FRAMING 
DEPARTMENT 

OFFERS THE 
Newest and most Ar- 
tistic Designs in Am- 
erican and Imported 
Picture Mouldings, 

THE POTTERY 
DEPARTMENT 

Carries a splendid as- 
sortment of Rare and 
Beautiful Wares. 
China Fired Daily. 

16TO HAIGHX STREET 

•At Junction of Belvedere 

EDITH M. SMITH, Manager 




93 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

Boiled Mayonnaise Dressing — Beat 1 egg and add 1 teaspoon 
vinegar, a little pepper, a pinch of salt and mustard. Set the 
small saucepan in boiling water and stir the egg constantly until 
it begins to thicken. When cool beat in slowly all the olive oil 
that is desired. — C. B. D. 

Boiled Salad Dressing — One cup milk, 2 tablespoons flour, 
butter size of walnut, 1 tablespoon sugar, ^ tablespoon mustard, 
% teaspoon salt, yolk 1 egg, % cup (equal quantity) vinegar and 
water, pinch red pepper. Let it come to a boil. Stir constantly. 
— Mrs. Wm. A. B. 

Burlinganie Salad Dressing — Yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs 
rubbed fine and smooth, 1 teaspoon mustard and salt, 2 raw yolks, 
dessert spoon of sugar. Cook in double boiler, adding fresh sweet 
olive oil in small quantities until thick. Add vinegar and cay- 
enne pepper to taste. — H. G. 

Cooked Salad Dressing — Two eggs, V2 teaspoon salt, % tea- 
spoon mustard, 2 teaspoons sugar, 4 tablespoons oil, 3 table- 
spoons vinegar. Mix the yolks, mustard, salt, sugar together. 
Then stir in the oil, spoonful at a time. When smooth add vine- 
gar. Place in a pan of boiling water; set on stove and stir the 
contents until thick. Remove and when cold add the whites 
beaten to a stiff froth. — A. A. D. 

Cream Salad Dressing (Keeps Indefinitely) — One-half table- 
spoon each of dry mustard and salt, % tablespoon sugar, 2 
tablespoons flour, 2^^ tablespoons butter. Put in double boiler 
and stir until smooth. Remove from fire and add 1 unbroken 
egg and stir well, then % cup milk and ^ cup vinegar slowly 
to prevent curdling. A little red pepper improves it. Cook over 
steam until as thick as cream. — Mrs. E. B. C. 

Cream Salad Dressing — Beat yolks of 4 eggs; add 1 teaspoon- 
ful of sugar 1 teaspoonful of mixed mustard, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, ^i cupful of butter, % cupful of cream. Place all over 
hot water on the stove and stir frequently until thick as boiled 
custard. When cold, season to taste with salt and pepper. Thin 
with lemon juice or cream if preferred. — Mrs. J. C. 



JM 



Cream Salad Dressing — One tablespoon butter melted in a 
double boiler, 1 tablespoon flour and enough milk to make a 
thick cream. Have ready 2 eggs well beaten, into which has 
been stirred 2 full teaspoons mustard, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 
scant teaspoon salt and pinch of paprika, 1 tablespoon vinegar. 
To prevent curdling pour the hot cream into the beaten eggs 
slowly and then pour all into the double boiler. Stir slowly 
until thoroughly cooked. When serving thin with cream. — 
Mrs. W. H. W. 

Fruit Salad Dressing — To make 1 scant cup: Take the juice 
of 1 lemon, 1 gill water, % gill Angelica wine, 3 drops exactly 
of Jamaica ginger and 8 heaping teaspoons sugar. Pour this 
over the prepared fruit and let stand 2 hours or more. The 
ginger is added simply for flavoring and not with any idea of 
medicinal value. Hence do not exceed quantity given. This 
dressing goes excellently with a mixture of peaches, bananas, 
oranges and pineapples all properly cut or sliced. 

Fruit Salad Dressing — One egg, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 1 table- 
spoon butter. Boil until thick. When cool add i^ cup heavy 
cream about to turn. Beat until creamy and pour over salad. 
Mix well and serve. — H. K. W. 

Salad Dressing Mayonnaise — Take 1 whole egg, place in a 
bowl together with a teaspoon (scant) mustard and 1 of salt. 
Use your egg beater, beat these 3 ingredients with a teaspoonful 
salad oil, then add more oil until it starts to thicken slightly, 
when you can add the oil as rapidly as you like, alternating the 
oil with a teaspoon of vinegar every little bit. Keep stirring 
and beating with egg beater during the entire process. This 1 
egg will make 1 pint dressing and is lovely and creamy and is 
made in about 5 minutes. — A. N. K. 

Mayonnaise — An easy way to make mayonnaise for 3 or 4 
people for one occasion. Mix Vs teaspoon salt, a little cayenne 
pepper, Vs teaspoon mustard with 1 teaspoon vinegar. Stir in 
this V2 yolk of an egg. Pour in slowly at first l^ cup sweet 
oil, but it is not necessary to put it in drop by drop. If not acid 
enough add lemon juice to taste, and if to be used on tomatoes 
'^^ teaspoon of sugar may be added to the dry ingredients. 

Mayonnaise — Take 3 fresh eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls of pure olive 
oil, 3 of vinegar, 3 of thin bouillon or water, and a little salt. 
Beat all well with an egg beater. When thoroughly mixed put 
the pot into a bigger one of boiling water and beat with egg 



95 



beater untiL of the right consistency. Take the pot away and 
stir for a little while until cooled. Be sure the water is boiling 
hard. Delicious. — M. C. C. 

Notary Salad Dressing — Beat the yolk of 1 egg with 1 tea- 
spoon of made mustard, 1 tablespoon of sugar, 5 tablespoons of 
vinegar, salt to taste. Stir this over the fire until thick as cream. 
When cool add ^ teacup of cream whipped; then add the white 
of the egg well beaten. — A. J. H. 

Potato Salad Dressing — One tablespoon of flour mixed with 
4 tablespoons of olive oil or melted butter. Then add 1 cup milk. 
Put into a double boiler; cook until like cream, stirring con- 
stantly. Take off the stove. Three eggs, 1 tablespoon of salt, i/^ 
cup vinegar, 1 teaspoon mustard, a little cayenne. Mix all to- 
gether and pour into milk and flour that is creamed. Put 
back on stove and cook until creamy. Use when cold. — Mrs. 
J. W. B. 

Prosperity Salad Dressing — Six eggs^ 6 even teaspoons mus- 
tard, 6 teaspoons sugar, 3 teaspoons salt, 3 teaspoons cornstarch, 
6 tablespoons sweet oil, 18 tablespoons milk, 18 tablespoons vine- 
gar. Beat the yolks of eggs, mix mustard, cornstarch, sugar and 
salt together dry and stir into the beaten yolks. Add sweet oil 
gradually, then milk and lastly vinegar. Cook as soft custard. 
Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add to mixture while 
warm. — Mrs. J. 

Sour Ci*eani Salad Dressing — One-half cup sour cream, 1 egg, 1 
large teaspoon mustard, 1 dash cayenne, juice of 1 lemon or 2 
tablespoons vinegar, 2 tablespoons sugar and Vs teaspoon salt. 
Mix all together and place on stove, stirring all the time until it 
bubbles up once. Then remove quickly, before it curdles. — M. 
A. B. 

Richmond Salad Di*essing — Juice of 2 oranges, juice of 3 
lemons, 2 eggs, V2 cup sugar, ^ cup cream. Beat the juice of 
the oranges and lemons with the eggs, add sugar and boil until 
clear; whip the cream and stir well. Set away to cool. — E. T. 

French Dressing — Eight tablespoons olive oil, 4 tablespoons 
vinegar, level teaspoon salt, dash of cayenne pepper or larger 
amount of paprika. (One teaspoon onion juice added for vege- 
table salads.) Put mixture in a bottle and shake well. — Mrs. 
H. L. S. 



96 



Boiled Dressing — Rub together a mite of mixed mustard and 
a mite of sugar. Add 1 egg well beaten, butter size of egg, dash 
of salt and pepper. Cook in double boiler, and while heating 
add slowly 2 tablespoons of strong vinegar or 3 tablespoons of 
mild. Remove from stove as soon as it begins to thicken. — Mrs. 
H. L. S. 

Sweet Salad Dressing — Five tablespoons sugar, 1 level tea- 
spoon dry mustard, salt and paprika, lump of butter, ^ cup 
vinegar. Mix all ingredients but butter and heat in double 
boiler. Add butter while heating. — Mrs. H. L. S. 



97 



MEMORANDA 



its 



PICKLES AND RELISHES 

Chili Sauce — Twenty-four large tomatoes, 4 large onions, 8 
red peppers, 2 tablespoons salt, 8 tablespoons sugar, 4 cups vine- 
gar. Chop the onions and peppers fine. Add all together and 
cook slowly 3 or 4 hours, stirring constantly to prevent burning. 

Chow Chow No. 1 — One colander chopped green tomatoes, 1 
colander chopped cabbage, 1 colander chopped onions, 1 col- 
ander chopped sweet peppers, 2 heads celery, 15 cents' worth of 
mustard seed, salt to taste (about 2 handsfuls), 1 scant quart 
vinegar; about as much sugar as salt. Cook slowly about 3 
hours. — E. D. 

Chow Chow No. 2 — Ten pounds green tomatoes chopped not 
too fine. Sprinkle with 1 coffee cup of salt and let stand 12 
hours. Drain off water and add 6 green peppers, 5 small onions, 
6 stalks of celery, all chopped. Then add 2 coffee cups of sugar, 
2 tablespoonfuls of dry mustard, 4 tablespoonfuls of mustard 
seed, 1 tablespoonful of pepper, 1 tablespoonful of celery seed, Vz 
teaspoonful of cayenne pepper and 1 pint of vinegar. Cook to- 
gether until soft and jar air tight. More vinegar may be neces- 
sary, according to its strength. — Mrs. N. C. H. 

Chow Chow _No. 3 — Two quarts green tomatoes chopped, 1 
gallon cabbage after it is chopped, ^/^ dozen green peppers, 2 
ripe peppers, i/^ dozen cucumbers, % dozen onions, ^ head 
celery. Chop all the above fine, sprinkle with salt — about 1 
teacup — and let it stand all night. In the morning drain ofC 
all the brine and cook in 1 pint vinegar and 1 quart water for 
V2 hour. Drain off the water and vinegar and add 1 quart good 
vinegar (in which has been soaked over night a bag containing 
1 teaspoon each of cloves, allspice and cinnamon). Add % cup 
mustard seed, ^ cup grated horseradish, ^4 cup Colman's mus- 
tard, V2 teaspoon black pepper, i/^ teaspoon cayenne, 1% pounds 
sugar. Cook 1 hour. — Mrs. R. W. 

Green Tomato Pickle — One head of cabbage, 1 dozen cucum- 
bers, 1 dozen onions, 8 quarts of green tomatoes. Chop all to- 
gether; stir in 1 cup of salt. Let stand 12 hours. Pour off 



99 



water. Add- 2 tablespoonfuls mustard seed, 1 teaspoon each 
of cinnamon, cloves, celery seed, pepper and allspice, 2 pounds 
of brown sugar. Vinegar to cover all. Boil all together 10 min- 
utes, then let simmer about 1 hour. Will keep indefinitely. — 
Mrs. X. C. H. 

Excellent Relish With Meats — Take white cherries and wash 
them. To a quart jar take a tablespoon of salt, ^ cup of vine- 
gar and the rest of the quart cold water. Mix the salt, vine- 
gar and water together, pour over cherries and seal up tight. It 
takes about 2 weeks to have them good. — M. H. G. 

Pickled Cherries — If the vinegar is strong use 2 cups vinegar 
and 2 cups water, 2 small bags allspice, 2 small bags cloves, 3 
small bags cinnamon (one large tablespoon to a bag). Place 
spices in vinegar and heat to boiling point; set aside and let 
stand over night. In morning, heat again and skim out spices. 
Add 8 cups granulated sugar and stir until dissolved. Mean- 
while cut off the ends of the stems of the cherries and pack them 
in pint jars. Stand in cold water, half the height of jars. Cover 
and steam until the fruit can be easily pierced with a straw. 
Fill jars with hot spiced syrup and seal. — Mrs. M. V. W. 

Crab Canapes — Cut bread in slices ^ inch thick, 3 inches 
long and 1^ inches wide. Spread with butter and brown in 
oven. Mix 1 cup chopped crab meat, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 2 
drops tobasca sauce, i/^ teaspoon salt, a few drops onion juice, 2 
tablespoons olive oil. Mark the bread diagonally in 4 sections 
and spread them alternately with melted cheese and crab mix- 
ture. Separate sections with finely chopped pimento. — C. S. M. 

Chutney — Six pounds of blue plums, 2 pounds of apples, 2 
pounds of brown sugar, 2 pints of vinegar, 2 tablespoons of 
green ginger (grated), 1 teaspoon of cayenne pepper, 2 table- 
spoons of garlic, 1 teaspoon of cloves, 4 good sized onions. Chop 
and boil slowly until it thickens, which will take 3 hours or more. 
Put in Mason jars. It is fine with meats. — M. H. G. 

Tomato Chutney or Sauce — Eight pounds tomatoes, 2 pounds 
apples, 2 pounds sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 2 ounces pepper corns, 
% ounce cayenne pepper, ^/^ ounce allspice, % ounce cloves, ^ 
pound seedless raisins, 6 large onions; salt to taste. Boil the 
mixture 3 hours, stirring frequently. Put the spices in a bag. 
— Mrs. H. 

Pear Chutney — Nine pounds Sekel pears, pared, quartered and 
cored; 2 pounds Sultana raisins, 6 large green peppers, 3 pints 



100 



vinegar, 1 pound crytallized ginger, 4 blades of mace, 2 table- 
spoonfuls cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. Cut the pears, pep- 
pers and ginger into small pieces. Boil the mixture slowly for 
2 hours or until rich and thick. This is excellent with ice cream 
or can be used as a relish. — F. V. M. 

French Pickles — One peck green tomatoes, 8 large onions, 10 
sweet peppers, 3 quarts vinegar, 2 quarts water, 2 pounds brown 
sugar, V^ pound mustard seed, 1 tablespoon ground cloves, 2 
tablespoons ground cinnamon, 1 tablespoon ground ginger, 1 
tablespoon ground mustard, 1 tablespoon ground celery seed. 
Slice tomatoes, onions and peppers. Sprinkle with 1 cup salt. 
Let stand over night, then drain and boil in 1 quart of vinegar 
and 2 quarts of water for 15 minutes. Drain again. Take the 
remaining 2 quarts of vinegar; put in sugar, spices and seeds 
and bring to a boil, then add the pickles and cook at least 1 
hour, being careful not to burn. — Mrs. G. H. F. 

Grape Fruit — Remove pulp from 3 grape fruit and pulp from 
1 orange, being careful to free it from all skin. Sweeten and 
add a little sherry. Chill and serve in Vz grape fruit shell with 
cherry on top of each. 

Spiced Currants — Five pounds currants, 4 pounds sugar, % 
pint vinegar or less if desired, 2 tablespoons ground cloves, 1 
tablespoon ground allspice. Put vinegar and spices on to boil, 
while squeezing currants; let juice and all boil 20 minutes; add 
hot sugar (having previously placed sugar in oven), and boll 
until it jells. One good boil up should suffice if the sugar is very 
hot. One drawer of currants usually contains 10 pounds. — Mrs. 
W. W. 

My Mother's Piccalilli — Purchase 1 peck of green tomatoes. 
Cover them well with salt and let them so remain for 1 night. 
In the morning, strain off all the brine. To these now add the 
following: Two quarts of vinegar, 1 quart of sugar, l^ quart 
of "whole" mustard, 1 spoonful ground mustard, 3 spoonfuls 
pepper, 2 spoonfuls salt, 1 spoonful whole allspice, 3 chopped 
peppers, 3 chopped onions. Boil until the rawness disappears. 
Then serve as a relish. — Mrs. N, H. M. 

Pickled Apricots — Three quarts white sugar, 1 pint vinegar, 
6 cloves, a little allspice, 2 tablespoons mustard or celery seed, 1 
tablespoon red pepper. Mix pepper, sugar and other dry ingre- 
dients; then add vinegar and boil a few minutes. Peel and add 
the apricots, not too ripe (whole or unpitted), and boil until 
tender; watch carefully and skim each one out separately as soon 
as a little soft. Fill the jars with the syrup and seal tight. — • 
Mrs. A. E. E. 



101 



Sweet Pickled Figs — To 10 pounds white figs, 7 pounds of 
sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 3 sticks cinnamon and 2 cloves in each 
fig. Make a syrup of sugar, vinegar and cinnamon. Put in the 
figs and cook 5 minutes. Pour all into a crock and let stand 24 
hours. Drain off syrup and boil up once and pour over the figs 
while boiling hot and let stand 4 8 hours. Drain off and heat 
syrup again, this time adding the fruit as it reaches the boiling 
point and let all boil up together. Return to jar or bottle as 
preferred, allowing them to ripen in flavor for a while before 
using. Will keep indefinitely. 

Mustai*d Pickle — One hundred small cucumbers, 50 small 
onions, 2 quarts of water, % pint salt, 1 tablespoon tumeric 
powder, 1 tablespoon mustard seeds, 1 tablespoon celery seeds, 
% cup of flour, 3 tablespoons mustard, % cup sugar, 2 quarts 
vinegar, 1 cup olive oil. Let cucumbers and onions stand 24 
hours in a brine made from the 2 quarts of water and Vz pint 
salt. Take out and drain. Put cucumbers in cold vinegar and 
set on back of stove until steam rises, after which take them out 
and put in onions and boil until done. Make a paste of flour 
and vinegar, add mustard, tumeric powder and stir into the boil- 
ing vinegar; add seeds, olive oil and pour over pickles. Seal in 
air tight jars. — Mrs. J. W. B. 

Mustard Pickle — One quart small whole cucumbers, 1 quart 
large cucumbers, peeled and sliced thick, 1 quart green tomatoes 
sliced, 1 quart small button onions, 4 green peppers chopped, 1 
large cauliflower divided into flowerettes. Make a brine of 4 
quarts water and 1 pint salt; pour over the mixture of vege- 
tables and let soak 24 hours. Heat just enough to scald it 
and turn into a colander to drain. Mix 1 cup flour, 6 even 
tablespoons ground mustard and 1 even tablespoon turmeric, 
with enough vinegar to make a smooth paste; then add 1 cup 
sugar and enough vinegar to make 2 quarts in all. Boil this 
mixture until it thickens and is smooth, stirring the while. Then 
add vegetables and cook until well heated through. — Mrs. R. W. 

Damon Tomato Sauce — Twelve ripe tomatoes, 3 red peppers, 
3 onions chopped fine, 3 cups vinegar, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 cups 
sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Cook 1 hour or longer. — Mrs. J. S. 

Lettuce Leaves Genoise — Eight anchovies picked into bits, 2 
hard boiled eggs cut in tiny cubes, dash paprika. Mix the above 
with enough mayonnaise to hold it together and put a teaspoon- 
ful on 8 small crisp lettuce leaves not over ly^ inches long. 
Garnish with chopped parsley and capers or beets and serve on 
small plates as an appetizer. — Mrs. C. H. H. 



^ 



102 



Ripe Olives — Bruise % clove of garlic, place in quart jar; 
fill with ripe olives which have been drained and dried. Pill jar 
with pure olive oil. Let stand a few days before using. The 
oil may be used for several installments of olives. — Mrs. E. L. P. 

Pickled Pears — Nine pounds pears, 1 quart vinegar, 4^^ 
pounds sugar, 2 sticks cinnamon, 2 tablespoons cloves. Bring 
vinegar, sugar and spices to a good boil before putting in pears; 
then add pears and boil until a pretty pink color. Bottle in jars 
or crocks. — Mrs. W. M. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches — Pour boiling water over peaches and 
remove skin. Place in large stone jar. Make a syrup of 1 quart 
cider vinegar and 3 pints sugar; boil and skim, and pour over 
the fruit boiling hot 3 successive mornings. Then drain off the 
syrup, put the fruit in glass jars. Boil the syrup with a handful 
each of cloves and cinnamon until it is like molasses, and pour 
boiling hot over the fruit. Have enough syrup to cover well 
and seal. — Mrs. W. H. 

Spanish Pickle^ — One head cabbage, 1 dozen cucumbers, 1 
dozen onions, 8 quarts green tomatoes, 3 ounces white mustard 
seed, 1 ounce celery seed, 1 ounce tumeric (to be bought at drug 
store), 1 pound (Colman's) dry mustard, 2 1/^ pounds brown 
sugar. Boil 1% hours. Chop tomatoes, stir in 1 cup salt, put 
in pan with weight on top and stand over night. Drain off water 
in the morning, also chop cucumbers and let stand over night. 
Separate from tomatoes. Chop onions, cucumbers and cabbage 
fine; add tomatoes and put enough vinegar to cover all. Add 
other ingredients and boil l^^ hours, stirring so as not to let it 
burn. — Mrs. W. B. C. 

Sweet Apple Pickle — Twelve pounds of apples (sweet) pared 
and cored, 4 pounds sugar, 1 ounce of cinnamon bark, ^ ounce 
of cloves, 1 pint vinegar. Put spices in a cloth, tie up; then boil 
sugar, spices and vinegar well; add apples and boil 20 minutes; 
put apples in a jar and boil syrup until thick and pour over them. 
Pears are also good prepared the same way. Simply delicious. 
— Mrs. J. D. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle — One peck of green tomatoes and 6 
large onions sliced and sprinkled with salt and let stand over 
night. Drain well in the morning and add 2 quarts of water and 

1 quart of vinegar and boil 15 minutes; throw this vinegar 
away and add 2 large heads of cauliflower, cut into small pieces, 

2 pounds of sugar, 1 quart of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each of 
cloves and ginger, 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, ^4 spoon of 
cayenne pepper, 2 tablesponfuls mustard. Boil slowly until 
tender; seal in jars. — Mrs. L. K. 



103 

MEMORANDA 



10,4 



VEGETABLES 
HINTS 

If new potatoes are mealy and you wish to serve them whole, 
pour in a cupful of cold water after they have boiled about 10 
minutes. 

A squeeze of lemon in the water in which lettuce is put to 
cool crisps the vegetable and adds a slight flavor that is de- 
licious. 

When boiling macaroni or anything of like nature grease the 
sauce pan with a little butter to prevent sticking. — Mrs. Geo. H. F. 

Boiled Asparagus — Cut off the lower part of the stalks, wash 
thoroughly, tie in bunches, and cook in boiling salted water until 
soft. Drain, remove string, and spread with soft butter, and 
serve on buttered toast. 

Boiled Articliakes — Cut off the stem close to the leaves, re- 
move outside bottom leaves, trim artichoke and with a sharp 
knife remove the choke; then tie the artichoke with a string to 
keep its shape. Soak V2 hour in cold water. Drain and cook 
30 to 45 minutes in boiling, salted acidulated water. Remove 
from the water, place upside down to drain, then remove string. 
Serve with the following sauce: One-fourth cup butter, V2 
tablespoon vinegar or 1 tablespoon lemon juice, yolks 2 eggs, 14 
teaspoon salt, few grains cayenne. 

Stuffed Artichokes — Boil the artichokes in salt water, take 
out the heart, 2 medium sized onions (boiled), 10 cents' worth 
of fried sausage meat, 1 clove of garlic, bread crumbs. Put 
this through food chopper, then add 1 egg well beaten. Season 
with red pepper and salt. Fill artichokes. Put a little oil on 
top and bake in oven for 20 minutes. — C. M. B. 

Beets, Sour Sauce — Wash beets and cook in boiling salted 
water until soft. Drain and reserve Vz cup of water in which 
the beets were boiled. Plunge the beets into cold water, rub the 



105 



skins off and^cut into cubes, tlien relieat sour sauce. Sauce: Melt 
2 tablespoons butter, add 2 tablespoons flour and pour on the beet 
water. Add V4, cup each, vinegar and cream, 1 teaspoon sugar, % 
teaspoon salt and a few grains pepper. 

String Beans and Parmesan Cheese — Boil beans in the usual 
way, drain, then put into a frying pan over a hot fire in which 
butter has been melted. Add about % cup milk, salt, paprika 
and dash of cayenne. Scatter over all grated cheese with a lavish 
hand. Let boil about 10 minutes and you will have a delicious 
dish. Beans should be cut lengthwise in almost infinitesimal 
bits. — Mrs. E. D. K. 

Creamed Beans — Soak 1 pint of beans over night; the next 
morning boil until perfectly soft. Put through a sieve or colander 
and add salt and pepper. Make a smooth cream sauce by put- 
ting a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan and stirring in a 
tablespoonful flour; add slowly a cupful of milk, and when 
sauce is thick stir into the beans and beat well. Pour into a 
baking dish, cover the top with fine bread crumbs and bake 
brown. — Mrs. J. C. 

Baked Beans — Soak 1 pint beans over night. In the morning 
pour off the water and boil in fresh water until they crack 
open. Then put in a deep earthen dish with 1 tablespoon sugar 
and ^ pound of pork scored in squares but not broken. Keep 
covered with water while baking. Bake all day. — L. M. C. 

Baked Beans — Take a pint of small white beans and soak 
over night. In the morning pour off the water, place the beans 
in a bean pot and add 1 tablespoon of molasses, 1 onion, a tea- 
spoonful of mustard and ^ pound of pork, also salt and pepper. 
Cover the beans with cold water and place in the oven and cook 
slowly 4 or 5 hours. Add water to the beans from time to time 
as it boils away. 

liima Beans — Fry an onion in a little lard or olive oil. Add 
lima beans and tomatoes, then a little flour and water and let all 
steam until done. After they are cooked thoroughly, string 
beans taste fine if they are put in a frying pan with a little olive 
oil and fried for about 10 minutes. 

Succotash — Boil 2 pounds string beans broken in bits until 
tender. Just before serving add 1 can corn, 1 cup milk, 1 tea- 
spoon butter, % teaspoon salt. Let boil up and serve. — L. M. C. 



106 



Escalloped Cabbage — Cut V2 boiled cabbage in pieces, put in 
buttered baking disb, sprinkle with salt and pepper and add 
1 cup of White Sauce, viz: Two tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1 cup milk, ^A teaspoon salt and a few grains pepper. Mix 
the cabbage well with the sauce, cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake until the crumbs are brown. 

Boiled Cauliflower, Cabbage or Oysterplant may be served the 
second time escalloped. Put the pieces of cold vegetable in 
the pudding dish, pour over this a thin custard of 1 egg to a 
cup or cup and a half of milk, as required. Sprinkle bread 
crumbs, with salt, pepper and butter over the top. Bake in a 
slow oven and serve in the dish in which it is baked. 

Creamed Cabbage — One pint boiled and minced cabbage, V2 
pint hot milk, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon flour, ^/^ teaspoon 
salt, V2 teaspoon pepper. Put the cabbage, hot milk, salt and 
pepper in a stew pan and on the fire. Beat the butter and flour 
together until creamy, then stir into the contents of the stew pan. 
Simmer 10 minutes, being careful not to scorch the sauce. Serve 
very hot. 

Cabbage Rolls — One pound of lean raw beef chopped, 1 small 
onion chopped fine, V2 cup bread crumbs, 2 large tomatoes, 2 
tablespoons vinegar, 2 tablespoons sugar, salt and pepper to taste, 
8 large cabbage leaves. Soak cabbage leaves in hot water a 
few minutes to make them less brittle. Season meat with salt, 
pepper, onion, tomatoes and mix in the bread crumbs, which 
have been moistened with hot water; roll a part of this mixture 
in each cabbage leaf and tie with string or fasten with wooden 
toothpicks. Put in kettle with just enough water to barely 
cover. Add the vinegar and sugar to the water and stew gently 
until the cabbage is tender. — Mrs. A. A. D. 

Red Kraut — One red cabbage, 1 tablespoon New Orleans mo- 
lasses, 2 tablespoons lard, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, pepper and salt 
to taste, 2 tablespoons vinegar. Trim off all outside leaves of 
cabbage and cut fine as for slaw (do not wash). Put lard in 
saucepan over moderate fire. When hot put in cabbage and 
cook until tender, stirring occasionally. Add molasses and vine- 
gar, then cinnamon, pepper and salt. Set on back of range and 
cook about 1 hour. — Mrs. W. M. 

Baked Carrots — Take young French carrots, pare, cut into 
small pieces in a vegetable grinder. Boil for 10 minutes in 
salted water, strain and put in a baking dish. Put a good sized 



107 



piece of butter in a pan, and rub into it a tablespoonful of flour 
and a cup of milk. Season with salt, pepper and a teaspoon of 
Worcestershire sauce. Pour the sauce over the chopped carrots, 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and brown in 
the oven. — F. V. M. 

Fried Carrots — Take young carrots, parboil and cut in thin 
slices. Put these in a spider with melted butter and fry them 
brown, sprinkling with brown sugar. 

Cauliflower with Tomato Sauce — Boil a fresh cauliflower in 
salted water until tender. Drain and place on a hot dish. Pour 
over it a tomato sauce flavored with onion and green pepper, then 
sprinkle with bread crumbs fried in butter; add % teaspoonful 
of lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, small bits of butter and grated 
Parmesan cheese. Place in the oven for 10 minutes and serve 
hot. — F. V. M. 

Escalloped Cauliflower — Prepare the cauliflower and soak 30 
minutes in cold water. Cook 20 minutes in boiling salted water, 
drain, separate flowerettes and place same in a baking dish and 
pour over the following sauce: Two tablespoons butter, 2 table- 
spoons flour, 1 cup of milk, % teaspoon salt and a few grains of 
cayenne. Sprinkle buttered bread crumbs over the. top layer, 
and the addition of Parmesan cheese also adds to the richness 
of the dish. Put in the oven and brown the crumbs. — F. V. M. 

Creamed Celery Root — Pare the roots and cut in small cubes. 
Cook slowly until done in salted water, care being taken not to 
cook too long, as it gets mushy. A little onion cooked with it 
and removed when done improves the flavor. Serve with milk 
thickened and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. — M. C. 

Boiled Cucumbers — Take 2 good sized cucumbers, peel, cut in 
halves and tben in quarters, and let stand in salted water for 
Vz an hour. Then boil in slightly salted water until tender, but 
not soft. Drain, and place each piece on a small slice of buttered 
toast. Save part of the water the cucumbers have been boiled 
in. Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan, rub into the 
same a tablespoonful of flour and add the cucumber water and 
a teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Pour this 
sauce over the boiled cucumbers and toast, and garnish the top 
with strips of red pepper or canned pimentoes. 

Boiled Cucumbei*s — Cucumbers boiled as you would boil 
squash, covered with a cream sauce aiTd put in the oven to brown, 
with bread crumbs and butter on top, make a vegetable dish 
little known but always a favorite when once tried. — B. B. 



108 



CJom Omelette — One dozen ears corn grated, 1 cup milk, 3 
"square crackers rolled, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder. Butter size walnut. Salt and pepper to taste. 
Bake in individual muffin pans, well buttered, 20 minutes to Vz 
hour. — Mrs. M. A. L. ,^ I PU 

Com Pudding — ^Take % dozen cobs of corn and grate the corn 
from the cob. To the corn mixture add 2 eggs slightly beaten, 1 
teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls melted but- 
ter and 1 pint of scalded milk. Turn into a buttered pudding 
dish and bake in a slow oven until firm. 

Boiled Com on the Cob — The most satisfactory way to serve 
green corn is on the cob. Free the corn from the husks and 
silk. Have a kettle of water boiling hard; drop the corn into 
the water and cook 10 minutes. Eat with butter and salt. 

Com Oysters — Two cupfuls of corn, 1 egg (well beaten), V2 
teacupful of flour, salt. Mix well, drop from tablespoon into 
boiling fat.— C. M. B. 

Eggplant a la Bourbon — Pour a cupful of cream into an 
earthen baking dish. Upon this put several slices of eggplant, 
which must be cut very thin. Salt and add V2 can of tomatoes 
(or layer of sliced fresh tomato) and sprinkle the top with bits 
of Eastern cheese about the size of an almond, and salt and 
pepper. When this has been done cover with a rather thick 
layer of spaghetti, broken in pieces about 2 inches in length 
(cooked), more cheese, follow with more egg plant, more tomato, 
(layer of chopped bell peppers, and a top layer of eggplant), 
more cheese, pepper and salt and finally over the whole pour 
about a pint of good stock or more cream (or milk). Bake in 
a steady, slow oven for about 1 hour and 20 minutes. — Good. — 
H. M. K. 

Stuffed Eggplant — Eggplants boiled until a straw can be 
passed through them. Make a batter out of 1 egg, a little flour, 
bread crumbs, about 2 teaspoons melted butter, pepper and salt, 
1 small onion, minced. Cut eggplants in two, take out contents, 
and add with batter. Place back in shells, then put cracker 
crumbs and little melted butter on top and bake until brown — 
about % hour, — Mrs. T. G. I. 

Stuffed Eggplant (A Very Nice Entree) — Boil the whole egg 
plant till tender, not soft. Remove from the water and cut each 
lengthwise In halres. Scoop out the inside, leaving the skin 



109 



thick enoug,]i to serve as a receiver. To the pulp thus scooped 
out add an equal quantity of soaked bread, yolks of eggs (about 
1 to each whole eggplant), a little minced parsley, salt, pepper 
and plenty of melted butter, lastly adding the beaten whites of 
the eggs. Return this mixture to the receivers, cover each with 
bread crumbs and bits of butter, and bake in a quick oven about 
15 minutes. Serve hot on lettuce leaves or sprigs of parsley. 

Minced Kale — Remove all the old and tough leaves. Wash 
the kale thoroughly and drain, then put on to cook in a kettle 
of boiling water that has been salted. Boil rapidly, with th« 
cover off the kettle, until the vegetable is tender. Pour off the 
water and chop the kale rather fine; then put back into the kettle 
and add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 2 of meat broth or water 
for each pint of the minced vegetables. Cook for 10 minutes and 
serve at once. 

Macaroni — Boil 2 pounds of ribbon macaroni for 20 minutes. 
Chop fine 1 onion, a bunch of celery (only the white part), a 
bunch of parsley, 1 red pepper, some dried mushrooms. Flavor 
with a tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Cook this all in 
a sauce pan with butter. Add 1 can of tomatoes; cook all to- 
gether. When well cooked add the macaroni. Mix thoroughly. 
Salt to taste. Bake in oven with grated Italian cheese on top. 

Macaroni with Brown Sance — Take a clove of garlic, % onion, 
sprig of parsley, stalk of celery, sprig of thyme. Chop them all 
fine and fry to a golden brown in butter. Add 1 spoonful flour. 
Cook for a few moments, then add 1 cup stock. Stir well and 
strain over a dish of macaroni which has been boiled until soft 
in salted water or stock. Serve very hot and with grated cheese. 
— A. A. F. 

Macaroni (Mushroom Sauce) — Cook macaroni 25 or 30 min- 
utes. Meanwhile prepare sauce as follows: Fry 1 onion (sliced 
thin) in "^/z cup olive oil. Pour hot water over 1 cup of dried 
mushrooms and allow to stand 5 minutes. Drain, chop mush- 
rooms and add to oil and onion, then add % can tomatoes. Lot 
cook while macaroni is cooking. In serving dish, put layer of 
macaroni, then sauce, then grated Eastern or Parmesan cheese, 
macaroni, sauce and cheese on top. — H. M. K. 

Creamed Mushrooms — One pound mushrooms, 1 pint cream, 2 
tablespoons butter, salt and pepper to taste. Skin mushrooms, 
break stems and larger mushrooms in pieces. Saute in butter 
and salt; add cream and cook until tender. 



110 



Salsify or Oyster Plant — To prevent this root from turning 
dark it must be dropped as soon as pared and cut into the 
following mixture: For 6 good sized roots mix together 1 table- 
spoonful of vinegar, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 teaspoonful salt and 
3 pints water. Wash and scrape the roots, then cut into thin 
slices. Drop into the prepared water. Place the stew pan on 
the fire and cook the salsify 30 minutes. Drain and serve in a 
white sauce or mix together 1 tablespoonful of butter, V2 a tea- 
spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of lemon Juice and 1 teaspoonful 
of minced parsley and serve at once. 

Onion Souffle — Chop fine 1 cup of boiled onions. Make a 
white sauce with 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 tablespoonful of 
flour, 1 cup of milk and little salt and pepper. When this sauce 
boils, add a small cup of stale bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley, the chopped onion and beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 
Beat the whites until stiff and fold in. Pour mixture into a 
buttered dish and bake 15 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve 
immediately. — Mrs. H. B. A. 

Baked Onions — Choose large, perfect onions for this purpose. 
Trim the bottoms, but do not peel them. Throw them into a 
kettle of boiling water, add a teaspoonful of salt and boil rapidly 
1 hour; then drain in colander. Take each one out separately, 
wipe it dry, roll in a square of buttered tissue paper, twisting it 
at the top to keep it closed. Place in baking pan and bake in 
slow oven for 1 hour or until tender all through. When done 
take off papers, peel and place them in deep dish, brown slightly, 
basting with butter for few minutes. Season with salt and pepper 
and melted butter. Spanish onions are particularly nice served 
this way. — Mrs. D. C. 

Parsnips — Wash the parsnips clean, cook until tender in boil- 
ing salted water, then mash; season with butter, pepper and salt 
to taste; make into small cakes, dip in beaten egg, roll in bread 
crumbs and fry in deep hot fat or drippings. 

Parsnip Souffle — Pare and boil 5 medium sized parsnips until 
tender; then rub through a sieve. Season with ^/^ teaspoon salt, 
a little pepper and nutmeg. Dredge with 2 teaspoons flour. Mix 
thoroughly; then fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 4 eggs. Tur» 
into a buttered fireproof serving dish, place in pan of hot water 
and bake in a moderate oven to a delicate brown. 

A Nice Way to Cook and Serve Sweet Peas — Shell peas and 
cover with just enough hot water to cook them in. Add a table- 
spoonful sugar, salt and a little soda (about a pinch), while they 



m 



are cooking. Cook in an uncovered stew pan. Cook about 20 
minutes, or until peas are tender, when, if properly cooked, there 
will be no more liquid remaining than will be sufficient to serve 
them in. Use no thickening. Peas cooked in this way retain all 
their flavor and goodness. — M. Z. T. 

Green Peas — Melt a large piece of butter in a saucepan. Add 
a small onion and green peas and let them steam slowly for 
about 40 minutes, shaking occasionally so that they won't burn. 
Peas cooked in this way are delicious, and no water need be 
added if they cook slowly. 

Green Peppers Stuffed and Baked — Use only tender, sweet 
bell peppers, and for 6 medium sized peppers make a dressing in 
the following manner: Soak in cold water enough stale bread 
to make 1 pint when the water is pressed out. Season this with 
2 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 tablespoon of fine herbs, a little chopped 
green onion and small piece of celery, also 2 tablespoonfuls of 
butter or savory drippings. Cut off the stem end of the pepper 
and remove all the interior, being careful to take out every seed. 
Fill the peppers with the dressing. Place them on end In a 
shallow baking dish, and pour around them a sauce prepared as 
follows: Put into a saucepan and on the fire 1 tablespoonful of 
drippings, when hot add gradually 1 level tablespoonful flour. 
Stir until smooth and brown, then add gradually 1 cup of meat 
stock or water. Season with 1 level teaspoon of salt. Cook 5 
minutes, then pour around the peppers. Put the dish in a mod- 
erately hot oven and bake the peppers 1 hour, basting often with 
the sauce in the dish. Peppers may also be filled with a well 
seasoned dressing made of meat chopped fine, with or without 
the addition of bread crumbs or rice; and summer squash is also 
nice served in peppers and baked as above. — F. V. M. 



Peppers Stuffed witli Corn — Cut a slice from the stem end of 
6 peppers, remove the seeds and scald for 5 minutes. Mix 1 
cupful of corn, % cupful of grated ham, 4 tablespoonfuls cream, 
salt and pepper to taste and ^ cupful cracker crumbs. Fill the 
peppers with the mixture and cover with bits of breakfast bacon 
(or butter). Arrange in a pan, add 1 cupful of beef stock and 
bake V2 hour, basting often. — M. C. C. 

Stuffed Peppers with Corn — Make a custard of the grated pulp 
of about 6 ears of corn, 2 eggs (the whites and yolks beaten sep- 
arately), % cup milk, butter, pepper and salt, and fill bell pep- 
pers with this mixture. Cover the tops with bread crumbs, grated 



112 



cheese and bits of butter and bake until the custard is well set, 
about 20 minutes. Tomatoes are very nice stuffed with the 
same mixture, with a bit of green pepper added to the top. — 

C. L. B. 

German Potato Dumplings — Grate cold boiled potatoes (about 
2 cups), 2 eggs, fry 1 onion (sliced) in beef drippings, also small 
squares of bread. When brown add potatoes, % cup flour con- 
taining a little yeast powder; add a little salt, pepper and ginger. 
Mould into small balls about one-half the size of an egg and boil 
in salt water 5 or 6 minutes. Serve with chopped onions browned, 
or with browned bread crumbs poured over. — Mrs. E. D. K. 

Potato Ribbon — Peel large potatoes. Cut them round and 
round as you would pare an apple. Fry in hot lard until light 
brown. Sprinkle with salt and serve hot. — Mrs. P. D. 

Scalloped Potatoes (Kentucky Style) — Peel and slice potatoes 
thin, the same as for frying. Butter an earthen dish, put in a 
layer of potatoes and season with salt, pepper, butter and a bit 
of onion chopped fine; sprinkle with a little flour. Now put an- 
other layer of potatoes and seasoning. Continue this way until 
dish is filled. Just before putting into oven pour a quart of hot 
milk over potatoes. Bake % of an hour. Serve in baking dish. 
Cold boiled potatoes may be used, in which case less time is 
required to bake them. They are delicious either way. — Mrs. 

D. C. 

Stuffed Potatoes — Cut large baked potatoes in two length- 
wise and scoop out the interior, keeping the shells whole. Wash 
the potatoes and to each one add 1 teaspoon grated cheese, 1 
tablespoon cream and salt, pepper and butter to taste. Whip 
until light, heap into the shells and return to the oven to brown. 
Serve with a garnish of lettuce and hard boiled eggs. — Mrs. 
H. W. M. 

Potatoes on the Half-Shell — Six medium sized potatoes, % 
cup hot milk, 2 tablespoons butter, whites of 2 eggs, pinch of salt 
and pepper. Bake potatoes in a hot oven, so that skins will be 
hard. Then cut them in two lengthwise and take out inside. 
Mash the insides until free from lumps; add milk, butter, salt, 
pepper. Work together thoroughly, then fold in stiffly beaten 
whites of eggs. Pile mixture lightly into potato shells and bake 
about 15 minutes on top shelf of oven. Cheese may be sprinkled 
on top before second baking if desired. — C. B. D. 



n: 



Delmonico Potatoes — Two cups boiled potatoes, 1 cup white 
sauce, grated cheese, bread crumbs. First, put a layer of po- 
tatoes in greased baking dish, sprinkle with cheese. Second, re- 
peat until dish is filled, then pour over white sauce. Cover the 
top with buttered bread crumbs. Third, bake until potatoes are 
hot in a moderate oven. — Mrs. F. J. H. 

Southern Sweet Potatoes — Slice cold (cooked) sweet pota- 
toes about V4, inch thick and lay the slices side by side in a well 
buttered roasting pan (just as you would place biscuits for 
baking). Sprinkle bountifully with brown sugar and plenty of 
pieces of butter and bake in a moderate oven about 15 minutes, 
until candied. Serve hot. Delicious with game. 

Potato Piiflf — Two cups mashed potatoes, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 
eggs, 3 teaspoonfuls butter, salt and pepper. Beat thoroughly 
and put into deep dish in hot oven. Cook quickly and serve while 
hot. — Mrs. F. D. 

Potatoes and Turnips — For a change from mashed potatoes 
try boiling yellow turnips with potatoes and mashing with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Tender string beans cut small can be added 
If liked. Turnips should be put on to cook and cut in pieces a 
little before potatoes. — Mrs. J. K. 

Sweet Potato Com Boats — Boil good sized sweet potatoes 
until nearly done; peel, cut off a piece lengthwise, scoop out some 
from the center and fill with well seasoned sweet corn. Sift 
crumbs over the top and bits of butter and bake in oven until 
slightly brown. M. V. W. 

Potato Cakes— Two cups mashed potatoes, ^ cup flour, 1 
egg, % teaspoonful of baking powder. Drop 1 tablespoon at a 
time in deep hot fat. — Helen Merrill. 

To Boil Rice — Pick over the rice carefully, wash it in warm 
water, rubbing it between the hands, rinsing it in several waters; 
then let it remain in cold water until ready to be cooked. Have 
a saucepan of water slightly salted; when it is boiling hard, pour 
off the cold water from the rice and sprinkle it in the boiling 
water by degrees, so as to keep the particles separated. Boil it 
steadily for 20 minutes, then takd it off from the fire and drain 
off all the water. Place the saucepan, with the lid partly off, 
on the back part of the stove, where it is only moderately warm 
to allow the rice to dry. The moisture will pass off and each 
grain of rice will be separated, so that if shaken the grains 



114 



will fall apart. This is the true Southern v^ay of serving rice 
as a vegetable. It is also served with cream and sugar. — Mrs. 
W. M. H. 

Rice Savory — Two cupfuls of boiled rice, V2 cupful of ground 
walnuts, 1 egg, 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil or butter, Y2 of a small 
onion grated, 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, a little pa- 
prika, salt and pepper. Bake Vz hour in moderate oven. Turn 
out on platter and pour around it either a tomato sauce or 
thickened fresh pea sauce. — C. M, B. 

Spinach — Ten cents' worth spinach; pull off stems; cook V2 
hour with a pinch of soda; put into a colander and pour cold 
water over it and squeeze well. Put in chopping bowl with 2 
green onions and chop fine. Put a little butter in a kettle with 

1 teaspoon of flour, then add spinach and thin with soup stock; 
salt and pepper to taste. — M. R. B. 

Spinach (German Style) — Pick over and carefully wash about 
15 cents' worth of spinach. Boil until tender in fresh water. 
Drain and chop finely and set aside ready for use. Brown a 
small onion, sliced, in a generous piece of butter and add about 

2 tablespoons flour and stir carefully into butter; then add 
enough of the water in which the spinach has been boiled to 
make a stiff paste; then add the chopped spinach, pepper, salt 
and a little ginger and mix together very carefully; add fresh 
water suflacient to work all together smoothly, taking care to 
have the vegetable stew slowly for about ^/^ an hour. Great care 
must be taken in stirring in the paste so not to show in white 
streaks. Sprinkle, hard boiled eggs sliced thin over the top 
when ready for the table. — B. B. 

Spinach — Instead of serving from the dish, garnish with hard 
boiled eggs. Cook spinach in the usual way, place in ramekins 
with a poached egg on top, or bake in ramekins, dropping the 
egg carefully on top a few minutes before removing from oven. 

Baked Summer Squash — Take either the summer or Italian 
squash, and after washing remove the inside, being careful not 
to break the shell. Cook the squash thus removed together 
with a small piece of garlic or onion; season well with butter, 
pepper and salt, then mash with a spoon and fill the shells and 
set in a pan containing a little hot water. Sprinkle buttered 
bread crumbs on top each shell and bake until brown in the 
oven. — ^F. V. M. 



Ill 



Slewed- Tomatoes — Peel the tomatoes and cut into small 
pieces. Put in a stew pan on the fire. Boil gently for % hour. 
Season 5 minutes before the cooking is finished, allowing for 
each quart of tomatoes 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar and 
1 tablespoonful or more of butter. 



Baked Tomatoes with Sardines — Select firm, well shaped to- 
matoes; cut off top and scoop out the center. Chop the to- 
mato which has been removed, mix with bread crumbs and some 
chipped Norwegian smoked sardines. Fill the tomatoes with 
mixture, cover the top with bread crumbs, grated cheese, melted 
butter and bake in moderate oven. Season filling to taste. The 
above dish is excellent for a lunch menu. — Mrs. E. L. P. 



Tomatoes with Macaroni and Cheese — Take 6 tomatoes, pour 
boiling water over them, and allow them to stand for a few min- 
utes to loosen the skins. Cook them until they can be pressed 
through a sieve easily. To the strained tomato juice add a cup- 
ful of macaroni and cook until tender (about 30 minutes). 
Season with salt and pepper, remove from the fire and add 2 
tablespoons of Parmesan cheese and a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut. — Mrs. H. W. M. 

Deviled Tomatoes — ^Wipe, peel and cut 3 tomatoes in slices. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and saute in 
butter. Place upon a hot platter and pour over the dressing 
made as follows: Cream 4 tablespoonfuls of butter with 2 tea- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar, 1 teaspoonful mustard, ^4 teaspoonful 
salt, a few grains cayenne and yolk of 1 hard boiled egg, 1 egg 
beaten slightly and 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. Cook the mix- 
ture over hot water until it thickens. 

Tomato Surprise — Peel and put tomatoes on ice. When 
thoroughly chilled, scoop out centers and break 1 egg into each 
tomato. Fill remaining space with buttered bread crumbs. Bake 
15 or 20 minutes. Serve hot. — Mrs. M. A. L. 

Tomato Farci — Put layer of tomatoes in bottom of baking 
dish, then a layer of minced onion, then layer of bread crumbs, 
then a sprinkling of salt and pepper and bits of butter; then 
another layer of tomatoes, and so continue until dish is full, 
having last layer bread crumbs with bits of butter on top. Bake 
in quick oven 20 minutes. Serve in the dish in which it was 
baked. — Mrs. D. C. 



116 



Scalloped Tomatoes — Peel and cut tomatoes in slices of ^ 
of an inch thick. Pack in a pudding dish in alternate layers with 
a force meat of bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, onion, mus- 
tard and a little white sugar. Spread thickly upon each stratum 
of tomatoes, and when the dish is nearly full put tomatoes upper- 
most with a good piece of butter on each slice. Dust with pepper 
and sugar, strew with dry bread crumbs and bake covered V2 
hour. Remove lid and bake brown. — Mrs. C. B. 

Baked Tomatoes — Wipe and remove a thin slice from the 
stem end of 6 smooth, medium sized tomatoes. Take out the 
seeds and pulp, and drain off most of the liquid. Add an equal 
quantity of cracker crumbs, season with salt, pepper and a few 
drops of onion juice, and refill the tomatoes with the mixture. 
Place in a buttered pan, sprinkle with buttered crumbs, and 
bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

Canned Tomatoes — Scald and skin tomatoes; put on to boil 
with pepper and salt until done (15 or 20 minutes). Pack in 
jars, drive out air bubbles by running silver fork down the sides; 
seal and set away in cool dark place. To put up whole, pack in 
jars placed in cold water and bring to boiling point. Then 
pour boiling salted water over them and seal. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Mashed Turnips — Wash and pare turnips; cut in small pieces 
and cook in boiling salted water until soft. Drain, mash and 
season with salt, pepper and butter. 

Turnip Croquettes — ^Wash, pare and cut turnips into small 
pieces. Steam until tender, then mash and season with salt and 
pepper, and add yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Cool, shape into 
small croquettes, dip in egg and cracker crumbs and fry in 
deep fat. 



\ U7 

MEMORANDA 



lis 



SPANISH AND ITALIAN DISHES 

Spanish Shrimps — One pound picked shrimps, 1 1/^ cups boiled 
rice, 6 tablespoons Snyder's catsup, piece of butter size of an 
egg. Melt butter, add shrimps, rice and catsup. Heat thor- 
oughly. Serve hot on toast or in patty cases.— Mrs. L. A. B. 

Polenta — Add 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 teaspoon of salt 
to 3 pints of boiling water; sprinkle in 1 pint of cornmeal and 
cook for an hour, stirring frequently. Fill a dish with this, 
alternating with 1 cup each of gravy and tomato sauce. Cover 
with grated cheese and bits of butter and brown in oven. — 
Mrs. J. H. B. 

Spaghetti Italian — Cook until tender 1 large cup spaghetti in 
double boiler. The spaghetti to be well covered with boiling 
salted water. Cut 1 large onion, 1 clove garlic, 1 long sweet 
pepper into a frying pan in which a generous piece of butter has 
been melted. After these have browned a little, sift 1 heaping 
tablespoonful of flour, smooth well with the spoon and allow 
to brown lightly. Peel and cut 4 medium sized tomatoes into 
these ingredients and let simmer slowly for about 15 minutes. 
Drain the spaghetti and pour into the sauce with 1 cup of good 
soup stock. Salt and pepper to taste. Allow this mixture to 
simmer for twenty minutes, when it will be ready to place in the 
baking dish. One layer of spaghetti, 1 scant layer cheese until 
the dish is full, the top being well covered with cheese. Bake 
in medium oven for about 30 minutes and serve. — Mrs. E. L. P. 

Spanish Macaroni — Boil macaroni in salted water about 25 
minutes. Sauce: Put into a frying pan about a tablespoonful 
of lard. When hot add an onion, 2 cloves garlic and chili pepper 
chopped fine (first boil pepper until tender), and brown mix- 
ture lightly. Then add 2 tomatoes cut small and a teaspoonful 
of Eagle chili powder; salt and pepper to taste; then add a little 
water and boil 15 minutes. Drain macaroni, then take baking 
dish and put in a layer of macaroni, grated cheese and gravy. 
Repeat for 3 layers and bake in oven 15 minutes. — Mrs. S. 

Macaroni Italian — Heat V2 cup of salad oil, cut up 1 pound 
round steak, brown in the oil, turning for about ^^ hour. Chop 
4 pieces of celery, 1 onion, parsley, small piece of garlic (or 2 



119 



small bulbs), sage (6 dry leaves), 2 bay leaves, thyme, 1 pint 
of tomatoes or 4 ripe tomatoes, salt, cayenne, 1 green pepper, 1 
cup of dried mushrooms. Add all to the meat and stew slowly 
about 4 hours. One cup of grated cheese, V2 pound of macaroni. 
Cook macaroni in salt water until tender, put in dish with layer 
of cheese, then dressing, macaroni and so on until all are in. 
Bake in oven 15 minutes. — E. F. 

Ravioli — One and one-half cups flour, l^ cup chopped cooked 
spinach, j^olk 1 egg, 1 egg, warm water, white stock, % cup 
cracker crumbs, salt, V2 cup Parmesan cheese, pepper. Sift flour 
on a board. Make a depression in center. Drop in yolk of egg 
and moisten with warm water to a stiff dough. Knead until 
smooth; cover and let stand 10 minutes, then roll in a thin sheet. 
Cut in strips as long as paste and 2 % inches wide, using a pastry 
jagger. Mix cracker crumbs, spinach and egg, moisten with stock 
and season with salt and pepper. Put mixture by % teaspoon on 
lower half of strips of paste, 2 inches apart. Fold upper part of 
paste over lower part. Press edges together and between mix- 
ture with tips of thumbs, then cut apart with pastry jagger. Cook 
in white stock or broth 10 minutes; take up with skimmer; ar- 
range layer on hot serving dish. Sprinkle generously with Par- 
mesan cheese and cover with tomato sauce. 

Rissoto Creole — Creole Sauce: Two tablespoons chopped 
onion, 2 tablespoons chopped green pepper, 1 tablespoon chopped 
red pepper or pimentoes, 4 tablespoons chopped fresh mushrooms, 
3 tablespoons butter. Cook these ingredients for 5 minutes. 
Add 2 tablespoons flour, 1 cup of tomatoes, ^4 cup sherry wine. 
Salt to taste. Melt 3 tablespoons butter in a frying pan, add 1 
cup of uncooked rice which has been thoroughly washed, and stir 
constantly until the rice is well browned. Add 2 % cups of brown 
stock and cook the rice in a double boiler until soft. Turn on a 
dish and cover with the Creole Sauce. 

Rice Spanish — Boil i/^ cup rice. When done put a little 
cream and butter in. Then chop 2 large onions, add green pep- 
pers together chopped fine. Fry them in butter. When done 
add cup of tomatoes. Pepper and salt to taste. — Mrs. J. McC. 

Spanish Steak Roll — Cut thin slices from a round steak. Then 
chop 1 onion, 2 tomatoes, some celery, parsley and 2 hard boiled 
eggs. Season with salt and pepper. Mix with butter and fine 
bread crumbs. Then spread the mixture on the steak and roll 
up. Sprinkle with flour. Lay closely in a pan of hot drip- 
pings. Cover and let simmer until tender. Serve hot garnished 
with olives and parsley. 



120 



Italian Stuffed Tomatoes — Cut tomatoes in halves; take out 
some of the pulp. Fry 1 large onion in butter; add the tomato 
pulp, a piece of beef marrow, a little parsley, salt and pepper. 
Remove from the fire. Add a beaten egg and mix with bread 
crumbs and a pinch of nutmeg. Then fill the tomatoes, sprinkle 
with buttered bread crumbs and bake until done. Serve on a 
platter with poached eggs. 

Italian Potatoes — Mix 2 cups hot mashed potatoes, 1 tea- 
spoon onion juice, 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley, 1 egg yolk 
well beaten, 4 stiffly beaten whites, V2 cup grated cheese and 
salt and pepper to taste. Pile lightly in baking dish and bake 
until brown. — C. S. M. 

Spanish Peppers — Prepare 6 sweet green peppers by cutting 
off one end of each and removing all seeds and ribs, leaving them 
so they will stand upright. Cut enough raw corn from the cob 
to make 3 teacupfuls; chop fine 1 onion and 3 sweet red pep- 
pers and fry these in olive oil 10 minutes with 2 ripe tomatoes 
cut small. Add the corn, season with salt, fill the peppers till they 
are level full, and on top of each lay an inch thick slice of ripe 
tomato as a cover; salt and pepper the latter and sprinkle with 
well buttered cracker crumbs. Set closely together in a baking 
pan with a very little water in bottom and bake % of an hour, 
basting the outside of the peppers every 10 minutes. — C. I. M. 

Tamale Beans — One pint red beans, 1 pint tomatoes, 1 onion 
chopped fine, 2 cloves of garlic, 1 tablespoon olive oil, % pound 
pork or bacon and % pound beef cut in cubes, 3 tablespoons 
tamala powder, salt and pepper. Soak beans over night. Parboil 
and drain. Add tomatoes, onions, garlic, meat, etc., salt and 
pepper, and water enough to keep from sticking (adding when 
necessary). Cook slowly all day or until meat is tender and 
beans are thoroughly cooked. About an hour before serving add 
the tamala powder and a tablespoon of cornmeal. If desired pour 
into a baking dish and finish cooking in the oven. "Grandma's 
pepper" is a good brand of tamala powder. — Mrs. G. H. F. 

Spanish Chicken — Quarter chicken and brown lightly in equal 
parts of olive oil and butter. To this add 1 onion and 2 cloves 
of garlic chopped fine, also 1 chili pepper which has been boiled 
until tender, and chopped very fine. When the above has sim- 
mered a few minutes add 1 teaspoonful Eagle chili powder, pep- 
per and salt to taste. Stir a few minutes and then add 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of flour moistened in water. Cook this a few minutes, 
then add water suflElcient to make gravy, and simmer slowly on 
back of stove until chicken is tender. — Mrs. S. 



121 



Colache — Prepare 3 good sized summer squash by peeling 
and cutting in very small pieces. Cut the kernels from about 3 
corn. Skin 1 or 2 tomatoes. Place in a saucepan a good sized 
piece of butter and about a tablespoon of onion chopped fine. 
When the onion has browned add the summer squash, corn and 
tomatoes and let all steam slowly for about 40 minutes. Shake 
the saucepan occasionally so that it will not burn. This is de- 
licious. 



122 

MEMORANDA 



133 



CHEESE AND EGG DISHES 

Baked Eggs — Butter your muffin tins and break the eggs into 
them, filling the holes not needed with water. Put a piece of 
butter, salt, a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and a generous 
quantity of paprika on top of each; then bake for 10 minutes. 
These may be served in the pan plain or upon a platter upon 
which have been placed squares of toast, covered with a con- 
coction made as follows: Fry bacon until it is sufficiently crisp 
for serving, then slice into the pan 2 or 3 tomatoes, a bell pepper 
and a little onion. Thicken with flour, and season well. The 
eggs turn out in good form and the dish is good to look at as 
well as appetizing to the taste. — B. B. 

Soft Boiled Eggs — Place the eggs in a vessel; cover them well 
with boiling water. Cover the vessel and set on sink or table 
for 10 minutes. Serve. 

Another nice way is to place the eggs in a saucepan, cover the 
eggs with cold water, cover, place on fire and let the water just 
come to the boiling point, when the eggs will be nicely jelled. 
It is well to turn the eggs occasionally. — Mrs. W. M. H. 

Egg Baskets — Boil 6 eggs hard. Cut in half and extract 
yolks. Rub these to a paste with some melted butter, pepper 
and salt. Pound the minced meat of ham, chicken, duck or turkey 
fine in the same way and mix with the yolks. Cut off a slice from 
the whites to make them stand up and fill with the paste. Put 
on a platter and pour over the gravy left from yesterday 
boiling hot and mellowed by a few spoonfuls of cream or rich 
milk. — M. M. 

Eggs in White Sauce — Make a medium white sauce, season 
with grated cheese and Worcestershire sauce and salt to taste. 
Poach eggs in the sauce and serve on buttered toast. — Mrs. P. 

Eggs Nova Scotia — Soak over night a pound of salt codfish. 
In the morning pick it apart, scald and then drain perfectly dry. 
Make a cream sauce and add the codfish. Toast rounds of bread. 
Put on each of them a layer of fish and sauce and over this a 
poached egg with more sauce, if desired. — M. C. C. 



124 



Eggs a la Princesse — Make a sauce of little dry mustard, pap- 
rika and cream. Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Hard boiled eggs ' 
quartered. Cover with hot sauce and sprinkle grated parmesan 
cheese on top. Serve on toasted soda crackers. — Mrs. J. E. 

Eggs a la Suisse — Four eggs, % cup cream, 1 tablespoon but- . 
ter, salt, pepper, cayenne, 2 tablespoons grated cheese. Heat a 
small omelette pan, put in butter and when melted add cream. 
Slip in the eggs, 1 at a time; sprinkle with seasoning. When 
whites are fairly firm sprinkle with cheese. Finish cooking and 
serve on toast. Strain the cream over toast. — Mrs. C. 

Eggs a la Golden Rod — ^Three hard boiled eggs, 1 pint white 
sauce, % cup chopped cold meat, % cup buttered cracker crumbs. 
Chop eggs fine. Sprinkle bottom of buttered pudding dish with 
crumbs, cover with V2 of the eggs, next a layer of sauce, then 
with meat and repeat. Cover with crumbs. Place in the oven 
on center grate and bake till crumbs are brown. Ham is the 
best meat to use, but chicken, veal or fish may be substituted. 
— Mrs. C. 

Egg Croquettes — Six eggs boiled hard. Shell and force 
through a puree sieve. Mix with a cream sauce made by cooking 
1 tablespoon of butter and 1 of flour together, seasoning and 
adding milk till thick. Let the mixture cook. Shape into cro- 
quettes, dip in beaten egg and crumbs and fry in deep fat. Serve 
with cheese sauce. Make a rich cream sauce and add V2 cup 
grated cheese. — Mrs. C. 

Egg Timbales — Butter timbale cases well. Fill with 6 eggs 
well beaten, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 20 drops 
onion juice, 1% cup milk. Place timbales in baking pan, sur- 
round with water and bake till mixture is firm. Serve with cream 
sauce. Nice for luncheon or supper. 

Buttered Eggs with Tomatoes — Heat omelette pan. Put in 1 
tablespoon butter; when melted, slip in an egg and cook until 
the white is firm. Turn it over once while cooking. Add more 
butter as needed, using just enough to keep each egg from stick- 
ing. Serve with tomatoes. Peel and cut tomatoes in %-inch 
slices. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with flour and 
fry in butter. Serve a buttered egg on each slice of tomato. 

Spanish Omelette — Make an omelette and fill with sauce, 3 
green peppers (chop outside only), 4 olives and 1 can tomatoes. 
Make a sauce of 1 tablespoon butter and 1 of fiour mixed with 



125 



the tomatoes. Add the chopped pepper and chopped olives. Fill 
omelette when done with part of the sauce, fold and turn out 
on platter, pouring remaining sauce around it. 

Six Eggs With Cheese — Slice Swiss cheese very thin and fit 
slice in pan. Mix 1 teaspoon dry mustard in 1 cup milk and add 
salt and pepper to taste. Pour half of this over the cheese; then 
hreak in 4 or 5 eggs, keeping the yolks whole; then add the rest 
of the milk. Bake in moderate oven or chafing dish until eggs 
set.— Mrs. H. L. S. 

Spanish Omelette — Two slices breakfast bacon, 1 green pep- 
per (small size), 1 onion, 4 large ripe tomatoes. Seasoning — salt 
and paprika. Cut bacon into dice and fry. Add pepper and onion 
finely minced; then tomatoes and seasoning. Cook slowly % 
hour. Make plain omelette. When cooked cover half with to- 
mato mixture and fold over. — L. E. X. 



Omelette (will not fall) — Beat the whites and yolks of 4 
eggs separately. The whites dry and the yolks until light colored 
and thick. To the beaten whites add salt and pepper to taste, 
and cut in the beaten yolks, and then stir in lightly 4 tablespoon- 
fuls of boiling water. Melt butter in an omelette pan, pour in 
mixture, let stand a moment on hot plate of stove, then set in 
the oven until a knife cut down into the center comes out free 
of uncooked egg. Leave the top of omelette in the center at right 
angles to the handle of pan and fold the half nearest the handle 
over the other, and turn on to a hot serving dish. Garnish with 
parsley and serve. By adding a Spanish tomato sauce to the 
omelette you will have a delicious Spanish omelette. SuflScient 
for 4 persons. — Mrs. J. B. 

Omelette — Three eggs, separate yolks and whites. Beat the 
3'olks and add a pinch of salt: U teaspoon each of cornstarch 
and baking powder, and 3 tablespoons milk. Have the whites 
beaten very stiff. Then add the beaten yolks gradually to the 
whites, beating all the time. Pour into a buttered hot frying pan 
and put into hot oven, and when set fold over and serve im- 
mediately. — Mrs. G. F. 

Cheese Fondue — One cup of stale bread crumbs or crackers, 1 
egg, 1 cup of milk, butter the size of an egg, 1 cup of grated 
cheese. Season the bread crumbs with tA of a teaspoon of salt, 
same of pepper, a speck of red pepper; then add melted butter 
and cheese, beaten egg and milk. Bake 20 minutes in small pud- 
ding dish. Serve immediately. — L. M. C. 



126 



Cheese Fondue — Chop or grate 1 pound soft cheese. Put in 
saucepan. Add V2 teaspoon salt, a dash of red pepper. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs with i/^ cup of milk or cream. Add these to 
the cheese, stirring constantly over the fire until the cheese is 
melted. Pour over slices of toast or crackers. Serve immediately 
on hot plates. — Mrs. H. L. S. 

Omelette — To the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten add 9 table- 
spoonfuls of sweet milk, a little baking powder and a pinch of 
salt, with a tablespoon of flour. Mix or beat this well together. 
Then beat the whites to a stiff froth, and when ready to fry fold it 
in the mixture. Fry quickly in a well buttered pan until a 
light brown underneath, then manipulate it in the pan with spoon 
(don't stir, just manipulate), till thickened. Fold over and serve. 
— O. D. 

Baked Omelette — Six eggs (whites and yolks separate), 1 
tablespoon flour. Dissolve flour in a little milk to which add a 
little butter, pepper and salt. Add this to yolks. Stir well, then 
add well beaten whites. Bake in buttered dish in hot oven 15 
minutes. — Mrs. L. A. B. 

Rice Omelette — One cup boiled rice, 4 teaspoons milk, 2 eggs, 
white and yolk beaten separately, V2 saltspoon salt. Heat a 
tablespoon butter very hot in frying pan, pour in mixture, cover 
and bake 10 minutes in moderate oven until smooth and stiff; 
double and turn out carefully on hot platter. — E, A. B. 

Vermicelli Eggs — Take any number of eggs, boil hard, re- 
move shells, chop up V2 the whites and add them to a thick 
cream sauce. Pour this over small pieces of hot toast and press 
the hot yolks through a hot fruit presser; sprinkle over the 
whites; garnish with parsley. — E. L. N. 

Swedish Omelette — Beat 3 eggs together very light, then add 
1 large heaping tablespoon flour, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Beat 
well. Add 1 pint rich milk that has been brought to a scald, 
mix thoroughly and turn into a shallow, buttered, earthen dish. 
Cook about 15 minutes in a moderately quick oven. — Miss F, 

Ham Omelette — One cup chopped ham, 4 eggs beaten 
well together. Add % cup milk, pepper, and pour into well 
heated and buttered saucepan. When heated over gas, place 
in hot oven to stand until well puffed up and browned. Serve 
quickly on hot server. — Mrs. F. D. 

Cheese Entree — One-fourth package dinner biscuits, V2 cup 
grated cheese, 3 eggs, 2 tablespoons milk, pinch of red pepper. 



127 



2 tablespoons butter. Melt butter, ad*d cheese, then eggs beaten 
very light with milk. Fold over dinner biscuit cut in squares. 
The dinner biscuits are a small brown cracker put up in packages. 

Cheese Balls — One and one-fourth cups grated cheese, % 
teaspoon of salt, a dash of cayenne, 1 tablespoon flour mixed 
together. Add beaten whites of 3 eggs. Make in small balls, 
roll in cracker crumbs and fry in deep fat to a light brown. — 
H. M. 

Cheese Omelette — One cup sweet milk, 8 heaping teaspoon- 
fuls grated cheese, 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, % teaspoon- 
ful salt, 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 1 pinch red pepper, 2 
eggs, beaten separately. Put bread crumbs in milk and let scald; 
add butter, salt, pepper, cheese and yolk of eggs; last, the whites 
beaten stiff. Bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. — H. M. K. 

Cheese Croquettes — Three tablespoons butter, 4 tablespoons 
flour, % cup milk, 2 egg yolks, '^ cup grated cheese, 1 cup soft 
cheese. Season with salt; cool, shape, dip in egg and powdered 
crumbs and fry in deep fat. 

Cheese Scramble — Two eggs, 1 tablespoon butter, i,4 table- 
spoon salt, 1 cream cheese. Cook as scrambled egg. 

Cheese Relish — One cup of grated cheese, 1 cup dry bread 
crumbs. Soak crumbs in 2 cups of milk with a pinch of soda, 2 
eggs beaten light, 2 teaspoons melted butter, 1 scant teaspoon 
of salt, a dash of red pepper. Put the soaked crumbs and milk 
with the egg and stir in the grated cheese. Beat very hard and 
turn into a well buttered pudding dish. Let the oven be steady 
and rather hot and bake V2 hour. It will be puffy, brown and 
delicious and should be eaten at once. — Mrs. G. C. 

Cheese Souffle — Melt 2 level tablespoonfuls butter in a sauce- 
pan, add 2 level tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 1 level tablespoonful 
flour, ^ teaspoonful of salt and a few grains paprika. Cook 
for 2 minutesj then gradually add % cup milk and stir until 
smooth. Hemove from fire; add 3 beaten yolks of eggs and 
% cup grated cheese. Beat mixture until smooth and light. 
When cooled a little fold in the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs. 
Pour into buttered baking dish, stand in a pan of hot water, 
and bake in a moderate over for 30 minutes. Serve at once when 
ready. — G. B. 

Cheese Straws — One cup cheese grated, 1 cup flour, ^ cup 
butter, yolk of 1 egg, ^ teaspoonful salt; add a little baking 



128 



powder and mix with ice water. Roll, cut in strips, bake on 
paper and sprinkle with red pepper. — E. B. McV. 

Cheese Straws — Four tablespoonfuls flour, 4 tablespoonfuls 
grated cheese; 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs; ^/^ teaspoonful 
salt, 1 egg (yolk), 1 tablespoonful water. Mix into a stiff dough, 
roll, and cut into straws; bake in a moderate oven. Cut rings 
out of the dough about V2 in width and put the straws through 
them. Serve with salad. — C. M. B. 

Cheese Timbales — Heat 2 cupfuls of milk to scalding, add 
a bit of soda. Have ready 5 eggs beaten very light, without 
separating yolks and whites and 5 tablespoonfuls of grated 
cheese (Parmesan). Pour the hot milk upon the eggs, gradu- 
ally beating all the time, then mix in the cheese and a saltspoon- 
ful each of salt and paprika. Pour into well buttered timbale 
cases and set in a pan of boiling water in the oven. Cover the 
pan. Serve with tomato sauce. — Dr. G. L. 

Rice With Cheese — Put cold boiled rice in a baking dish 
which has been well buttered. Alternate it with a layer of 
cream sauce to which has been added 1 cup grated American 
cheese. Cover with crumbs and butter. Brown in oven and 
serve as a vegetable. 



128 

MEMORANDA 



^:W--' ;"• 130 



BREAD, BISCUITS, ETC. 

Graham Bread — Make a sponge as for white bread of 1 pint 
sweet milk or water, 2 potatoes boiled, mashed and strained, 1 
teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoonful butter or lard, V2 cake compressed 
yeast dissolved in 1 tablespoon water, i/^ cup molasses. Boil 
the milk, add the mashed potatoes and shortening and salt. When 
sufficiently cool add the yeast. Add sufficient white flour to 
make a thin batter and let rise. When light, add ^ cup of mo- 
lasses and sufficient graham flour to make quite stiff. Place in 
pans at once and let rise, then bake for about % of an hour. 

Graham Bread — Two quarts graham flour, 1 quart white flour, 
1 pint potato water, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 yeast cake, 1 small cup 
molasses or sugar, 1 tablespoon melted lard. Dissolve yeast cake 
in little lukewarm water. Mix all ingredients into as stiff a 
dough as can be stirred with a spoon, adding hike warm water 
to make it the proper consistency. Let it stand over night, in 
the morning stir it down with a spoon thoroughly. Have bread 
tins greased. Fill each one about ^ full and let rise to the top 
of the pans. Bake in moderate oven 1 hour for good sized loaves. 
— Mrs. G. H. F. 

liunch Rolls — Dissolve % compressed yeast cake in a little 
warm milk and add to 1 quart new milk warmed, or milk that 
has been scalded and allowed to almost cool. Add a generous 
tablespoon sugar, a small one of salt, and flour enough to make a 
firm dough that can be beaten well with a mixing spoon. The 
dough should be stiff enough so that it will not drop off the 
spoon. If it does the rolls will spread "flat" while being baked. 
After beating thoroughly for several minutes, cover and set in a 
warm corner over night. Early in the morning stir the dough 
down and allow it to rise again till about 9 o'clock. Divide 
the dough, rolling out V2 at a time. Spread on each piece a 
lump of butter the size of a large egg, fold over and roll. Re- 
peat several times until the butter has been partially worked in. 
The butter used should not be too hard. Bake about 15 minutes 
on sheets of tin made to fit oven, placing rolls far enough apart 
so that they will not touch when done. Before putting the rolls 
to rise moisten tops with waer and cover with a towel that does 



3:u 



not touch. They should rise slowly in a warm corner for 2 
or 2'^^ hours. If hurried, they will be coarse. When conven- 
ient, 1 large potato boiled and mashed and its water substi- 
tuted for part of the milk, added to the dough at night, will im- 
prove the rolls noticeably. — Miss F. 

Parker House Bolls — One-half cake compressed yeast (dissolve 
in tepid water), 1 pint warm milk, flour to make a stiff dough. 
Knead until creamy and will not stick to pan or board. Let rise 
until morning; then add 1 egg, 1 large tablespoon shortening, 2 
tablespoons sugar and ^ teaspoon salt. Mix well and knead 
again (adding as little flour as possible), until creamy' and will 
not adhere to board. Let rise again in cool place until late in 
afternoon. Roll out carefully, cut with biscuit cutter or water 
glass, dip in melted butter and fold Ms over. Fill pan and let rise 
in warm place until very light (15 or 20 minutes). Bake in 
quick oven. — Mrs. E. D. K. 

Potato Split Biscuit — Bake 4 large potatoes; when done re- 
move from hulls. Mash and add teaspoon salt and % cup but- 
ter and lard mixed; add 1 egg. When cool add ^ yeast cake 
which has been dissolved in 1 cup warm milk. Add flour enough 
to make a stiff batter. Let rise 2 hours. Then add more flour. 
Roll thin and cut with biscuit cutter. Grease muffin rings, drop in 
biscuit, then dip another round in melted butter and place on 
top. Let rise another '^^ hour. Brush top with cream before 
putting in oven to bake 30 minutes. 

Rusk — Two cups bread dough, i^ cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 heaping 
tablespoon butter. Add ingredients to bread dough and knead 
thoroughly. If too soft, stir in a little more flour. Let rise very 
light and bake in a brisk oven for 20 minutes. — L. M. C. 

Swedish Bread — One cup sour milk, 1 cup warm water, 1 cup 
sugar, salt, ^^ cup butter melted. Mix all before yeast is added. 
Then add a pint of potato yeast. Roll out. Do not knead again. 
When light, bake. — A. E. B. 

Vienna Bread — (This is the celebrated recipe for raised bread 
adopted at Washington in 1876.) To be made and baked in 5 
hours. One yeast cake, 1 pint of wetting or 1 cup each of milk 
and water. This last should be warm. One teaspoon salt, a lit- 
tle more than level; about 3 l^ pints flour. Break yeast cake and 
cover with cold water, thoroughly dissolve it and add the yeast to 
the liquid. Sift in the flour, just enough at first to make a thick 
batter. Mix and stir thoroughly; add more flour; mix 



132 



until quite thick, then turn out on a board and knead it well 
by a stretching or rolling movement; from 5 to 10 min- 
utes is suflScient to knead. When it feels soft and velvety to 
the hand it is sufllciently kneaded. Place dough in a well but- 
tered bowl or pan. (Use clarified butter.) Brush the dough also 
lightly on top with melted or clarified butter. (When finished 
kneading the dough will be in a rather small firm ball.) Cover 
the bowl with a cloth and keep it in a temperature of 75 degrees. 
When sufiiciently light or when it has raised to twice its bulk, 
turn out on a well floured board, shape into 1 large or 2 small 
loaves. If dough has been perfectly mixed, no flour is needed for 
the last Shaping. Butter the top of loaf. Let raise for a few 
minutes, then bake about 1 hour in a rather hot oven. — M. Z. T. 

Vienna Rolls — One and one-fourth cups scalded milk, 1 yeast 
cake, 1/4 cup butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of 
salt, 2 eggs, 4 or 5 cups of sifted and warmed flour. Mode: 
Cream yeast and sugar, melt butter in hot milk. When cool add 
it and salt to yeast. Beat eggs thoroughly and mix in. Add 
flour gradually until stiff enough to knead. Let rise over night. 
Knead lightly in the morning. Cut into small uniformly sized 
pieces. Put in the pans and let it rise 40 minutes. Bake in 
hot oven 15 minutes. — S. M. 

Waffles — Beat the yolks of 2 eggs; add 1 cup milk and beat 
again; add a pinch of salt, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 large 
cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. Then add beaten whites 
of 2 eggs and lastly add 2 tablespoons cold water. — Mrs. B. W. 

White Bread — Two cups milk, 2 scant tablespoons sugar, 1 
teaspoon salt, 3 Vz cups water, 3 cooked potatoes, mashed, V^. yeast 
cake. Scald the milk with the butter and sugar. Dissolve the 
yeast in ^ cup of the water. Mix all together with flour enough 
to make a stiff batter. Stir thoroughly and raise twice. Nice 
for fried bread. 

Mrs Barber's Fruit Muffins — Three eggs, 1 quart of flour, Vz 
cup sugar, 1 cup of milk, 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking pow- 
der; add a cup of any kind of berries. 

Ralston Bran Muffins — One and one-half cups milk, 1 table- 
spoon New Orleans molasses, 1 cup flour sifted with 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 2 heaping cups bran. Mix and bake in gem pans. 
—Dr. D. 

Brown Bread Baked (enough for one loaf) — One quart of 
Graham flour, 1 pint of sour milk, 1 teaspoon baking soda, 3 



133 



tablespoons molasses, 1 teaspoon salt. Mix the dry ingredientb 
well In a bowl; add molasses and stir well; add soda to the sour 
milk and beat until frothy; then add to the mixed Ingredients 
and stir well and thoroughly together until all the flour is wet; 
then turn at once into a well greased pan; smooth the top with 
melted butter; bake an hour in a moderate oven. Raisins can 
be added to the dough before the last stirring. — M. Z. T. 

Biscuits — One quart flour sifted twice, ^ cup lard, 1 cup 
sour milk, 1 scant teaspoon soda dissolved in milk, 1 large tea- 
spoon yeast powder. If dough is too stiff add sweet milk or 
water. Save out a cup of flour and after lard is mixed with 
balance sift in yeast powder with the cup of flour. Do not knead 
any more than >ou have to. I always stir with a spoon and 
roll out quickly. Have ready some melted butter; dip each bis- 
cuit into it before putting in pan; bake quickly. — Mrs. 
A. H. MacD. 

BroMTi Bread — Three cups graham flour, 1 cup white flour, 1 
cup whole wheat, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 scant cups sour milk, 1 
teaspoonful soda, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 cup New Orleans mo- 
lasses. Mix; let stand 1 hour; just before putting in oven add 1 
teaspoon baking powder. — A. L, B. 

Brown Bread — One cup of corn meal, 1 cup of graham flour, 
1 cup of whole wheat, 1 cup of molasses, 2 cups of sour milk, 

1 cup of currants or raisins, 2 teaspoons of soda, 1 teaspoon of 
salt. Steam 3 hours and bake % hour. — E. K. S. 

Cream Scones — Two cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 

2 teaspoons sugar, % cup cream, ^ teaspoon salt, 4 tablespoons 
butter, 2 eggs. Rub butter into the flour with tips of fingers; 
add eggs well beaten and eream; toss on to a floured board; roll 
to %-inch thick; cut in squares; brush top with white of egg; 
sprinkle with sugar and bake 15 minutes in hot oven. 

Folded Com Rolls — Sift together 1% cupfuls flour, % cup- 
ful corn meal, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, ^ teaspoonful 
salt, 1 tablespoonful sugar. Chop in 2 tablespoonfuls butter; add 
1 beaten egg to % cupful milk and turn into dry ingredients, 
making a soft dough that can be kneaded. Roll to thickness of 
^^-inch; cut with biscuit cutter; brush tops with melted butter; 
fold like Parker House rolls and bake in a quick oven. — Miss L. 

Graham Puflfs — One pint sweet milk, 1 pint graham flour, 
% teaspoon salt, 1 egg. Beat the egg; add milk; then flour very 
slowly, beating all to a froth; bake in hot gem pans. 



134 



Graham Gems — One and ^ cups whole wheat or graham 
flour, ^^ cup molasses, 1 teaspoonful salt, % pint sour milk, 

1 egg, V2 teaspoonful baking soda dissolved in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls boiling water; then put into sour milk. Bake in gem pans 
in moderate oven. — Mrs. L. H. K. 

Feather Biscuit — One pint sifted flour, 2 tablespoonsful baking 
powder, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoonful lard, 1 tablespoonful 
butter, cup sweet milk. Mix flour, salt, baking powder; rub in 
lard and butter and moisten with the milk; cut about V2 an inch 
thick and bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. They are very nice. 

Good Baking Powder Biscuits — Two cups flour, 1 tablespoon 
each butter and lard, % cup milk, 2 level teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Make small and brush with milk before baking. — M. C. 

Soda Biscuit With Olive Oil — One cup flour, 1 tablespoon of 
sweet oil. Mix oil with flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, pinch 
of salt, water or milk to roll. — M. S. 

Quick Com Bread — Sift together 4 tablespoons corn meal, 

2 tablespoons flour, 2 small tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, little salt, 2 eggs well beaten; add tablespoon melted 
butter and beat mixture together with milk enough to make thin 
batter. Bake in deep pie plate in moderate oven. Never fails. — 
Mrs. H. B. A. 

Potato Biscuit — One quart of flour, 1 pint of cold mashed 
potatoes, 1 teaspoon (heaped) of baking powder, a little salt. 
Mix the potatoes and flour together the same as for biscuit; 
add the baking powder and salt and moisten with sweet milk; 
work well and roll out the same as you would biscuit and bake 
in a hot oven about 15 minutes. Butter and eat while hot. 
Very good. — Mrs. M. G . 

Peptic White Bread (enough for one loaf) — One quart of 
flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 rounded teaspoons baking powder, 1 pint 
of cold water (milk may be used, or half milk and half water). 
Mix the *flour, salt and baking powder thoroughly by rubbing 
through a sieve twice, into your bread bowl; then make a well 
in the center and pour into this all the water. Be sure to use 
enough water to make the dough quite soft. With a large spoon 
stir quickly and thoroughly together and when all the flour is 
wet, stir it a moment longer; then turn at once into a well 
greased baking pan; do not knead the dough or beat it. After 
the dough is in the pan smooth the top of the dough with melted 
butter and bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. 



135 



Peptic Grraham Bread (enough for one loaf) — Three cups 
graham flour, 1 cup white flour, l^/^ teaspoons salt, 2% teaspoons 
baking powder, 1 large tablespoon New Orleans molasses, 1 pint 
water. Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl well with a spoon; 
make a well in the center; pour in the molasses and water; stir 
quickly and thoroughly together. When all the flour is wet stir it 
a moment longer; then turn at once into a well greased pan; 
smooth the top with melted butter; bake at once in a moderate 
oven 1^ hours. 

Prune Bi^own Bread — One cup corn meal scalded, 2 cups 
graham flour, V2 cups molasses, 1 cup sour milk, ^ teaspoon 
soda, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 cup chopped prunes. Steam 3 hours. — 
Mrs. J. D. 

Sweet Cream Biscuits — Four cups flour, 1 cup cream, 1 cup 
skimmed milk, 2 teaspoons cream tartar (rounding), 1 teaspoon 
soda (rounding), 1 level teaspoon salt. Handle as quickly and 
little as possible; roll out without any extra flour except a bare 
sprinkling, on the board; cut out % inch thick; place in a warm 
pan and bake in a quick oven. They should raise to 3 times their 
height before browning and bake in about 20 minutes. Wet the 
tops with a little melted butter before putting them in the oven. 
Is a great improvement. 

Soft Com Bread — One cup white corn meal, 1^ cups boiling 
water, 1 cup milk, 1 cup boiled rice, 3 or 4 eggs beaten separ- 
ately, 1 tablespoon melted butter, salt. Pour the boiling water 
over the corn meal; add the other ingredients, beaten whites last, 
after beating all well; put in a buttered pudding dish and bake 
% of an hour in a moderate oven. Serve in sauce dish and use 
plenty of butter. — E. L. U. 

Jokers — One and V2 cups graham flour, IV2 cups white flour, 
2 teaspoonfuls yeast powder, pinch salt; milk enough to make a 
stiffer batter than mufiins; put in last 2 eggs, well beaten; bake 
in quick oven. 

Johnny Cake — Two cups flour, 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup sweet 
milk, % cup butter, "^ cup sugar, 2 eggs and 3 teaspoons baking 
powder. Bake in moderately hot oven about % of an hour.— 
M. A. B. 

Nut Bi-ead — Three cups whole wheat flour, 1 cup white flour, 
1 teaspoon salt, % cup brown sugar, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 
1 cup chopped figs, 1 cup chopped nut meats, 2 eggs, 2 cups 



136 

sweet milk. Mix milk with beaten eggs and mix with other 
ingredients; let stand 20 minutes; bake % hour. This makes 

2 loaves. — Mrs. F. J. M. 

^'^ut Bread — Two cu£S graham flour,_JlJ^cuES white flour, % 

I ///n ^f^,n y^up corn meal,X%" cup (scant) brown sugar, i/^ cup (scant) 
j r" ' molasses, 1 level teaspoon baking powder, 2 level teaspoons soda, 

-^1 level teaspoon salt, 1 cup broken walnuts, 2 cups sour milk. 
A^ OJT^ Bake in 2 loaves 1/2 to % hours. — Mrs. C. H. H. 

Muffins — Two cups of sifted flour, 1 cup milk, 3 eggs, 1 table- 
spoon butter, salt. Measure 2 cups of sifted flour to which add 
a little salt and 1 cup of milk, stirring well. Beat the yolks of 

3 eggs thoroughly and add to the batter; beat whites of eggs 
to a stiff froth and add. Take an even tablespoon of butter, heat 
it and stir into mixture just before pouring into the gem pans; 
bake in oven for 10 minutes. — H. H. S. 

One Egg Muffins — Two cups flour, 4 teaspoons baking powder, 
Vz teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 cup milk, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 1 egg. Mix and sift dry ingredients; add gradu- 
ally milk, egg well beaten and melted butter; bake in buttered 
gem pans 25 minutes. 

Oatmeal Muffins — One cup cooked oatmeal, ly^ cups flour, Yz 
cup milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, 4 teaspoons baking powder, ^ 
teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons melted butter. Mix and sift flour, 
salt, sugar and baking powder; add milk ( i/4 cup), egg well 
beaten, oatmeal mixed with l^ cup milk. Beat well; add butter 
and bake in gem pans well buttered. 

Marion's Pop-overs No. 1 (never fail to pop) — One cup milk, 2 
eggs, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 1 cup flour. Beat eggs; add salt; sift 
flour twice; add milk to eggs; add flour to egg mixture; stir 
' until smooth; bake % hour in hot oven. — M. C. C. 

Pop-overs No. 2 — Break 2 eggs into a bowl; beat thoroughly; 
add 1 cup sweet milk. Have ready in another bowl 1 cup flour sifted 
with ^2 teaspoon of salt; add about % of the milk and egg to 
the flour and beat until free from lumps; then add the rest of 
the liquid and 1 teaspoon melted butter. Beat with Dover 
beater 2 minutes; then pour into well greased hot muffins pans 
and bake until nice and brown and puffy, about 20 minutes. — 
Mrs. W. H. 

Prune Bread — Two cups sour milk, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup 
white flour, ^ cup cream or other shortening, % cup brown 



13- 



sugar, 1 heaping teaspoon soda, 1 pint of cooked and minced 
prunes, salt, enough graham flour to make a stiff batter 
about 5 cups, sometimes a little more. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven 1 hour and %. This amount bake in 2 loaves. 
If receipt is doubled it makes 5. — E. L. L. 

Rye and Com Muffins — One egg beaten; add 1 cup of milk, 
lump of butter melted and pinch of salt, 2 teaspoons sugar and 
^ cup commeal, ^ cup rye and ^s cup flour, sifted together 
with 1 heaping teaspoon of baking powder. Bake in hot muffin 
pan in well heated oven. — Mrs. J. H. B. 

Rice Muffins — One cup of cooked rice, 1 cup milk, 2 eggs, 1 
«up flour, a little melted butter, a little salt and sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder. 

Squash Muffins — One egg, 1 cupful squash (sifted), 2 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, 2 large cupfuls of milk, 
3 eupfuls flour, 2 large teaspoonfuls yeast powder, salt. Bake 
in muffin or gem pans. — C. M. B. 

Southern Spoon Bread — One cup white commeal, 2 cups boil- 
ing water, 1 tablespoon shortening, 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tea- 
spoon salt, 1 egg separated and beaten. Scald meal with the 
boiling water, and add shortening, salt and sugar; when this has 
partly cooled, add beaten yolk and then beaten white; bake in 
moderate oven for 40 minutes. — L. L. P. 

Twin Mountain Muffins — One-quarter cup butter, ^ cup 
sugar, 1 egg, % cup milk, 2 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder. Cream the butter, add sugar and egg well beaten; sift 
baking powder with flour and add alternating with the milk; 
bake in gem pans (buttered) 20 minutes. 

English Tea, Cake — Two eggs, 1 pint sifted flour, 1 tablespoon 
sugar, butter size of an egg, 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder, 
milk enough for a good batter, 1 teacup chopped raisins; bake 20 
minutes in a hot oven; split and butter. 

Spanish Buns — One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup sweet 
milk, 1^ cups flour, l^ teaspoon cinnamon, i/^ teaspoon ginger, 
^ teaspoon allspice, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 2 eggs beaten 
separately, yolks added after last cup of flour; whites the last 
thing; bake in thin square loaf; cover with frosting and just 
before it hardens mark in squares. 



138 



Whole Wheat Bread — Two cups of whole wheat, 1 cup of 
graham flour, 1 cup of milk, 1 cup of water, 3 teaspoons of 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon of salt, 2 tablespoons of molasses, 1 
cup of currants or raisins. Sift whole wheat and baking powder; 
add graham flour, then molasses, milk, etc., bake 1 hour in 
slow oven. — Mrs. E. K. S. 



139 

MEMORANDA 



140 



PANCAKES 

Buckwheat Cakes — Two cups buckwheat, 1 tablespoon of 
yellow commeal and 1 tablespoon molasses to each cup. Dis- 
solve 1/4 yeast cake in V2 cup sweet milk, salt; sift dry ingredi- 
ents and mix with milk, yeast and molasses into a batter too 
thick for cakes and let rise over night. In the morning take 1 
level teaspoon soda and dissolve in i/^ cup of tepid water or 
more water, if batter is still too thick to fry in thin cakes. Serve 
with maple syrup. — M. C. 

Rice Cakes — One cup of soft boiled rice, ^ cup of milk, the 
yolks of 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt; beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add lastly to the mixture; 
fry on a larded griddle as soon as possible after adding the 
whites of the eggs. — Mrs. M. M. 

Pan Cakes — Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, whites of 2 separately; 
add a cup of milk, 1 tablespoon sugar, butter size of an egg 
(melted), and flour enough for a batter. Fry on a buttered 
spider in large cakes; spread with jam or jelly and serve hot. 

Yankee Breakfast Cakes — One egg, % pint of milk, % tea- 
spoon salt, 2 even teaspoons baking powder, flour enough to make 
a batter as soft as can be rolled out. Roll out about i/4-inch 
thick; cut in diamond shape with a knife and fry in hot lard 
the same as doughnuts. Eat with syrup. — Miss J. 

Fine Old German Pancake Recipe — Separate whites and yolks 
of 4 eggs. To beaten yolks add 2 cups of milk and gradually 
2y2 cups flour (sifted), salt. After this is stirred smooth add 
3 more cups milk and stiffly beaten whites; stir well and bake 
very thin on hot griddle pans. Serve at once. 

Sour Milk Griddle Cakes — Make a batter of a quart of sour 
milk and as much sifted flour as is needed to thicken, so that 
it will run from the dish; add 2 well beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of melted butter and a level teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in a little milk or cold water, added last;, 
then bake on a hot griddle well greased, brown on both sides. 



141 

MEMORANDA 



•142 



SANDWICHES 

Cheese Sandwich to Sei-xe With Salad — Thin slices of bread, 
butter, cheese, Worcestershire sauce, salt and cayenne. Cut the 
bread thin, cut out with muffin ring, toast brown; then place in 
muffin ring, putting a few pieces of good cheese on each piece of 
toast together with Worcestershire, mustard and seasoning; 
place in the oven until cheese melts, then serve. — Mrs. J. D. 

Cheese Sandwiches — Three hard boiled eggs, i/^ pound grated 
cheese, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons mayonnaise. Chop 
the eggs fine; add the cheese and butter and beat to a paste; then 
add the mayonnaise and spread on thin slices of bread. 
Mrs. J. D. 

Sardine Sandwiches — One dozen sardines, yolks 4 hard boiled 
eggs, white pepper, cayenne, salt. Remove the skin and bones 
from the sardines, rub them to a smooth paste with the yolks 
seasoned to taste; spread on buttered toast for a supper dish 
or on thin slices of bread for sandwiches. — Mrs. J. D. 

Brown and White Bread With Butter or Cheese — Use rye or 

graham. Cut a little thicker than for ordinary sandwich. But- 
ter plentifully a slice of white, put on top a slice of brown. But- 
ter that plentifully and continue alternating until you have 5 or 
6 layers. Press together. Remove crusts and lay aside wrapped 
in damp napkin until you are ready to serve. Then stand each 
pile on board and cut down through the several layers, forming 
a brown and white sandwich. You can alternate this, using the 
paprika cheese mixture, or cream cheese with which butter has 
been worked. With this last it is very tasty to cut strips of 
pimientoes and lay crosswise through the slices, so that when 
you cut through you leave small bits of the red in each. 

Corona Sandwich — Use rye bread. Mash smooth a Petaluma 
cream cheese, stir into it the contents of a 10c, bottle of stuffed 
olives chopped fine or pimientoes alone; season with cayenne, and 
moisten with cream until right consistency to spread. — Mrs. 
J. H. B. 



. 143 



Bohemian Club Cheese — One pound New York cream cheese, 
1 teaspoon Inixed mustard, 4 tablespoons vinegar, 4 tablespoons 
Worcestershire sauce, piece butter size of walnut. Cream cheese 
and butter together; add mustard, then vinegar, Worcestershire 
sauce, salt, pepper. 

Cream Cheese Sandwiches — Mix equal quantities cream cheese, 
chopped pimientoes and chopped walnuts. Add a little mayon- 
naise dressing and spread on thin slices of buttered bread. — Miss 
McE. 

Cheese and Horseradish Sandwiches — Mix 2 cream cheeses 
with a fork and moisten with 1 pint cream, whipped. Add 3 
tablespoons horseradish, freed as much as possible from the 
liquor. Add a dash of cayenne, and spread between 2 slices of 
white bread, cut very thin. 

Cheese and Almond Sandwiches — Blanch about 20 almonds, 
chopped very fine, then add a Philadelphia cream cheese and a 
dozen chopped olives. Spread on white bread and butter, after 
mixing all well together. 

Cheese Sandwiches — One hard-boiled egg, V4, pound of cheese, 
grated, % teaspoon salt, ^2 teaspoon mustard, 2 tablespoons 
melted butter, 1 tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce, vinegar or 
cold water. Mix into a paste and put between thin slices of 
bread. — Mrs. J. W. B. 

Cheese for Sandwiches — Ten cents Eastern cheese, grated, ^ 
pound melted butter, creamed with the grated cheese. Add little 
onion grated, lemon, paprika, sherry to taste. Spread on but- 
tered bread. — Mrs. C. H. 

Chicken Sandwiches — Two cups chopped chicken, ^^ cup wal- 
nuts, 3 tablespoons cucumber pickles, chopped fine. Mix with 
boiled salad dressing into smooth paste. Spread between slices 
of buttered bread. — Mrs. A. A. D. 

Chicken Salad Sand^viches — Toast your bread in 3-corner 
pieces and have reasonably think. Prepare a moist chicken salad. 
Spread lettuce leaves on one piece of toast. Cover with salad and 
put mayonnaise over all. Place toast one top. This makes an ex- 
cellent luncheon dish. 

English Celery Sandwiches — One cup celery, 6 stoned olives, 
1 tablespoon English walnuts. Chop ingredients fine and moisten 



144 



with mayonnaise to a paste and spread upon thin buttered slices 
of bread. 

Mock Crab Sandwiches — Rub to a paste 1 tablespoon butter, 2 
talbespoons grated cheese, salt, paprika, 1 teaspoon mustard, a 
little bit of anchovy paste, 1 teaspoon vinegar. Spread between 
thin slices of toast or on round slices of brown bread. — Mrs. C. 

Crab Sandwiches — Take the yolk of 1 hard boiled egg, 1 
tablespoon softened butter, 1 cup shredded crab and 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice. Mix all together into a paste and spread 
on buttered brown bread. 

Egg Pimolas — Boil 2 eggs. Mash yolks and chop whites very 
fine. Add a few finely chopped pimolas and mix together with 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing. Spread on finely cut bread. 

Sandwich Paste — Fifteen cents' worth of boiled ham, 1 hard 
boiled egg, 1 German pickle, 1 bottle stuffed olives, 2 or 3 green 
onions, l^^ teaspoons Heinze's mustard, l^ teaspoon red pepper. 
Chop entire mixture to a fine paste and spread on bread. 

Ham Surprise — Butter cold baking powder biscuit, cut cold 
boiled ham size of biscuit. Place between wet tops with cold 
water and put in hot oven for 5 minutes. Nice to eat with after- 
noon coffee or for Sunday night supper. — A. L. B. 

Lettuce Sandwiches — Wash and shake dry 1 large head of let- 
tuce and chop it up fine. Add 1 minced, hard boiled egg, salt 
and pepper to taste and sufficient boiled mayonnaise dressing to 
mixture so it will spread nicely on thin slices of bread for sand- 
wiches. — C. B. D. 

Sandwich — One-half cup chopped walnuts, V2 cup chopped 
dates, 2 tablespoons chocolate. Moisten with cream to make 
paste. Spread on thin bread and butter. — A. L. B. 

Oyster Sandwiches — One can oysters. Remove oysters from 
can and place juice on the stove. When hot stir in cracker meal 
until thick. Season with salt, pepper and a generous piece butter. 
Mince oysters and add to paste, let cool and spread on thin slices 
of any kind of bread. — Mrs. A. N. K. 

Pimiento Sandwiches — One cup walnuts chopped fine, 1 small 
can pimentoes also chopped fine. Add a little salt and paprika, 
mixing all with a little mayonnaise dressing. Spread on bread. 



145 



Pimiento Sandwiches — Chop contents of 1 can pimientoes with 
a dozen ofives and about 10 cents worth of Eastern cheese. Add 
mayonnaise in generous quantity and spread between slices pf 
buttered bread. — A. T. F. 

Paprika — Ten cents' worth of Eastern cream cheese. Mash. 
Add olive oil, drop by drop, to soften, mashing constantly. Then 
add paprika to taste. Use as paste between buttered bread. 

Hot Sardine Sandwiches — Mince 1 can sardines in bowl with a 
fork. Add a little tomato catsup and some Worcestershire sauce. 
Make toast (cut round). Spread the sardine mixture % inch 
thick on toast. Add a thin slice of tomato. Then spread grated 
cheese on top and put in oven until well heated. Serve hot. — 
Mrs. E. 

Shrimp Sandwiches — One can shrimps; mince shrimps; cover 
with lemon juice and let stand a little while. Drain off lemon 
juice and mix with a hard boiled egg chopped fine and mayon- 
naise dressing. Spread on thin slices of bread. — Mrs. A. N. K. 

Strawberry Sandwiches — Half a cup of nice strawberries, 3 
tablespoonsful pulverized sugar, 1 tablespoon butter (and ^ 
teaspoon of vanilla if liked). Work the butter until creamy. Add 
the sugar gradually, beating well. Then stir in the vanilla if 
liked. Spread on unbuttered slices of bread. Cut strawberries 
in slices or in halves and place between the slices of bread. 
— M. A. B. 



146 

MEMORANDA 



141 



CRACKER DISHES 

Breakfast Relish — Butter crackers. Put in puddin? dish, 
chop ham, 1 layer of ham, 2 layers of crackers. Season well. 
Cover with milk. Bake 20 minutes. 

Children's Dessert — Six soda crackers. Pour over hot water 
to moisten; % cup sugar. Flavor with vanilla. Let cool. 
Put in punch glasses with whipped cream on top. This dessert 
is always relished and thought by grown people to be more 
elaborate than it is. 

Marguerites (Cracker) — White of 1 egg, 1 cup sugar (granu- 
lated), Vz cup chopped walnuts. Beat egg; add sugar and nuts. 
Spread on dainty chips or salteens and brown in hot oven. 

New England Cracker Pudding (New Hampshire Favorite) — 
Six soda crackers, 2 eggs, 1 quart milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup raisins. 
Flavor with nutmeg. Break crackers in small pieces. Soak in 
the milk 1 hour. Beat eggs just a little. Add sugar and raisins. 
Bake in slow oven until you can insert a knife and the pudding 
will not stick. 

Snacks — Six soda crackers, butter, sprinkle thick with sugar 
and cinnamon. Brown in hot oven. 

Cheese Crackers — Butter soda crackers; either grate cheese 
or place lumps of cheese. Brown in hot oven. 

Jam Delight — Spread jam on crackers. Place in hot oven 5 
minutes. 

Sardine Sandwiches — Remove the bones from sardines; pour 
off the oil. To 1 can of sardines add 1 egg chopped fine, juice 
of 1 lemon, 6 ripe olives. Mix well and spread between small 
crackers. 



148 

MEMORANDA 



Y our (Grandmother 



ONCE SAID: 



44 



American Biscuit Company's 
Cookies are 
Better than I Can Bake." 



SHE NEVER CHANGED HER MIND 



FOLOER'S aOLDEN GATE 

Coffee, Tea, Baking Powder, 
Spices and Flavoring Extracts 
tlie best tliat can be produced 




L A. FOLOER & CO., SAN FRANCISCO 



IBO 



CAKES 

Angei Cake — One cup egg whites, i^ level teaspoon cream 
tartar, 1 cup of fine granulated sugar, 1 rounding cup of flour 
sifted 6 times before measuring, almond or gome other light col- 
ored flavoring. Beat the whites until foamy or half beaten. Sift 
in the cream tartar and beat until stiff. Add the sugar and beat 
together. Sift in the flour and fold in or cut. Add flavoring. 
Line the cake pan with buttered paper. Cover angel cake the first 
y2 hour in a cool oven with a tin cover. Then remove the cover 
and increase the heat. Bake from 50 minutes to an hour. If 
oven is hot bake with the door open. — M. Z. T. 

Apple Cake — Separate 2 eggs, beat yolks, and add 1 cup milk; 
sift 2 teaspoons baking powder with 1 ^4 cups flour; add to milk 
and eggs; beat thoroughly. Then fold in whites of eggs well 
beaten. Pour into shallow pan. Cover top with sliced apples 
(or any small fruit in season); dust thickly with 4 tablespoons 
sugar. Cook about 25 minutes and serve with cream. — B. F. T. 

Apple Cake — Nine good sized apples, 1 pint sour cream, 6 
eggs, 1 level teaspoon cornstarch, 1 cup sugar, 12 slices zwieback, 
vanilla flavoring. Peel apples and core them; let steam until 
thoroughly cooked (do not add water); add cream, heat; have 
eggs well beaten and add next with sugar and cornstarch dis- 
solved in very little water; lastly add flavoring, cook until thick. 
Have the zwieback rolled very fine; line the bottom of 2 jelly 
cake tins with plenty zwieback. Pour in the apple mixture; 
then spread the remaining zwieback over the top; sprinkle with 
cinnamon and bake 25 minutes in a moderate oven. This is fine. 
Makes 2 cakes. — Mrs. A. N. K. 

Apple Sauce Cake — One and one-half cups apple sauce strained 
and sweetened, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, 1 cup seedless raisins, 
V2 cup butter, 1 tablespoon hot water, 2 teaspoonfuls soda dis- 
solved in the water, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinna- 
mon. Mix together and bake. — Mrs. J. W. T. 

Apple Jelly Cake — One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, i/^ cup 
sweet milk, 2 eggs, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 



151 



Makes 3 Jayers. Filling: One pint grated raw apples, 1 lemon 
(grated rind and juice), 1 cup granulated sugar, 1 egg. Beat 
thoroughly and cook in double boiler until apple is done; about 
20 minutes. Let cool before spreading between layers. Dust 
top with powdered sugar. — L. K. G. 

Brown Cake — One cup sugar, 1 cup syrup (black), 1 cup 
sour milk, 3 cups flour, 2 eggs (yolks only), 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, a pinch of cloves and nutmeg, 1 level teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in little hot water. Put in at the last and stir well. Bake 
in 4 layers. Make boiled frosting of whites of the eggs and 1 
cup of sugar, being careful not to get it hard. Flavor with 
lemon. — Mrs. G. H. F. 

Caramel Cake — Syrup: One cup granulated sugar, 1 table- 
spoon boiling water, 1 cup boiling water. Put sugar and the 
tablespoon of boiling water into a spider and stir until sugar 
is dissolved. Boil until it smokes (it must burn). Remove from 
fire and pour in gradually a cup of boiling water. Stir rapidly 
and allow to boil until thick as molasses. Bottle for use. 

Cake: One-half cup butter, 3 tablespoons caramel, 1% 
cups sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 cup water, '^ cup sifted 
flour, yolks 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 2 cups sifted flour, 
whites 2 eggs. Beat the butter to a cream; add gradually the 
sugar, the yolks, the water and 2 cups flour. Beat 5 minutes; 
then add the caramel, vanilla and the % cup flour in which 
has been sifted the baking powder. Fold in beaten whites and 
bake in layers. — Mrs. E. M. W. 

Cheese Cake — Line pan with crust made as follows: Two 
tablespoons butter, % cup sugar, 1 egg, little vanilla, flour to 
roll. Filling: Beat 1 pound schmierkase to a cream, add yolks 
4 eggs, % cup sugar, % pint cream, 1 tablespoon flour dis- 
solved in a little cream, little vanilla, whites 4 eggs (well beaten), 
added last. Bake 30 to 40 minutes in moderate oven. — S. W. 

Chocolate Liayer Cake (2 layers) — One cup granulated sugar 
beaten with 2 eggs, Vz cup milk, 1 cup flour sifted with 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 1 tablespoon butter brought to boiling 
point added lastly. Flavoring. Bake in two deep jelly tins. 
Filling: 1 tablespoon (heaping) chocolate, 2 tablespoons milk, 
slice of butter about % inch thick from roll; let all simmer until 
melted and smooth; then remove from stove and add about 10 
tablespoons powdered sugar and beat until a smooth soft paste. 
Flavor with a few drops of vanilla and spread between and on top 
of cake. — Mrs. E. B. C. 



152 



Chocolate I»oaf Cake — One large piece of butter, 1 cup of 
sugar, 3 eggs beaten one by one, 1 cup milk, 1^ cups of flour, 
2 teaspoonful yeast powder, 3 tablespoonsful chocolate, vanilla, 
1 cup chopped walnuts. — J. G. K. 

Cinnamon Cake — One cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, % cup but- 
ter, ^ cup boiling water, 1 egg, 1 tablespoon soda, 1 tablespoon 
cinnamon. Stir stiff as for soft ginger bread. — Mrs. G. 

Cocoanut Cake — Three eggs beaten separately, 1 V2 cups sugar, 
y2 cup milk, 2 cups flour, V2 cup butter, 2 teaspoons baking pow- 
der, the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. Cream butter and 
sugar; add a little at a time the flour, baking powder, yolks of 
eggs and milk, always beating hard. Lastly fold in lightly the 
whites of eggs. Spread cocoanut filling between the layers. — S. M. 

Coffee Cake — One cup sugar, V2 cup butter, 1 egg, 2*^ cups 
flour, y2 nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder, 1 cup coffee, 1 cup raisins. Bake 1 hour. 
—Mrs. E. F. T. 

Coffee Cake — One-half table slice of butter, V2 cup sugar, 1 
cup warm milk, l^^ cups flour, l^/^ teaspoons baking powder, 1 
egg, pinch of salt, vanilla. This makes two small tins. Sprin- 
kle with cinnamon and sugar mixed or fruit sliced. — Mrs. G. M. B. 

Cornstarch Cake (Loaf) — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
cream together; 1 cup milk, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 cups flour and 
y2 cup cornstarch sifted together, whites 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons yeast 
powder (heaping) to be added at very last. — Mrs. A. E. E. 

Cream Cake — (keeps moist in warm weather) — Three eggs; 
beat together the yolks and 1 cup sugar; add 3 table- 
spoonsful of cold water; then 2 teaspoonsful yeast powder stirred 
into 1% cups of flour; lastly the well beaten whites of eggs. 
Filling: 1 egg, % cup sugar, i/^ cup butter, i^ pint milk heated 
to boiling point, 1 tablespoonful cornstarch stirred into a little 
milk. When cool add flavoring. — Mrs. L. H. K. 

Cream Cake — One cup sugar, l^^ cups flour, 3 eggs, 2 table- 
spoons cold water, 1 teaspoon yeast powder. Bake in 2 pie tins, 
split open and fill with the following cream: 1 pint milk, let come 
to boiling point; then add 2 large spoons of cornstarch, dissolved 
in a little cold milk, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 cup sugar; flavor with 
vanilla. — Mrs. W. P. 



153 



Cream Orange Cake — Cream ^ cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 
eggs and ^^ cup milk, 1% teaspoons baking powder, l^t cups 
flour. Bake in 2 layers. Filling: ^ cup sugar, 1 egg, 1 heap- 
ing tablespoon flour, ^ tablespoon butter, add grated rind and 
juice of orange and 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Cook over boil- 
ing water. Orange icing: Grate rind of 1 orange, add 1 table- 
spoon each of orange and lemon juice. Let stand 15 minutes. 
Strain and add slowly to yolk of egg. Stir in confectioner's 
sugar until it will spread. — Mrs. H. G. 

"Cupertino" Prune Cake (Fine) — One cup sugar, 1 cup but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup strong warm coffee with 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in it, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon each of 
cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg, V2 cup seeded raisins (chopped), 
1 pound prune meat chopped fine. (Use dried prunes and do 
not cook them.) — M. C. C. 

Dark Cake — Three-fourths cup sugar, 1 large tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 large tablespoon molasses, 1 egg, ^^ cup sour milk, sweet- 
ened with 1/^ teaspoon soda, 1^ cups flour, % cup seeded rai- 
sins, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, cloves and grated nutmeg. — 
Mrs. W. B. 

Date Cake — One cup sugar, 1 cup dates, 1 cup walnuts, 3 eggs, 
1 tablespoon flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Cream sugar and 
yolks of eggs; then add flour and baking powder with beaten 
whites of eggs and lastly the nuts and dates. Bake in spring 
form % hour. — Mrs. J. W. 

Delicate Cake — One cup butter, 2^ cups sugar, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 4 cups flour, 3 teaspoons baking powder, 6 eggs. Mix 
powder in flour; cream butter and sugar; add milk; stir in the 
flour and beat smooth; break in one egg without beating; stir 
thoroughly; then break in second egg and so continue until all 
six are in, beating the batter well after each egg. The above 
quantity will make 1 large loaf. — J. S. 

Devil Cake — Custard part: 1 cup grated chocolate, 1 cup 
brown sugar, ^ cup milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Stir to- 
gether, cook slowly in double boiler until it thickens to cream; 
let cool. Cake part: One cup brown sugar, ^ cup butter, 
21/^ cups flour, ^ cup milk, 2 eggs; add custard part and just 
before putting in pans, add 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in a little 
hot water. Filling: 1 cup white sugar, 1 cup brown sugar, 1 
cup hot water, 1 teaspoon vinegar or a little cream of tartar. 
Cook about 8 or 10 minutes and beat into whites of 2 eggs. 



154 



Dorcas Cake — One cup sugar, % cup butter, whites of 3 eggs 
well beaten, Vz cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour (scant), 1 teaspoon 
yeast powder, almond flavor; bake in 2 layers. Frosting: yolks 
of 3 eggs, 1 cup pulverized sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Beat 15 
minutes; spread between the layers and on top. — Mrs. M. 

Dutch Apple Cake — Mix 1 cupful of scalded milk, % cupful 
butter, Vs cupful sugar, and ^ teaspoon salt. When luke warm 
add 1 yeast cake, 2 unbeaten eggs, and flour to make a stifC 
dough. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise until the mixture has 
doubled its bulk. Spread in a buttered dripping pan as thinly 
as possible and brush over with melted butter. Pare 5 apples, 
in slices; press into the dough. Sprinkle with i/4 cup sugar mixed 
with V2 teaspoon of cinnamon. Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons cur- 
rants. Cover, let rise and bake in moderate oven 30 minutes. 
Cut in squares, serve hot with or without whipped cream. — 
Mrs. A. L. B. 

Dutch Tea Cake — One-fourth pound butter, V2 pound sugar, 
Vz pound flour, 4 well beaten eggs. Cream butter and sugar; 
then add the flour. Add the well beaten yolks and then add the 
well beaten whites. Spread this mixture in a pan, thicker than 
for wafers. Cover top with chopped almonds, ground cinnamon 
and a little sugar. — Mrs, E. A. E. 

Eggless Cake — One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tea- 
spoon cinnamon, ^4 teaspoon cloves, V2 teaspoon nutmeg. 

Egyptian Cake — One and one-half cups sugar, V2 cup butter, 
% cup chocolate dissolved in 4^ tablespoons of hot water, 4 
eggs well beaten; hold out a little more than 1 white for icing; 
y2 cup milk, 2 scant cups flour, 1 heaping teaspoon baking pow- 
der, vanilla. Cream butter and sugar; add eggs, then chocolate; 
beat very well; then add alternately milk and flour; vanilla. 
Icing: 1 cup sugar with water boiled until it threads; add to 
beaten whites. Flavor with mapleine and spread between layers 
with chopped nuts. — Miss McE. 

Eggless Fruit Cake — One cup sugar, 'V2 cup butter, 1 cup sour 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup chopped raisins, V2 tea- 
spoon cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon; almonds or citron. — Mrs. C. 

M. E. ' ■. : ■ ^- ■ . •; . .. 

Eggless Loaf Cake — One cup sugar mixed with butter the 
size of an egg, 1 cup sweet milk mixed with a level teaspoonful 



155 



of soda, ^ cups flour, i/^ cup crocolate, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 
cinnamon and allspice, 1 small cup raisins and 15 walnuts 
chopped fine. Bake in a slow oven 1 hour. Frosting: 2 cups 
brown sugar, Va cup milk, with 4 drops vinegar added to milk. 
Add milk to sugar and when hot add butter. Stir constantly and 
remove when it forms a soft ball in cup of cold water. Then 
beat.— J. W. T. 

Fairy Loaf Cake — Four eggs beaten separately, 1 ^ cups gran- 
ulated sugar, % cup butter, ^ cup sweet milk, 2% cups flour, 
1 teaspoon cream tartar, Vz scant teaspoon soda and flavor to 
taste. Sift flour once, then measure, add soda and sift three 
times. Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Beat yolks to a 
very stiff froth and stir in; whip whites to a foam; add cream 
tartar and whip until very stiff; add milk, then whites of eggs, 
then the flour and flavor; stir very hard. Divide the mixture in 
three portions, two small portions and one larger one; in one 
small portion add chocolate to taste; in the other small por- 
tion use Dr. Price's fruit coloring, pink (directions on bottle); 
drop the colored portions into the white portion of the cake. 
Put in slow oven at once. Will bake in 30 to 50 minutes. — 
A. A. D. 

Feather Cake — Seven eggs (reserve whites of 2 for frosting), 
1% cups sugar, 3 cups flour, 1 cup water, V4 cup ground 
chocolate, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tea- 
spoon each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 
little salt. Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, chocolate, 
spices, sifted flour and baking powder, beaten whites of eggs and 
extract. Bake in 3 layers and put together with boiled icing and 
chopped walnuts or shaved almonds or brazils. — Mrs. E. D. K. 

Fig Cake — One cup sugar, ^^ cup butter, 3 eggs, ^^ cup sweet 
milk, 1 cup flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder (heaping), flavor- 
ing. Filling: Take a pound of figs, chop fine and put into a 
stewpan on the stove. Pour over them a teacupful of water and 
add Vz cup of sugar. Cook all together until soft and smooth. 
When cold, spread between layers of cake. — Mrs. N. H. 

Fruit Cake (Delicious) — One pound brown sugar, 1 pound 
butter, 1 pound eggs (8 eggs), 1 pound flour, pinch salt, 2 pounds 
raisins, 2 pounds currants, Vz pound citron, 1 nutmeg, 1 table- 
spoon cloves, 1 tablespoon allspice, Vz pint brandy, 2 teaspoons 
baking powder. Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, brandy, 
flour and baking powder (also salt), then spices and fruit. — 
Mrs. N. H. M. 



156 



Fruit Cake — One pound sugar, 1 pound butter, 1% pounds 
flour (sifted), 3 pounds seeded raisins, 1 pound currants, % 
pound citron (cut fine), 10 eggs, V2 cup milk, 1 cup molasses, 
1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon each cinnamon and allspice, V2 tea- 
spoon cloves, V^ nutmeg. Dredge the fruit well with a part of 
the flour. Cream the butter and sugar. Dissolve the soda in 
boiling water and stir into the molasses, adding this to the but- 
ter, sugar and spices. Beat the eggs until very light and add to 
the other mixture with the milk. Then add the flour little by 
little until thoroughly mixed. Add now gradually the prepared 
fruit and lastly 1 coffee cup of strong coffee. Bake in well but- 
tered pans. This will make 1 large pan loaf or three smaller 
ones. Bake slowly about 4 hours. — Mrs. W. H. W. 

Fmit Cake — One pound flour (dry), 1 pound butter, 1 pound 
nuts (chopped), 1 pound brown sugar, 1 pound dates, 12 eggs, 
1 cup molasses, 2 cups jelly, 2 pounds raisins (seeded), 1 pound 
seedless raisins, 2 pounds currants, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 table- 
spoon cinnamon, 1 tablespoon allpsice, 1 tablespoon nutmeg, 1 
tablespoon mace, 1 glass white wine, 1 pound citron and lemon 
peel, 4 teaspoons baking powder (large). Mix to a cream butter 
and sugar. Sift spices with flour. Put fruit in last, having 
rolled well in flour. — Mrs. A. H. MacD. 

Cheap Fruit Cake — Dissolve a level teaspoonful of soda in 2 
tablespoons of warm water; add it to Vz cup New Orleans mo- 
lasses; mix and add hastily 1 cup thick sour cream, 1 cup sugar, 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, Vz teaspoon cloves, Vz teaspoon nutmeg and 
21/^ cups flour. Beat for 3 minutes; then stir in 1 cup of seeded, 
chopped raisins and 1 cup currants that have been floured with 
an extra ^ cup flour. Bake slowly for 1 hour. 

Fruit Chocolate Layer Cake — One cupful brown sugar, Yz 
cupful butter, Vz cupful milk (scant), 2 cupfuls flour, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, 3 tablespoonfuls ground chocolate, and 3 
tablespoonfuls milk heated over kettle and added hot, 2 eggs 
(whites beaten and added last), Vz cupful raisins and V2 cupful 
walnuts put through food chopper together and added just before 
the whites of eggs. Bake in two thick layers and put together 
with white frosting. — Mrs. Jos. L. 

Delicious Fruit Cake — Three cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 5 eggs, 
1 large cup syrup, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 pounds rai- 
sins, 2 pounds currants, V2 pound citron, 2 tablespoons each of 
cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 teaspoon cloves. Boil the raisins until 
swelled. Drain juice into currants and swell them. Calculate 
to have 1 cup of juice after they are done and use it in the cake. 



151 



Cut the rJHsins in half with a sharp knife and the seeds will drop 
out. It is best to prepare them the day before using. Dredge 
with flour and put in at the last. Bake in large or small loaves 
in moderate oven. It will keep indefinitely. — Mrs. G. H. F. 

Delicious Fruit Cake (One Egg) — One cup brown sugar, % 
cup butter, yolk of 1 egg, saving white for frosting, % cup sour 
milk with ^^ teaspoon soda, 1 ^4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinna- 
mon, ^ teaspoon cloves, ^ of a grated nutmeg, 1 cup seeded rai- 
sins. For frosting: White of 1 egg (stiffly beaten), 1 cup gran- 
ulated sugar, 4 tablespoons cold water. Boil sugar and water 
slowly until it threads; pour slowly on the egg and beat till cool 
enough to put on cake. — Mrs. W. M. 

Dried Apple Fruit Cake — Soak 3 cups dried apples in as little 
water as possible over night. Then pass through meat grinder 
or chop fine and boil in 2 cups of syrup % hour. When cold 
add 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 4 eggs; dis- 
solve 1 small teaspoon of soda in a little boiling water and put 
into the sour milk; 4 cups flour, 2^^ teaspoons baking powder, 

1 teaspoon cloves, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 
cup raisins. 1 cup currants, citron to taste. Bake in moderate 
oven as for any fruit cake. — Mrs. G. H. F. 

English Cuixant Cake — One and one-half pounds flour, % 
pound butter, % pound sugar, 2 eggs, % pint milk, ^^ pound cur- 
rants, dessert spoon of baking powder, vanilla extract for flavor. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream; then add the dry ingredients 
gradually; add milk as required; eggs last, well beaten. Bake in 

2 cakes in round, deep tins. Oven hot at first, then more even. — 
M. G. F. 

Gold Cake — One and one-half cups granulated sugar, butter 
size of an egg, 5 yolks and 1 whole egg. Cream the butter and 
sugar; then add eggs; beat smooth; add 1 cup sifted flour; stir 
well; then % cup water (almost boiling); add a little 
at a time and beat rapidly; add 1^ cups more of flour and 2 
teaspoons baking powder; when well mixed add another % cup 
of hot water; beat thoroughly; add flavor and color to suit taste. 
Bake in layers in rather hot oven. Filling: 1 cup milk put to 
boil; moisten 1 teaspoon of cornstarch; beat into it 3 yolks or 1 
whole egg and 2 tablespoons of sugar; pour into boiling milk; 
stir rapidly all the time. Cook until thick and smooth. Cool 
and flavor. — Mrs. W. M. 

Gold Cake — Yolks of 8 eggs, % cup butter, 1 14 cups sugar, 
1% cups flour, % cup milk, lemon flavor, 1 scant teaspoon cream 
tartar, % teaspoon soda. Cream butter and sugar. Then add 



158 



beateu yolks with cream tartar. Add milk, then flour sifted 4 
times with the soda in it. Beat well. Bake in moderate oven 
50 minutes to 1 hour. — A. A. D. 

Gingerbread — One-half cup butter, i/^ cup brown sugar, 1 cup 
molasses, 1 teaspoon mixed mace and cinnamon, ^/^ teaspoon 
ground ginger, 2y2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda mixed in flour. 
Cream butter, sugar and molasses together, after having warmed 
them slightly; sift spices and soda in flour; add 2 eggs well beaten 
to y2 cup of milk. To the butter, sugar and molasses add eggs 
and milk. Beat well. Then add flour and spices. Stir thor- 
oughly. — Mrs. A. E. 

Molasses Gingerbread — One-half cup sugar, 14 cup molasses, 
% cup sour milk, 1 egg, V^ cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved 
in sour milk, 2 cups flour, spice to taste. — S. H. T. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread — One cup molasses, Vs cup butter, 
11/4 teaspoons soda, Vz cup sour milk, 2 cups flour, 1 egg, 2 tea- 
spoons ginger, V2 teaspoon salt. Put butter and molasses in 
saucepan and cook until boiling point is reached. Remove from 
fire. Add soda and beat vigorously. Then add milk, egg well 
beaten and remaining ingredients, mixed and sifted. Bake 15 
minutes in buttered sauce tin pans, having pans two-thirds filled 
with mixture. — Mrs. C. N. S. 

Grandmother's Cake — One cup butter, pinch salt, 1^ cups 
sugar (scant), 1% cups flour, i/4 teaspoon mace, 1 cup eggs, 1 
teaspoon baking powder. Beat flour and butter together; work to 
froth; beat sugar and eggs together; then mix with flour and 
butter. Beat well. — Miss M. B. 

Jam Cake — One cup sugar, % cup butter, 4 eggs (2 whole 
eggs and yolks of 2), 3 tablespoonfuls sour milk, 1 teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in milk, 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon, clove 
and nutmeg, 1 glass jam, flour enough to make cake drop slowly 
from spoon (about 2^/4 cups). Filling: 1 cup sugar, 1 table- 
spoon vinegar, water enough to dissolve. Let boil until it strings 
from spoon; then drop slowly in the whites of 2 eggs, beaten. 
Beat well. — Mrs. M. D. H. 

Jelly Roll — Four eggs, beaten separately; 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
flour, 1 teaspoonful yeast powder. Bake in quick oven in 1 
sheet. Spread while hot with jelly. Wring out a towel in hot 
water, turn cake on towel, spread jelly and roll quickly. — S. T. 

Jenny liind Cake — One small cup butter, 2 small cups sugar, 
3 good cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup cold water. 



159 



4 eggs, flavor. Use half of this for the white layers. For the 
other half add 2 tablespoons New Orleans molasses, 1 teaspoon 
each of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, 1 nutmeg, 1 cup raisins, % 
cup citron. Chocolate filling: Grate 3 pieces of unsweetened 
chocolate and add 1 cup sugar, ^4 cup milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Boil all together about 1 minute and when cool spread 
between layers and on top. — Mrs. R. W. 

I>acly Baltimoi*e Cake — One cupful butter, 2 cupf uls sugar, 3 ^ 

cupfuls flour, 1 cupful sweet milk, the whites of 6 eggs, 2 level 
teaspoons baking powder and 1 teaspoon rose water. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar, beating continuously; then the milk and 
the flavoring; next the flour, into which the baking powder has 
been sifted, and lastly fold lightly into the dough the beaten 
whites. Bake in 3 layers. The oven should be hotter than for 
loaf cake. Filling: Dissolve 3 cupfuls of granulated sugar in 
1 cupful of boiling water; cook until it threads; then pour over 
the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs, stirring constantly. To this 
a(dd 1 cup chopped raisins, 1 cup chopped nut meats, pecans pre- 
ferred, and 5 figs cut in very narrow, thin strips. With this ice 
top and sides. 

Lady Washington Cake — One and one-half cups butter, 3 cups 
brown sugar; cream; 5 eggs well beaten and added; 1 cup milk, 
3 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon cloves, 1 teaspoon nutmeg; sift together; 1 
cup chopped walnuts, 1 cup raisins; dredge in flour and add last. 
— Mrs. E. D. K. 

Mar.sIiiiiallow Cake — One and a half cups of granulated sugar, 
% cup of butter creamed, 1 cup of milk gradually mixed in 2^^ 
cups of sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 4 
eggs beaten stiff, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. This makes 3 layers. 
Icing and filling: Cut up 35 cents pink marshmallows, cut small; 
boil 1 V2 cups granulated sugar and 1 cup water until it threads; 
then melt marshmallows into V2 of this and into the other half 
mix the beaten whites of 2 eggs; then put all together and mix 
well until stiff. Put between layers and on top. — Mrs. G. 

Ijemoii Jelly Cake — One and one-half cups sugar, % cup but- 
ter beaten to cream, ^^ cup sweet milk, 2^^ cups flour, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder, 3 eggs. Jelly: 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 
grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon water, 1 teaspoon 
flour. Place dish in boiling water until it thickens. When cool 
spread between layers. — Mrs. J, P. 

Macaroon Cake — Dissolve 6 tablespoons grated chocolate in 5 
tablespoons boiling water. Leave in bowl. Beat ^ cup of but- 



160 



ter and 1% cups sugar to a cream. Then the well beaten yolks 
of 4 eggs. Add butter and sugar, melted chocolate, i/^ cup sweet 
milk, 1% cups flour. Beat well; then add whites of 4 eggs, 1 
teaspoon vanilla and lastly 1 heaping teaspoon baking powder. 
Bake 40 minutes.. Leave in pan until cold. — Mrs. J. McC. 

Marshmallovr Cake — Four eggs, 1^ cups sugar (fine), 2 cups 
sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 large speck of salt, 1 
lemon (juice and grated rind), 1 cup of water. Grate lemon in 
bowl, break in eggs and beat 10 minutes. Add sugar and beat 
5 minutes. Sift in 1 cup of flour, beat 2 minutes. Put 
juice of 1 lemon with water to fill a cup, stir 2 minutes. Sift in 
second cup of flour, baking powder and salt and beat all to- 
gether 2 minutes longer. Enough for 4 small layers. Marsh- 
mallow icing: 2 cups of sugar, 1 cup of water, 1 tablespoon vin- 
egar, ^4 pound marshmallows, white of two eggs. Boil sugar, 
water and vinegar together until stringy; pour slowly over the 
beaten whites, stirring constantly. Add the marshmallows, a few 
at a time, and continue beating until smooth. Spread betwe^i 
the layers and on top. Ornament with a few marshmallows. All 
pink or all white ones can be used, making a pink or white 
marshmallow layer cake. — M. Z. T. 

Marble Cake — One-half pound butter and 1 ^/^ cups sugar; 
cream well; beat 5 eggs in a bowl and add to the creamed butter 
and sugar; 2 cups sifted flour with 2 small teaspoons baking 
powder, % cup milk. Add to the creamed butter, etc., alternat- 
ing a little milk and flour and so on until well mixed. Divide 
into 3 parts. To the white add lemon flavoring. To the second 
color with pink fruit coloring and add vanilla. To the third add 
2 small tablespoons of chocolate and a little cinnamon. Bake % 
to 1 hour in a slow oven. — Mrs. G. B. 

Marmalade Cake — Take enough of any good cake mixture for 
a loak cake; add V2 glass of orange marmalade, 1 tablespoon 
sherry and 1 teaspoon rum, various spices as desired and enough 
additional flour to make rather stiff, and bake. — Mrs. U. 

Matzo Cake — Four eggs, 4 tablespoons matzo flour, 4 table- 
spoons sugar, 2 tablespoons chopped walnuts, juice of 1 orange, 
a little cinnamon and nutmeg, a pinch of salt. Mix yolks of eggs 
and sugar; add orange juice and spices. Beat whites stiff and 
gradually fold into mixture with flour and nuts. Bake is even 
oven about % of an hour. — B. B. 

Mocha Cake — Two cups brown sugar, 2 eggs beaten sepa- 
rately, % cup sour milk, ^ cup coffee (hot), 2'^^ cups flour, 
% cup chocolate, 1 teaspoon soda in hot coffee, 3 tablespoons 



161 



butter, vaniHa. Bake in layers. Filling: % cup sugar, % cup 
flour, % teaspoon salt, 1 egg, Mi cup chocolate, 1 teaspoon van- 
illa, 11/^ cups scalding hot milk. Mix dry ingredients together 
and add egg, slightly beaten; pour on gradually hot milk and 
cook in double boiler until quite thick. Remove from fire and let 
cool. Wash salt from % cup butter and cream 1 cup powdered 
sugar into it; then add this to cream filling when said filling is 
cold. Have layers cold and put filling between with chopped 
walnuts. 

- Mocha Cake — Yolks of 5 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flo.ur, 1 V^ 
tablespoons Mocha extract, pinch of salt and a small tablespoon 
of baking powder. Add lastly the beaten whites. Bake in 2 
layers. Filling: Whip 1 pint of cream. Flavor with 1% table- 
spoons of Mocha extract and sweeten to taste. 

Mocha Toi-te — One cup sugar, 4 eggs, % cup flour, V2 tea- 
spoon baking powder, 2 tablespoons coffee extract. Bake in 2 
layers with whipped cream between and on top. — Mrs. M. A. L. 

Nut Cake — One cup sugar, ^ cup butter; cream; 1 white of 
egg beaten stiff, % cup milk or milk and water, 1 % cups flour, 2 
teaspoons baking powder, l^ cup English walnuts, chopped fine. 
Ice and lay quarter nuts on top. — C. B. D. 

Nut Cake — One cup sugar, V^ cup butter, 1^ cups flour, 
2 eggs, % cup sweet milk, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, 1 cup nuts, 
chopped and dredged with a little flour, before putting in with 
the rest. — Mrs. G. 

Old Colony Cake — Three oggs, 1 scant cup butter, 2^ 
cups sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 3 % cups flour, even teaspoon soda, 
Zante currants, washed and floured; flavor with lemon and a very 
few drops of almond. Sprinkle sugar over top before baking. 
— A. E. B. 

One Egg; Chocolate Cake — One egg, % cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 
1 teaspoon baking powder, butter size of egg (half beef drip- 
pings or lard may be used), vanilla, pinch of salt, milk to make 
a soft batter. Cream butter, sugar and egg; add flour and bak- 
ing powder, sifted together. This makes 2 small-sized layers, 
rather thick. Frosting: 4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 2^ 
tablespoonfuls Ghirardelli's ground chocolate, milk to make a 
stiff paste, about I'^A tablespoonfuls vanilla. Spread on the lay- 
ers immediately upon removal from oven, as the cake must be 
hot to make the frosting melt. — L. L, P. 



162 



One, Two, Three, Four Cake — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 
3 cups flour, 4 eggs, 1 cup milk, 2 level teaspoons yeast powder, 
1 teaspoon flavoring. For chocolate cake add 2 teaspoonfuls 
chocolate. Chocolate filling: 10 cents sweet butter an inch thick, 
IV2 cups powdered sugar (rolled); beat well; 4 tablespoons 
ground chocolate; enough boiling water to dissolve; yolks 2 eggs; 
teaspoon vanilla, — Mrs. E. J. R. 

Our Uncle Sam's Cake — One scant cup sugar put into the sifter 
with 1 cup of unsifted flour; 1 heaping teaspoonful baking pow- 
der; sift all together in a mixing dish; break into it 3 eggs (un- 
beaten); 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter and 3 tablespoonfuls of 
milk; flavor to suit taste. Stir all well together and bake in a 
moderate overi. — Mrs. E. P. G. 

Orange Cake^ — One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, V2 
cup milk, 2 cups flour, 1^ teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, rind of 1 orange. Mix in the order given. Make in 2 pans. 
Put the grated rind of the orange in the cake. Stir powdered 
sugar into the orange juice until quite thick and spread it be- 
tween the cakes when cool. This recipe can also be used for 
cup cakes, using the filling to put on top as icing. It is very 
good. — Mrs. J. McC. 

Orange Cake — Two cups sugar, 2^/^ cups flour, ^ cup water, 
5 eggs, the grated rind and juice of 1 orange, 1 teaspoonful yeast 
powder. Reserve whites of 2 eggs for soft frosting. Beat the 
eggs together, add sugar, beat again, put in the orange, then the 
water and then sift in flour and baking powder. Bake in 2 flat 
pans for 20 minutes. Icing: Beat whites of the 2 eggs with 
grated rind and juice of 1 orange, 2 cups powdered sugar. Beat 
until stiff. 

Orange Cake — One-half cup butter, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
3 eggs (using only white of 2 and 1 whole one well beaten), V2 
cup sweet milk, 1 1/^ cups sifted flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 
1 teaspoon orange extract. Bake in 2 layers, coloring the last 
layer with a little red fruit coloring to make it a deep pink. 
When cold add the following filling: Juice of 3 oranges, well 
beaten yolks of 2 eggs, V2 coffee cup of granulated sugar, 1 
tablespoon of cornstarch wet in a little cold water and a pinch of 
salt. Boil in double boiler and when removed from fire add a 
little orange coloring paste. Cool before spreading between lay- 
ers. Frosting for same: 1V& cupfuls granulated sugar, ^^ cup 
sweet milk. Boil until it forms in threads from spoon. Have a 
little orange coloring and orange flavoring in a bowl. Pour in 



103 



boiled frosting and stir until it begins to thicken, taking care not 
to have it too thick before spreading on the cake. The cake must 
be cold. Let the frosting run over the cake. It will make a 
pretty cake if care be taken with the frosting. Have pink layer 
at bottom of cake. — B. B. 

Plain Cake — Five eggs beaten separately, ly^ cups sugar, 1 
cup butter creamed, 1 cup sweet milk, 4 cups flour sifted, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder; put whites of eggs in last, flavoring to 
8uit. — H. E. B. 

Poor Man's Cake — One cup sour milk, 2 cups flour, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup raisins, 1 cup currants, butter size 
of walnut. — Mrs. C. M. E. 

Potato Cake — Two-thirds cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
hot mashed potato, 2 cups flour, ^^ cup milk, 1 cup chocolate, 1 
cup chopped walnuts, 4 eggs beaten separately, 2 teaspoonfuls 
yeast powder, 1 teaspoonful cloves, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, a 
little nutmeg, pinch of salt. — Mrs. G. W. L, 

Pound Cake — Eight eggs beaten all together, 1 y^ cups butter, 
2 cups flour before sifting, 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon baking pow- 
der. Bake 1 hour. — Mrs. H. A. 

Measured Pound Cake — One cup butter, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups 
flour, % cup milk, 1 small teaspoon baking powder, 6 eggs, 
flavor. Beat the whites very stiff and put in after the milk and 
yolks, then beat about 10 minutes. — Mrs. R. W. 

Prune Cake — Three eggs beaten separately, 1 cup sugar, i/^ 
cup butter, 1 cup prune pulp, ^ cup prune juice, 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful soda beaten in prune pulp. Add 2 cups sifted flour to 
make batter. — Mrs. O. C. C. 

Queen's Cake — Six cups flour, 1 pound sugar, 3 cups butter, 
IVz pounds raisins, 4 eggs, 1 wine glass brandy, 1 teacup milk, 
1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, 2 nutmegs, '^k pound 
citron, 1 teaspoon mace. This recipe makes 2 large loaf cakes 
which will keep as well as fruit cake. — Mrs. R. B. P. 

Quisset Cake — Cream '^k cup butter with 1 1/2 cups of sugar, 
yolks of o eggs beaten well, ^^ cup milk beaten in slowly with 
1^ cups of flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking powder; add 
whites of eggs beaten very stiff; dissolve 6 tablespoonfuls of 
Baker's chocolate in 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling milk and add this 
to cake dough lastly. Bake slowly and remove from oven as 



IGi 



soon as it is doue, as it will cook too much and become dry. 
Butter frosting for quisset cake: Two cups sugar, % cups milk, 
butter size of an egg. Boil 10 minutes; remove from stove and 
stir in 1 teaspoonful vanilla; beat until thick and ready to 
spread. — Mrs. F. J. M. 

Sour Cream Cake — Sift together 1 cup sugar, l^^ cups flour, 
IVs teaspoonful baking powder, a pinch of salt, a pinch of soda 
and flavor. Put 2 eggs in a cup and fill the cup with sour 
cream; add this to sifted material and beat for a few minutes; 
bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. W. B. C. 

Sour Milk Cake — One cup sour milk (thick), 1 cup brown 
sugar, l^ cup butter, % package raisins chopped fine, 2 cups 
flour, 1 or 2 tablespoons chocolate, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon 
mixed spices. Beat milk and sugar together; add butter melted; 
sift flour, soda, chocolate and spices together; add raisins and 
beat all together until it is a smooth rather thick mass. — M. Z, T. 

Snow Ball Cake — One cup powdered sugar, y2 cup butter, 14 
cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, whites of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Cream butter, sugar and egg; then add milk and flour 
before stirring (moderate oven), — A. E. B, 

Spiced Fig Cake — Cream y2 cup of butter with i/^ cup 
white sugar and V2 cup brown sugar; add the yolks of 4 eggs 
beaten light and mixed with ^^ cup of cold water, 3 tablespoons 
grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon each of allspice and cinnamon, V2 
teaspoon of cloves. The whites of 4 eggs should be added just 
before the last of the flour, of which take 1% cups and 2 tea- 
spoons baking powder. Filling — One-half pound of figs or dates 
chopped and boiled in % cup of water until tender; then add 
1 scant cup sugar and the juice and rind of a lemon; boil until 
it is thick like jelly. — C. L. B. 

Spice Cake — Two cups of sugar, 1 heaping cup of butter, 1 
cup of milk, 3 cups of flour, 5 eggs, reserve white of 1 for frost- 
ing if desired; 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful of 
cloves, 1 nutmeg, 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
yeast powder, 1 cup of raisins. — Mrs. J. W. C. 

Spice Cake — One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sour 
milk, 2 cups flour, 1 cup chopped raisins, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon 
(level) soda, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, i/4 teaspoon cloves, V2 tea- 
spoon nutmeg, pinch of salt. 

Sponge Cake — Three eggs, 2 teacups sugar, 3 teacups flour, 
1 teacup boiling water, 3 level teaspoons baking powder, vanilla 



165 



flavoring. Sift flour twice; bake 50 minutes in moderate oven 
if made in 1 loaf. Directions — Beat yolks light; add sugar and 
flavoring and beat light; beat whites to stiff froth and add % 
of the whites, % of the flour and % water to the yolks and 
sugar and beat again; continue adding and beating until portions 
are all in. The baking powder mixed in last of all with 2 table- 
spoons of flour reserved from the original measure. The boiling 
water must not be poured on the whites nor on the flour, but 
close to the side of the mixing bowl. — Mrs. W. H. 

Sponge Cake — One and ^ cups sugar, sifted five times; 1 
cup of flour, sifted 5 times; whites of 8 eggs beaten stiff; add 
Mj teaspoon cream tartar and beat again, then add sugar; beat 
5 yolks 10 minutes; add to beaten whites with sugar; ^ teaspoon 
lemon, ^ teaspoon vanilla; then add flour gradually. Bake in a 
slow oven. — Mrs. C. H. 

Sponge Cake — Whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff, 1 coffee cup 
granulated sugar, 1% even tablespoons cornstarch in bottom of 
coffee cup; add to this enough sifted flour to fill cup, and sift 
together, adding a teaspoon of baking powder, 4 yolks well 
beaten, 3 tablespoons of cold water, flavor to taste. Mix yolks 
of eggs and sugar thoroughly; then add beaten whites; to this 
add flour beaten very light; then water and lastly flavoring. 

Sponge Cake — Five eggs, 1 cup powdered sugar, 1 cup sifted 
flour, 1 teaspoon lemon extract, pinch of salt. Beat yolks of 
eggs; add sugar and beat 10 minutes; add lemon, salt and 
whites of eggs beaten stiff; fold in the flour and bake in slow 
oven. — Mrs. C. F. L. 

Cream Sponge Cake — Break 2 eggs in a cup and fill up with 
sweet cream; beat the eggs and cream until they are like froth; 
then add 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of flour, 3 teaspoons baking 
powder. — L. M. C. 

Sponge Cake — Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff 
froth; then carefully fold in 1 scant cup of sugar; flavor with 
lemon. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs until light and thick; add 1 
teaspoonful of lemon juice, also ^ of a cup of hot water, beat- 
ing the mixture continually. Pour the yolks gradually in with the 
beaten whites and sugar; then gently fold in 1 cupful of flour. 
Bake in an oblong loaf in a moderate oven. — F. V. M. 

Plain Sponge Cake — Beat the yolks of 4 eggs together with 
2 cups of fine powdered sugar; stir in gradually 1 cup sifted 
flour and the whites of 4 eggs beaten to a stiff froth; then 1 



166 



cup of sifted flour in which 2 teaspoons baking powder have been 
stirred, and lastly a scant teacup of boiling water stirred in a 
little at a time; flavor. However thin the mixture may seem, 
do not add any more flour. Bake in shallow tins. Very good. — 
Mrs. H. K. W. 

Potato Sponge Cake — One-half cup potato flour, 1 cup sugar 
sifted, 4 eggs, ^/^ teaspoon (level) cream tartar, ^^ teaspoon 
vanilla, pinch of salt. Beat yolks till thick; beat whites with 
cream of tartar till dry; mix whites and yolks; add sugar and 
beat till sugar grains disappear; add vanilla and salt; lastly 
fold in the flour. Bake in moderate oven till it shrinks from sides 
of the pan. — Mrs. F. J. H. 

Sunshine Cake — Sift powdered sugar 5 times; then measure 
IVz coffee cups; sift flour 5 times, then measure 1 coffee cup; 
add 1 even teaspoon cream of tartar after it is sifted to the 
flour; whites of 10 eggs (stiff), 6 yolks (beaten stiff), 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Beat whites of eggs and sugar together; then 
add beaten yolks; then flour and lastly vanilla. Bake in angel 
cake tin about 4 5 minutes in a slow oven. 

Strawberry Cake — One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, 
% cup sweet milk, 2 cups sifted flour, 2 level teaspoons baking 
powder; color with Burnett's fruit red coloring paste. I color the 
batter a light pink; then fill 1 tin; add a little more color and 
fill another tin; then a little more color to the third and last 
layer, taking care to have the darkest layer at bottom of cake 
and lighest color at the top. When cool add following filling: 
One generous cup of mashed strawberries, 1 cup pulverized 
sugar, white of 1 egg. Beat egg to stiff froth; add sugar and 
berries gradually and beat very thoroughly; spread between 
layers and on top. — B. B. 

Violet Cake — One cup of butter creamed, 2 cups of sugar, 
yolks of 3 eggs, 1 cup of sweet milk, 3 cups of flour, 1 teaspoon- 
ful baking powder, whites of 3 eggs. Mix in the order given. 
Divide the batter into 4 equal parts and bake in 4 layers; color 
^ the batter with violet paste (size of a pea). When baked 
lay first a light layer, then a violet layer, then a light, then a 
violet; put together with lemon jelly. Lemon jelly for Violet 
Cake — Beat 1 egg, add 1 cup of water, the grated rind and juice 
of 1 lemon; pour this slowly on 1 cup of sugar mixed with 1 
tablespoon flour; cook into double boiler until smooth like cream. 
Frosting — Whites of 2 eggs beaten light, 20 teaspoonfuls of 
powdered sugar; flavor with violet extract; color with violet 
paste and decorate with crystalized violets. — Mrs. P. 



16^ 



Velvet Cake — Whites of 4 eggs well beaten, 1 cup white sugar, 
^ cup butter, y-i cup sweet milk, 1 cup flour, Vz cup cornstarch, 
1 teaspoon yeast powder. Beat butter and sugar to a cream; 
add milk; then flour and cornstarch, with yeast powder; then 
the eggs; flavor with lemon. — Mrs. G. 

Walnut Cream Cake — One and y^ cups fine sugar, 3 eggs, % 
cup butter, % cups sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder, vanilla. Mix the butter and sugar as for ordinary cake, 
but put the eggs in whole, 1 at a time; beat for 3 minutes and 
then let stand 5 minutes before adding the next egg; when the 
3 eggs are added, give to the whole a vigorous beating and bake 
immediately in 3 layers. Filling — One cup sugar, 5 tablespoons 
water, 2 egg whites, vanilla, % cup chopped walnuts. Boil the 
sugar and water until it spins a thread; pour it over the whites, 
beaten stiff; beat the whole constantly until creamy; spread on 
each layer; then sprinkle on some nuts, etc. Do not mix the 
cream and walnuts together. — Mrs. F. C. M, 

World's Fair Cake — One cup sugar, y^. cup butter, i/^ cup 
milk, IV^ cups flour, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoon baking 
powder. Let come to a boil 6 large tablespoons chocolate, 3 
level tablespoons sugar, 2 level teaspoons milk. Let cool and 
add to cake part; bake in 2 layers and put together with marsh- 
mallow or caramel icing to which has been added chopped wal- 
nuts. — Mrs. E. E. McV. 

W^hite Cake — One and yz cups sugar, granulated; butter size 
of an egg; mix thoroughly; add 1 cup of cold v/ater and 1 cup of 
sifted flour; beat until smooth; then add 2 cups more of flour 
and 2 teaspoons baking powder, whites of 5 eggs beaten light. 
Flavor to taste. Bake in layers; color one if desired. Boiled 
Icing — One cup sugar, 4 tablespoons boiling water; boil until 
ropy as for candy; have white of 1 egg beaten light; pour syrup 
in slowly, beating the whites rapidly until smooth; add color and 
flavor and pour while warm on cakes. — Mrs. W. M. 

Note: I usually make the white and gold cakes (see W. M. 
gold cake) same baking day, coloring 1 layer of gold cake with 
Burnett's orange color and using Burnett's mandarin orange flavor 
for both cake and filling, also some in icing and decorate top with 
small sections of mandarin oranges. — Mrs. Wm. M. 

White Cake — One-half cup butter, 2 cups pulverized sugar, 
3 cups flour, 1 cup milk, 6 egg whites, 1 heaping teaspoonful 
baking powder. Cream sugar and butter; add milk and then 
the flour and baking powder sifted together; add the beaten 
whites last and bake in a moderate oven 1 hour; flavor to taste. 
— Mrs. J. W. B. 



168 



MEMORANDA 



189 



CAKE FILLINGS AND FROSTINGS 

A Good Filling for White Cake — Two tablespoons chocolate, 1 
cup powdered sugar, % cup butter, 2 tablespoons hot strong 
coffee, vanilla. Mix thoroughly and add cup chopped nuts. — E. 
McC. 

Fi ll i n g for Layer Cake — White of 1 egg beaten to stiff froth, 
2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, % a glass of apricot and 
pineapple jam, 2 spoonfuls of orange marmalade, 1 cup seeded 
raisins and 6 English walnuts chopped together. — H. K. W. 

Apple Filling — Four apples grated, juice and rind of 1 lemon, 
1 cup sugar, i^ cup water, flour to thicken (about a tablespoon- 
ful). Boil 20 minutes. — Mrs. W. B. C. 

Cake Filling — One cup sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls cold water; 
boil until it threads or about 2 minutes. Chop up '^^ cup of rai- 
sins and y2 cup of walnuts; add to sugar and water and spread 
on cake — any flavoring. — Mrs. J. G. K. 

Chocolate — One-half large cup grated, unsweetened chocolate, 
1 cup milk, 1 cup sugar, yolks of 2 eggs, 2 teaspoons flour (or 3 
yolks). Cook until it thickens; add IMi teaspoons vanilla. — G. S. 

Chocolate Filling — One large slice of butter; wash in cold 
water to remove salt; add 1 cup of chocolate, 2 tablespoons of 
boiling water, 2 cups of powdered sugar, yolks of 3 eggs and 
white of 1 — drop into above without beating; 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat well and spread between and over cake. — Mrs. G. B. 

Cocoanut Filling — One cup milk, ^ cup cocoanut, ^ cup 
sugar. Boil and thicken with 1 tablespoon cornstarch dissolved 
in milk. Remove from fire and add the beaten whites of 2 
eggs, flavor. — Mrs. R. W. 

Cream Filling — Two cups boiling water \<ith a cupful of 
sugar dissolved; add a teaspoon of butter. Allow it to boil and 
dissolve suflaciently, then add 1 tablespoon of cornstarch; boll 



17© 



until right consistency. Remove from stove and add 1 well 
beaten egg. Allow it to cool and flavor accordingly. Very nice. 
— Mrs. W. A. B. 

Feather Filling- — One cup hot water; thicken with flour and 
let boil. Should be the consistency of thick starch. Cool. Cream 
1 cup sugar, 3 large tablespoons butter, 2 beaten yolks of eggs; 
add 1 cup chopped nuts, 2 tablespoons chocolate. Then, a tea- 
spoonful at a time, beat in the cold flour mixture. Very good. — 
A. L. B. 

Fig — One-half pound Smyrna figs, chopped, V2 pint water, % 
cup sugar. Boil till a jam. Add 2 or more teaspoons vanilla. — 
G. S. 

Marshmallovv — Twenty cents' worth of marshmallows; pink or 
banana; clip in small pieces with scissors; pour over a little boil- 
ing frosting syrup, cream smooth and beat into frosting. Put 
in a little vanilla if white marshmallow is used. — G. S. 

Sarah^s Mocha Filling for Cake — One slice butter %-inch 
thick, work with a fork in cold water to remove the salt (or buy 
unsalted butter), drain off water, add % cup of bar sugar, cream 
well; add slowly 4 tablespoons strong black coffee, 2 tablespoons 
powdered chocolate, beaten yolks of 2 eggs. 

Mocha Filling — Ten-cent slice of sweet butter, work it to a 
cream with the hands, then add V2 cup of sugar, yolks of 2 eggs; 
then gradually add a little black strong coffee, a little at a 
time, until you think it has a mocha taste. 

' Mocha Filling for Layer Cake — One cup powdered sugar, ^ 
cup melted butter, 2 tablespoons medium strong coffee. Beat 
together thoroughly and spread on layers when cold. — C. B. D. 

About Brittle Icing — A teaspoonful of vinegar beaten into 
boiled frosting when the flavoring is being added will keep it 
from being brittle and breaking when the cake is cut. It will 
be as moist and nice in a week as the day it was made. — M. B. 

Boiled Icing — One-half cup of milk, 1 cup of sugar. Boil 5 
minutes, then take off the stove and beat to a cream. — S. G. B. 

Chocolate Frosting — ^Two cups sugar, pinch cream tartar, 1 
cup cold water. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Boil until it be- 



171 



gins to drop thick from spoon. Beat whites of 2 eggs stiff. Beat 
in sugar syrup spoonful at a time, leaving on stove to continue 
cooking until last third will make hard ball in water. Beat well, 
adding 2 generous squares chocolate grated and 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Do not spread until it begins to cream. This makes 
plenty for 3 or 4 layers. One-half is enough for 2. — Mrs. R. A. L. 

Chocolate Icing for Cake — Mix a large tablespoon ful choco- 
late with a cup of powdered sugar; add the white of 1 egg and a 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat until thick and spread on top of 
cake. — F. McG. 

Chocolate Frosting — Six tablespoons milk, 1 cup sugar, 2 
squares Baker's chocolate, butter size of walnut; put in after it 
gets hot. Boil 3 minutes and flavor and beat until thick enough 
to spread. Put back on fire if, after heating, it is not hard 
enough. — Mrs. F. J. M. 

Cocoa Frosting — One cup powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon cocoa 
and piece butter big as a walnut stirred into that (have butter 
little soft); then moisten it with cold coffee, just enough so it 
will spread on the cake. Flavor with vanilla. — C. I. M. 

Cream Frosting — One cup powdered sugar, 1 slice butter, 
cream together; then add y2 teaspoon vanilla, white of 1 egg, 
2 tablespoons cream. — Mrs. W. B. C. 






Fudge Frosting — One and one-half tablespoons butter, V2 
p unsweetened powdered cocoa, 1 ^ cups confectioner's sugar, 
cup milk, % teaspoon vanilla, a few grains of salt. Melt 
butter, add cocoa, sugar, salt and milk. Heat to boiling point 
and boil about 8 minutes. Remove from fire; beat until creamy; 
add vanilla and spread over cake. — Mrs. R. W. 

Kai*o Frosting — One and one-fourth cups white sugar, % cup 
Karo corn syrup, ^4 cup cold water. Cook all together until it 
hairs good; then remove from the stove and let stand till you 
beat the white of 1 egg stiff; then pour syrup on it and beat 
and beat and beat until it gets real thick. I beat it until bottom 
of the platter feels quite cool; it does not harden like other 
frosting. You may color it with a few drops of fruit coloring if 
you wish. — Mrs. F. J. M. 

Rum Filling for Sponge Cake — One-half cup milk brought 
to a boil (in double boiler), yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons sugar. 
Make a boiled custard of this, then add 1 level tablespoonful of 
Knox's gelatine soaked in ^4 cup cold water; let cool; then add 3 



172 



tablespoonfuls rum and 1 teaspoonful vanilla, and when nearly- 
solid beat up 20 cents' worth of whipping cream to a stiff froth 
and add to mixture. Beat well and add to center of cake. Gar- 
nish with candied cherries and angeleek. The center of sponge 
cake is cut out to within about an inch of the bottom and within 
an inch of the side and filling put in. Cherries cut in half and 
laid around outside rim of cake and angeleek cut up in fine 
strips and put on filling, laying it on from the center out to the 
cherried edge in form of a star. — Mrs. U. B. C. 

Strawberry Icing — One cup powdered sugar, white of 1 egg, 
1 cup strawberries, fresh (not mashed). Beat all together and 
spread on layer cake. — Mrs. R. B. P. 



173 

MEMORANDA 



174 



COOKIES 

Aiiise Seed Kisses — Yolks of 4 eggs, % cup of sugar, % cup 
of flour, anise seed to taste. Beat very thoroughly; then drop 
by teaspoons and bake in very slow oven. — C. L. B. 

Almond Cookies — Beat 4 eggs creamy; add 2 cups brown 
sugar gradually; V2 teaspoonful cinnamon, i/^ teaspoonful cloves, 
V2 teaspoonful allspice, 5 tablespoonful grated chocolate, V2 cup 
seedless raisins, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 
cup blanched almonds. Cut lengthwise in strips. Bake slowly 
in large square pan. Make paste of 1 cup powdered sugar and 
a little milk, and spread on the cake while warm. — A. T. F. 

Bachelor Buttons — One cup sugar, i^ cup butter, 14 cup 
flour, 1 egg, little nutmeg, little almond extract. Roll in small 
cakes size of marbles. Dip in sugar and bake. — Mrs. J, W. P. 

Best Ginger Drops— One-half cup sugar, 1 cup molasses, l^ cup 
butter, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, ginger and cloves, 2 1/^ cups flour. 
Add 2 well beaten eggs just before baking, 1 teaspoon soda in 
cup boiling water. This can be made with sour milk also in- 
stead of water and of course leaving out butter. — Mrs. H, G. 

Brown Eyed Susans — Two cups molasses, 1 cup lard, 1 cup 
sugar, % cup sour milk, 1 tablespoon ginger, 3 teaspoons soda 
stirred in flour and 1 in milk, 2 eggs; enough flour to roll and 
cut into cookies. Put raisin in center of each. — Mrs. E. R. S. 

Butter Cookies — One and V2 cups sugar, large slice of butter 
(cream together); add 3 eggs, 1 large tablespoon of brandy, 1'^ 
teaspoons of yeast powder and enough flour to roll. Brush top 
with beaten egg; then sugar and cinnamon mixed together and 
chopped almonds. — Mrs. B. W. 

Cooky Sandwiches — Mix together 1 cup of butter, 1 heaping 
cup sugar, 3 eggs, a pint of flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 
vanilla. Roll out thin and sprinkle with sugar. Bake. With a 
thimble cut a hole in center of half of the cookies and place these 
on top of the whole one previously spread with jelly. — Mrs. B. L. 



175 



Chocolate Cookies — One cup brown sugar, 2 eggs, little salt, 

2 tablespocJiis chocolate, 5 tablespoons flour, ^ teaspoon baking 
powder, cup of chopped walnuts. First beat eggs, then add ?-ugar, 
salt, chocolate, flour, baking powder and last the nuts. Drop small 
spoonful on well buttered pans and bake until brown. Remove 
from pans as soon as baked. — H. R. 

Cookies (Very Rich) — Three-fourths lb. butter, 1 cup sugar, 
4 eggs, 1 Va cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Do not grease 
the pans; use plenty of flour on rolling pin and board as the 
mixture will be much the consistency of cake dough. Roll out 
very thin. — H. H. S. 

Cookies — One and one-half cup of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 2 
eggs (whites beaten stiff), 3 tablespoonful sour cream, 1 tea- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a little hot water. Flour enough to 
handle the dough. 

Cocoanut Kisses — Whites 3 eggs, 2 cups shredded cocoanut, 

3 tablespoons cracker crumbs, 1 cup granulated sugar. Drop by 
teaspoon on buttered tin and bake 20 minutes. — Mrs. R B. P 

Cocoanut Kisses — Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff; add 1 cup 
granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla; ground crocolate enough 
to darken. When all mixed put on stove and stir until thin. 
While stirring put in cocoanut until stiff. Drop on buttered pans 
and bake 10 minutes. — Mrs. J. McC. 

Chocolate Macaroons — ^Whites of 3 eggs well beaten, 1 scant 
cup granuated sugar, 1 scant cup chocolate, 1 scant cup chopped 
walnuts. Bake in slow oven (do not grease pan). — Mrs. J. B. 

Currant Cookie!^ — Three eggs, 1 cup of butter, 1 V2 cups sugar, 
1 cup currants, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoonful soda. Mix 
soda with 3 teaspoonfuls sweet milk. Put in flour to make stiff. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream; then add eggs and stir to- 
gether. Half lard may be used. — F. McG. 

Drop Cakes — One egg, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup sweet milk, 1 even 
teaspoon baking powder, salt and nutmeg, flour enough to make 
a batter that will drop easily from a teaspoon; fry in hot lard. — 
Mrs. J. 

Drop Doughnuts — One-half cup powdered sugar, 1 egg, % cup 
milk, salt and nutmeg, 1 heaping teaspoon yeast powder, tea- 
spoon melted butter, flour to make it thick enough to 
drop off of the teaspoon into hot deep fat. Sprinkle powdered 
sugar on top after fried. — Mrs. S. 



176 



Scotch Cookies — Cream half pound butter, 6 tablespoons pul- 
verized sugar, % pound flour, flavor; sprinkle with granulated 
sugar before baking. — Mrs. B. R. K. 

Doughnuts — Three eggs beaten light, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup rich 
milk (half cream, if possible), 1 scant teaspoon each of cinnamon 
and nutmeg, 2 teaspoons lemon, 2 teaspoons, scant, of salt and 
2 teaspoons yeast powder. Knead out in small quantities with 
only enough flour to make a soft dough. Be careful not to put 
in too much flour. Fry in lard or sweet oil and cottolene. — 
M. H. H. 

Cream Doughnuts — Two eggs, beat them well; good big V2 
cup sugar, nearly % cup. Cream together; 1 cup cream, pinch 
salt, vanilla and nutmeg flavoring, 1 quart flour, 1% teaspoons 
baking powder. Powder doughnuts as soon as they are removed 
from the fat. — Mrs. B. W. 

Danish Crullei*s — Six eggs beaten with a cup of sugar, 2 
tablespoonfuls of cream and one tablespoonful of butter. Put 
flour in until you can roll it out. Roll thin and fry in deep fat. 
Sprinkle with sugar. — E. McC. 

Fruit Drop Cookies — One cup butter, l^^ cups sugar, cream 
together; 3 ^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, % teaspoon cinnamon, 
V2 teaspoon salt, sift together; 1 cup walnuts, i^ cup raisins, ^^ 
cup currants, chop these together; 2 tablespoons of brandy. Drop 
on buttered tins, from teaspoon, 1/2 inch apart. — K. D. S. 

Fruit Cookies — One-half cup butter, % cup of sugar, 2 eggs 
(small), y2 teaspoon soda, 3 tablespoons hot water, i/^ teaspoon 
salt, V2 teaspoon cinnamon, 1^ cup chopped walnuts, i/4 cup 
currants, ^ cup raisins, about 1 % cup flour. Cream butter, 
add sugar gradually and beat well; add eggs well beaten; add 
soda dissolved in. the hot water and half of the flour mixed and 
sif£ed with the cinnamon and salt. Add raisins and currants 
cleaned and stoned and chopped, then nuts and remaining flour. 
Drop spoonfuls on slightly greased tins and bake as other cookies. 
— Mrs. H. W. M. 

Graham Wafers — One-half cup of butter, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg, 
graham flour, 1 level teaspoon soda, 2 tablespoons milk. Beat 
butter and sugar to cream. Add egg. Dissolve the soda in a 
tablespoon of hot water. Add to sugar and milk. Work in the 
flour now, about 3 cups, to make a very stiff dough. Knead until 
the mixture holds together. Cut in wafers and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. — E. C. C. 



177 



Ginger Snaps — One cup molasses, % cup lard (cook to- 
gether), 1 egg and 1 cup brown sugar mixed together, 1 table- 
spoon vinegar, 1 tablespoon soda; put ^ soda in vinegar and 
y2 soda in molasses mixture; 1 tablespoon ginger. Mix all and 
then add flour enough to roll thin. Cut in small circles and bake 
on buttered tin. — Mrs, R. B. P. 

H. O. Crisps — Two eggs, % cup brown sugar, 2^^ cups H. O. 
oats, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, i^ teaspoonful salt, 1 table- 
spoon shortening, V2 teaspoonful vanilla. Directions for mixing: 
Beat up eggs thoroughly, add sugar gradually and continue with 
the beating; put in salt and extract; mix separately the shortening 
with the H. O. and then mix all together. Drop in small pieces on 
greased baking pan, leaving a good space between. Bake in a 
hot, quick oven until crisp and brown; take off with knife. — 
Mrs. W. B. C. 

Heniiits — One cup butter, 1^^ cups sugar, creamed; 3 eggs, 
4 tablespoons milk, 1 small teaspoon each cloves, cinnamon and 
allspice; a bowl of raisins, citron, currants; 1 teaspoon baking 
powder; enough flour to make it stiff enough to roll out on board. 
Cut in any shape and put in floured pan to bake. — Mrs. J. B. B. 

Honey Cakes — Five eggs, 3 cups flour, 3 teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup honey, 5 tablespoonfuls of ground 
chocolate, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon, 1 teaspoon allspice. (Very 
good, will keep a long time). — Mrs. J. W. R. 

liovers' Knots — Two eggs, well beaten; 1 teaspoon sugar, ^4 
teaspoon salt, flour to make a stiff dough. Knead on floured 
board. Roll into a thin sheet, cut in ribbons about an inch wide, 
tie in knots and fry in deep fat. Dredge with powdered sugar. — 
A. L. B. 

Lady Finger Dainties — One-half pint cream (whipped), 4 
tablespoons powdered sugar, 1 cup chopped nuts, 1 cup chopped 
marshmallows. Spread on lady fingers. — Mrs. T. 

Macaroons — One-fourth pound almond paste (grated), 1 cup 
sugar, whites 3 eggs. Work together and warm over stove, 
stirring all the time. Drop in small teaspoons on paper placed 
in a long tin. Bake in moderate oven 20 minutes. Remove 
from paper when cold by wetting the back, — Mrs. R. B. P. 

Marguerites — Two eggs beaten together, 1 cup brown 
sugar, % cup flour, a little baking powder, 1 cup chopped 
nuts (pecans are best) and a little salt. Drop on buttered pans 
and bake. 



178 



Mother's Cookies — One egg, 1^/^ cup light brown sugar, 1 cup 
suet and butter mixed (melted), 2 teaspoons baking powder, plenty 
of caraway seeds, sal't and nutmeg, 1 teaspoonful, 3 ^/^ cups flour. 
— Mrs. J. W. P. 

Nut Wafers — Two cupfuls walnut meats, chopped, 1^ cup- 
fuls brown sugar, 3 heaping .tablespoonfuls flour, 14 teaspoonful 
baking powder, Vz teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs. Beat the eggs and 
add sugar, flour, powder, salt and nuts last. Drop on greased 
pan about V2 teaspoonful batter to each wafer. — Miss L. 

Oatmeal Cookies — One egg, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
oatmeal, 1 teaspoon baking powder, pinch of salt, 1 cup raisins, 
1 thin slice butter and a little lard. Milk to make dough to drop 
from teaspoon. — Mrs. J. E. 

Old Fashioned Crullers — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 
6 tablespoons of melted butter or lard, 4 eggs, 2 teaspoons cream 
ot tartar sifted in the flour, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
milk, V2 of grated nutmeg. Flour enough to roll out (about 
five even cups full). Cut out and fry in deep pan of lard. — 
Mrs. J. McM. 

Orange Molasses Cookies — One cup molasses, 1 cup sugar, 

1 cup butter and lard mixed, 1 tablespoonful boiling water, 2 
teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in the hot water, 2 oranges (rind 
and juice), 1 ess, 1 teaspoon salt, sufficient flour to roll out 
cookies. Melt the shortening and mix with the molasses and 
sugar, orange juice and soda; then add the egg well beaten and 
lastly the flour. Before baking the cookies sprinkle them with 
sugar. These cookies should be kept in a tightly closed tin. — 
F. V. M. 

Peanut Cookies — Two tablespoons butter, i/4 cup sugar, V2 
cup flour, Vz cup chopped peanuts, 2 tablespoons milk, 1 tea- 
spoon baking powder, V2 teaspoon lemon extract or juice, 1 egg. 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten egg, sifted flour and baking 
powder, then stir in the milk. Add peanuts and extract. Drop 
from teaspoon on unbuttered sheet of paper about 1 inch apart. 
Bake in moderate oven 15 minutes. This recipe will make 24 
cookies. — Mrs. A. D. 

Pyramids (For Breakfast or Tea) — One well beaten egg, 1 
cup sweet milk, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon salt, 

2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoonful shortening, 2^4 cups flour. 
After beating the egg, add milk, salt, sugar and shortening 
(melted). Add one cup of flour with baking powder and stir; 



179 



then add enough flour to make a soft, sticky dough. Drop by 
teaspoonful several inches apart upon buttered sheets and bake 
in a quick oven about 15 minutes. — M. Z. T. 

Rolled Oats or H. O. Cookies — Two cups rolled oats or 
H. O., 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, 1 cup brown sugar, Vs cup shortening, 1 egg, 
4 tablespoons sour milk, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Mix and 
sift the dry ingredients, add rolled oats and mix well. Chop in 
shortening, add beaten egg, milk and extract and mix well. Drop 
by tablespoon on greased pan, leaving an inch between. Bake 
about 20 or 25 minutes in a moderate oven. — M. Z. T. 

Raised or Yeast Cake Doughnuts — One compressed yeast 
cake, 1 cup lukewarm milk, 4 tablespoons of butter or butter 
and lard, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 whole egg and 1 yolk, grated 
rind of half a lemon, 1 quart of flour. _ Break yeast cake into a 
cup of lukewarm milk, add 1 teaspoon sugar; let stand in a 
warm place until the yeast rises to the surface. Stir 4 table- 
spoons shortening with 2 tablespoons of sugar to a cream, add 
1 whole egg and the yolk of 1 and the grated rind of half a 
lemon. Add 1 quart of flour and the yeast. Mix all together. 
Sift flour on the board; knead to a soft dough, being careful 
not to add very much more flour over the quart — just enough 
to knead it into a soft ball of dough. Return to the bowl. Let 
rise until light. Drop by tablespoon into hot fat and fry until 
a delicate brown. Dust with sugar and drain on brown paper. 
If desired, the dough after it is light is rolled out on a floured 
board to about a half inch in thickness; cut it into rounds with 
a small biscuit cutter; set them on floured tins; cover with a 
towel; let rise in a warm place to double their size; then fry in 
hot fat. Two good teaspoons of baking powder can be used in- 
stead of the yeast cake and then use the dough as soon as mixed. 
— M. Z. T. 

Rocks — One and one-half cups brown sugar, 1 cup butter, 3 
eggs (well beaten), 1 teaspoon soda in % cup water (cold), 
1 pound raisins (rolled in flour), 1 pound walnuts (broken 
small), 2y2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Cream butter and 
sugar, add eggs, soda, flour and cinnamon; then nuts and rai- 
sins. Drop from teaspoon on buttered tin and bake in hot oven. 
—Mrs. E. D. K. 

Sand Tarts — One cup butter, 1% cup sugar, 3 eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful of water, ^^ teaspoonful baking powder. Flour to roll 
thin and sprinkle with sugar. Invert pans and cookies will never 
burn.— J. B. S. 



iv 



180 



Spice Cookies — Five eggs, well beaten; add 1 cup white sugar, 
1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, i/^ teaspoon 
ground cloves, Vz teaspoon ground allspice, little salt, % cup 
chocolate, 3 scant cups flour, 3 scant teaspoons baking powder, 
IV2 pounds chopped walnuts, % pound chopped citron. Spread 
dough in pan and when baked cut in squares. — Mrs. E, D. K. 

Shrewsbury Cookies — One-half cup butter, grated rind of 1 
lemon, % cup sugar, 1 egg, 2 cups of flour or enough to make 
stiff batter. After putting all ingredients together set in a cool 
place for one hour; then roll out thin; cut and place on buttered 
tin. Bake in moderate oven. — Mrs. W. M. 

Springla (German) — Four eggs (beaten light), 1 pound sugar, 
1 pound flour, anise seed (whole) to taste. Roll out on cake- 
board and cut out very small cookies. Bake and eat after 2 or 3 
days. — Mrs. G. F. H. 

Vanilla Wafers — One-third cup of butter and lard, 1 cup of 
sugar, 1 egg well beaten, i/4 cup of milk, 2 V4, cups of flour, 1 level 
teaspoonful of baking powder, ^/^ teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of vanilla. — Mrs. N. C. H. 

Zabajone Kisses — Put the yolks of 6 eggs, V2 cup of sugarj 
and Mi cup of white wine into the top of double boiler; place 
this over the boiling water and stir gently until thick; do not 
cook too long. Kisses: Whites of the 6 eggs, 12 tablespoons 
sugar, vanilla. Beat the whites until very stiff, add the sugar, 
a tablespoon at a time; then the vanilla; bake about % hour 
in a cool oven. Put the "zabajone" in the kisses, which should 
be baked in gem pans. The tops can readily be cut off, leaving 
the centers hollow. Place a spoonful of whipped cream on top. 
(This serves 12 people.) — E. McC. 



181 

MEMORANDA 



182 



PASTRY 

Filling for Fit? — One cup chopped rhubarb, 1^ cups sugar, 
yolks of 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon cornstarch. Beat whites for the 
top and spread after pie is baked. Any fruit can be used. — Mary 
Sargent. 

Hints for Pie Making — Pie dough several days old, if kept 
m a cool place, makes more crisp and tender crust than that 
freshly made. 

Sprinkle fine cracker crumbs over the bottom crust in fruit 
or berry pies that are apt to be too juicy. This is better than 
thickening with flour, as the free juice is kept in its natural state. 

If your custard pie curdles or gets watery, try sifting your 
sugar with one level teaspoonful of flour. Beat this into the 
eggs, then add the milk. 

Plain Pie Crust — One cup of flour, 2 level tablespoons of lard, 
3 tablespoons of water. Rub lard into the sifted flour until it 
is nothing but crumbs; then add water enough to make a soft, 
rather dry, ball of dough. Flour the board and roll out, slightly 
dusting the upper part of the crust. (Enough for one pie.) — 
M. Z. T. 

Almond Tarts — Roll a nice, rich puff paste thin. Cut out 
with a glass or cooky cutter. With wine glass or smaller cutter 
cut out the center of two out of three. Lay rings thus made 
on the third, and bake. Filling: 2 tablespoons almond paste, 
2 eggs, 2 teaspoons flour, 3 teaspoons sugar. Smooth paste with 
back of spoon, add a little water and let come to a boil. Mix 
dry flour and sugar and add 3 beaten yolks. Add a pinch of salt 
anff let come to boil, like custard. Fill shells. Cover with 
meringue of whites, slightly sweetened, and sprinkle a little 
granulated sugar over top. Put in oven to brown slightly. — 
Mrs. E. D. K. 

Banbury Tarts — Quarter pound dried figs, 1 cup seeded rai- 
sins, 1 cup water, l^^ cups sugar, 1 orange, rind and juice; 1 
lemon, rind and juice; 1 cup nut meats. Chop fine figs, raisins 
and rinds. Cook until thick and let cool. Better if made a day 
before using. Roll rich pie crust thin; cut with biscuit cutter. 



183 



Place tablespoon of mixture on one side of crust and fold over. 
Bake light brown. Splendid with coffee. — Mrs. J. B. 

Baiibury Tai'ts — One cup raisins, stoned and chopped; 1 
cracker finely rolled, 1 egg slightly beaten, 1 cup sugar and 
grated rind and juice of lemon. Fill puff paste rolled % inch 
thick and cut in pieces 3 by 3^^ inches, with this mixture, about 
2 teaspoonsful to each piece; moisten edge with cream half 
way round; fold over and press lower edge over upper with three- 
tined fork dipped in flour. Bake 20 minutes in slow oven. 

Butter Scotch Pie — Make an under crust of pastry; prick with 
fork and bake. Part 1 — Melt butter (size of walnut), 1 cup 
brown sugar, 4 tablespoons milk. Boil 5 minutes. Part 2 — Beat 
yolks of 2 eggs, 1 cup milk and 2 tablespoons flour (smoothed 
with a little water) together and pour in the first part. Boil 
until thick, stirring all the time. When cool pour into the crust 
and put on the top the beaten whites of the eggs. Brown in 
oven. — Mrs. R. B. P. 

Mock Cherry Pie (Cranberry) — Cut in halves 1 cup cran- 
berries and mix them in a bowl with 1 cup sugar, % cup cold 
water and 1 tablespoonful of flour. The flour should be mixed 
dry with the sugar before adding to the cranberries and water. 
Last add 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake in deep pie plate between 
two crusts. This makes one small pie. For a large pie plate 
add ^ cup cranberries more and the balance in proportion. — Mrs. 
C. 

Cliocolate Pie — One cup milk, 1 cup sugar, % cup chocolate, 
yolks of 2 eggs, pinch salt, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 tablespoon flour. 
Boil till thick. Put into pie crust already baked. Make mer- 
ingue of the whites of eggs and powdered sugar and brown in 
oven. — Miss H. B. 

Cocoauut Pie — One pint milk, pinch salt, 2 tablespoons corn- 
starch, 3 eggs, % cup sugar, 1 teacup cocoanut, small piece but- 
ter, ^ teaspoon vanilla. Scald milk in double boiler. Add 
beaten yolks, sugar and cornstarch, dissolved in a little milk. 
Allow to thicken like custard, stirring all the while. Then add 
cocoanut. Remove from fire, add vanilla, fill rich pie crust which 
has been previously baked, add sweetened meringue of whites, 
sprinkling cocoanut over top, if desired, and brown in oven. — 
Mrs. E. D. K. 

Cranberry Pie — One cup of cranberries, chopped very fine or 
put through grinder. Put over this % cup of sugar and let it 



Ca 1 if e ne 

is manufactured in our Refinery at So. San Francisco 
under Government Inspection, and under ordinary 
conditions CALIFENE will reach the home from 
two to three weeks fresher than Eastern product 

Califene Shortens 
Perfectly 



AND IS 



Made in California 

If you cannot secure CALIFEXE from your 
dealer, it will pay you to communicate with the 

Western Meat Company 

San Francisco Oakland San Jose Sacramento Stockton 



RECEIPT FOR GOOD PASTRY: A small handfull of dry kindling; 
apply your match and add a small quantity of good Coal furnished by 

Cassel & Reinke 



Wood, Hay and Grain. Coke, Charcoal, Coal Oil, Etc. 

Terms Cash 
2843 MISSION STREET, BETWEEN 24TH AND 25TH 



HELIWIG'S CAFE AND BAKERY 

41-43 STOCKTON STREET 
Phones: Douglas 5719; Home C 5704 

A select restaurant for ladies and gentlemen. Everything in the 
cafe line served.. French and German Confectionery made on prem- 
ises fresh every day. Take home one of our famous GERMAN 
COFFEE CAKES. 

LADIES' AFTERNOON TEA 
Wedding and Bride Cakes our specialty 



185 



stand whila preparing crust for pie. Then beat into cranberries 
the yolks of 2 eggs. Put the mixture in crust and bake as for 
custard pie. When the filling is set, cover with meringue made 
of two whites, and delicately brown in oven. — Mrs. C. L. B. 

Cream Pie — Stir to a cream ^ cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon- 
ful butter; add 2 well beaten eggs, 2 tablespoons flour and 2 
cups milk. Stir well together and flavor with orange. Bake in 
under crust. — H. H. 

Fanchonettes — Invert patty tins and cover with pufC paste. 
Prick and bake in a quick oven until done, but not very brown. 
Remove, fill with lemon filling, as for lemon pie, and return to 
oven. Cover with meringue and brown. — M. C. C. 

Frangipan Pie — Cut and bake three circular pieces of good 
pastry, flat, about Vs inch thick. Filling — Mix % cup sugar, ^ 
cup flour, Vs teaspoonful salt, 2 eggs slightly beaten and pour 
on while stirring constantly l^i cups scalding milk. Cook 15 
minutes in double boiler, stirring constantly until thickened. 
Add 1 % tablespoonful butter, 5 cents worth of macaroons, 
crushed, or nearly a cup full, % teaspoonful vanilla, Vs tea- 
spoonful lemon juice. Top off with powdered sugar or whipped 
cream. — Mrs. S. J. P. 

Lemon-Apple Pie — Two apples chopped fine, juice and rind of 
1 lemon, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg. Bake with two crusts. — J. S. 

Lemon Custard Pie — One cup of sugar, yolks 3 eggs, 1 spoon- 
ful of flour or cornstarch, juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, but- 
ter the size of a walnut, 1 cup of milk or water. Mix and cook 
until it thickens. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and add 4 
tablespoons of sugar for the frosting. Beat lightly. Bake the 
crust first, then fill and add the frosting. Set in a warm oven a 
few minutes. — Mrs. C. L. S. 

Lemon Pie — Beat the yolks of 4 eggs with 9 tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, add 2 teaspoonfuls of melted butter, half a tum- 
bler of milk and the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. Pour 
this mixture into a lower €rust and bake. Cover the top of pie 
with a frosting made of the beaten whites of 4 eggs and 4 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and brown slightly in the 
oven. — Mrs. M. M. 

Lemon Pie — One lem6n (juice and rind grated), add 3 table- 
spoonfuls sugar, butter size of a walnut, 2 tablespoonfuls of 
water. Let this come to a boil. Then pour this slowly over 



# 



186 



3 well beaten yolks of eggs. Return to the fire to thicken. 
When cool add whites of eggs, beaten with 4 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Mix the whites in gently. Put in oven to brown and 
thicken. This makes one pie. — Mrs. G. F. H. 

■^> 

Lemon Pie — Two cups boiling water, pinch salt, small 
piece of butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, 1 cup granulated 
sugar, yolks of 3 eggs beaten well. Cook for 3 minutes. Add 
juice and rind of 2 large lemons, after mixture boils. Pour into 
crust which has been previously baked. Whip up whites with 2 
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Spread on top and place in 
hot oven to brown quickly. — J. G. K, 

Lemon Pie — Over a quarter of a pound (about 1 cup) of 
crumbed stale cup or sponge cake squeeze the juice of 3 lemons, 
grated rind of 2 lemons, add slowly 1 1/^ cups of rich, sweet cream, 
Vz cup sugar, pinch of salt, well beaten yolks of 6 eggs, whipped 
whites of 3 eggs; pour into 2 crusts and bake in moderate oven; 
3 remaining whites use for meringue; add to them pinch of salt, 
Vz tipaspoon lemon juice, V2 cup powdered sugar. (This recipe 
can be cooked in a double boiler, then poured into a cooked crust, 
if preferred.) — E. C. C. 

Mock Lemon Pie — One cup stewed rhubarb, % cup sugar, 
yolks of 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons sweet cream, 1 tablespoon corn- 
starch, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Bake in one crust. Cover 
top with meringue made from beaten whites of the eggs and 3 
tablespoons sugar. Brown in oven. — Miss M. B. 

To Make Six Lemon Cheese Cakes — Yolks of 2 eggs, peel of 
1 lemon, juice of 2 lemons, 2 ounces white sugar, 2 ounces fresh 
butter, crumbled sponge cake if too moist. Work together with 
a fork. Fill into pastry. — B. H. N, 

Mock Mince Pie — One egg, V2 cup molasses, 3 crackers rolled 
fine, 1 cup water, 2 lemons, a little cloves, allspice, nutmeg, cur- 
rants and raisins. This quantity makes two pies. — Miss S. H. T. 

Mince Meat — Two pounds lean meat (boiled), 1 pound suet, 
5 pounds apples (chopped), 2 pounds stoned raisins, 1 pound 
currants, % pound citron, 2 1/^ cups brown sugar, 3 tablespoons 
cinnamon, 1 tablespoon mace, 1 tablespoon cloves, 1 tablespoon 
allspice, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 tablespoons nutmeg, 1 pint sherry, 
1 pint brandy, 1 pint cider, 1 bowl currant jelly. Mix all and 
heat thoroughly. — Mrs. C. H. E. 



18( 



Mince Meat — Get 2 1»^ pounds beef from the rump; boil un- 
til tender and leave in the water until cold. Then remove all 
bones and gristle and chop up very fine in a chopper or with a 
chopping knife. This will be about 1 pound meat or 4% cups; 
3 pounds apples, peel and chop, 14 cups; % pound suet chopped 
fine, 2 cups; ^i_4iau»4-tntTon, cut in small pieces; 1% pounds 
seeded raisins, 1 pound currants, 1 pound dates, chopped; 1 cup 
sugar, 1 cup molasses, 2 cups water, 2 cups grape juice or 1 
pint boiled cider, 1 cup brandy if desired, juice of 1 lemon and 
2 oranges, 1 tablespoon each of salt, mace, gloves, nutmeg, cin- 
namon; 2 tablespoons each of allspice and ginger. Mix well and 
cook, stirring frequently, not to let it burn to pan. When boil- 
ing hot put into hot Mason jars and seal. — C. B. D. 

Mince Meat — One pound of suet chopped almost to a powder, 
all stringy parts removed; 3 pounds of lean beef, boiled until 
tender and chopped fine; 3 pounds of raisins, seeded; 1 pound 
of Sultana raisins; 2 pounds of currants; 1 pound of citron, 
chopped fine; 2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, ^ teaspoonful of 
mace, ^^ teaspoonful of cloves, 1 nutmeg, grated; 1 tablespoon- 
ful of salt, 2 pounds of brown sugar, 1 quart of boiled cider. 
Place chopped beef and suet in a large stone crock. Fruit and 
spices are then added. Boil cider and sugar. Then add. Place 
crock in pan of water on back of stove. Let stand all day, 
occasionally stirring. "When cold add 1 quart of brandy or 1 
pint of sherry wine and 1 pint of brandy. When making pies 
add sour apples peeled, cored and chopped fine. — L. M. M. 

Mince Meat^ — One beef heart, 2 pounds suet, 2 pounds seeded 
raisins, 4 pounds apples, 2 pounds currants, 2 pounds Sultana 
raisins, 2 pounds sugar, 1 pound citron, % pound candled lemon 
peel, 1 quart sherry, 1 quart brandy, 2 oranges grated and juice, 
2 lemons grated and juice, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 nutmegs grated, 
% ounce mace, ^^ ounce cinnamon, ^4 ounce cloves. Put heart 
on in boiling water, cook slowly until tender; set away to cool. 
When cool chop fine; also apples and suet. Shave citron and 
lemon peel. Mix all dry ingredients well together; add oranges 
and lemons (grated and juice); then add sherry and brandy; 
mix well; pack in stone jar; cover closely and put in a cool 
place. Wvhen ready to use it can be thinned with cider. — Mrs. 
E. F. T. 

Maids of Honor — One and one-half ounces butter, 3 ounces 
cocoanut (dessicated), 3 ounces fine sugar, 2 eggs, good 
pastry, baking powder. Beat the butter, add the sugar, then 
the eggs, well beaten; then cocoanut and a very small teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder. Line small pans with good pastry; then 



/ 



188 



put mixture in and bake. (We use putty pans.) Put a little 
raspberry jam next the pastry, under the mixture. — A. T. F. 

Orange Tarts — Puff paste: 2 cups flour, Vz teaspoon yeast 
powder, a little salt; sift this twice; 1 cup lard and butter loosely 
filled. Chop into the flour. Stir in half a cup of water and 
roll thin. Enough for 2 dozen tarts. Orange mixture — ^ cup 
butter, 1 cup sugar, juice of one large orange, 2 eggs, vanilla, 
1 tablespoon brandy and nutmeg. Drop one tablespoon orange 
in each tart and bake like pie — Mrs. J. S. 

Orange Pie — One cup milk, 1 cup sugar, flour to thicken, 
juice 3 oranges, Vz lemon, grate some of the orange peel, yolks 
3 eggs. Cook until thick. Bake the shell made from rich pas- 
try. Then pour in the thickened mixture. Beat the whites of 
eggs stiff and place over pie and return to oven to brown. — 
Mrs. R. B. P. 

/ Pineapple Pie — One large can grated or chopped pineapple, 

/2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch, butter size of a walnut, 1 

cup sugar. Heat juice, then add the other ingredients, leaving 

/ pineapple until the last. Have crust baked and fill. Cover with 

whipped cream. — Mrs. E. McC. 

Prane Pie — One cup mashed cooked prunes, 1 cup prune juice 
or water, % cup white sugar, 1 heaping tablespoon flour. Cook 
all together. When thick add beaten yolks of 2 eggs, lump of 
butter, salt, juice of 1 lemon and a little vanilla. Fill crust pre- 
viously baked. Cover top with beaten whites of eggs, sweetened, 
and brown. — Mrs. J. B. 

Prune Pie — Take 1 cup prunes, cooked and run through col- 
ander. Sweeten to taste. Put in a baked lower crust. Cover 
with a pint of whipped cream and then sprinkle with chopped 
walnuts. Serve cold. A delicious pie. — Mrs. E. E. McV. , 

Pumpkin Pie — One pint hot milk, 1 large or 2 small eggs, 
1 cup cooked and finely mashed pumpkin or squash (put through 
sieve), % teaspoon cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ginger, V2 teaspoon 
salt, % cup sugar. Have crust ready, fill with mixture and set 
in oven as soon as possible. — M. A. B. 

Rhubarb Pie — Make an under crust of rich pastry. Filling — 
"« cup rhubarb, V2 cup water, 1 cup sugar; boil 15 minutes. Re- 
move from stove; add yolks of 2 eggs (well beaten). Pour into 



189 



the pie crust. Add the beaten whites of 2 eggs into which has 
been added 1 tablespoon powdered sugar, and brown in oven. — 
I. L. P. 

Rhubarb Turnover — Take the tender pink stems, cut in dice. 
Butter a granite pie tin well, and place the pieces of rhubarb 
thickly over the bottom. Sprinkle some tiny pieces of butter 
over it. For the batter take 1 egg, ^^ cup milk, 1 teaspoon 
of baking powder mixed with 1 cup of flour, or enough to make 
a thick batter. Into this stir ^ cup of melted butter, not too 
hot. Pour this over the rhubarb, and bake in a moderate. oven. 
When done, turn into a large plate, rhubarb side up. Sift over 
this '^k cup of granulated sugar, just before serving. This makes 
a pretty pink dish. Should be served warm with whipped cream. 
— Mrs. E. L. B. 

Sour Cream Pie — To the beaten yolks of 2 eggs add % cup 
sugar, % cup raisins, 1 cup sour cream, y^, teaspoon cinnamon 
and cloves. Meringue of whites ('2 eggs). Makes a small, 
though rich, pie. — Mrs. .1. H. B. 

Sour Milk Pie — One cup chopped raisins, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup 
thick sour milk, grated rind and juice of 1 lemon, Vz teaspoon 
cloves, % teaspoon cinnamon, little nutmeg and salt to taste. 
Bake in two crusts. Make two pies. — A. E. B. 

Squash Pie — One pint steamed squash, 1 cup brown sugar, 
3 eggs, 1 tablespoon molasses, 1 tablespoon melted butter, 1 
tablespoon ginger, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, pinch of salt. Add 1 
pint of milk. Bake about half an hour. This makes 2 small 
pies or 1 large one. 



190 

MEMORANbA 



191 



LIGHT DESSERTS 

Ambrosia — First — Dissolve 1 rounded tablespoonful of gran- 
ulated gelatine in % cup cold water and stir over the fire until. 
thoroughly dissolved. Second — Add another \^ cup cold water 
to the hot gelatine and let it stand to cool a little until you sep- 
arate the whites of 4 eggs. Third — Beat the whites of 4 eggs 
with a tiny pinch of salt until they are very light and stiff, and 
then pour the dissolved gelatine very slowly into the beaten 
whites and beat all the time while pouring in the gelatine. 
Fourth — Sprinkle in 1 cup of granulated sugar and keep on beat- 
ing. Fifth — Add 1 teaspoonful of almond extract and beat again 
until well mixed. Sixth — Take out Vs of the mixture and tint 
pink with fruit coloring. Spread it over the bottom of a deep 
dish (after putting a piece of plain white paper in the bottom 
of the dish and putting it in the ice box to get cold), sprinkle 
chopped pecan nuts lightly over that; on top of that put the 
second third of the white and more chopped nuts; the last third 
tint lavender and spread on top of the white layer. This is a 
three-layer pudding, extremely light and fluffy, when properly 
made, and must be served with whipped cream flavored with 
vanilla. A wire spoon beater is better for the making of this 
pudding because it beats air into the whites of the eggs. — Mrs. 
F. J. M. 

Apricot Fluff — One pint of hot apricots, % package of gela- 
tine dissolved in 1 cup of cold water, whites of 3 eggs beaten 
stiff and 3 tablespoons of sugar added when beaten. Mix all 
together and put into molds. To be eaten with cream. Any 
kind of fruit may be used. Sets very quickly. — Mrs. A. E. E. 

Apricot Souffle — One pint apricots through potato masher. 
Boil, add 2 tablespoons corn starch mixed with cold water; boil 
until it thickens. Let cool 2 minutes. Add yolks 3 eggs and 
sugar (to taste), beaten together; add almond flavoring and 
whites of eggs, beaten stiff and dry, folded in. Serve with 
whipped cream. — E. A. B. 

Apple Sago — One quart boiling water, 8 apples, 1 cup sugar, 
1 teaspoon salt, % cup sago, 1 lemon rind. First put water, 
lemon rind and salt in upper boiler. Mix sugar and sago to- 



192 



gether. Gradually add to boiling water stirring all the time. 
Remove scum; cook 10 minutes and place in the lower boiler 
and allow to cook without stirring until each grain of sago is 
clear. While sago is cooking pare and core apples and place 
in a greased baking dish; pour over them the sago mixture and 
bake until apples are tender. Serve with cream or boiled cus- 
tard. — D. W. 

Aiigel Charlotte Russe — One tablespoon Knox's gelatine, ^ 
cup cold water, i/4 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, 1 pint heavy- 
cream (whipped), 10c. rolled stale macaroons, 1 dozen marsh- 
mallows (cut in small pieces), 2 tablespoons chopped candied 
cherries, ^A pound blanched and chopped almonds, flavoring. 
Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in boiling water and add 
sugar. When mixture is cold, add whipped cream, almonds, 
macaroons, marshmallows and cherries. Flavor with vanilla, 
rose or a touch of sherry. Turn into mould and allow to set. — 
Mrs. E. D. K. 

Banana Pudding — Two dozen lady fingers, 2 dozen maca- 
roons, 1 dozen large or 1 dozen small bananas, 1^ pints of 
soft custard. Put a layer of lady fingers in the bottom of a 
glass dish, then a layer of bananas sliced thin, a layer of maca- 
roons, one of bananas, and repeat until dish is filled; over 
the whole pour custard made as follows: One pint of milk, 2 
well beaten eggs, Vz cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 
flavor with vanilla. Pour the custard on as soon as you take 
from stove. Serve cold with whipped cream. — Mrs. L. A. B. 

Baked Bananas — Strip off Vs skin lengthwise very carefully; 
loosen fruit, but do not remove it from skin. Place in baking 
dish stripped sides uppermost. To each banana allow 1 large 
tablespoonful brown sugar, 1 tablespoonful sherry, and ^ tea- 
spoonful butter melted. Pour this over fruit, taking care that 
it slips between loosened skin and fruit. Put little water in 
pan to prevent burning. Bake about Mi hour. Serve hot in 
skins. — Mrs. D. C. 

Baked Alaska — One quart mold ice cream frozen very hard, 
1 sponge cake a little larger than ice cream brick. Cut cake, 
put ice cream between layers; cover with meringue and put in 
hot oven 5 minutes. Meringue — Whites of 5 eggs beaten stiff, 
5 tablespoons granulated sugar. 

Banana Sponge — One-third box of gelatine, % cup cold 
water, % cup boiling water, % cup sugar, juice of 1 lemon, 1 
cup banana pulp, whites of 3 eggs, slices of banana. Soften 



193 



gelatine in cold water; add boiling water and sugar; strain over 
the pulp. Heat to scalding point; let cool a little; add the 
lemon and beat until light and cold; then beat in whites gradu- 
ally (first beaten until dry); turn mixture into mould lined 
with slices of bananas. Serve with cream. — Mrs. L. A. B. 

Caramel Custard — Take Vz the quantity of sugar to be used 
for an ordinary custard and ^: the quantity of milk. Melt the 
sugar in an iron pan until a blue smoke appears; have the ^/^ 
portion of milk at the scalding point and into it pour the melted 
sugar. See that all is dissolved by pouring back into the pan 
if necessary. When this is cool prepare your custard as usual, 
using the caramel-flavored milk with the other. Bake in custard 
cups, or in ordinary punch glasses; set in a pan of hot water in 
the oven. Serve with whipped cream. — E. L. B. 

Caramel Blanc Mange — One and one-half teaspoons gelatine 
softened in % cup of cold water. Cook ^^ cup of sugar to a 
light brown syrup (caramel); have a sharp fire; stir briskly 
while cooking; add a scant V2 cup of water (preferably hot). 
Let the mixture boil to a thick, smooth syrup; let cool a little, 
then turn it over the softened gelatine; stir. When this is dis- 
solved strain into 3 cups of thin cream (a pint of cream and 
cup of milk will do) ; add a very scant ^ cup of sugar, a 
few grains of salt. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Serve with 
cream. — E. C. C. 

Crenie au Caramel — One quart fresh milk in double boiler; 
thicken with 2 tablespoons of cornstarch; brown 1% cups of 
brown sugar in sauce pan, stir in the milk, add one teaspoon of 
butter, dash of salt, yolk of the eggs and stir in the well beaten 
whites; 1 teaspoon of vanilla. — Mrs. E. K. S. 

Coifee Souffle — Put in the double boiler 1 ^/^ cups of made 
coffee, % cup of milk, % cup sugar, 1 tablespoon granulated 
gelatine. When hot, add a pinch of salt and yolks of 2 eggs 
beaten a little; stir until the mixture thickens; remove from the 
fire; add the whites of the eggs beaten stiff; turn into a mold. 
Chill and serve with cream. — Mrs. T. G. I. 

Cornstarch Pudding (SuflBcient for six or eight) — One pint 
of milk, 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of cornstarch, 3 tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, whites of 3 eggs, ^^ teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat the 
eggs to a stiff froth; dissolve the cornstarch in a little of the 
cold milk; stir the sugar into the rest of the milk and place it 
on the fire; when it begins to boil, add the dissolved cornstarch; 




194 



stir constantly for a few minutes; when it becomes well thick- 
ened, stir in the beaten whites of the eggs, and let it remain 
a little longer to cook the eggs. Remove from the fire; flavor 
with vanilla, and turn into a mold. It may be served with a 
custard made of the yolks of the eggs, with cream or with 
jelly. — A. B. D. 

Bavarian Coffee Ci-eam — Boil Vz cup ground coffee in Vz cup 
cold water and strain; V2 box gelatine soaked in I/2 cup cold 
water, ^ pint whipped cream, 1 pint milk, 3 eggs beaten separ- 
ately, V2 'Cup sugar, pinch salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs; 
add the sugar and salt and beat together; add this to the boil- 
ing milk and coffee, stirring constantly until it thickens; then 
add the gelatine and remove from the fire. When cold and quite 
thick, add the beaten whites of the eggs and the whipped cream 
separately. Serve with Vz pint whipped cream, flavored with 
vanilla and sweetened. 

Cocoanut Pudding — Soak 3 tablespoons tapioca over night; 
in the morning scald 1 quart milk, stir in tapioca and scald 
10 minutes; then mix with yolks of 4 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 3 table- 
spoons cocoanut and stir into milk and scald 5 minutes and put 
into dish. Beat the whites of eggs with 2 tablespoons sugar 
for frosting; sprinkle top with cocoanut and put in oven to 
brown. Oven must be very hot. — Mrs. E. W. B. 

Chocolate Mold — Four tablespoons cornstarch, Vz teaspoon 
vanilla, ^4 cup milk, ^ cup blanched almonds, 2 cups scalded 
milk, ^4: cup sugar, 3 ounces chocolate, melted with 2 tablespoons 
sugar, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 3 egg whites. Mix cornstarch with cold 
milk; add sugar, salt, scalded milk and the melted chocolate, 
mixed with 2 tablespoons sugar. Cook in double boiler 20 
minutes, stirring constantly. Cool slightly, cut and fold in the 
well beaten egg whites, keeping the mixture as fluffy as pos- 
sible; add vanilla; decorate the bottom and sides of an oval 
mold with the halves of almonds arranged in the shape of 
daisies; pour in the cornstarch mixture; chill, remove from 
mold, and garnish with candied cherries and beaten cream 
sweetened and flavored. A more fancy dish is obtained by mak- 
ing double the receipt and putting the chocolate into % the mix- 
ture, keeping the other V2 white. Mold the white in small glasses 
or timbale molds and arrange around the oval mold. Garnish 
each small mold with ^ cherry and the spaces between with 
cream, forced through the pastry bag. — H. B. F. 

Chocolate Pudding — One and one-half heaping tablespoons 
gelatine, 1 quart milk, 4 tablespoons chocolate, 6 tablespoons 
sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, pinch salt. Boil all together 



195 



for 10 miiyites, stirring all the time; remove from fire and add 
the vanilla. When nearly cold, beat 5 minutes with egg beater. 
Eat cold with chipped cream. — ^H. B. 

Cliocolate Sponge Pudding; — Eight tablespoons ground choco- 
late, yolks of 8 eggs, 8 tablespoons sugar beat to a cream, pinch 
of salt. Add 1 % tablespoons gelatine to a teacup boiling water 
and let it stand until warm; mix with above and then add the 
beaten whites of the eggs; flavor with vanilla. — E. L. M. 

Date Pudding: — One cup sugar, 3 eggs; beat together 1 cup of 
milk, 1 cup of dates chopped fine, 6 tablespoons of cracker 
crumbs, 1 teaspoon yeast powder, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Bake 20 
minutes. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. P. 

Delicate Pudding — Three heaping tablespoonfuls flour, small 
piece of butter, juice and grated rind of lemon, 1 cupful sugar, 
i pint boiling water. When thick (cook in a double boiler) add 
beaten whites of 3 eggs and stir well. Make a custard to put 
over it of the 3 yolks and a pint of milk. Flavor with vanilla. 
— Miss L. 

Fig Loaf — One cup of pulled figs washed thoroughly; cook 
in double boiler with 1 V2 cups of cold water; add 1^ cups 
sugar. Cook 10 minutes. After adding sugar, add 1 tablespoon- 
ful of dissolved gelatine, chopped figs; mix with 1^ cups fine 
bread crumbs; mix well; mold in buttered tin. Eat with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. A. L. B. 

Farina Pudding (sufficient for six people) — Two cupfuls of 
milk (1 pint), 4 tablespoonfuls of farina, 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, 3 eggs, grated rind of V2 lemon. Put the milk and lemon 
zest into a double boiler; when it reaches the boiling point stir 
in the farina and cook for 5 minutes; then remove; from the fire 
and turn it onto the yolks and sugar, which have been beaten 
together until light; stir all the time. Let it become cool, but 
not stiff; when ready to bake it, fold in lightly the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, a dash of salt added to them 
before beating; turn into a pudding dish and place in a pan 
containing enough hot water to half cover it. Bake in a mod- 
erately hot oven for 25 minutes. Serve at once, or like other 
souffles, it will fall. Serve with Sabayon sauce as follows: Put 
1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of sherry, and 1 egg all together in a 
saucepan and whip over the fire until it is little thickened. 

Hamburg Cream — Five eggs, 2 lemons, i/^ pound of sifted 
sugar. Beat the yolks with the juice and grated rind of the 



196 



lemons, also the sugar; put it on fire and let it come to a boil; 
then add hastily the whites of the eggs beaten stiff; stir all well 
together, take immediately off the fire and put in glasses. Put 
in cool place to set before serving. In making this always use 
a farina boiler. This recipe will fill eight small glasses. — 
Mrs. D. C. 

La Favorite — Make a strong orange jelly and mould in a 
long mould; put it on a flat platter. Halve apricots, remove the 
stones and put in place of the stones some blanched almonds 
and arrange them around the base of the jelly. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

Prosperity Dessert — Beat yolks of 4 eggs slightly; add % 
of a cupful of sugar, 1 lemon grated, 1 tablespoonful of lemon 
juice, Vz cupful of Madeira or Sherry wine, a little salt. Cook 
in double boiler until mixture thickens; stir constantly; then 
strain; add whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiffly and when well mixed 
set in pan of ice water, stirring occasionally. Beat % of a cup- 
ful of heavy cream stiff; add to first mixture; put in paper cups 
or individual glasses and sprinkle top with powdered macaroons. 
— C. M. B. 

Macaroon Souffle — Twelve macaroons crumbed, 1 cup milk 
(scald milk); add macaroons, yolks of 3 eggs and V^ cup sugar 
beaten together and stirred into milk and macaroons. When it 
begins to thicken remove from stove. Beat whites stiff and fold 
into mixture when a little cool; set mixture into pan of hot water 
and. bake till it raises in middle. — B. B. 

Macaroon Tarts — Five crackers rolled very fine (sodas), 5 
eggs separated, % cups sugar, granulated, 1 cup walnuts chopped 
very fine. Mix yolks and sugar, stirring 20 minutes; add crack- 
ers; then nuts; and lastly the well beaten whites. Bake in a 
slow oven 5 or 10 minutes in a square flat tin. When baked 
spread a glass of jelly over the top and next a layer of maca- 
roons; set aside till next day; then whip l^ pint cream; spread 
over the top of macaroons; then add another layer of macaroons. 
Cut in squares the size of macaroons and serve. It takes about 
30 macaroons for the 2 layers (2 lb.). — Mrs. A. N. K. 

Marshmallow Pudding — One small can sliced pineapple, 1 
pound marshmallows, Vi pint heavy cream. Put in dish a layer 
of pineapple cut in small pieces, then a layer of marshmallows 
(cut in quarters), then another layer of pineapple, etc. Pour 
over this the juice of the pineapple and let stand for a few 



10< 



hours; when ready to serve, drain off juice and fold in V2 pint 
of whipped cream, which has been flavored. This makes enough, 
for 6 or 8 persons. — Mrs. E. H. M. 

Nesselrode Pudding — One-half package Knox's gelatine, dis- 
solved in Mi pint cold water % an hour; then add ^ pint hot 
water. Put on to boil 1 pint milk. When it comes to boiling 
point add ingredients in following manner: Beaten yolks of 3 
eggs, 1 cup of sugar, ^ cup seeded raisins, 3 tablespoonfuls 
chopped blanched almonds, ^ cup cocoanut; flavor with vanilla 
to taste; add gelatine previously dissolved and last the beaten 
whites of eggs. Stir well while adding ingredients; pour into 
mould and set to cool. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. F. J. M. 

Nut Pudding — Beat separately the yolks and whites of 6 
eggs; to the yolks add 1% cups of sugar; to the whites add 3 
cups of finely chopped walnuts. Mix together lightly and add 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Last of all sift in a teaspoonful of 
baking powder well mixed with a tablespoonful of flour. Bake 
in 2 deep round cake pans and put together with whipped cream, 
slightly sweetened. Will serve 10 people. — Mrs. H. B. A. 

Orange Pudding (delicious) — One cup of fine bread crumbs 
soaked in % cup of milk, juice of 2 oranges and a little grated 
rind, % cups of sugar, 2 eggs beaten separately, trifle of nutmeg. 
Bake from 20 to 30 minutes in a pan of water. Serve hot or 
cold with whipped cream. — Mrs. H. J. S. 

Pineapple Sponge Pudding — Three cups boiling water, 5 
tablespoons (level) cornstarch, 4 tablespoonfuls (level) sugar, 
% teaspoon salt, 1 cup grated pineapple, 1 tablespoon lemon 
juice, whites of 2 eggs. Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt; mix 
with water to a paste; add remainder of water. Put in double 
boiler. Stir till it thickens. Cook 10 minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Remove from fire; add flavoring, fruit and well beaten 
whites. Serve cold with a boiled custard sauce. — Mrs. F. J. H. 

Prune Souffle (without baking) — Whites of 4 eggs beaten to 
a very stiff frost, 1 1^ teaspoons of gelatine softened in a table- 
spoon of cold water. When this is softened add a generous 
tablespoon of boiling water. Then set the cup in a pan of hot 
water and stir until it is like a thick syrup. Pour slowly over 
the beaten whites, stirring as for boiled frosting; add % cup 
of sugar, a few drops of lemon juice and about 1 cup of cooked 
and finely minced prunes. Sweeten the prunes before taking 
off the stove. With each extra egg added to this receipt, add V4, 
teaspoon of gelatine and a small quantity more water. Serve 
with cream or custard. — B. C. 



198 



Piiine Whip — Three-fourths pounds of prunes stewed very- 
soft and strained fine though a colander; add 4 tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, the whites of 4 eggs well beaten. Bake 20 minutes in a 
slow oven; when cold serve with whipped cream. 

Kuni Pudding — Four eggs, the yellow beaten with 4 table- 
spoons of sugar until creamy; dissolve 1 box of gelatine. Beat 
(eggs and sugar) into gelatine; add 4 tablespoons of rum, 
flavored with vanilla; put whites of 4 eggs, beaten stiff, in last. 
Serve with whipped cream. — A. A. F. 

Spanish Ci-eam — Four eggs, 1 quart milk, i/^ box Knox's 
gelatine and 4 tablespoons sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in the 
milk and let it come to a boil; pour on to the yolks of eggs 
well beaten with the sugar; boil again 5 minutes and add whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff froth; flavor to taste and pour into 
moulds. — Serve with cream. 

Sponge Pudding — Three cups boiling water, i/4 teaspoon salt, 
5 tablespoons cornstarch, 4 tablespoons sugar, whites of 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoon lemon juice, strawberries or 1 can of grated pine- 
apple. Mix cornstarch, sugar and salt; mix with a little water 
to a paste; then add remainder of water. Put into double 
boiler and stir until it thickens; add flavoring, fruit and the 
whites of eggs beaten; pour into moulds until cold. Serve with 
yellow sauce. 

Yellow Sauce — One-third cup butter, % cup sugar, Vs cup 
boiling water, 3 tablespoons lemon juice, 2 tablespoons pineapple 
or strawberry juice, yolks of 2 eggs, lemon rind grated. Cream 
butter and sugar; then gradually add the yolks lightly beaten; 
add water and cook in double boiler until thick; remove from 
fire; add flavoring. Serve cold. — M. Z. T. 

Sponge Cocoanut Pudding — Two cups of milk, Vs cups of 
sugar, 4 egg yolks, i/4 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon vanilla, 2 
tablespoons wine. Scald the milk in double boiler; mix eggs, 
sugar and salt; add scalded milk to them; return to double 
boiler and cook until mixture thickens and is of a smooth and 
creamy consistency. Arrange in layers 1 dozen macaroons, 1 
dozen lady fingers and 1 dozen cocoanut cakes. Cover with cus- 
tard and sprinkle with grated cocoanut. — C. 3. M. 

Sago Pudding — Three cups milk, Vs teaspoon salt, Vs cup 
sago, 2 eggs separated, V2 cup sugar. Boil milk, salt and sago 
for 15 minutes or until sago is thoroughly cooked; add the 2 



199 



jolks creamed with i/^ cup sugar and boil 2 minutes. Pour into 
pudding dish and cover with meringue made of the beaten 
whites and 2 tablespoons sugar; brown slightly. Serve with 
thin cream. — Mrs. G. F. 



Snow Cream — Beat the whites of 4 eggs until foamy; then 
add gradually 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, beating all 
the while; then beat until stiff enough to stand alone; add 1 
tablespoonful of sherry and a teaspoonful of vanilla; stir in 
carefully 1 pint of cream, whipped. Serve in small glasses. This 
will serve 8 persons. — Mrs. D. C. 

Strawberry Bavarian Cream — Mix 1 pint crushed strawberries 
with ^ cup powdered sugar. Cover % box gelatine with % 
cup cold water to soak until soft; add ^ cup hot water; dissolve 
and strain. Stir into the fruit mixture and let stand until it 
thickens; then beat in V^ pint of whipped cream. 

Stuffed Peaches — Chop fine enough walnuts and almonds to 
fill the crevice from which the stones have been removed; spike 
them through with a wooden toothpick and stand in a saucepan; 
sprinkle a thin layer of sugar over them; cover and place in 
a warm oven for 10 minutes to be well steamed. Serve cold 
with cream. — A. E. B. 

Trifle — Three small sponge buns, or home-made sponge cake, 
1 pint custard, made with 6 eggs to a pint of milk, Vz pint 
cream, 1 tablespoonful iceing sugar, 1 white of egg, Vz pint any 
kind wine mixed with a little brandy if liked, 2 ounces sweet 
almonds, jam (raspberry or strawberry). Put a layer of sponge 
cake in a glass dish, then a layer of jam, then the rest of sponge 
cake. Pour over the wine to soak all through the cake. Make 
cup custard and let it cool a little before pouring on. Whip the 
cream, white of egg, and sugar together and pile on the top — not 
so much sugar if preferred. Blanch the almonds and cut in 
strips and stick over the whipped cream. If this quantity of 
almonds is too much for the top, mix some with the custard be- 
fore pouring on. — A. T. F. 

An Old English Dessert Called Tipsy Cake — Spread slices of 
cake, preferably sponge cake, and halved lady fingers, with rasp- 
berry or other jam and place in layers in a dish. Pour on this 
sufficient sherry to soak the cake thoroughly and a boiled cus- 
tard. Top the whole with whipped cream and garnish with 
blanched, shredded almonds and crystallized fruit. Chopped al- 



200 



monds should also be scattered through the pudding. This dessert 
permits of many variations and odds and ends of cake and stewed 
fruit or fresh berries can be ultilized with good results. — B. B. 

Velvet Blanc Mange— Two cups sweet cream, i/^ ounce gelatine 
soaked in little cold water 1 hour, 1 cup white sugar (powdered), 
1 teaspoon extract, little almonds, 1 glass white wine. Heat the 
cream to boiling point. Stir in the gelatine and sugar, and as 
soon as dissolved take from the fire. Beat 10 minutes or until 
very light. Flavor and add the wine by degrees, mixing it in 
well. Put into moulds wet with cold water. Let stand over 
night. 



• Pineapple Cream — One-half box gelatine, % cup cold water, 
dissolve 1 can of shredded pineapple, 1 cup of sugar, l^ cup 
boiling water. Boil water, sugar and pineapple 10 minutes; pour 
on gelatine; beat well and set aside till quite cool; then add 1 
pint of whipped cream; then beat very well from the bottom; 
pinch salt; set aside to cool. — Mrs. B. R. K. 



201 



MEMORANDA 



20g 



FROZEN DESSERTS 

Caramel Ice Cream — One quart heavy cream, V^ pint milk, 
1% cups sugar, 1 tablespoon vanilla and pinch of salt. Heat 
iron spider hot and wipe clean. Melt Mi the dry sugar in the 
spider, stirring with knife until all is melted. Have milk hot in 
double boiler and pour melted sugar into it immediately. As 
the milk is not as hot as the sugar the latter hardens somewhat 
and should be allowed to remain in the boiler until melted again. 
Strain the caramel and milk through cheesecloth into the can of 
the freezer and set away to cool. When cold add cream, balance 
of sugar and flavoring and freeze. 

Currant Ice — Four cups water, IVz cups sugar, 2 cups cur- 
rant juice. Make a syrup by boiling sugar and water 20 min- 
utes, cool, pour over the mashed fruit and squeeze through 
double cheesecloth and freeze. 

Three of a Kind Ice — Three oranges, 3 cups sugar, 3 lemons, 
3 cups water, 3 bananas. Wash the bananas, add juice of the 
oranges and lemons, then the sugar and water and stir thor- 
oughly. Freeze as ordinary ice cream. — E. McC. 

Frozen Chocolate Souffle — Two egg yolks, V4, teaspoon salt, 
rind and juice 1 lemon, 2 egg whites, 4 tablespoons sherry wine, 
2 ounces chocolate melted, Mi cup sugar, Vz cup cream. Cook 
first five ingredients until mixture thickens; add beaten whites, 
chocolate and cream beaten until thick. Pour into serving dish 
and pack in equal parts of ice and salt. Let stand 3 hours. — 
Mrs. C. S. M. 

Frozen Bananas — One dozen bananas mashed smooth. Bring 
1 pint sugar and 1 pint water to a boiling point. When cold 
add bananas with juice of 1 orange and 1 lemon. Turn slowly in 
freezer until mushy. Stir in lastly 1 pint whipped cream. Pack 
in ice and set aside for 2 hours. — Mrs. C. L. P. 

Frozen Pudding — One quart cream, whip stiff. Divide in 3 
parts. Leave 1 white, color 1 pink with tablet that comes in 
gelatine; add chocolate to 1. Sweeten to taste. Flavor with 



203 



vanilla. Roll "%, pound stale macaroons fine. Take 5-pound 
lard pail, wet in cold water, put white cream in bottom, cprinkle 
layer of macaroons, then chocolate cream, layer of macaroons, 
then pink cream. Pack in ice cream freezer. Let stand 5 
hours. Remove from bucket by placing in warm water a mo- 
ment. Serve with sponge cake. Pretty easy to make and de- 
licious. — A. L. B. 

Frozen Cantaloupe — One ripe lucious cantaloupe. Cut in 
tiny cubes. Sprinkle with a little sugar and pinch of salt. S*^and 
in freezer 1 hour. — Mrs. C. L. P. 

Peach Parfait — One pint whipped cream, 2 cups yellow peach 
pulp, 4 cups water and 2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, or 
more to taste. Boil water and sugar 20 minutes. Cool and add 
fruit pulp and lemon juice. Freeze, and when frozen remove 
the dasher and beat in the whipped cream, being careful not to 
allow the cream to hit the sides of the can as it will freeze in 
flakes. A better way is to remove the can from ice and then 
repack, letting it stand an hour or two. Strawberries, rasp- 
berries, pineapple and any other fruit available for ices are 
nice in this way. — Mrs. Cornell. 

Mousse — ^Whip 1 quart of pastry cream until quite stiff and 
sweeten to taste (about 2 cups of sugar). Divide into 3 parts 
and flavor 1 with vanilla, another with 3 tablespoons of choco- 
late that has been mixed with enough hot water to make a 
paste, and the third with 1 small basket of strawberries that 
have been sweetened and pressed through a colander. Put 1 
part into a mould and sprinkle with macaroon crumbs, then 
carefully spread on another part, spreading with more maca- 
roon crumbs, and when the third part has been added, cover 
tightly and pack for 6 or 7 hours in ice and rock salt. 

Grape Sherbet — One pint Welch's grape juice, 1*^ cups sugar, 
1 quart water, 1 tablespoon gelatine dissolved in cold water, juice 
of 3 lemons. 

Grape Parfait — One pint grape juice, 1 pint water, juice of 1 
lemon, % pound sugar. Stir well and freeze. When frozen stir 
in carefully 1 pint cream whipped stiff. Cover and pack and let 
stand 2 hours. 

Sti'awberry Delectable — Make a syrup of 1 pint sugar, 1 pint 
water. Skim and cool. When cold add 3 cups of berry juice 
and juice of 1 lemon. Freeze. 



204 



Strawberry Water Ice — One-half drawer strawberries, juice 
of 3 lemons, 2 cups sugar, 3 pints water, 1 teaspoon gelatine dis- 
solved and added before freezing. Freeze as ice cream. — C. L. B. 

Orange Parfai<>-^One pint of cream, ^ cup sugar, Vz cup 
orange juice, 1 teaspoon granulated gelatine, 2 tablespoons cold 
water, pinch of salt. Add sugar to orange juice and let stand 
until dissolved. Soften gelatine with cold water and melt by- 
standing over tot water if it seems too hard. Whip cream and 
add gelatine to orange juice. Stir in the cream. Pack in mould 
and let stand 2 hours (more will not hurt it) in a pan of 3 cups 
of ice to 1 cup of salt until fully covered. — Mrs. E. B. C. 

Pineapple Sherbet — Two tablespoons of gelatine. Soak in 2 
cups of cold water 15 minutes. Then dissolve in 2 cups of boil-^ 
ing water 1 can of grated pineapple, 3 cups of sugar, juice of 

2 lemons. Add to the strained gelatine. Put in the freezer. — 
S. J. P. 

Maple Mousse — One quart cream (stiff beaten), IVz cups maple 
syrup, 4 eggs beaten stiff (whites and yolks beaten separately). 
Mix syrup and yolks and bring to a hard boil. Take from fire 
and beat until cold. Add cream and whites of eggs. Freeze. 

Mousse — Whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff, 1 pint cream beaten 
stiff, glace fruit (25c.) cut fine, 1 tablespoon sugar, vanilla, 6 
walnuts chopped. Mix all together, adding eggs last. Freeze 

3 or 4 hours. — Miss H. Bryant. 

Vanilla Ice Cream — One quart heavy cream, 1 cup sugar, ^ 
pint milk or 1 pint if not desired so rich, 1 tablespoon vanilla 
and pinch of salt. Enough for 10 or 12 people. More supar 
and flavoring may be added if desired. Freeze by usinj^ 3 saucers 
of chopped ice to 1 of rock salt. — Mrs. C. 

White Velvet Sherbet — Juice of 6 lemons, 3 cups sugar, 3 
pints milk, 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Mix together and freeze. 
— Mrs. R. B. P. 

Watermelon Ice — Two cups sugar, % cup milk, IVz pints 
watermelon juice. Mix and freeze.^Mrs. R. B. P. 

Mousse — Two eggs (whites only), IVz pints thic^t cream, 2 
cups of sugar, Vz box berries or 4 little baskets, 10 cent.^* worth 
of dry macaroons, juice of V2 lemon. Whip the cream stiff; mash 
the berries, put through colander; add the sugar and berries, then 
the cream and whites. Whip stiff. — A. A. D. 



Phones: Mission 5336 — Home M 3336 

VARELLAS 

MANUFACTURER OF 

Candies and 
Ice Cream 

2577 Mission Street 

Near Twenty-second San Francisco 

"Made in CeJifornia" 




Removes 

the 

Dhies 



Good for a Bad Stomach 

Money back if Celso fails to relieve distressed stomach 
and headache in 10 minutes. Dru^^ists, 25c and 50c 



20S 



MEMORANDA 



20'i 



PUDDINGS 

Baked Apple I'udding; — Stir a tablespoonful of butter and ^ 
cup of sugar to a cream. Add the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten, the 
juice and grated rind of j lemon, and % dozen sound green 
apples peeled and grated. Then stir in the 4 beaten whites of 
the eggs. Season with cinnamon or nutmeg and bake. To be 
served cold with cream. 

Apple Batter Pudding— -Three apples, pared and cored and 
cut in eighths, 2 eggs, 4 tablespoons of flour, 1 teaspoon yeast 
powder, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 pint of milk. Make a batter of 
ingredients. Pour over the apples in a buttered pudding dish. 
Bake 20 minutes. To be eaten with hard sauce. 

Escalloped Apples — Butter a pudding dish and put layer of 
peeled sliced apples in bottom. Sprinkle with sugar, bread 
crumbs, cinnamon and bits of butter. Repeat the layers until 
dish is full. Bake one hour, covering the dish. p:at hot, with 
or without sauce. — Mrs. H. G. 

Boiled Bread Pudding — Soak dry bread or cake in sour milk 
over night. In the morning add 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
hot water. Use less soda if pudding is small. Sweeten to taste. 
Salt. Add cinnamon, allspice and nutmeg. Add 1 cupful chopped 
raisins, 1 cupful currants, well floured. Put in cans and boil or 
steam about 3 hours. Serve with liquid and hard sauce. Same 
as plum pudding. — Mrs. J. S. 

Cup Pudding — One cup sugar, 2 eggs, % cup milk, butter 
size of a w^alnut, 1% cups flour, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Fill cups % full of raspberries. Sprinkle little sugar over the 
fruit and put a spoonful of batter in each cup. Steam 30 
minutes. Serve with whipped cream. — Mrs. J. L. P. 

Cherry Pudding — Three tablespoons sugar, % cup butter,, 
cream; ^4 cup milk, 1 egg, 1% cups flour, 1 teaspoon cream tartar. 
^ teaspoon soda, 1 cup stoned cherries (black). Steam in tin 
dish 1 hour. Serve hot, with lemon sauce or hard sauce.^Mrs. 
J. L. P. 



:^08 



Carrot Pudding' — One cup raw carrots, 1 cup raw potatoes (a 
half teaspoonful of soda in potatoes), 1 cup currants, 1 cup 
I'aisins, 1 cup suet chopped, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, citron and 
different spices. Chop all fine and steam 3 hours. 

Hard Sauce — One-fourth pound butter, beaten to a cream, 
with 1 cup powdered sugar added gradually. Four tabiespoonfuls 
boiling water, added gradually, and then beaten white of an egg. 
Flavor with vanilla, 

Daly Pudding; — Thicken 1 pint of milk with V2 cup flour. 
Let simmer 10 minutes. Add small cup sugar and a good V2 
cup butter. Stir while hot until well mixed. When half cold 
add the beaten yolks of 5 eggs. When cold add the whites of 
the eggs beaten stiff. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in a 2-quart 
dish placed in a pan of hot water in a quick oven for half an 
hour. Serve with hard sauce flavored like the pudding. This 
makes a large pudding and it is very fine. — Mrs. J. D. 

Date Pudding — One-fourth cup butter, Vz cup molasses, V2 
cup milk, 2 cups flour, 3 eggs, 14 teaspoon soda, i/4 teaspoon 
salt, cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon; V^ pound dates, stoned and 
cut. First, cream butter, add molasses and soda and beat thor- 
oughly; second, beat eggs, and add them to butter, etc.; then add 
flour, spices and salt (sifted together), alternately with milk. 
Beat well. Then add dates rolled in flour. Third, put in a 
buttered mould and steam 2^/2 hours. Serve with hard sauce or 
brown sugar sauce. 

Date Pudding — One and one-fourth pounds of dates chopped 
fine and stoned, 2 loaves of square bread; take soft, part and 
crumble it fine, 2 heaping cups suet chopped tine, 3 eggs, 1 cup 
of molasses, 1 cup of brown sugar. 2% cups of flour with 2 big 
heaping teaspoons Royal baking powder, 1 teaspoon cloves, t 
teaspoon cinnamon, t teaspoon salt. Steam 4 hours. — Mrs. F. F. 

Fig Pudding — One cup figs chopped fine, 1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 cup sugar, 1 cup flour, 1 egg, 1 cup chopped apples, good slice 
butter, 2 tablespoons syrup, 2 teaspoons baking powder, % tea- 
.spoon nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves. Steam 3 hours in greased tin. 
Serve with hard sauce or cream sauce. — Mrs. C. M. E. 

Boiled Fruit l*udding — Beat 3 eggs until light. Add 1 pint 
of milk and ZV2 cups of flour, and beat until smooth; 1 table- 
spoon of melted butter, M: teaspoon salt, 2 heaping teaspoons of 
baking powder sifted through the dry flour. Stir in any kind of 



200 



fruit. Boi] 3 hours. Do Dot let the water come up iiigh enough 
to get in the pudding boiler. Serve with hard sauce. — Mrs, L. 
McM. 

Graham Piulding — Two cups graham flour, M: cup molasses, 1 
cup sour milk, V^ teaspoon soda, 1 cupful chopped dates. Pour 
in buttered mould and steam between 2 and 3 hours. 

Ginger Drops — One-half cup brown sugar, 1 cup molasses, % 
cup butter, 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, ginger and cloves, 2 
teaspoons soda in cup of boiling water, 2^2 cups flour. Add two 
well beaten eggs the last thing before baking. Bake in gem 
pans or as a ginger bread and serve hot with lemon foam sauce. — 
Mrs. F. J. M. 

Indian Pudding — Two quarts milk, 6 tablespoons meal, 2 
cups molasses, 1 cup cold water, 2 eggs. Ginger, cinnamon ana 
salt to taste. Scald the milk (reserving 1 pint), add the meal wet 
in a little cold milk. Boil a minute or 2, then add molasses, the 
remainder of the cold milk, cup of cold water and eggs which 
have been beaten. Bake in moderate oven 3 hours. — Mrs. J. 

Indian Pudding — Very nice. Five teaspoonfuls of tapioca 
soaked over night in water, 7 teaspoonfuls of corcmeal, 1 egg, 
% cup of molasses, 1 quart of milk, small piece of butter, salt to 
taste, 1 small cup raisins. Cook the cornmeal in a double boiler 
in 1 pint of the milk, then add the molasses, the egg well beaten, 
the salt and raisins. Pour the mixture into a pudding dish. Stir 
in the tapioca a piece of butter and lastly the cold milk. Bake 

2 hours in a slow oven. Keep the dish covered. — S. T. 

Mrs. Ijincoln's Nut Pudding — Two cups graham flour, 1 cup 
chopped walnuts, 1 cup raisins, ^ teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons 
yeast powder, 1 cup milk. Vz cup syrup. Steam 3 hours. — Mrs. 
J. H. B. 

Pine Apple Pudding — Two cups sugar (small), 4 tablespoons 
butter, 1 can pineapple, 6 eggs, 1 heaping cup bread crumbs. Mix 
butter, sugar, eggs. Add juice and crumbs. Place in buttered 
dish and bake % hour in hot oven. Serve with cream and 
powdered sugar. — Mrs. J. McC. 

Plum Pudding — One pound suet, shred and chop fine, 1 lb. 
raisins, stoned, 1 pound currants, wash and bake, Wz pounds 
flour, small piece of citron, sliced fine, 6 eggs, 1 teaspoon each of 
mace, nutmeg, allspice, cloves and cinnamon, ^ pint of milk, 

3 tablespoons sugar. Beat well. Boll 6 hours if in one pudding, 
3 or 4 hours if in several. — Mrs. C. F. L. 



210 



Plum Pudding — Three heaping cupfuls bread crumbs, 1 cup 
finely chopped suet, l^^ cups brown sugar, 4 eggs, % cup milk, 

1 small wine glass brandy, 1 pound raisins, 1 pound currants, 
piece citron, 1 cup jelly, salt, spices to taste. Steam 4 hours. 

Plum Pudding — One cup of sour milk, 1 cup of molasses, 1 
cup of chopped suet or small cup butter, 1 cup of bread crumbs, 

2 cups of flour (1 graham), 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup of currants, 1 
cup of plums (prunes), 1 teaspoon salt, V2 cup chopped nuts, 1 
teaspoon cinnamon, ^/^ teaspoon nutmeg, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 tea- 
spoon allspice. Boil for 3 hours. A little wine or brandy can 
be added if desired. 

English Plum Pudding — One lb. each flour, finely chopped beef 
suet, currants, washed and dried with a cloth, stoned raisins and 
light brown sugar, 1 cupful thinly sliced orange, citron and 
lemon peel, mixed, 7 eggs, 1 grated nutmeg and 1 even teaspoon- 
ful salt. Mix all dry ingredients together and moisten with the 
well beaten eggs. Then add to this sufficient beer to make a 
suitable consistency. Mix well. Boil about 7 hours in well 
buttered pudding mould. Allow 1 inch for expansion. Serve 
with brandy sauce. — Mrs. E. A. B. 

Everyday Plum Pudding — One cup suet, chopped fine, 1 cup 
raisins, 1 cup currants, citron, 1 cup molasses, 1 cup milk, 1 
egg, 4 cups flour, 1 teaspoon each of soda, cinnamon and cloves, 
a little salt. Boil or steam 3 hours. — J. P. 

Sweet Potato Pudding — Mix with 1 pound sweet potatoes, 
grated raw, V2 teacupful of molasses, 2 beaten eggs, 1 tablespoon 
of butter, 2 tablespoons of sugar and enough milk to make a 
thin mixture. Add 1 teaspoon ginger and spice to taste. Bake 
11/2 hours.— Miss H. B. 

Prune Pudding (Steam) — One cup chopped stewed prunes, 
1 cup graham flour, 1 cup white flour, 1 ciip sweet milk, % cup 
molasses, 2 eggs (well beaten), 1 heaping teaspoon soda, cin- 
namon, cloves, nutmeg to taste, pinch of salt. Steam 2 hours. 
Sauce — Butter size of egg, 1 cup sugar, juice 1 lemon, 1 egg, 6 
tablespoons boiling water. Set in kettle until hot and well 
mixed. Thicken with a little flour. — Mrs. A. M. 

Steamed Raisin Puffs — One cup sugar, 2 eggs, % cup butter, 
1 cup sweet milk, 2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 cup 
raisins, stoned and chopped. Cream butter and sugar. Add 
egg and flour, milk and raisins. Steam in cups i/^ hour. Serve 
hot with sauce. — Mrs. H. G. 



211 



Suet Pifddinjj — One cup beef suet, chopped, 1 pint molasses, 
1 pint sweet milk, 1 pint warm water, 1 teaspoon soda, 1 ^^ cups 
raisins, 1 spoon each ginger, cloves and cinnamon, 6 cups of 
flour, or more; 1 tablespoon baking powder. Steam 3 hours. 

Taylor Pudding — One-half cup New Orleans molasses, V2 cup 
sour milk, % cup, scant, melted butter, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon soda, 
1/2 dissolved in the molasses and ^ in the sour milk; nearly 2 
cups flour, ^ teaspoon cinnamon, i/i teaspoon cloves, % teaspoon 
nutmeg. Steam or boil 1 V2 hours. Sauce— One egg, 1 cup sugar. 
Separate whites and yolks. Beat white stiff and add to beaten 
yolk and sugar. Whip % cup cream. Add and flavor with 
vanilla. 

Strawberry Pudding — One pint sifted flour, 2 teaspoons baking 
powder (heaping), little salt, sweet milk, enough to make a soft 
batter. Place in a steamer well greased cups. Put in each 2 
tablespoons fresh berries. Cover with the batter. Steam for 20 
minutes without moving. Serve sauce made of 2 eggs, ^ cup 
butter, 1 cup sugar, beaten with 1 cup boiling milk and 1 of 
berries. — Mrs. J. D. 



212 

MEMORANDA 



213 



PUDDING SAUCES 

Alameda Caramel Sauce — One cup sugar, 1 cup boiling water, 
1 level tablespoon cornstarch, 1 large tablespoon butter, lemon 
juice or wine to flavor. Caramel sugar by placing in a hot 
spider. Put over a very low flame and gently stir constantly 
until reduced to syrup. Into another saucepan place butter when 
melted. Add cornstarch. Then add to carameled sugar to which 
you have added the boiling water. 

Brown Sugar Sauce — One cup brown sugar (heaping), butter 
size of egg, 1 teaspoon flour (heaping), 1 egg, 1 cup boiling 
water (large). Mix dry sugar and flour, add egg, butter, water 
and cook in double boiler until it bubbles (do not boil). Add 
% cup sherry, or any preferred wine. 

Foamy Sauce No. 1 — One cup powdered sugar, % cup 
butter, 3 tablespoonfuls hot milk, yolk of 1 egg. Cream the 
sugar and butter together. Beat the yolk of egg and add to 
other mixture. Then add the milk. Flavor with 1 tablespoonful 
sherry and a little nutmeg. 

Foamy Sauce No. 2 — Grated rind and juice of ^/^ lemon, h^ 
cup white wine or V4, cup sherry, V2 cup sugar, 2 eggs. Mix lemon, 
wine, sugar and yolks of eggs; stir vigorously over fire until it 
thickens, using a wire whisk; pour on to whites of eggs beaten 
stiff. 

Foam Pudding Sauce — Two tablespoons butter, 1% cups boil- 
ing water. Cook a few minutes. One cup sugar, little salt, yolk 
2 eggs. When cold, add whites beaten to a froth. Flavor with 
vanilla. — J. E. S. 

Hard Sauce — Beat together ^ cup butter and 1 cup powdered 
sugar with a fork until both are light and creamy. Flavor with a 
teaspoonful of vanilla or lemon juice, brandy or sherry. 

Berkeley Pudding Sauce — Take 1 egg. Beat the white to a 

stiff froth, then add the yolk well beaten. Then beat in % cup 

sugar, and before serving add Vz cup of cream, whipped stiff. 
Flavor with vanilla. — Mrs. S. J. P. 



214 



Sauce — Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, stir to a cream; yolks 
of 3 eggs, 1 cup warm water, juice and grated peel of 3 lemons. 
Beat whites of eggs and stir in lightly. — Mrs, J. B. 

liemon Butter — Beat 3 eggs with 1'^ cupfuls sugar; add juice 
of 3 lemons, a lump butter, 1 cupful hot water and 1 teaspoonful 
cornstarch. Boil and stir until thick. — Mrs. F. D. 

licmon Foam Sauce — One lemon, 1 full cup sugar, scant Vz 
cup butter, 2 eggs, 3 tablespoons boiling water. Cream butter 
and sugar. Add juice and '^A lemon rind grated. Add eggs 
beaten well. Beat 10 minutes. Add water. Set it over steam 
and heat through. — Mrs. F. J. M. 

Velvet Pudding Sauce — Two cups sugar, V2 cup cold water; 
boil until it threads. Slowly pour into beaten whites of 2 eggs. 
Then very gradually add V4. cup hot milk. Serve at once. 



215 

MEMORANDA 



21'' 



APPLE DAINTIES 

Apples in Bloom — Eight red apples as nearly of size as pos- 
sible. Boil till tender, turning with a fork. Remove skin. With 
a teaspoon scrape the red from the skin. To the water apples 
were boiled in add juice of lemon, 1 orange cut fine, 1 cup of 
sugar; boil until rather thick. Pour over apples. When cold 
put tablespoon of whipped cream on apple, with red pulp on 
top of cream. Very pretty dish. — A. L. B. 

Apples En Casserole — Peel and slice Watsonville apples into 
a large casserole. Add sugar to taste and moisten with cider or 
water. Cover the casserole and bake several hours until quan- 
tity is reduced to %. When cold serve with cream. 

Apple Jack — Make a nice apple sauce. When finished add a 
small V2 cup water and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 
Have mixed 1 cup flour, little salt, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 
water enough so as to drop with a tablespoon like a dumpling 
over the warm apple sauce; let boil 10 minutes slowly so fruit 
won't burn. Sauce to pour over it: One cup of water, good 
slice of butter, V2 cup of brown sugar, % teaspoon cornstarch, 
large teaspoon vanilla, little grated nutmeg; boil 5 minutes 
and put over pudding. May also be eaten with cream instead 
of butter or can use peaches or any other fruit. It is quickly 
made. Very good. — Mrs. L. T. C. 

Apple Porcupines or Stuffed Apples — Apples, raisins, al- 
monds, nutmeg, walnuts, lemon juice, sugar, water. Make a 
syrup by boiling ll^ cups of sugar and 1^ cups of water about 
8 minutes. Pare and core apples and cook in syrup for about 5 
minutes. Drain from syrup. Fill cavities with seeded raisins and 
walnuts chopped fine; moisten with lemon juice and sweeten 
to taste. Place apples in baking dish; stick pieces of almond 
cut in long pieces into each apple; pour syrup over and bake in 
moderate oven about 10 minutes or until soft. Baste while 
baking. — M. Z. T. 

Apple Shortcake — One cup flour, 1 tablespoon butter, 1 egg, 
% cup milk, V2 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Line pie 
tin with apples and pour dough over. Also fine with peaches. 



217 



Apple Stindae — Stew s6ur Watsonville apples. Sweeten, strain 
through wire sieve. Add whites of 2 eggs and 2 teaspoonfuls 
gelatine which has been dissolved in water. Whisk very 
briskly until stiff. Line the dish with split bananas or oranges 
and pour in the fruit. Sprinkle top with chopped nuts and add 
a syrup made of sugar and a little strawberry juice and pink 
sugar. — Watsonville. 

Belle Fleur Custard — Two cups sweet apple sauce, ^ tea- 
spoon nutmeg, % cup seeded raisins boiled for 10 minutes, yolks 
of 2 eggs. Mix well and bake with 1 crust for 15 minutes. Make 
a meringue of whites of 2 eggs slightly sweetened. Spread over 
and brown in aven. 

Cun'ied Apples — Peel and core 6 good sized, firm apples. Mix 
1 teaspoonful curry powder with cup sugar, l^ cup butter 
(creamed). Place in hole in apple and in pan. Add a very little 
water. Bake in slow oven until tender, basting several times. 
To be eaten cold with meat course. — A. L. B. 

Fried Apples, Southern Style — Take 6 large cooking apples; 
core, but do not peel; slice round Vs of an inch thick. Have 
ready in a frying pan hot the fat from 8 slices of bacon; drop 
apples in; put over them a heaping cup of sugar, % cup molasses. 
Cover and cook very slowly until a golden brown. — K. D. S. 

Grandmother's Apple AVhip — One pint apple sauce strained 
through a potato ricer. Add beaten whites of 2 eggs. Beat 10 
minutes. Pour in mold. Eat with whipped cream. 

Escalloped Apples — One stale baker's loaf, ^4 cup sugar, i/^ 
cup butter, ^4 teaspoon nutmeg, 1 quart sliced apples, grated 
rind and juice V2 lemon. Cut loaf and crumb soft part with a 
fork; melt butter and stir lightly into the bread crumbs with 
the fork. Cover bottom of buttered pudding dish with the crumbs 
and spread over % the apples; sprinkle with % the sugar, nut- 
meg, lemon juice and rind mixed together; repeat and cover 
with remaining crumbs. A few bits of butter may be dropped 
over top. Cover at first to prevent browning too rapidly. Serve 
with sugar and lots of cream. 

Steamed Apples — One cupful of sugar and l^^ cups water to 
every 6 apples. Boil in covered pan until soft. Remove apples, 
boil juice and flavor with lemon. Pour over apples. — Mrs. F. D. 



218 

MEMORANDA 



219 



PRESERVES, JELLIES, ETC. 

Amber Mai*malade — Shave 1 orange, 1 lemon and 1 grape 
fruit very thin, rejecting seeds and cores. Measure fruit and 
add 3 times as much water. Let stand over night in an earthen 
dish, and in the morning boil for 2 minutes only. Let stand an- 
other night. Add pint for pint of sugar. Boil until it jells — 
about 2 hours. It should have a limpid appearance, the strips of 
fruit showing. This makes 12 glasses. 

Apricot Jam — Take the best ripe fruit; cover with boiling 
water to remove skin. Cut in small pieces; crack pits; blanch 
kernels and chop very fine. Boil fruit ^ hour after adding % 
pound sugar to each pound of fruit. When cooked add chopped 
kernels. Use no water. — Mrs. J. W. S. 

Apricot and Pineapple Marmalade — Twelve pounds apricots, 
SV2 pounds sugar, 5 pounds pineapple. Pare the apricots by 
dipping in hot water to loosen the skins. Cut pineapples into 
dice, small. Mix the fruits, pour over sugar, and let stand over 
night. Cook till thick, stirring pretty nearly all the time. 

To Can Asparagus — Clean and scrape each piece of asparagus. 
Cut each piece to have them uniform in size and put in jars. Fill 
up each jar with cold water and put in boiler with cold water 
to reach up to about % of the jar. Put cover on and boil all up 
together. Cook until done and then take from boiling water 
and seal tight and place jars back again in water and let cool. 
Put away in dark place. — Mrs. W. B. C. 

Delicious Butter (Apples, Plums and Rhubarb) — Wash, stone 
and put in a preserving kettle, cooking thoroughly. Take % more 
apples than you have plums — cut, core and remove bruises. 
W^ash and cut rhubarb, and cook with the apples. When thor- 
oughly cooked, rub through a colander (plums and apples sep- 
arately). Then put together in 1 kettle. Add sugar to suit 
the taste and cook slowly on the back of the stove, stirring 
often with a wooden paddle. Add a little cinnamon if liked. — 
M. C. C. 



HAVE YOU TRIED THE 

Sunlit Brand 

OF 

Jams, Jellies, 

Marmalades and 

Preserves? 

Tried Once You Will Never Want 
Any Other 



The housewife need no longer slave in her kitchen putting up fruit, 
for the SUNLIT FRUIT CO., at its new sanitary kitchens, which are 
models of order and cleanliness, located at West Berkeley, puts up the 
choicest of fresh, ripe fruits, received directly from the best orchards 
of California, in accordance with the latest scientific methods ap- 
proved by the United States Department of Agriculture and in evei-y 
particular conforms in the strictest sense to the recently adopted 
National Pure Food Law. The most exacting and particular house- 
wife is not more pains- taking than is the management of the SUN- 
LIT FRUIT CO. 

In glass, only new thoroughly sterilized containers are used. In 
tin, Sunlit Fruits are put up and sold only in the new sanitary can, 
sealed automatically without the use of acid or solder. Artificial pre- 
servatives or coloring matters are positively not contained in the 
SUNLIT brands; pure fruit and the best white granulated sugar only 
entering into the product. 

The delicious natural flavor, beautiful color, the perfec- 
tion of the sanitary methods in the manufacture and the absolute 
purity in the finished products are points in favor of the SUNLIT 
brands that must and will gain them entrance into every home. 

The SUNLIT pure fruit products will be found on sale at all lead- 
ing grocery and delicacy stores. If your dealer does not have them 
in stock, lie will, if he appreciates your trade and is accommodating 
and enterprising, get them for you; if he will not, please notify us. 



Sunlit Fruit Company 

Phone Berkeley 4333 
WEST BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA 



- 221 



Carrot Marmalade — Boil carrots with skins on, then peel and 
put througlT meat grinder; 1 pound sugar to each pound carrots 
and 9 almonds shredded fine, rind of 1 lemon and juice of 2 
lemons, % teaspoonful almond extract. Boil carrots and sugar 
for 15 minutes. Add other ingredients. Cook all together for 
5 minutes. Bottle and seal. 

Cranberry Jelly — Wash 1 quart of cranberries, 2 cupfuls of 
water; cover and cook until berries pop — about 10 minutes. 
Strain through a colander and return to fire. Add 2 cupfuls 
of granulated sugar. Stir until dissolved. If a firm jelly is 
desired, boil 5 minutes. 

Fig Jam — Five lbs. figs pared, soaked over night with 3 lbs. 
sugar. Cook in own juice 3 hours. Put in one vanilla bean. — 
Mrs. G. M. 

Fig Paste — Three pounds figs (black or white), 3 pounds of 
sugar, 3 oranges, 3 lemons (the juice and rind of each). Let 
the mixture boil slowly for 1 hour, stirring it occasionally to 
prevent sticking. 

Grape Conser^^e — Three pounds Isabella grapes, 3 pounds 
sugar, 1 pound raisins, juice of 2 lemons, 3 oranges peeled and 
sliced; rind in small pieces. Boil 1^ hours and put in tumblers. 
Heat grapes first and press through a coarse sieve to remove 
seeds. Use seeded raisins. 

Gooseben-y Sweets — An old English recipe for gooseberry pre- 
serve, when once found a place in the store closet, will not be 
permitted to be missed again. Press the juice from 3 oranges 
and shave off the rind, being careful not to mix in any white 
part. Remove the top and stems from 5 pounds of gooseberries; 
seed 2 pounds of raisins and chop all together very fine. Add 4 
pounds of sugar and the orange juice, cook slowly for an hour. 
Turn into jars or tumblers, and when cold spread a layer of 
powdered sugar on the top of each glass and seal. 

An Excellent Jam — Two quarts strawberries, 2 quarts goose- 
berries, 4 quarts sugar. Prepare fruit, add sugar. Boil slowly 
several hours or till thick. 

Mint Jelly — One-half box Knox's gelatine, V^ cup cold 
water, 2 bunches mint, IVz cups boiling water, juice of 2 
lemons. Soak gelatine 5 minutes in the cold water. Wash and 
dry mint; let stand in hot water Vz hour. Add sugar and gela- 



tine. Pour water from mint over the whole. Let dissolve; then 
strain. Add lemon juice and pour in mould. (Serve with cold 
lamb.) — A. L. B. 

Orange Maniialade — Six large seedless oranges. Cut in very 
thin slices, peel and pulp, discarding both ends. Stand 24 hours 
in 3 quarts water. Put on stove and cook till it is a thick mass, 
cutting the rinds as they soften with a spoon as fine as you like. 
When thick add 5 pounds sugar and boil an hour or little more. 
Add juice of 3 lemons before removing from the fire. Pour into 
glasses or jars and seal with paraffine. The secret of success in 
this recipe is to cook it well before the sugar is put in — 2 hours 
or more if necessary — to boil it down thick, but after the sugar 
is in long cooking spoils the flavor and the looks.— Mrs. J. W. C. 



California Marmalade — Twelve peaches, 12 pears, 1 pine- 
apple, 6 oranges, 6 lemons, 2 quarts crab apples peeled and quar- 
tered; weigh after quartering. Divide peaches, pears and 
oranges each into 8 parts. Cut pineapple into small pieces and 
slice lemon very thin. Weigh all fruit. Add % as much sugar 
as fruit and simmer gently 2 hours. After it boils up stir as 
little as possible. Seal when cold. 



Mixed Berry Jam — Equal parts of blackberries, raspberries 
and loganberries. Use % of a pound of sugar to 1 pound of 
fruit. Mix sugar and fruit and let stand over night. In the 
morning pour off the juice and boil same 15 minutes, pour over 
berries and boil ^^ an hour. 



Peach Butter — Skin 4 quarts of peaches; put on with 1 pint 
of cider, 1 pint of water, add sugar to taste, 1 teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon and Vz a teaspoonful of ground cloves, and 
cook slowly until quite thick. If after considerable boiling it 
does not thicken sufficiently, add 3 or 4 apples to the mixture and 
let it all cook down together. Put through a colander. Fill 
pint jars and seal. — H. M. B. 

Candied Peaches — Put 25 large peaches in water then rub off 
the down. Stone them and put in a kettle with 2 pounds of 
granulated sugar, a layer of fruit and a layer of sugar; add l^ 
pint wp.ter and place over moderate fire. When syrup is thick put 
into a large fiat dish. Flatten fruit with wooden spoon and turn 
from time to time, putting them in sunshine. When nearly dry 
roll in colored sugar. 



223 



Peach ^lai-malade — Eighteen cups chopped peaches, 2 pine- 
apples, 8 cups sugar, juice 6 (juicy) lemons. Cook like any kind 
of marmalade until smooth, stirring so contents do not burn. — • 
Mrs. A. D. 

Peach Preserves — Choose ripe firm fruit; scald and take off 
skin. Weigh equal parts sugar and fruit. Stand in earthern 
vessel over night. Pour off syrup and boil, skimming carefully. 
When carefully skimmed and boiling put in fruit. Boil slowly 
% of an hour. Then put fruit in jars. Boil syrup 15 minutes 
longer and pour over fruit hot, and seal carefully. 

Ginger Peai's (Raymonds', Very Pine) — Four pounds hard 
green pears, 4 pounds sugar, ^4 pound green ginger root, 2 
lemons. Peel pears and cut them in strips; grate lemon skins 
and cut lemon in thin slices. Soak ginger root in % glass 
of water over night. Slice it after cleaning. Boil all together 45 
minutes or until syrup is thick enough. — M. C. C. 

Pineapple Compote — Peel 1 pound weight of pineapple; 
boil peelings in 1 pint water 10 minutes. Strain and add 1 
pound lump sugar and boil for 20 minutes, removing scum as 
it rises. Put in sliced fruit and boil 15 minutes. Let it stand 
over night. Then pour off syrup and boil again 20 minutes. 
Put fruit in jars and pour boiling syrup over it and seal. 

Pineapple ConseiMke — One pineapple shredded, 2 quart boxes 
strawberries, 3 cups sugar, ^4 cup water. Boil until thick. 
When ready to remove from stove add 1 cup chopped nut meats. 
Makes 10 glasses jelly. Good. 

Pineapple Marmalade — Pare 1 or 2 pineapples, removing the 
eyes, and cut into small bits. Place in large bowl. To 1 pound 
of fruit take 1 pound of sugar and let stand over night. In the 
morning boil 20 minutes, skimming carefully. 

Plum Conserve — Five pounds Satsuma plums, 4 pounds brown 
sugar, 1% pounds raisins, chopped fine, 4 oranges (grated rind 
and juice). Boil slowly for about i hour, then put up in jelly 
glasses. — M. H. H. 

Plum Jam — Use Hungarian plums when just ripe enough to 
separate easily from pits. Allow 10 pounds fruit to 8*/^ pounds 
sugar. Cut plums from pits. Add sugar and heat slowly. Take 
about % of pits, dry in oven, crack and add the kernels, chopped 
fine and 2 Sicily lemons cut into tiny pieces. Boil moderately 
about 4 minutes. — Miss H. B. 



224 



Quince Jelly — Add 1 pint water to 1 gallon fruit; boil until 
soft and strain. Weigh juice, boil 20 minutes. Add 1 pound 
sugar to each pound juice and boil 15 minutes. — Mrs. F. D, 

English Tutti Frutti — Peel and stone a dozen apricots and a 
quart of large ripe plums. Peel and slice a dozen small juicy- 
pears and 6 ripe apples. Allow a pound of sugar for each pound 
of fruit. Arrange in layers in a preserving kettle and set it on 
an asbestos mat on the back of the range, and cook very slowly 
until it can be cut with a knife. Put the tutti frutti away in a 
shallow jar, from which slices can be easily cut. 

Some Good Combinations — Fresh or dried figs with orange 
juice. Pears combined with pineapple — 1-5 as much pineapple 
as pears — will be liked. When making gooseberry jelly or jam, 
the vanilla bean will be found to help along the deliciousness of 
the result. Gooseberries, currants and raspberries in equal parts 
make a most appetizing jam. Try combining elderberries with 
green grapes, gooseberries or crab apples for jelly, sauce or pie. 
You will not be disappointed with the result. 

Delicious Watermelon Rind Preserve — Pare and cut into small 
pieces the green part of some watermelon rind. Weigh, and to 
each pound of fruit allow 1 pound of sugar. Syrup: To 10 
pounds of sugar put 1 pint of water; simmer for 20 minutes. 
Add the fruit; boil 1 hour, or until tender and transparent. Just 
before removing add 2 ounces of ginger root and 2 lemons sliced 
thin. Do not stir while boiling. — L. W. K, 

Uncooked Preserves — This delicious fruit can be made from 
"left-overs." Put 1 pint of good alcohol in a 2-quart jar and 
add a pint of granulated sugar. Then put in a pint of any or 
every kind of fruit, such as peaches, pineapples, quinces, pears, 
plums, etc. Always add a pint of sugar to every pint of fruit. 
Stir every day until you have put in enough fruit to fill your jar. 
This preserved fruit is particularly good for invalids. 



225 



MEMORANDA 



226 



CONFECTIONERY 

Brownies — Beat 2 eggs very light and add 1 cup sugar. Have 
ready to add to this % cup (scant) butter and 2 squares of 
chocolate melted together. Beat this into eggs and sugar, then 
add ^ cup floor, 1 cup broken walnut meats and V2 teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake 15 minutes in hot oven. Pan should be l^/2xlOx 
\yz inches deep. Cut in squares like fudge. It is a cross be- 
tween a cake and a confection. 

Butter Scotch Candy — Four cups brown sugar, 2 cups butter, 
4 tablespoonfuls water, 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar and a little 
soda. Boil it until it is crisp when dropped in cold water. Pour 
into buttered pans and score in bars. Or 3 tablespoons molasses 
and 2 of sugar, 2 tablespoons water and 1 of butter. Add a 
pinch of soda before taking up. 

Chocolate Fudge — Two cups white sugar, % cup ground 
chocolate (or cocoa), % cup of milk, butter size of an egg. Mix 
and boil until candy forms a medium hard ball when dropped 
into cold water. Beat for short time until candy begins to 
thicken; add 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Pour into buttered pan. 
Cut into squares when it has hardened. 

Note — Candy will be creamier if stirred while cooking, but 
this is not necessary. — C. B. D. 

Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge — One cup sugar, % cup 
cream, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 2 squares unsweetened chocolate, 
^ pound marshmallows. Cook sugar, cream and chocolate to- 
gether about 8 minutes and add marshmallows and vanilla just 
before pouring in buttered pan. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy — Melt 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in 
a saucepan. Add y^. cup of milk and a cup and V^ of sugar. 
Heat to boiling point and cook 12 minutes. Push back 
on the stove, add % cup of shredded cocoanut and V^ tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Beat until creamy, pour into buttered pan, 
cool and mark off in squares. — M. C. C. 

Divhiity Fudge — Two cups white sugar, % cup syrup (Karo 
or Tea Garden Drips), ^ cup milk. Mix and boil until it forms 



I , 



a soft ball* in water. Beat % of mixture into white of egg 
beaten stiff. Put other half on stove again and boil until it 
forms a hard ball in water. Beat into first mixture and con- 
tinue to beat until it begins to thicken. Add 1 teaspoon of 
vanilla. Pour into buttered pan. When sufficiently hardened, 
cut into squares. — C. B. D, 

Divinity Pudge — Three cupfuls granulated sugar, % cup 
cold water, '^^ cup Karo Korn Syrup. Boil until these ingredi- 
epts form a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Add slowly 
to the beaten whites of 2 eggs. Add V2 cup chopped nuts or 
cocoanut. When cool cut in squares. — L. V. B. 

Franconia Pudge — Put i/4 of a cupful of 'butter in a sauce- 
pan and when melted add 2 cupfuls of sugar, % cup of milk 
and ^/4 cup of molasses. Heat to boiling point and boil 7 
minutes. Add 2 squares of unsweetened chocolate and stir till 
melted. Boil 7 minutes longer. Remove from fire and beat 
until creamy. Add 1 teaspoon of vanilla and % cup of nut- 
meats cut in pieces. Pour into buttered tins and mark into 
squares. — M, C. C. 

Seafoam Pudge — Two and one-half cups brown sugar, scant 
cup of water, 1 teaspoon vinegar. Heat gradually until boiling, 
stirring only until sugar is dissolved. Boil until it ropeo. Re- 
move at once from the fire and when it stops boiling pour into 
the well beaten white of 1 esg, beating constantly until the mix- 
ture will hold its shape. Add a teaspoon of vanilla and the 
broken meats of 1 cup of walnuts. Drop quickly, using 2 
teaspoons, in rough piles on buttered platters. — J. P. 

French Creams — Two and one-half cups granulated sugar, % 
cup water, pinch cream tartar. Boil until it makes a soft sub- 
stance in water, just soft enough to pick up. Let it cool. Add 
% of a teaspoon of glycerine and beat until it is stiff; then mould 
like bread. Melt Baker's chocolate and put in a lump of paraf- 
fine. Drop creams in. — A. A. C. 

French Candy (not cooked) — Roll and sift confectioner's 
sugar. Place the whites of 2 eggs in a tumbler, mark the 
height with thumb and removing w^hites fill with water to 
thumb mark, adding scant teaspoon vanilla. Stir these well 
together with whites of eggs and add 2 pounds sugar, stirring 
all together with silver spoon. It sometimes takes more or less 
of the dough according to the size of the eggs. Take part at a 
time of mixture on breadboard, kneading more sugar 
in. Roll out to i/^-inch thick, cut off small pieces with silver 



228 



knife and roll. Drop some in melted Baker's chocolate. Press 
some t)etween walnut halves, roll some around blanched al- 
monds, some inside stoned dates, some with pecan nuts, and roll 
some in as much grated cocoanut as it will hold. Brazil nuts, 
prunes, filberts and figs may be used. With a portion of the 
sugar dough mix the broken pieces of nuts chopped and cocoa- 
nut. Knead them in, roll out and cut in squares. 

Fruit Candy — One-half pound figs, 1 cup raisins and grated 
cocoanut, 3 cups sugar, 1 cup water, % cup vinegar, pinch 
cream tartar. Boil sugar, vinegar and water until it strings, 
add cream tartar and pour over fruit. — A. E. B. 

Fruit Fudge — sTv/o cupfuls brown sugar, 2 cupfuls white 
sugar, 1 cupful milk, butter the size of an egg. Put over the fire 
and cook 15 minutes from the time of boiling, stirring all the 
time. Remove from the fire, add \-j pound each of chopped 
figs and dates, and beat 10 minutes. Pour into buttered pans. — 
M. C. C. 

3Iarshniallows — Two cups sugar, 12 tablespoonfuls of boil- 
ing water. Mix and boil until it forms a long thread from end 
of spoon. In meantime, mix together 2^2 tablespoonfuls of 
Knox's gelatine, 9 tablespoonfuls of cold water, add 1 teaspoon- 
ful af vanilla. When sugar and water threads, beat it into mix- 
ture of gelatine and cold water. Beat for 20 minutes by clock, 
with someone to assist in beating. Pour into a dripping pan, in 
which a mixture of % a cup of sugar and V2 a cup of flour has 
been spread over the bottom. When candy is sufficiently firm, 
turn over in pan, cut with scissors into squares. — C. B. D. 

Toasted Marshniallows — One tablespoon granulated gelatine, 
1 cup boiling water, 1 cup sugar, whites of 3 eggs, 1% teaspoons 
vanilla, macaroons. Dissolve gelatine in boiling water, add 
sugar and as soon as dissolved set mixture in pan of ice water; 
then add whites of eggs and vanilla and beat till mixture thick- 
ens. Turn into a shallow pan which has been dipped in cold 
water and thoroughly chilled. When set remove from pan, cut 
in pieces size of marshniallows and roll in the dust of macaroons 
which have been dried and rolled. — Mrs. J. W. 0. 

Marshniallows — Two tablespoons of gelatine and 6 tablespoons 
of cold water, let stand while you beat the whites of two eggs, and 
cook 2 cups of sugar with % cup of water until it threads; 
pour sugar over gelatine and beat with Dover beater until it 
commences to cool and turn white, then add the whites of eggs 
and a little vanilla and beat until it commences to stiffen, when 



oor) 



pour into"*a pan slightly buttered and dusted with powdered 
sugar and cornstarch, half and half; when cool cut and roll 
in sugar and. cornstarch; if you want it pink use part of coloring 
out of gelatine. — Mrs. L. McD. 

Baked Nut Candy — Two cups brown sugar, 2 cups chopped 
nuts, pinch salt, pinch soda and whites of 2 eggs; beat eggs 
slightly; add sugar, salt, soda and nuts; spread in buttered pan 
and bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. When cool cut in 
squares. (Very fine.) — E. A. B. 

Candied Nuts — A pleasant change from salted nuts. One 
cup sugar, 5 tablespoonfuls water, boil until it threads; 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. Have ready 1 large cup walnuts. Pour over 
them and stir until covered. — E. McC. 

Nut Cream Candy — One cup syrup, 2 cups sugar, i/, cup 
water; boil until it balls up quite firm when dropped in cold 
water; pour mixture over whites of two eggs, well beaten; add 
Vj pound walnuts and beat until almost cold. Should be light 
and fluffy. — Mrs. L. McD. 

Nut Candy — (Raisins, cut up figs or dates may be used in 
place of nuts.) Into 1 gill or ^4 pint of cold water dissolve 1 
pound of sugar and % saltspoonful of cream tartar. Place over 
fire and cook until brittle, stirring in V^ tablespoon of butter. 
Put a layer 2 deep of any kind of nuts in bottom of wall but- 
tered pan and pour the hot candy over the nuts and leave until 
cold. Break into small pieces. — M. Z. 1. 

Baltimore Peanut Brittle — Pour 1 coffee cup white sugar 
into clean hot spider and allow to melt, care being taken not to 
allow it to burn. Have shallow pans buttered and spread with 
nut meats. Pour over the browned sugar and cool. Break into 
small pieces, — Mrs. J, W. C. 

Candied Orange Peel — Cut peel in strips, bcil in water until 
tender, drain well, measure and add equal amount of granulated 
sugar; boil slowly on back part of stove for some time. When 
clear spread upon platters and set in the sunshine until candied. 

Prize Patience — One cup granulated sugar (carameled); add 1 
cup hot milk and 2 cups sugar. Boil briskly, stirring ccustantly, 
and when it forms a soft ball, as tested in a cup of cold water, re- 
move from fire. Add a piece of butter, walnut size, and teaspoon 
vanilla. Beat until creamy. Add chopped nuts; pour on a 
buttered platter; cut in square. — L. V. B, 



230 



Panoche — Two cups brown sugar, V2 cup milk; mix and put 
on stove. When mixture is boiling, add lump of butter the size 
of an egg. Boil until it forms a medium hard lump in cold 
water. Take off stove. Beat until it begins to thicken, then add 
% cup of chopped nuts (walnuts or pecans). Pour into buttered 
pan. When cool, cut into squares. — C. B. D. 

Panoche — Two cups of brown sugar, 1 cup of milk, a piece 
of butter size of walnut. Boil until it gets hard in water. Put 
in vanilla and chopped walnuts and beat until it becomes stiff. 
Then pour on a buttered platter and let cool. — Mrs. N. C. H. 

Panoche — Three cups brown sugar, 3 tablespoonfuls of water, 
1 cup milk, butter size of walnut, 1 cup of chopped nuts; cook 
until candy pulls; add vanilla, remove from stove, stir in nuts, 
place in tins and cut in squares. — H. M. 

Panoche — Three cups brown sugar, 1 cup cream, butter size 
of a walnut, 1 cup chopped walnuts, tablespoon vanilla. Boil 
sugar and cream (stirring meanwhile and adding butter when it 
comes to a boil), until it forms a soft ball when dropped in 
cold water. Remove from fire, add vanilla and nuts and stir 
until it begins to thicken. Spread on buttered platter, and when 
cool cut in squares. — Mrs. E. D. K. 

Sea Foam — Three cups brown sugar, whites 2 eggs, V2 cup 
water, % cup walnuts. Boil sugar and water till it strings, add 
this to beaten whites of eggs. Beat 10 minutes and add nuts. 
Drop from spoon on oiled paper. 

Taffy Candy — Take 3 cupfuls of granulated sugar, V2 cup- 
ful vinegar, % cupful of water and butter the size of a walnut. 
Boil without stirring until it will harden when dropped in 
water. Flavor with vanilla and pour out on a buttered dish. 
When cool pull until white, then cut up in sticks. — S. G. B. 

Walnut Creams — Whites of 2 eggs, about 3 pounds of pow- 
dered sugar, vanilla flavoring. Beat whites until quite stiff; 
add part sugar and beat; add about a teaspoon of vanilla and 
1 or 2 tablespoons of water. Mix well together, then add more 
sugar. Continue adding sugar until no more can be either 
stirred or kneaded in. Mould Into balls, placing V2 walnut on 
each side. They should be allowed to stand in a cool place for 
about 2 days. — M. Z. T. 



231 

MEMORANDA 



232 



• , INVALID COOKERY 

Barley Water — Teacup of pearl barley; add 2 quarts of water; 
boil in a double porcelain boiler 2 1^ hours. Add 1 cup table 
raisins an hour before you remove it from the stove. It will 
look milky and a little thick. Squeeze the juice of 3 lemons in 
a pitcher, sweeten and salt it a little; strain the hot barley ;svater 
over the above; pick out the raisins; put them in with the rest. 
Throw the barley away. To an invalid, it looks very inviting in 
a glass pitcher. Very acceptable to a fever patient. 

Beef Juice — Take 4 ounces of lean beef, entirely free from 
fat, chopped fine. Add salt; put in a clean white cotton cloth. 
Place in a small covered dish. Add 3 ounces of cold water, be- 
ing sure that the meat is covered. Let stand for 3 hours in a 
cold place, preferably in the ice chest. Then express the juice by 
wringing out the cloth containing meat. The juice should be 
fed mixed up with an equal quantity of top milk or added to a 
soup free from fat, thickening or vegetables when the soup is 
cool enough to eat. 

Beef Tea — Three and a half pounds thick round beefsteak, 
cut it on a plate, so as to save the juice, in pieces inch and a half 
long and thin. Cook in a porcelain double boiler. Add 1 pint 
of filtered water. When you have cut a cupful, throw in boiler 
and cover tight, each time adding very little salt, as that extracts 
the juice. Be particular not to allow any fat to remain on the 
meat. Boil 3 hours, stirring a few times. Do not strain it, as 
the little particles are needed that are extracted from the meat; 
add a little white pepper. Pour in your Mason jar. It will be 
the right strength. 

Milk Soup — Use Vs stock, % milk, salt to taste and add a 
level teaspoonful of butter. Bring to a boil and then pass into 
the mixture through a fine sieve 2 tablespoonfuls of either boiled 
potatoes, carrots, green peas, spinach or sorrel, and boil from 1 
to 2 minutes afterward. It is best to boil the potatoes with the 
skins on and peel just before putting through the sieve. All 
vegetables to be thoroughly cooked. 

Egg Jelly — One-half pint of cold water, V2 package of gela- 
tine. Let it stand V2 hour. Add 1 pint of boiling water, 1 
ounce of sugar, juice of 1 lemon. Beat in 1 egg and let it stand 
in a cool place over night. Serve cold. 



233 



Milk Jelly — Add hot milk instead of boiling water and omit 
lemons and eggs. 

Gruel Formula — Use three tablespoonfuls of cereal (oat, 
barley, wheat or rice) thoroughly washed. Add to a quart 
of water and boil down to a pint; strain; add salt. 

Sago Soup for Invalids — One-fourth cup of sago, 1 cup cold 
water, 1 quart soup stock, 1 cup hot cream, 2 egg yolks, salt and 
pepper. Soak the sago in cold water an hour, then pour on 1 
pint of boiling water and cook in double boiler. When tender 
stir it into hot soup stock. Let it simmer 10 minutes. Add 
the seasoning and cream, beat the yolks of eggs lightly and mix 
them with cup of the boiling soup. Turn into the tureen and stir 
briskly as you pour in the hot soup, — Mrs. F. D. 

Soup for DysiJeptics — Three pounds of lean beef cut into small 
bits; pour on this 3 quarts of cold water, add salt and let stand 
for 3 hours; add a carrot, onion, a little parsley, sage, mar- 
joram and a turnip and slowly boil down to %. Strain and set 
the liquor thus obtained in a cool place over night. Skim off 
what grease has risen, and when wanted heat and add any de- 
sired thickening — pearl barley which has been cooked tender, 
vermicelli, noodles, bread cubed and browned in butter. All 
are nice. — Mrs. F. D. 

Scraped Beef — Buy ^ of a pound of round steak; be careful 
none of the dried edges of the meat are included in your pur- 
chase, as this sometimes poisons babies. Place the steak on a 
hot griddle and sear on both sides to retain all the juice. Then 
split in two and with a dull knife or sharp edged tablespoon 
scrape the two pieces so that only the pulp and none of the fibre 
is retained. This scraped meat may be mixed with baked or 
mashed potato and a little butter and fed to the child or it may 
be put in broth with rice and fed in this way. 

Sherry Whey — One pint of milk put on the back of the stove 
and allowed to heat until it can be comfortably tasted. Add 2 
tablespoonfuls of good sherry. Strain off the curd through a 
clean cheesecloth and use the whey. 

Blackberi'y Cordial — Warm and squeeze berries; add to 1 
pint of juice 1 pound of granulated sugar, % oz. cinnamon, 'hi 
oz. mace, 2 teaspoonfuls cloves; boil all together % hour. To 
each pint of juice add V2 pint best French brandy. Two or 3 
doses of the cordial will check diarrhoea; a tablespoonful, or 
less, to a dose. — L. M. M. 



234 

MEMORANDA 



;35 



COFFEE, TEA AND OTHER BEVER- 
AGES 

HINTS 

Do not boil water longer than 3 or 4 minutes. Longer boil- 
ing ruins the water for tea and coffee making, as most of its 
natural properties escape by evaporation, leaving a very insipid 
liquid, composed mostly of lime and iron, which will ruin the 
best coffee and give the tea a dark, dead look, which ought to be 
the reverse. 

Water left in the tea kettle over night should never be used 
for the breakfast coffee. No matter how excellent your coffee 
or tea may be, it will be ruined by the addition of water that has 
been boiled more than once. 

It is better to use a china or porcelain teapot. If you use 
metal, let it be tin, new, bright and clean. Never use it when 
the tin is worn off and the iron exposed. If you do j'ou are 
drinking tea-ate of iron. 

Hot Claret Punch — For 1 gallon, which serves 50 people, 

1 dozen cloves, 3 sticks of cinnamon, 1 quart of sugar. Cook 
sugar, cinnamon and cloves with water enough to keep from 
burning, until it is melted. After it boils, pour 1 quart of claret 
over and cover. When it comes to boiling point let boil 15 
minutes; strain and add 1 quart of claret and 2 quarts of 
lemonade. — Mrs. H. G. 

Claret Cup — One quart of claret wine, % pint of ice water, 

2 lemons sliced very thin and covered with % cup of powdered 
sugar. Let stand for 15 minutes; then add to the wine and 
water well mixed and serve in glasses % full of cracked ice.-— 
Mrs. J. McM. 

A Cocoa Eggnog — Beat the whites of 1 egg stiff and add 
gradually, while beating constantly, 1 teaspoonful of sugar and 
1 teaspoonful of breakfast cocoa and a few grains of salt. Add to 
y^ the mixture, while beating, % cup of milk (cold). Turn into 
glass and pile remaining mixture on top. — Dr. G. L. 



236 



Coffee for Twenty-five Persons — Half pouud coffee, 1 egg, 5 
quarts water. Mix egg with coffee, adding enough cold water to 
mix thoroughly. Place in coffee bag in boiler and add the 5 
quarts of cold water. Let it come to boiling point for 3 minutes, 
then remove to back of range and keep hot until served. 

Chocolate — Two quarts rich milk, 1 quart hot water. Put in 
double boiler. When almost to boiling point add i/^-iDound pack- 
age chocolate previously dissolved in milk. Sweeten to taste. 
Do not allow the chocolate to boil, as that causes it to become 
oily. Flavor with teaspoonful vanilla. Have a pint of rich cream 
v/hipped to a stiff froth and a tablespoon to each cup of choco- 
late. Mix a little cornstarch with cold milk and pour in. This 
will serve 25 persons. 

Fairy Punch — Juice from 1 can pineapple, juice from 3 
oranges, juice from 3 lemons, 1 cup cold tea (uncolored Japan), 
2 cups sugar, 1 quart unfermented grape juice. Add before 
serving, ice and 1 quart mineral water. — L. E. L. 

Fruit Cocktail — Remove pulp from grape fruit and mix with 
shredded pineapple, bananas cut in slices and slices cut in quar- 
ters, and strawberries cut in halves, using ^^ as much pineapple 



C.M.r REE 



fpED, Tellers Free 




Have you tried our celebrated Chaffless Coffees 

DELIVERED FROM FACTORY TO CONSUMER 

If You Are Particular About Your Coffee or Tea 
It's the "PARTICULAR KIND" That We Please 



237 



and banana as grape fruit and allowing 4 strawberries to each 
serve. There should be 2 cups fruit. Pour over a dressing made of 
% cup sherry wine, 3 tablespoons apricot brandy, % cup sugar 
and a few grains salt. Chill thoroughly. Serve in cocktail glasses 
and garnish with candied cherries. 

FiTiit Punch — Two dozen lemons, 8 oranges, 1 can grated 
pineapple, ^ bottle Grenadine syrup, 1 bottle syphon soda, ^ 
at making, the rest at serving. 

Fiiiit Punch — One and one-half dozen lemons, 1 dozen 
oranges, 1 can sliced pineapple, 1 pint bottle of maraschino 
cherries, 2-quart bottle of ApoUinaris water, 2 pounds granu- 
lated sugar. Make syrup of sugar, with just enough water to 
cover; boil a few mintues. Squeeze juice of lemons and oranges 
in a jar. Add ^^ of the syrup. Strain and let stand several 
hours. Then mix all in punch bowl with ice, some slices of the 
oranges, pineapples, cherries and last the ApoUinaris water and 
as much more of the syrup as your taste calls for. 

Grai)e Food (Un fermented Wine) — Remove the grapes from 
the stems and add 1 quart of water to 3 quarts of grapes. Let this 
come to a boil. Drain the mixture in a bag over night. In the 
morning put in 1 scant tablespoonful of sugar to each quart of 
juice. Put on the fire and let come to boiling point, but do not 
let it boil. Lastly put the juice into bottles and seal. — M. E. J. 

Grape Juice — Wash grapes and take off stems. Crush in a 
kettle with potato masher. Add no water. Set on stove. Boil 
until seeds separate. Put in jelly bag and drain over night. To 
1 quart juice add V4. cup white sugar. Boil few minutes. Seal 
while hot in Mason jars. — Mrs. R. B. P. 

RaspbeiTy Shrub — Select only the best and the ripest rasp- 
berries. Pour over them enough good wine vinegar to cover. 
Let the fruit stand in this for 48 hours in a cool place. Then 
strain through a cheesecloth bag. Have enough more fresh 
raspberries and cover with the strained juice. Let stand an- 
other 48 hours. Strain again through bag, letting stand over 
night to thoroughly drip. To this juice add 1 pound of sugar 
to 1 pint of juice. Boil 5 minutes. Skim carefully. Bottle. 
Seal tightly. When ready to serve add 2 tablespoonfuls of shrub 
to 1 glass of cold water. — L. M. M. 

Raspberry Syrup — Take 7 small baskets of raspberries; mash 
the fruit and add to same 5 pints of water. Let the mixture 
stand several hours, then drain through a bag over night. In 
the morning add 10 pounds of sugar and 2% ounces of tartaric 



238 



acid. Let the mixture stand until all the sugar is dissolved, 
stirring same every now and then. Bottle and cover by tying 
a cloth on each bottle. This is a saturated mixture, and keeps 
well in a cool place. 

Raspberry Vinegar (Home Brew) — Two quarts raspberries, 
1 quart best vinegar. Let stand 24 hours, then strain well. 
Place on stove and cook until almost boiling; skim all the time. 
Add 2 pounds white sugar. Cook a short time more; then skim 
and remove from stove. Bottle and set away for a few days. — 
Mrs. N. M. 

Tea^ — Allow 2 teaspoonfuls of tea to 1 large cupful boiling 
water. Set pot on the fire or a warm place, where it will not 
boil, but keep very hot. Let it steep or draw 10 or 12 minutes. 
Now fill it with as much boiling water as is required. Send hot 
to the table. 

A Chinese says: "Drink your tea plain; don't add sugar and 
milk. Milk contains fibrin or albumen, and tea tannin. Mixing 
the two makes the liquor turbid. This turbidity is tannate of 
fibrin, or leather. People who put milk in tea are drinking boots 
and shoes in mild disguise." 

Vienna Coffee — Allow 1 heaping tablespoon coffee to each per- 
son and 2 extra to make good strength. Mix 1 egg with grounds. 
Pour on coffee Vz as much boiling water as will be needed. Let 
it froth. Stir down grounds and let boil 5 minutes; then let it 
stand where it will keep hot (but not boil) 5 or 10 minutes, and 
add rest of water. To 1 pint of cream add white of 1 egg well 
beaten; this to be put in cups with sngar and hot coffee added. 



r-Kt 



MEMORANDA 



MISCELLANEOUS 



Hair Shampoo — Dissolve 3 tablespoons of grated French 
castile soap in 1 quart of boiling water; place on back of stove 
until dissolved; etir 3 tablespoons of borax in 1 quart of cold 
water; beat yolks of 3 eggs. Stir above mixture all together and 
then add 3 tablespoons of alcohol; bottle and keep for use. — 
Mrs. A. E. E. 

Hand Lotion — Two ounces glycerine, 2 ounces alcohol, 10c. 
quince seed. Soak quince seed in 1 pint cold water 24 hours; 
then strain into mixed glycerine and alcohol through cheese cloth; 
mix all together and add a little perfume. — M. A. B. 

To Make Soap — Five pounds grease, 3 tablespoons of 
ammonia, 3 tablespoons of borax, 1 small can lye, 1 pint water. 
Put lye in yellow bowl and pour water over it; stir often until 
cool; melt grease, strain and add ammonia and borax; slowly 
add to lye and stir until thick like mush; pour into a pan lined 
with brown paper. When partly set cut into squares. — Mrs. G. B. 

Hard Soap — One package of Babbitt's prepared potash, Yz 
pint household ammonia, ^/^ pint of borax, all dissolved in 1 
quart of cold water, stirring until dissolved; add 5 pounds of 
melted grease strained; stir for 20 minutes or more. When it 
begins to thicken pour into a paper box. Cut into cakes before 
it hardens; make it in agate or porcelain pan. It must stand 
4 weeks before using. Caution — Be careful how you handle the 
potash. — Mrs. W. A. B. 

Egg Pickle — One pound lime, i/^ pound salt, 3 gallons water. 
Take 1 gallon of water and above quantity of lime and salt; 
dissolve and let stand over night; then add remaining water to 
mixture; put all of the eggs in at one time. — Mrs. A. E. E. 

Receipt for Preserving Eggs — The commercial water glass or 
sodium silicate is used for preserving eggs. It is sold in 2 forms; 
a syrup-thick liquid of about the consistency of molasses and a 
powder. The first named is the one most commonly used. A 
solution of the desired strength for preserving eggs may be made 



241 



by dissolving 1 part of the syrup-thick water ^lass in 10 parts 
by measure of water. Only pure water should be used in making 
the solution and it is best to boil and cool it before mixing with 
the water glass. The solution should be carefully poured over 
the eggs packed in a suitable vessel which must be clean and 
sweet. The packed eggs should be stored in a cool place. It is 
best not to wash the eggs before packing as this removes the 
natural mucilaginous coating on the outside of the shell. One 
gallon of the water glass will make sufficient solution for 50 
dozen eggs if they are properly packed. — Farmers' Bulletin ^o. 
128, U. S. Department of Agriculture. Very fine. — F. V. M. 

Mixture for Preserving Eggs — One heaping quart of fresh 
air slaked lime or the fine part of unslaked lime, 4 gallons water, 

1 scant pint salt. Stir this mixture several times daily for sev- 
eral days; then add fresh eggs. — E. D. 

Washing Fluid (fine) — Half pint of turpentine, '^ pint of al- 
cohol, V2 ounce of camphor gum, 1 ounce concentrated ammonia. 
Let it dissolve and it is ready for use. Rule for using same — Add 

2 tablespoons of this mixture to a bucket of tepid water and 
let the clothes soak in this 1 hour; then wash with any com- 
mon soap; boil or not as you like. This is a good disinfectant as 
well.— M. A. B. 



242 

MEMORANDA 



•^4:i 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

Four teaspoonfuls equal 1 tablespoonful liquid. 

Four tablespoonfuls equal 1 wine glass or ^ a gill. 

Two wine glasses equal 1 gill, or ^ a cup. 

Two gills equal 1 coffeecupful, or 16 tablespoonfuls. 

Two coJBfeecupfuls equal 1 pint. 

Two pints equal 1 quart. 

Four quarts equal 1 gallon. 

Two tablespoonfuls equal 1 ounce liquid. 

One tablespoonful of salt equals 1 ounce. 

Sixteen ounces equal 1 pound, or 1 pint of liquid. 

Four coffeecupfuls of sifted flour equal 1 pound. • 

One quart of unsifted flour equals 1 pound. 

Eight or 10 ordinary sized eggs equal 1 pound. 

One pint of sugar equals 1 pound (white granulated). 

Two cofCeecupfuls of powdered sugar equal 1 pound. 

One coffeecupful of cold butter pressed down is % pound. 

One tablespoonful of soft butter well rounded, equals 1 ounce. 

An ordinary tumblerful equals 1 coffeecupful, or % a pint. 

About 25 drops of any thin liquid will fill a common sized 
teaspoon. 

One pint of finely chopped meat packed solidly equals 1 
pound. 



244 

MEMORANDA 



245 



FACTS WORTH KNOWING 

To remove stains from a porcelain sink sprinkle chloride of 
lime in the sink, avoiding the metal on the drain. Place a damp 
cloth over and allow to stand over night. — Mrs. E. L. P. 

Mold can be prevented in ink paste mucilage, etc., by a 
small quantity of carbolic acid. 

A few drops of ether in a bottle of oil will prevent it be- 
coming rancid. 

Equal quantities of powdered alum and salt will stop tooth- 
ache where applied. 

A pinch of pepper rolled in cotton and saturated in oil will 
stop earache. 

A sprain bathed and wrapped in hot vinegar will have in- 
stant relief. 

To get rid of moths use benzine sprinkled freely on furniture, 
carpets, clothes, cushions, etc. 

Use bath brick and vinegar to clean porcelain tub. After- 
wards polish with cloth wet with coal oil. — Mrs, L. A. B. 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS 

An ordinary Mason jar cover makes an excellent pot scraper. 

A clove added to each apple when baking gives a pleasant 
change, also to prunes when stewing. One or two stuck into 
the roast beef gives a fine flavor for change, too. 

Use a large cork for scouring knives with scouring brick. 

Baking soda rubbed on a damp cloth will remove dirt from 
eggs, cooking utensils, porcelain bath tubs, washstands and spots 
from china. 

To remove iron rust, wet the spot, then cover with tartaric 
acid and salt, place in sun and it will do the work. 

Cool cakes and biscuits on butcher's brown paper; it keeps 
them from sweating. 

Use lemon or orange peel grated for flavoring cakes and 
custards; do rot grate the white part as it will taste bitter. 

Stewed canned corn or tomatoes are made better by adding 
a pinch of baking soda; it sweetens them. 

To keep the sewers free from grease: When clearing ofC the 



240 



table after meals take a rag and wipe the grease off the dishes; 
it makes them easier to wash; burn the rag or place in garbage 
can. 

Corrosive sublimate will rid the house of ants; use one tegi- 
spoonful of crystals to one pint of water, paint with old tooth- 
brush wherever they enter. Label poison. 

A little flour spread over the top of cakes before they are 
iced will prevent the icing from running off. 

To revive the lustre of morocco, or any other leather, apply 
the white of an egg with a sponge. 

Sausages should be served with apple sauce or baked toma- 
toes. Either makes them more easily digested. 

Use a little ammonia in the dish water when washing glass- 
ware. It will make it sparkle like cut glass. 

In-growing toe-nails should be scraped thin in the center 
of the nail and then cut there and at the corners. 

When cleaning knives, mix a tiny bit of carbonate of soda 
with the bathbrick, and they will polish more easily-. 

Cereals are seldom over cooked but rather under cooked. 
Thus always allow plenty of time in preparing cereals. 

Wring chamois out of the soapy water without rinsing. When 
it dries it is soft and serviceable, instead of stiff. 

Shabby oak should be brushed over with warm beer, and 
when thoroughly dry polished with beeswax and turpentine. 

An excellent furniture polish is made by mixing together 
equal parts of boiled linseed oil, vinegar and methj'lated spirits. 

Enamelled ware that has become burned or discolored may 
6e"cleaned by rubbing with a paste formed by coarse salt and 
vinegar. 

If when making coffee a little salt is added before pouring 
on the boiling water, it will be found to greatly improve the 
flavor. 

Half a lemon dipped in salt will do all the work of oxalic 
acid in cleaning copper boilers, brass teakettles, and other such 
utensils. 

If you wish to have the clothes look more glossy, use soapy 
water in making starch. This also renders the iron less likely 
to stick. 

Celery should be allowed to lie in water to which a little salt 
has been added for at least an hour before serving. This makes 
it crisp. 

In making fruit pie be sure to have a small opening in the 
center of the crust, and keep it clear with an earthenware or 
paper funnel. 

In cases of inflammation of stomach and bowels try cloths 
wrung out of hot water in which a tablespoon of turpentine has 
been put. 



247 



The disagreeable odor caused when cooking greens may be 
prevented by throwing a small piece of bread into the water 
while boiling. — Mrs. H. E. 

Gasoline is a most efficient labor saver in many household 
tasks. Used on a flannel or brush and then dipped in electro- 
silicon it makes silver polishing a joy. A few drops added to 
the stove blacking creates a magical polish. To keep the bath 
tubs, bowls and sinks in perfect condition, rub with flannel 
dipped in gasoline, then wash out with hot suds. 

To Remove Stains — For stains from milk, meat juice or 
sweet oil, use cold water and soap. For stains of pitch, tar, wheel 
grease or machine oil rub with lard, let stand half an hour, then 
wash in cold water, using plenty of soap. For fruit, tea, cof- 
fee, cocoa, pour boiling water through the stain until it dis- 
appears. 

Scorch Stains — Wet with soap suds and place in the sun. 

Iron Rust — Wet with lemon juice and salt and spread in sun. 

Paint — Rub well with gasoline and turpentine. 

Ink Stains — Soon as possible wash stain in several cold 
waters, then with soap and water; soak in sour milk for 2 or 3 
days. If stain still remains, wet with a solution of oxalic acid 
and place in sun. — Mrs. L. A. B. 

LEMOX REMEDIES. 

Biliousness — Take daily the juice of 2 small lemons or 1 
large one. Take no other remedy and you will soon be cured. 

Felon — Cut off the end of a lemon and insert the finger and 
bind it on. In the morning the matter will be drawn to sur- 
face, when it can be removed with penknife. 

Hiccoughs — The most severe case can be cured by taking 
lemonade until relieved. 

Blood Poisoning — When it is found blood poisoning has set 
in or when feared, use following: To the juice of ^ a lemon 
add 1 teaspoon of sugar and Vz a teaspoon of water. Take hot 
at a dose and repeat every 30 minutes for first 3 hours, after 
that every 2 hours. A cure will be effected in a day. 

To remove tan from the face wash it with lemon juice. — 
Mrs. L. A. B. 



248 



SUGGESTIONS. 

To keep a cut lemon fresh place unused portion in a small 
cup of water, not covering the pulp. 

Sliced lemon in stewed prunes is a great addition. 

In stuffing peppers if you will boil the peppers first for a 
few minutes until you can pierce them with a fork they are 
more delicious. 

To keep the finger nails from cracking, when obliged to 
have the hands in water a great deal, dip in olive oil daily for 
a time. Never cut them — use a fine file. 

Parawax is another useful article. When anything has 
burned on to the bottom of a saucepan or kettle, do not scrape 
a hole in the dish; just put a spoonful of some good washing 
powder or soap and a piece of paraffine the size of a walnut into 
the vessel with Vz pint of hot water. Let siMmer on the back 
of the stove an hour or so; then wash. 

' When clothes are to be boiled dissolve V2 bar of good soap 
and tablespoonful parawax in hot water. Have boiler with hot 
water ready. Pour in the mixture, to which a few drops of 
liquid bluing have been added. Wet the clothes in tepid water, 
soaping thoroughly. Then put into the boiler and boil for 15 
minutes or longer. If very dirty have your rinsing water hot. 



249 

MEMORANDA 



A Good Recipe 

3 or 4 trained type setters, 

1 Foreman who can use his head, 

2 or more thoro pressmen, 
2 careful proof-readers, 

I up-to-date press, 
Type, ink, paper, etc. 

Place in well equipped shop and let remain until thoroughly done. 
Sprinkle with ability, common sense and honest endeavor. The result 
will be a perfect job of printing. 

THAT IS THE RECIPE WE USE IN OUR WORK. THIS IS A 
SAMPLE OF WHAT WE CAN DO. WE CAN HANDLE ANY AND 
ALL JOBS. COME TO US FOR GUARANTEED SATISFACTION. 

RINCON PUBLISHING CO. 

130 McAllister street 



Palace Hotel Laundry 

2343 POST STREET 

Good Work Prompt Service 



PHONE WEST 5854 



Telephone Mission 650 



MRS. J. J. HYLAND 



iitUittfr^ 



2544 MISSION STREET 



SAN FRANCISCO 



???Why not go direct to the factory 
to have your work done in 

Jewelry, Silversmithing and 
Fine Watch Repairing 

H. J.Malliet 

510 COMMERCIAL BLDG. 

First door east of Emoorium 

Res. Phone Park 3691 
Established 1898 

Mrs. P.O. Peterson 

MUSIC STUDIO 

EL CARMO 

2560 MISSION STREET 

Phone Mission 659 

Treasurer of Music Teachers' Associ- 
ation of California • 



L. Canepa P. Canepa, Mgr. 

Formerly 4th and Stevenson 

The Mission's Leading Florist 

ZZnd Street Florist 

Choice Cut Flowers. Seeds and Plants 
Funeral Work a Specialty 

3230 TWENTY-SECOND STREET 

Bet. Mission and Bartlett 
Telephone Mission 662 

Cecile von Seiberlich 

STUDIO 

Soloists and Quartets Fur- 
nished for All Occasions 
Vocal Culture 
Coaching and Piano 

3548 PINE STREET 

Telephone West 9382 
San Francisco 



If You Want the Best, Trade With Us 

J.F.Schomer 

GROCER 

24TH AND SHOTWELL STS. 

Orders Called for 

Phones— Mission 1896 
Home M 2565 



..' ^ California Cl ; 




THE 



RAREST 
PERFUME 

Made in California 



Rieger's "Flower 
Drops" is fifty times 
the strength of ordinary- 
perfume. It contains no 
alcohol — just the soul of 
EMOsizEOFBOTOt the flowers themselves. 
The fragrance of thousands of blos- 
soms is distilled in this little bottle 
two inches high. A single drop from 
this long stoppered bottle will per- 
meate your wardrobe and leave a fra- 
grance so subtle and so sweet that 
you might fancy your lingerie laid 
away in flowers themselves. 

It is put up in a cut-glass bottle 
with long glass stopper and packed in 
a turned, polished maple case. Four 
odors. Lily of the Valley, Rose, Violet, 
Crabapple. 

If your druggist does not carry 
"Flower Drops", send us $1.50 in 
check, stamps or money order and we 
will send it to any address without 
extra charge. Or 20c in stamps will 
Dring you a charming miniature bottle 
with the same long glass stopper for 
a personal trial if you mention the 
name of your druggist. 

PAUL RIEGER S CO. 

266 FIRST STREET, 
San Francisco. 

(tieger's Flavoring Extracts 

Made in California 
The standard household extracts for 
u\':ir fori.y years, lo give that fine, 
rich and smooth flavor to custards, 
cakes and creams be sure and ask 
your grocer for 

Rieger's Treble Flavors 

Absolutely pure. Guaranteed undei 
the food and drugs act. 

Each package contains a coupon of 
value which may be exchanged for per- 
fum.e. sachet powder, etc.. at oxxt 
laboratory. 



Recipes for 

Furniture, Floors, 

Woodwork 



FURNITURE: 



It is astonishing how light and ueAV-lookiDg furniture 
can be made to look by applying with a woolen cloth 
the Worden-Meeker Varnish, Go's. Funiiture Polish. 



FLOORS: 



Clean thoroughly with Turp-in, wiping the surface per- 
fectly di"j' ; then apply a coat of Floor Wax, If there 
is a heavy coating of old finish it should be removed 
with Mirac. The wood may then be refinished with 
Paste Wood Fuller and Fl(X)r Wax, the Worden-Meeker 
Varnish Go's, well-known W. M. Brands of foregoing 
are all that is required. 



WOODWORK: 



If brightening only is required use Worden-Meeker 
Varnish Go's. Furniture Polish. If new finish is de- 
sired Worden-Meeker Varnish Go's. Varnish Stains, all 
colors, should be used. 



METAL SURFACES: 



Ghandeliers, etc., Bronzes and Aluminums for Gilding 
should be used. 



ENAMELING: 



For woodwork, bath tubs, iron beds, etc., an applica- 
tion of Worden-Meeker Varnish Go's. Enamels will 
make an entirely new appearance. 

ALL OF THE ABOVE AND EVERYTHING REQUIRED FOR 
PAINTING AND VARNISHING MAY BE HAD FROM 

Worden-Meeker Varnish Co. 

SAN FRANCISCO OAKLAND 




Koenig 6 Collins 

Exclusive Styles in 

CLOAKS, SUITS 

AND WAISTS 

125-127 Geary Street 
Phone Douglas 4520 



FINE CANDIES 
and 



ICE CREAM 



Powers 

TWO STORES 

1152 VALEXCL\ STREET 
2621 MISSION STREET 

WICHMRN'S 



FINE FRENCH MIXED AND 
ASSORTED CHOCOLATES AT 
35 CENTS PER POUND A 
SPECIALTY. 



740 MARKET ST. 

San Francisco. 



Geo. Fonge 



Phone Mission 761 



Royal Fruit Market 

Choice Fruits, Poultry and Game 
2823 MISSION STREET 

San Francisco, Cal. 



A. 6 J. LEVIN 



The Leather Goods House 

LADIES' HAND BAGS, 

TRUNKS, SUIT CASES, 

TOURISTS* SUPPLIES, 

EBONY GOODS 

Phone Douglas 4993. 

124 GEARY ST., Nr. Grant Ave. 

Branch 1227 Fillmore St. 

Wm. Melander, Prop. 
Phones — Market 3577 
Home J 3577 
Prompt Delivery to Any Part of the 
City 

THE MELANDER 
COAL COMPANY 

Dealer in 

Wood, Coal, Coke and Charcoal 

1435 MISSION STREET 
Near Tenth St. San Francisco 

G. .lanes, Prop. 
Visit the Old Stand 

Janes' Bazaar 

stationery. School Books and 
Supplies, Periodicals and News- 
papers. Notions. Trunks. Va- 
lises, Kitchen Utensiles, Glass- 
ware, Toys. 
1193 Valencia St., nr. 23rd 
San Francisco 



deeded J^aisins 

Are the Qest 




Call for pure, fresh 
products as advertised 
on the Billboards — guaranteed 
by the manufacturer and 



J. Clia{S.Gr-4S^en Co. 



Billpostiiig and Painted Displays 

Anywhere in the United States or Canada 

VALENCIA STREET NEAR FOURTEENTH, S. F. 



Farrell & Maueh Furniture Co. 



2415-17 Mission Street 



Complete Home Furnisliers 



'GASSNER FURS " 



Are Furs of Individuality, Exclu- 
sive in Design and Quality 

Here you will find everything that is new and correct in Furs 

All the Latest and Most Authentic Novelties in 
Neck and Shoulder Pieces and Muflfs. A liarge 
Assortment of Caracul, Seal, Hudson Seal 
and Russian Pony Coats Always on Hand 

FUR GARMENTS MADE TO ORDER 

REMODEIiING AND REDYEING A SPECIAIiTY 

All Work Guaranteed 



LOUIS GASSNER, Ine 

MANUFACTURING FURRIERS 
112-114 Geary Street San Francisco 



Home Bakery and Restaurant 

WEIRICH & GROLUND, Proprietors 

All Bread, Pies and Cakes 
Strictly Home Made 

AND DELICATESSEN 

Fresh Every Day — Hot Bread Twice a Day 

3151 SIXTEENTH STREET, Between Valencia and Guerrero 
Phone, Park 4779, San Francisco 

Plione Marlfet 6025 

Drugs, Chemicals, Sundries, Stationery, Cigars 

Prior's Pharmacy 

TONEY PRIOR, Manager 

PRESCRIPTIONS ACCURATELY COMPOUNDED 

799 Valencia Street Cor, Nineteenth San Francisco, Cal. 



John A. Hooper, President 



Edwin T. Peterson, Manager 




Bird's-Eye View of Hooper I^vimber Company Plant 

HOOPER LUMBER CO. 

Wholesalers and Jobbers of Lumber 

Office, Yards and Mill, 17th and Illinois Sts. City Office: 110 Market Street 
Phones, Market 5313; Home M 3855 



u 



The Hastings" 



outfitters for 

MEN, BOYS and CHILDREN 

Our Tuxedo and Dress Suits 
are just correct in every detail 



HASTINGS CLOTHING CO. 



Post and Grant Ave. 



BUY YOUR 

Solid Silverware and 
Gold Jewelry 

Direct from the Manufacturer 

Presentation Pieces from orig- 
inal and copyrighted designs a 
PARTICULAR SPECIALTY 

JOHN O. BELLIS 

Store and Factory 328 Post St., Union Square 

SAN FRANCISCO 



IRVING'S 



Corsets, Hosiery, Notions, Fancy Goods 
Art Goods, Ladles' Muslin and Knitted 
Underwear, Embroidery and Stamping 

rhones: Market 1502 

Home M 1502 San Pranclsco. Cal. 



PATRONIZE HOxME INDUSTRY BY CALLING FOR 

Long's Woodlawn Maple Syrup 

AND 

Sarato£(a Drips 

PRESERVES, JAMS, JELLIES and MARASCHINO CHERRIES 

PACKED BY 

LONG SYRUP REFINING COMPANY 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 



Telephones — Kearny 1105 
Home C 3605 

J. B. BOCARDE 
DRAYAGE CO. 

HEAVY TEAMING 

Office: 
98 DRUMM STREET 

San Francisco 

H. Hollman & Co. 

GROCERS 

2805-2809 MISSION ST. 
Orders Solicited. 

Phone Mission 591. 

HAUPTMAN LUMBER CO. 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

FIR AND REDWOOD LUMBER 

Lath and Shingles. 

Tel. Douglas 5251. 

S. W. COR. 4TH & BERRY STS., 

San Francisco, Cal. 

H. PIERRE SMITH 

Photographer 

1117 Geary Street 

Bet. Van Ness Ave. and Franklin St. 
Phone Franklin 2146. 



Phone Mission 265 



C. H. Baker 



VALENCIA ST. FLORIST 

ARTISTIC FLORAL DESIGNS 

1074 VALENCIA STREET 

Near Twenty-second. San Francisco 

Al. Hammersmith. Manager 

Formerly the 22nd Street Florist 



Established 1880 
Phones: Kearny 865 — Home C 1885 

AMERICAN OIL 
AND PAINT CO. 

Incorporated i 

Manufacturers and Importers 
LUBRICATING OILS 

GREASES AND COMPOUNDS 

PAINT SPECIALTIES 

PAINT OILS 

24 CALIFORNIA STREET 
San Francisco 

Phones— Market 4325 

Res. Market 4320 

N. BRACE 

PAINTING, PAPERHANGING, 
TINTING, ETC. 

459 VALENCIA STREET 



Miss M. Richards 

FASHIONABLE MILLINERY 

1066 VALENCIA STREET 

Bet. 21st and 22nd 
Phone Mission 7910 



Telephone West 1553 

GCRDES e CO. 

GROCERS 

Fresh Teas and Coffees. Wines 
and Liquors for Medicinal Use 

1598 EDDY STREET cor. Steiner. 
San Francisco 

Phone Mission 8475 

HAGEMAN & TAYLOR 

Gloves, Hosiery, Corsets, Un- 
derwear, Veiling, Handker- 
chiefs, Neckwear, Umbrellas 

THE GLOVE AND CORSET SHOP 

2645 MISSION STREET 
San Francisco 



It is the aim of the 

Dairy Delivery Co. 

3550 NINETEENTH STREET 

San Francisco, to sell only the best Dairy Products 
obtainable on this market. 

Our specialties are First Certified Milk put up in 
quart bottles, sealed and packed in ice at 





.fr. '■' ; ' 


'^ m 




^ 




/^^■L 










1^ 


'iiWr 


i»'%lWW^ 










vi 


L.^^dHi^" '" 






Imt ^ 






' 




p. 


^^ ^I^H^^^H 


\ 


'■, WM^y 






■msm 



H. R. TIMMS DAIRY, DIXON, CAL. 

and 
Pastuerized Milk and Cream 

Our plant is modern and sanitary in all respects. 
We invite your inspection. 



Phone Mission 632 Home Piione M1044 

W. M. HATCH 

PHARMACIST 

Prescriptions Accurately Compounded 

Pure Drugs, Chemicals, Toilet 
Articles, Stationery and Cigars 

1001 GUERRERO STREET 

Corner Twenty-second 
San Francisco. Cal. 



Phones: Mission 737 
Home M 3677 



PLANTS. 

SEEDS AND 

BULBS 



Henry Mohr 

FLORIST 

2653 MISSION STREET 

Between 22nd and 23rd Sts. 

Bouquets and Floral Designs to Order. 

Landscape Gardening, Etc. 



MISS IDA B. DISERENS 

TEACHER OF THE PIANO 

Long Experience and 
Highest References. 

Beginners trained througli interesting 
original and creative work in music 
))uildlng. 

Re.sidence 2017 HOWARD ST. 
Phone Market 3733. 



Park 1871 



Home S 4461 



D. VON DER MEHDEN 

QUALITY GROCER 

and 

VAN DrZEN BAKERY DEPT. 

701 HAIGHT STREET 

S. W. cor. Pierce 
San Francisco. Cal. 



UIVCOLIV S ONNTAG 

ATTORNEY AT LAW 

aiid 

NOTARY PUBLIC 

Specialties: Real Estate. Probate and 
Patent Matters 

Office: BALBOA BLDG. 

Residence: 783 CLAYTON ST. 

San Francisco 



Elma Hinton 



Amy Johnson 



Hinton, 
Johnson Art Co. 

Pit'liires, Picture Fram- 
ing, Artists' Materials. 

Tally Cards and Prizes a Specialty 
1114 VALENCIA STREET 

Near Twenty-second 
Tel. Home M 34.51 

For First-CIass Spanish Dishes 
Go to the 



2»25 MISSION STREET 

Near Twentieth 
All Dishes strictly Home-Made 

DAVIS' 
HAIR STORE 

2651 MISSION STREET 

Bet. Twenty-second and Twenty-third 
Phone Mission 3179 



SAIV FRAINJCISCO 
SEATTLE 

Managers STANDARD MARINE INS. CO., litd., of Liverpool, Eug. 

^ J. D. SPRECKELS & BROS. CO., General Agents. 

Winfield S. Davis 
Burt L. Davis 

J.B.F.Davis6Son 

INSURANCE BROKERS 

507 Montgomery Street San Francisco 



TELEPHONE KEAR\Y 3800 



WE HAVE ONE OF THE BEST 
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS IN SAN 
FRANCISCO; ESPECIALLY CON- 
VENIENT TO RESIDENTS OF THE 
MISSION DISTRICT. 

YOUR VALUABLES SHOULD BE 
IN A SECURE PLACE, SAFE FROM 
LOSS THROUGH CARELESSNESS, 
FIRE OR THEFT. 

SAFE DEPOSIT DEPARTMENT. 

TH£ MISSION BANK 



RETURN 
TO — ► 



MARIAN KOSHLAND BIOSCIENCE AND 
NATURAL RESOURCE LIBRARY 

2101 Valley Life Sciences BIdg. 642-2531 

LOAN PERIOD 



7 DAYS 



ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED Ah 1 ER 7 DAYS. 


DUE AS STAMPED BELOW. 


OU^' 












■ , , ,- 























































FORM NO. DD 8 
24M 4-00 



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY 
Berkeley, California 94720-6500 



U.C.BERKELEY LIBRARIES 




CD4S7b7Sm 



