NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 



3 3433 07736230 3 




VTl 



HANDBOOK 

If 

RECIPES 




Faith Robinson Lanman 



HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

AS USED IN THE 

COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS 

IN 

COLUMBUS PUBLIC SCHOOLS 







ARRANGED BY 

FAITH R. LANMAN, Director of Home Economics 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 









THE jRK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 

91 1 305 

ASTOP. LENOX AND 



Copyright 1909-1911-1913-1915-1918 

By 

FAITH R. LANMAN 
Columbus, Ohio 









Introduction 



FOOD 

Food is anything taken into the body which builds or repairs 
tissue, produces heat and other forms of energy, or regulates the 
body processes. The different kinds of food materials are called 
nutrients or food-stuffs. 

Nutrients are classified as proteins, carbohydrates, fats, mineral 
matter, vitamines and water. 

| Tissue builders 
} Energy producers 

Carbohydrates Energy producers 

Fats ... ....Energy producers 

( Tissue builders 
Mineral Matter.. j Regulators of body processes 

(Growth producers 
' ( Regulators of body processes 

l Tissue builder 
" } Carrier of food and waste 

PROTEINS 

Examples of animal food containing a large amount of protein are 
eggs, milk, cheese, meat, and fish. Examples of vegetable foods 
providing protein are nuts, peas, and beans. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

This group includes sugar, starch, and cellulose, and is derived 
almost' exclusively from vegetable life. Starch is obtained from 
grains, potatoes, beans, and other vegetables. The sugar of com- 
merce is generally manufactured from the sugar cane and beet, and 
is found also in the juices of other plants. 

FATS 

These are derived from both vegetable and animal foods. 
Examples are olive, cotton seed, and corn oils, butter, and the fats 
of meats. 

3 



4 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

MINERAL MATTER 

Mineral matter has important functions in the body. It is derived 
from fruits, vegetables, milk, and eggs. 

VITAMINES 

Vitamines are necessary to produce growth and to maintain 
health. Examples of foods rich in vitamines are, milk, butter, egg 
yolk, leaf vegetables, fruits, unpolished grains, beef, heart, liver and 
sweetbreads. 

WATER 

Water composes a large proportion of the body weight. It is also 
a necessary agent in carrying on the functions of the body. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR PLANNING MEALS 

It is necessary that meals should be planned well in advance of 
their preparation. A general outline may be made for several days 
at a time and revised as necessary to utilize left-over materials. 
This makes it possible to buy to advantage and to avoid making 
emergency purchases just before a meal. 

In planning each meal, the time, labor, and cost that will be in- 
volved, and the facilities for preparing and serving it must be con- 
sidered. 

Meals should be suited to the age and mode of living of the per- 
sons to be served and should provide the necessary nutrients with 
palatable flavor. The grouping of food materials given below is of 
use in planning meals. It is usually safe to conclude that the nutri- 
ents will be supplied if one representative or more from each group 
is placed in every menu. Group III may be omitted. 

Group I Foods rich in protein : 

Meat, poultry, fish, oysters, milk, cheese, eggs, 
peas, beans, nuts. 

Group II Foods containing a large amount of starch: 

Potatoes, cereals, (rice, oatmeal, cornmeal, hom- 
iny, wheat, etc.) tapioca. 

Group III Foods containing sugar: 

Honey, jellies, syrup, molasses, sweet fruits, other 
sweets. 

Group IV Fats: 

Butter and its substitutes, cream, vegetable oils, 
animal fats. 

Group V Foods rich in mineral matter and vitamines: 

Milk, egg yolk, vegetables (especially leaf vege- 
tables), fruits, unpolished grains, beef. 



INTRODUCTION 5 

SETTING THE TABLE 

1. The dining room should be neat, comfortable, light, and well ven- 

tilated. Everything on the table should be scrupulously clean 
and orderly, convenient, attractive, and arranged according 
to the meal that is to be served. 

2. If a table cloth is to be used, put on a silence pad and then the 

cloth, being careful to have it smooth and even, with the cen- 
ter fold exactly in the middle of the table. If a lunch cloth or 
set is to be used, it is placed on the bare table, and hot dish 
pads are used if needed. 

3. A pleasing decoration of fruit or flowers adds to the attractive- 

ness of the table, but should not be tall enough to obstruct the 
view of those to be seated opposite. 

4. Allow at least a 20 inch space for each person. The host and 

hostess are seated opposite each other, and usually at the ends 
of the table. The china, glassware, silver, and linen placed for 
each person constitute a "cover" which is usually arranged as 
follows : 

The plate is placed 1 inch from the edge of the table. 

The knife, or more than one if needed, should be at the 
right side, with the sharp edge toward the plate. 

The spoons are placed at the right of the knife, with the 
bowls up. 

The fork, or more than one if needed, should be placed at 
the left side with tines up. 

The glass is placed, with the top up, at the tip of the knife. 

The bread and butter plate is placed at the tip of the fork. 
If a butter spreader is used it is laid on the bread and 
butter plate. 

A folded napkin is placed at the left of the fork so that the 
open corner will be nearest the person served, and if a 
place card is used it is generally laid on the napkin. 

Individual salts and peppers may be placed at each cover, or 
larger ones may be placed so that they are convenient for 
each person. 

The silver is placed 1 inch from the edge of the table, and 
in the order in which it will be used, beginning farthest 
away from the plate. If more than 5 or 6 pieces are re- 
quired for each person the extra silver is placed when 
needed. 

Just before the meal is announced the butter should be 
served, and the glasses filled within an inch of the top. 



6 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

STYLES OF SERVICE 

One style of service is called English and when this is followed 
the entire meal is served at the table. The host usually serves the 
meat and vegetables, and the hostess the soup, salad, dessert, and 
tea or coffee. The served dishes are passed by one person to 
another, or by a maid. This is the usual family style of service. 

The second style is called Russian. It is more formal than the 
English and requires the service of a maid. The food is all served 
from the side and this may be done in either one of two ways. The 
plates may be served and brought to the table," or individual por- 
tions may be arranged on a dish from which each one serves him- 
self. For formal service nothing is placed on the table except the 
individual covers and the decorations. 

The third style is a combination of the English and Russian and 
is known as the Compromise style. Various courses or parts of the 
same course may be served from the side or on the table, as desired. 
For example, a roast may be carved on the table and the vegetables 
served from the side. Soup is usually brought to the table in indi- 
vidual dishes. 

SUGGESTIONS FOR SERVING 

Simplicity in serving is always in good taste. The main require- 
ment for a meal is to have well prepared food, attractively served, 
and in its best condition at the time of serving. Except in very 
warm weather, hot food should be placed in heated dishes. Meals 
to be served without a maid should be so planned that no one will 
need to be away from the table much of the time. A side table or 
tray on wheels may be used to advantage in serving either with or 
without a maid. Everything needed should be at hand before the 
meal. 

If the first course is to be served cold it may be placed on the table 
before the meal is announced, but unless it is certain that those to 
be served will take their places immediately, it is better to bring in 
hot food after they are seated. 

Any dish other than a plate, to be placed in the center of a cover 
should be set on a plate which may be removed with it or used for 
the next course. 

The waitress should go to the right side of each person to place 
dishes and may remove them from either side as convenient. 

Dishes from which a person is to serve himself should be passed 
to the left and held near and low enough to be convenient for the 
one served. 



INTRODUCTION 

Small dishes and silver are usually carried on a tray and larger 
ones on a folded napkin. 

Cups of tea, coffee, etc., when served, should be conveniently 
placed at the right of each person. 

The glasses should be refilled as often as necessary. They should 
be drawn to the edge of the table for this purpose, but should not 
be lifted. Water should remain on the table throughout the meal. 

At the end of a course, all of the dishes belonging to that course 
should be removed. The soiled dishes are taken off first, then the 
food, and then the clean dishes. It is permissible to take one thing 
in each hand, but the dishes should never be piled. 

The crumbs should be removed just before the dessert is served, 
and before other courses if desired. A folded napkin and plate may 
be used for this purpose. 

REASONS FOR COOKING 
Food is cooked : 

(1) To make it more digestible 

(2) To make it more palatable and attractive 

(3) To kill any living thing it may contain 



METHODS OF COOKING 

1. Broiling is cooking directly over a glowing fire. 

2. Baking is cooking in the dry heat of an oven. 

3. Pan broiling is cooking on a frying pan with little or no fat. 

4. Pan baking is cooking on a griddle with little or no fat. 

5. Roasting originally meant cooking before an open fire, but in 

present usage it is cooking in an oven. 

6. Boiling is cooking in boiling water. 

7. Parboiling is partly cooking in boiling water. 

8. Stewing or simmering is cooking in water below the boiling 

point. 

9. Steaming is cooking over boiling water in a steamer or double 

boiler. 

10. Frying is cooking in hot fat, deep enough to cover the article to 

be cooked. 

11. Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of hot fat. 

12. Braising is cooking in a closely covered pan in the oven. 



8 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

TABLE OF ABBREVIATIONS 

t.=teaspoonful lb.=pound 

tb.=tablespoonful f. g.=few grains 

c.=cupful f. d.=few drops 

pt.=pint spk.=speck 

qt.=quart min.=minute 

oz.=ounce hr.=hour 

TABLE OF MEASURES AND WEIGHTS 

3 t. : 1 tb. 4 qt. : 1 gal. 

12 tb. (liquid) = 1 c. 8 qt. (dry) 1 pk. 

16 tb. (dry) = 1 c. 2 c ' *"** l lb - 

2 c. butter : 1 lb. 

4 c. flour : 1 lb. 

2 &- : 1 <# 1 sq. chocolate : 1 oz. 

All measurements called for in this book are made level. Flour, 
powdered sugar, and all lumpy dry materials should be sifted before 
measuring. A half spoonful is measured by dividing a spoonful 
lengthwise. 

RULES FOR WASHING DISHES 

1. Scrape the dishes and pile them near the dish pan. 

2. Soak starchy dishes in cold water, sugary dishes in hot water. 

Rinse those used for milk or egg in cold water. Wipe very 
greasy dishes with paper. Wash and scour the steel knives 
and forks, using a cork dipped in scouring powder, and wash 
again. 

3. Wash the dishes in hot soap suds, renewing the water often 

enough to keep it hot and clean. 

4. Rinse in clear hot water. 

5. Do not put many dishes in either pan at one time. 

6. Wipe dry and put in a clean dry place. 

7. Never wet the cogs of a Dover beater. 

8. Do not let wooden handles of knives or forks lie in water. 

DISH TOWELS 

Wash dishcloths and towels with hot water and soap suds. Rub 
with soap and boil frequently. Rinse thoroughly and dry in the 
open air if possible. 

CARE OF THE SINK 

After the dishes are put away, wash the sink thoroughly in every 
part with hot water and soap. Scald with boiling water once a day. 



FRUIT 9 

CARE OF THE REFRIGERATOR 

Keep the inside of the refrigerator dry and clean. Do not allow 
food to remain in it long enough to spoil. Wash it with hot soap 
suds once a week, rinsing with clear hot water and drying thor- 
oughly. The ice chamber and drain pipes also should be washed 
and scalded. 



Fruit 

APPLE SAUCE 

8 tart apples 1, c. sugar 

I c. water Spice 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the apples. Put in a saucepan with 
the water and cook, covered, until soft. Mash the apples, add sugar, 
and spice if desired. 

GREEN APPLE SAUCE 

Use unripe apples. Wash and quarter the apples and remove the 
blossom, but do not pare them. Add a small quantity of water and 
cook, covered, until soft. Press through a colander and sweeten. 

STEWED DRIED APPLES 

Prepare and cook dried apples as directed for Stewed Prunes. 
Raisins and a slice of lemon may be added if desired. 

APPLE COMPOTE 

8 sour apples 

1 c. sugar 

1 c. water 

Wash, pare, quarter, and core the apples. Make a syrup by boil- 
ing the water and sugar a few minutes. A bit of lemon rind or cin- 
namon may be cooked in the syrup if desired. Add as many pieces 
of apple as the syrup will cover, and cook until tender but not 
broken. Remove them and add others until all are cooked. Place 
the apples in a serving dish and pour the syrup around them. 

BAKED APPLES 

Select sound tart apples for baking. Wash and core them with- 
out cutting through the stem end. Pare, if desired, after coring. 
Place in a granite or earthenware baking dish and pour 1 tb. sugar, 
mixed with a little spice, if desired, into each cavity. Cover the 



10 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

bottom of the baking dish with hot water. Bake in a hot oven until 
soft, basting occasionally with the hot water in the pan. Serve hot 
or cold with cream. 

STEAMED APPLES 

Sound tart apples are best for steaming. Wash and core them 
without cutting through the stem end. Do not pare them. Place 
in a granite or earthenware baking dish. Put a small piece of but- 
ter, and 1 tb. sugar mixed with a few grains of spice, into each cav- 
ity. Steam 15 to 20 minutes or until tender. Serve hot or cold with 
cream. 

RHUBARB SAUCE 

Cut off the leaves and wash the stalks. Cut into 1-inch pieces, 
without peeling. Add to the rhubarb one-fourth as much sugar, 
and cook in a double boiler until soft ; or add a little water and cook 
in a single boiler. The pieces should remain unbroken. Old rhu- 
barb is more delicate if blanched before cooking. A few strawber- 
ries cooked with the rhubarb improve the color and flavor. 

BAKED RHUBARB 

Prepare as above and bake in an earthen or granite dish until 
tender and deep red in color. 

CRANBERRY SAUCE 
4 c. berries 
2 c. sugar 
li c. boiling water 

Pick over and wash the berries. Put in a stew pan and add the 
hot water. Cover and boil 10 minutes, taking care the sauce does 
not boil over. Add sugar and stir until dissolved. Cool and serve. 

CRANBERRY JELLY 
4 c. berries 
1 c. sugar 
Boiling water 

Pick over and wash the berries. Put in a stew pan and cover 
with boiling water. Let stand over a low flame just until the skins 
burst. Drain, add 1 c. boiling water, cover and boil 15 minutes, 
taking care that they do not boil over. Press through a sieve. Add 
the sugar, and boil 5 minutes, uncovered. Turn into molds or 
glasses. 



BEVERAGES I I 

STEWED PRUNES 

Wash the prunes and soak them in cold water over night. Sim- 
mer or cook in a double boiler until tender. If sugar is used, add it 
after the prunes are cooked. If desired, a small quantity of lemon 
juice may be added when the prunes are cold. 

STEWED APRICOTS 
Prepare and cook dried apricots as directed for Stewed Prunes. 



Beverages 



COCOA 

3 c. milk 2^ tb. cocoa 

1 c. hot water 3 tb. sugar 

Few grains salt 1 tb. flour 

Mix the dry ingredients and blend with a little hot water. Add to 
the rest of the hot water and cook 5 minutes. Add the milk and 
heat to the boiling point. Beat with a Dover egg beater to prevent 
a scum from forming. Add a few drops of vanilla, if desired. 

HOT CHOCOLATE 

1-J sqs. shaved chocolate Few grains salt 

i c. sugar 14 c. boiling water 

3 c. milk 

Mix the chocolate, sugar, salt, and water. Cook 5 minutes, stir- 
ring occasionally to prevent burning. Add the milk and heat to the 
boiling point. If desired, ^ t. vanilla may be added. Beat with a 
Dover beater and serve with or without whipped cream. 

BOILED COFFEE 

1 c. or less coffee ground medium fine 

5 to 6 c. cold or freshly boiled water 

1 crushed egg shell, or i egg white, if desired 

Cold water to clear the coffee 

Scald the coffee pot, put in the coffee, and add the measured 
water. Bring slowly to the boiling point. If made with cold water 
boil 1 minute; if with hot water boil 3 to 5 minutes. Pour out a 
little of the coffee to clear the spout, and return the coffee to the 
coffee pot. Pour in about c. cold water, mixed with the egg shell 



12 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

or white, if used, to clear the coffee. Let it stand near the fire 10 
minutes. It is often of advantage to put the coffee in a cheese-cloth 
bag, or an aluminum filter before placing it in the pot. 

FILTERED COFFEE 
1 c. or less coffee, finely ground 
6 c. freshly boiled water 

Filtered coffee is made by pouring boiling water through finely 
ground coffee in a fine sieve. This may be repeated several times 
to make the coffee stronger if the water is kept hot. There are 
many kinds of pots for making coffee in this way. Some of them 
are to be placed over the flame, and are so arranged that the boiling 
water is automatically and repeatedly poured over the coffee. 

TEA 

1 t. tea, or less 

2 c. water 

Put the tea into a scalded earthen or china tea pot and pour the 
freshly boiled water over it. Cover and allow to steep 3 to 5 minutes. 
Serve with sugar and cream, if desired, or with sugar and a thin 
slice of lemon. Tea should always be freshly made and should never 
be boiled. 

LEMONADE 
a c. sugar 
1 pt. water 
.', c. lemon juice 

Make a syrup by boiling the sugar and water. Cool and add 
the lemon juice; then add enough water to suit the taste. 

ICED CHOCOLATE 

Follow the directions for Hot Chocolate. Chill and serve with 
chopped ice and whipped cream, if desired. 

ICED TEA 

Follow the directions for Tea. Chill and serve with chopped ice 
and a wedge of lemon, and powdered sugar, if desired. 



CEREALS 13 

Cereals 

Cereals are seeds of grasses. The common ones are wheat, oats, 
corn, rice, barley, and rye. They are sometimes prepared for mar- 
ket by simply removing the outside husk, and are also manufactured 
into many different forms. 

Cereals require thorough cooking on account of the starch and 
cellulose which they contain. They may be boiled directly over the 
fire, but for long cooking it is safer to use a double boiler or to cook 
them in the oven. 

TIME TABLE FOR COOKING CEREALS 
Rolled oats, 1 to 2 hours. 
Rolled wheat, 1 to 2 hours. 
Granulated wheat, 1 to 2 hours. 
Boiled rice, 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
Steamed rice, 1 hour. 
Fine hominy, 2 hours. 
Coarse hominy, 3 hours 
Cornmeal mush, 1 to 3 hours. 

CORNMEAL MUSH 

4 c. boiling water or skim milk 

1 t. salt 

1 c. cornmeal 

Cool the water slightly, add the salt, and pour in the cereal slowly, 
stirring to prevent lumping. Cook and stir until the cereal thick- 
ens. Cover the dish closely and place in the oven or over a very low 
flame to cook for an hour; or place over hot water to cook 2 or 3 
hours. Mush may be cooked in the oven in a shorter time than over 
hot water. It is less likely to scorch in the oven and has a better 
consistency than if cooked over the direct flame. 

GRANULATED WHEAT 
a c. cereal 
4 c. water or skim milk 

1 t. salt 

. Follow the directions given for Cornmeal Mush. 

ROLLED OATS 

2 c. rolled oats 

4 c. water or skim milk 
1 t. salt 
Follow the directions given for Cornmeal Mush. 



14 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

GRAHAM MUSH 
1 c. graham flour 

3 c. boiling water 
1 1. salt 

Follow the directions given for Cornmeal Mush. 

BOILED RICE 

1 c. rice 

6 c. boiling water 

1 t. salt 

Wash the rice in several waters to remove the loose starch. Add 
it to the boiling salted water and boil vigorously for a few minutes. 
Cover and cook over a very low flame until tender, from 45 to 60 
minutes. The rice should not be stirred during cooking, but may 
be lifted gently from the bottom with a fork if necessary, to pre- 
vent sticking. 

STEAMED RICE 

1 c. rice 

4 c. water or milk 
1 t. salt 

Wash the rice in several waters to remove loose starch. Have the 
water boiling in the upper part of the double boiler and add the salt. 
Sprinkle in the rice. Boil 5 minutes directly over the fire; then 
place the upper part of the boiler in the lower part containing hot 
water, and cook 1 hour or until soft. 

RICE AND CHEESE 

3 c. cooked rice 1 c. Thin White Sauce, 

About 1 c. grated cheese or about 1 c. milk 

Cayenne Buttered crumbs 

Salt if needed 

If White Sauce is to be used add the cheese to it and stir while 
the cheese melts, keeping the mixture just below the boiling point. 
Place the rice in an oiled baking dish and add the cheese mixture, 
stirring slightly with a fork. If milk is used cover the bottom of 
the baking dish with rice, sprinkle it with cheese, cayenne, and salt, 
and repeat until all the rice is used. Add milk to half the depth of 
the contents. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until the 
crumbs are brown. 



CEREALS 1 5 

RICE TIMBALES 

1 c. uncooked rice l t. salt 

3 c. boiling water or stock 1 c. Tomato Sauce 

Put the boiling water, salt, and well-washed rice in the upper part 
of the double boiler and boil for 10 minutes. Place over hot water 
and cook until the rice is tender. Add the Tomato Sauce, stirring 
slightly with a fork. Cook 15 minutes longer, pack in oiled timbale 
molds, and keep in a warm place until firm. Use alone or as a 
garnish with Pot Roast. 

RICE CROQUETTES 

c. uncooked rice 1 egg or 2 yolks 

^ c. boiling water 1 tb. fat 

1 c. to H c. hot milk 2 tb. sugar, if desired 

t. salt Fat-proof Coating 

Add the salt to the water boiling directly over the fire in the upper 
part of the double boiler. Sprinkle in the well-washed rice and boil 
until the water is absorbed. Place over hot water, add 1 c. of the 
hot milk and cook, covered, 1 hour or until soft. If the rice becomes 
dry before it is tender, add a little more hot milk. Cool slightly, add 
the beaten egg and fat, and the sugar if used. When cold, form into 
balls, dip in sifted crumbs, and shape into nests or cylinders. Dip 
in egg and in crumbs to complete the Fat-proof Coating. Fry and 
drain on unglazed paper. Serve hot as a vegetable, and, if in the 
shape of nests, garnish with jelly. 

RICE CAKES 
2 c. cooked rice 
1 or 2 eggs, beaten slightly 
i t. salt 

Mix the ingredients. Drop by tablespoonfuls on an oiled frying 
pan and saute until delicately browned on both sides. If desired, 
2 tb. sugar may be added. 

SPANISH RICE 

1 c. uncooked rice 1 small onion, chopped fine 

2 tb. fat 1 chopped green pepper or 
2 c. water pimento, if desired 

2 c. tomatoes 1 1. salt 

I t. pepper 

Wash the rice, dry it thoroughly, and brown it in the fat. Add 
the water, tomatoes, onion, and seasonings. Cook for 30 minutes, 
or until the rice is tender, adding more water if needed. 



16 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

HOMINY 

1 c. dried hominy 
Water 
1 1. salt 

Wash the hominy and soak it in cold water several hours. Add 
salt and boil directly over the fire for at least 5 minutes. Cover and 
continue cooking over a low flame or over hot water or in the oven 
from 2 to 3 hours. 

HOMINY CAKES 
2 c. cooked hominy 
1 or 2 eggs, beaten slightly 
t. salt 

Mix the ingredients. Drop by tablespoonfuls on an oiled frying 
pan, and saute until delicately browned on both sides. Serve im- 
mediately. 

HOMINY AND CHEESE 

3 c. cooked hominy l c - Thin White Sauce 

or about 1 c. milk 

1 c. grated cheese, or less . ,. 

Buttered crumbs, if 

Cayenne desired 

Salt, if needed. 
Follow the directions given for Rice and Cheese. 

CEREAL WITH FRUIT 

Hot cereals may be served with many kinds of fruit. Cereals 
may be packed while hot in molds with fruit and served cold with 
cream and sugar. 

SAUTED OR FRIED MUSH 

Pack left-over mush in molds. When cold, cut in slices and 
saute or fry them. Serve with syrup. 

CARAMEL SYRUP 

1 c. sugar 
1 c. boiling water 

Melt the sugar in a sauce pan, stirring constantly until it is light 
brown. Add the hot water and simmer to make a syrup. 

SUGAR SYRUP 

1 c. brown or granulated sugar 
f c. hot water 

2 tb. corn syrup, or 1-16 t. cream of tartar 

Mix the ingredients, and cook until of the desired consistency. 



MACARONI AND SPAGHETTI 17 

Macaroni and Spaghetti 



Macaroni, spaghetti and vermicelli are made from coarsely 
ground wheat flour very rich in gluten. The flour is made into a 
dough with hot water. It is then placed in a press and forced out 
through holes and dried. 

BOILED MACARONI OR SPAGHETTI 

1 c. macaroni, or spaghetti 

2 qt. water 
1 tb. salt 

Break the macaroni or spaghetti in pieces and wash it. Cook in 
boiling salted water until soft. Drain and pour over it a cup of 
cold water to prevent the pieces from clinging together. Drain 
and reheat in Tomato Sauce or bake with cheese or meat and any 
desired seasoning. The water drained from macaroni or spaghetti 
should be saved for use in soups. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

1 c. strained tomato 1 t. minced onion 

2 tb. or less fat i t. salt 

2 tb. flour Pepper 

The onion may be cooked in the fat until light yellow, or it may be 
added to the tomato. Make the sauce according to any one of the 
methods given for making White Sauce. A more highly flavored 
sauce may be made by cooking a little minced carrot, turnip, and 
green pepper in the fat with the onion. The vegetables may be 
strained out of the sauce. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE 

Follow the directions for Rice and Cheese, substituting cooked 
macaroni for rice. 

BAKED SPAGHETTI 

3 c. Boiled Spaghetti 1 \ c. tomatoes 

4 to 1 c. cooked meat 2 tb. melted fat 
| sweet green pepper if desired Salt 

4 small onion Pepper 

J to 1 c. mushrooms if desired 

Chop the onion, green pepper, mushrooms, and meat. Add 
the Boiled Spaghetti, seasoning, and tomatoes. Put the mixture in 
an oiled baking dish. Cover with buttered crumbs, if desired. 
Bake in a moderate oven about 30 minutes. 



18 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

Vegetables 

Great care should be taken to prepare vegetables in such a way 
as to retain all of their food value and flavor and those which con- 
tain starch should be thoroughly cooked. Various parts of plants 
are used as food. Examples: 

Tubers (under ground stems) : White potatoes. 

Roots: Carrots, turnips, beets, sweet potatoes, and radishes. 

Stems: Celery, asparagus. 

Bulbs: Onions. 

Leaves : Cabbage, lettuce, spinach, and other greens. 

Flowers: Cauliflower. 

Fruit: Tomatoes, beans, peas, cucumbers, and egg plant. 

TIME TABLE FOR BOILING VEGETABLES 
Asparagus (young), 20 to 30 min. 
Asparagus (old), 30 to 40 min. 
Beans (string), 1 to 2-J hrs. 

Beans (dried lima or navy, after soaking), 1| to 2 hrs. 
Beets (young), 45 min. to 1 hr. 
Beets (old) , 3 to 4 hrs. 
Cabbage (young), 30 min. 
Cabbage (old), 1 hr. 
Cauliflower, 25 to 40 min. 
Green Corn, 10 to 15 min. 
Onions, 50 min. to 1 hr. 
Parsnips, 30 to 55 min. 
Potatoes, 25 to 35 min. 
Potatoes (sweet), 25 to 30 min. 
Peas, 20 min. to 1 hr. 
Squash (summer), 20 to 55 min. 
Squash (winter), 1 to 1-J hrs. 
Tomatoes: (Stewed), 15 to 20 min. 
Turnips, 40 min. to 1 hr. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Scrub the potatoes and remove the dark spots. Cook in boiling 
water until tender, but do not allow the water to boil violently as 
the potatoes are likely to be broken. Drain and dry them over the 
fire. They may be served without being peeled, or the skins may 
be removed and the potatoes seasoned with butter, pepper, and 
salt. 



VEGETABLES 1 9 

MASHED POTATOES 

6 medium sized potatoes c. hot milk, or more 

3 tb. butter, or less About 1 t. salt 

Scrub the potatoes and remove the dark spots. The skins may 

be removed easily and without waste, if the potatoes are first boiled 

10 minutes. Peel them quickly and cook at once in boiling salted 

water until tender. Drain them and save the water for use in soup 

or bread. Mash the potatoes, add the seasoning and milk, and beat 

until light. If desired, the milk may be heated in the pan with 

the potatoes by pushing them to one side. Mashed potatoes may 

be kept light and hot if the pan is set in hot water. 

POTATO CAKES 

Shape cold Mashed Potatoes into small cakes and saute them in 
hot fat. 

POTATO CROQUETTES 

Use Mashed Potatoes, adding a little minced parsley and a well 
beaten egg if desired. Shape into croquettes and dip in Fat-proof 
Coating. Fry and drain on unglazed paper. 

CREAMED POTATOES 
3 c. Boiled Potatoes 
2 c. Medium White Sauce 

Small new potatoes may be served whole. Others should be cut 
when cold into cubes or slices. Add the potatoes to the sauce and 
serve hot. Garnish with a little paprika or parsley if desired. 

CREAMED POTATOES (Quick Method) 

3 c. Boiled Potatoes 2 c. milk 

4 tb. flour Salt 

3 tb. or less butter or other fat Pepper 

Cut cold Boiled Potatoes into small cubes or slices. Put them in 
a sauce pan and sprinkle the flour, salt and pepper through them. 
Add the milk and butter and cook about 10 minutes over a low 
flame, adding a little more milk if needed. Lift and turn the 
potatoes to keep them from sticking. 

CREAMED POTATOES (Onion Flavor) 
3 c. Boiled Potatoes, diced 4 tb. flour 

2 tb. or less fat 2 c. milk 

\ small onion, sliced Salt 

Pepper 

Sprinkle the flour, pepper, and salt through the potatoes. Heat 
the fat in a frying pan, and cook the onion in it until light brown. 



20 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

Add the potatoes and milk and cook about 10 minutes over a mod- 
erate fire, lifting and turning the potatoes to keep them from 
sticking. 

,LYONNAISE POTATOES 

2 c. cold Boiled Potatoes 1 tb. minced onion 

Salt About 2 tb. fat 

Pepper 1 tb. minced parsley 

Cut the cold Boiled Potatoes into one-half inch cubes. Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Cook the onion in the fat until brown. 
Then remove the onion and cook the potatoes in the fat, turning 
to brown them evenly. Sprinkle with parsley and serve. 

SAUTED POTATOES 

Peel cold Boiled Potatoes and cut them into small cubes or slices. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and saute until delicately browned, 
lifting and turning them occasionally. Serve immediately. 

PANNED POTATOES (Quick Method) 

Wash the potatoes and boil them 10 minutes. Peel and cut them 
in fourth inch slices, and place in a pan. Add hot water to half the 
depth of the potatoes and season with butter, pepper, and salt. 
Cover closely and cook until the potatoes are soft, lifting and turn- 
ing them occasionally, and adding a little water, if necessary, to 
prevent scorching. They should be almost dry when done and 
should be served immediately. 

POTATO CHOWDER 

6 medium sized potatoes 2 c. milk 

J Ib. salt pork, or less 1 t. salt 

1 small onion, minced Pepper 

Wash the potatoes and boil them 10 minutes. Peel and dice 
them. Cut the pork into small pieces and cook with the onion 
until light brown, using the kettle in which the chowder is to be 
made. Cool slightly, add the potatoes with enough hot water to 
cover them and cook until tender. Add the milk, bring to the boil- 
ing point, season, and serve. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Select smooth potatoes of uniform size, and scrub them. Bake 
them in a hot oven until soft, or boil them 15 minutes, and then 
place them in the oven to bake. The potatoes are more quickly 



VEGETABLES 2 1 

cooked, and have a softer skin if the latter method is used. Serve 
them at once, or prick them with a fork to allow the steam to 
escape. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

Cut hot Baked Potatoes in two lengthwise or cut off one end. 
Scoop out the inside, mash, and season as Mashed Potatoes. Put 
back into the shells lightly, and return to the oven to brown. 
Chopped cooked meat or grated cheese may be mixed with the filling 
or sprinkled over the top. 

POTATOES ROASTED WITH MEAT 

Scrub the potatoes and boil them 10 minutes. Drain and peel 
them. Place the potatoes in the pan with the roast during the 
last 40 or 50 minutes of cooking. Turn the potatoes occasionally, 
and cook until they are tender and brown. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES 

Wash the potatoes, boil them 10 minutes, peel, and slice them. 
Put a layer into an oiled baking dish; sprinkle with salt, pepper 
and flour, and dot with bits of butter. Repeat until the dish is 
full. Add hot milk until it may be seen on top. Cover and bake in 
a moderate oven until the potatoes are tender (about 1 hour and 15 
minutes). Uncover and brown them. 

POTATO CHIPS 

Wash and pare the potatoes and cut them into very thin slices. 
Soak them about an hour in ice water. Remove the potatoes from 
the water and dry them between the folds of a clean cloth. Fry 
them in deep fat. Drain them on unglazed paper and sprinkle 
them with salt. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Select small potatoes of uniform size. Wash and pare them and 
then cut them into eighths lengthwise. Soak them about an hour 
in ice water, then drain and dry them between the folds of a clean 
cloth. Fry the potatoes in deep fat. Drain them on unglazed 
paper and sprinkle them with salt. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES 
Follow the directions for Baked Potatoes. 

SAUTED SWEET POTATOES 

Scrub the potatoes and cook them in boiling water until tender. 
Drain and peel them. Cut the potatoes into pieces of uniform size ; 
or mash, season, then shape them into cakes. Saute and serve. 



22 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

GLAZED OR CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 
5 or 6 medium sized potatoes 2 tb. water 

c. sugar, brown or granulated 4 t. salt 

Butter or other fat 

Wash the potatoes and cut out the imperfections. Boil 20 min- 
utes. Drain, scrape off the skins, cut lengthwise into slices one-half 
inch thick and arrange on an oiled pan. Make a syrup by boiling 
the sugar, salt, and water 5 minutes. Pour part of the syrup over 
the potatoes, dot them with butter and bake in a moderate oven 
20 to 30 minutes, or until well browned and tender. Baste with the 
remaining syrup during baking. 

STEAMED WINTER SQUASH 

Choose a winter squash, heavy in proportion to its size. Wash 
and break it into pieces. Remove the seeds and stringy portion. 
Place pulp side up in a steamer and steam half an hour, or until 
tender. Scoop out the pulp, mash it, and season with salt, pepper, 
butter, and a little sugar, if needed. If too dry beat in a little hot 
milk. 

BAKED SQUASH 

Wash the squash and cut into pieces suitable for serving. Re- 
move the seeds and stringy portion and place the pieces on a 
shallow pan. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and dot with butter. 
Bake in a hot oven. Serve in the shell or scrape out the pulp and 
mash it. 

PARSNIPS 

Wash the parsnips, scald till the skins can be easily removed, 
and dip them in cold water. Scrape off the skins and cut the large 
parsnips into halves or quarters. Cook them in steam or in 
boiling salted water until tender, allowing the liquor to cook down. 
Season with butter, pepper, and salt; or drain and saute them. 

MASHED TURNIPS 

Wash and pare the turnips. Cut them into slices and cook in 
boiling salted water until tender. Drain, mash, and season with 
butter, pepper, and salt. 

CREAMED TURNIPS 
2 c. turnips 

1 c. Medium White Sauce 

Wash and pare the turnips. Cut them in half-inch cubes. Cook 
them in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and add White 
Sauce. 



VEGETABLES 23 

CARROTS 

Wash the carrots, scald till the skins are loose, and dip them 
quickly into cold water. Scrape off the skins and cut the carrots 
into cubes or slices. Cook them in steam or in boiling salted water 
until tender, allowing the liquor to cook down. Add White Sauce 
or season with butter, pepper, and salt. 

CARROTS AND PEAS 
1 c. cooked carrots, diced 2 tb. butter, or less 

1 c. cooked peas ^ t. salt 

Heat the carrots and peas together, season, and serve. 

CREAMED SALSIFY (Oyster Plant) 
Follow the directions given for Carrots. 

SALSIFY CAKES 

2 c. cooked mashed salsify Few grains pepper 

1 tb. butter, or less | t. salt 

Wash the salsify. It need not be scraped. Steam it until tender, 
and mash and season with butter, pepper, and salt. Shape into 
small cakes, roll them in flour, and saute or fry them. 

BUTTERED BEETS 

Cut off the leaves of the beets and part of the stems. Wash the 
beets and cook in boiling water until tender. Drain, cover with 
cold water and remove the skins. Small beets should be left whole, 
and larger ones cut into quarters or slices. Reheat over hot water, 
seasoning with butter, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar if desired. 

PICKLED BEETS 

Cook the beets and remove the skins, as above. Small beets 
should be left whole, and the larger ones cut in quarters or slices. 
Cover with diluted vinegar, adding a little sugar, salt, and pepper 
if desired. 

BEET RELISH. 

2 c. chopped cooked beets | c. sugar 
i c. grated horseradish root ^ t. salt 

Vinegar to cover 

Mix the ingredients in the order given, and serve cold as a relish 
with meat. 



24 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

BOILED CABBAGE 

Take off the outside leaves of the cabbage, cut it into quarters, 
and remove the tough stalks. Soak in cold water, and cook uncov- 
ered in boiling salted water until tender (from 30 to 60 minutes). 
Drain and serve ; or chop and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

1 small head of cabbage 

2 c. Medium White Sauce 
Buttered crumbs 

Cook the cabbage as directed for Boiled Cabbage. Cut it in 
pieces and put into an oiled baking dish. Add the White Sauce 
and lift the cabbage with a fork to mix it with the sauce. Cover 
with buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. 

STUFFED CABBAGE 

1 medium sized cabbage Butter 

1 c. ground beef Salt 

1 c. cooked rice or crumbs Pepper 

Remove the outside leaves and core from the cabbage, and 
reserve them for soup. Mix the meat, rice, and seasonings. Stuff 
the cabbage with this mixture and tie a large leaf over the top. 
Cook the cabbage in steam or boiling salted water until tender. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Soak the cauliflower about 1 hour in cold water. It may be left 
whole or may be separated into pieces before cooking. Cook it in 
steam or in boiling salted water until tender. Drain and season with 
butter, pepper, and salt; or serve in Medium White Sauce. If it 
is not too strong in flavor, part or all of the liquor in which the 
cauliflower was cooked may be used in the sauce, or in making soup. 

ONIONS 

Peel the onions under cold water. Cook them in boiling salted 
water until tender. If a mild flavor is desired the water may be 
changed once or twice during the cooking. Drain them and re- 
serve the water for use in soup. The onions may be seasoned with 
butter, pepper, and salt, or may be creamed or scalloped. 

STUFFED ONIONS 

Prepare as directed for Onions. Push out the soft centers, leav- 
ing the outer layers intact. Chop the centers and add soft stale 
bread crumbs, or cooked meat, and enough Medium White Sauce 
to moisten. Stuff the onion cups with this mixture. Sprinkle the 
top with buttered bread crumbs and bake in a hot oven until the 
crumbs are brown. 



VEGETABLES 25 

ASPARAGUS 

Break off the lower tough part of the stalks, as far down as they 
will snap, and reserve them for soup. The asparagus may be 
cooked whole or broken into inch lengths. Cook it in boiling salted 
water until tender, leaving the tips out of the water the first ten 
minutes. Boil down the water in which the asparagus was cooked. 
Season the asparagus with butter, pepper, and salt, or add White 
Sauce as desired. 

CREAMED CELERY 
2 c. celery 

li c. Medium White Sauce 

Separate and wash the celery, removing the leaves. Cut in half- 
inch lengths and cook in boiling salted water until tender, allowing 
the liquor to cook down. Make a Medium White Sauce, substitut- 
ing the liquor from the celery for part of the milk. Add the celery 
and serve on toast. Celery leaves should be saved and may be used, 
either fresh or dried, for seasoning. 

FRIED EGG-PLANT 

Wash the egg-plant and pare it. Cut it in thin slices and pile 
them on a dish, sprinkling each one with salt. Let them stand an 
hour with a weight on top to press out the juice. Drain, dip in 
Fat-proof Coating or batter, and fry. Make the batter by mixing 
1 c. flour, f c . milk, 2 eggs or less, and a little salt and pepper. 

STUFFED EGG-PLANT 

1 egg-plant Few grains pepper 

2 tb. bacon or other fat 1 t. salt 

1 t. minced onion Stock or water 

1 c. soft stale bread crumbs 1 beaten egg, or none 

Buttered crumbs 

Wash the egg-plant and cook it about 15 minutes in boiling 
salted water. Cut off the top and scoop out the pulp. Chop the 
pulp, add the fat, crumbs, seasoning, and stock or water to moisten. 
Cook the mixture 5 minutes, cool it slightly, and add the egg. Fill 
the shell with this mixture, cover with buttered crumbs, and bake 
from 20 to 30 minutes. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

Wash the tomatoes, scald and peel them. Cut them in quarters 
and simmer 15 or 20 minutes. Season with butter, salt, pepper, 
and sugar if desired. Small cubes of stale bread or toast may be 
added just before removing the tomatoes from the fire. 



26 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

4 c. tomatoes 1 t. grated onion if desired 

1 t. salt 2 c. soft stale bread crumbs 

$ t. pepper mixed with 2 tb. melted fat 

1 t. sugar 

Mix these ingredients, reserving i c. buttered crumbs. Pour 
into an oiled baking dish, cover with the reserved crumbs, and bake 
until brown. 

SAUTED TOMATOES 

Select under-ripe or green tomatoes. Wash and cut them cross- 
wise in half-inch slices. Sprinkle them with salt, pepper, and 
sugar if desired. Dip in flour, cornmeal, or in Fat-proof Coating 
and saute. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes 1 t. sugar if desired 

1 to 2 c. soft stale 1 t. minced onion 

bread crumbs 1 tb. minced parsley 

i c. chopped cooked meat 1 t. salt 
or cooked corn Few grains pepper 

c. dry buttered crumbs 

Select firm tomatoes of uniform size and wash them but do not 
remove the skins. Cut a thin slice from the top and scoop out 
the inside. Mix the pulp with crumbs and meat or corn, and season 
as desired. Stuff the tomatoes with the mixture, cover with but- 
tered crumbs and bake until the crumbs are brown. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

Select sweet green peppers of uniform size. Wash them and cut 
out the stems, removing a small portion of the pepper around them. 
Take out the seeds and partitions. Simmer the peppers 15 to 20 
minutes and drain them. Fill with any desired mixture such as 
chopped cooked meat, and bread crumbs or rice, moistened with 
gravy or White Sauce, and seasoned with onion, pepper, and salt; 
or with cooked macaroni and tomatoes ; or with tomatoes, celery, 
and cooked corn or rice in any desired combination. Cover the 
tops with buttered crumbs and place the peppers in a pan contain- 
ing a little hot water. Bake until the crumbs are brown. 

GREENS 

The leaves of many cultivated and of some uncultivated plants 
are eaten as "greens". Many of those which have commonly been 
discarded may be utilized in this way. Spinach, Swiss chard, kale, 
rape, and the tops of young beets, turnips, carrots, and radishes are 



VEGETABLES 27 

among the cultivated plants used. Some uncultivated greens are 
dandelions, mustard, sour dock, purslane, and pepper cress. Young 
and tender greens may be steamed, or cooked as directed for 
Spinach, to retain the flavor and mineral matter. The leaves of 
older plants may be cooked in boiling water, with or without bacon, 
a ham bone, or fat salt pork. If the leaves have too strong a flavor 
they may first be parboiled. 

SPINACH 

Pick over the spinach and remove the roots. Put it into a pan 
with plenty of cold water, so that the sand will settle. Shake the 
leaves and lift them out. Repeat until free from sand. Drain well 
and cook covered 10 to 15 minutes over a low flame, without adding 
water. A little butter or bacon fat may be melted in the pan before 
putting in the spinach. Season with salt, pepper, and vinegar if 
liked. Garnish the spinach with slices of Hard Cooked Eggs. 

STEWED CORN 

Remove the husks and silk from the corn. Cut off the tips of 
the kernels with a sharp knife and scrape out the remaining pulp 
with the back of the knife. Add a little water or milk and cook the 
corn over a low flame 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally, or 
cook it over hot water after the boiling point is reached. Season 
with butter, pepper, salt, and a little sugar if needed. 

DRIED CORN, STEWED 

Soak the corn in cold water several hours. Cook until tender. 
Season with butter, pepper, and salt, adding a little milk or cream 
if desired. 

SCALLOPED CORN 

2 c. cooked corn | c. soft stale bread crumbs 

2 c. Medium White Sauce i c. fine dry buttered crumbs 

Mix the corn with the sauce and soft crumbs. Add salt, pepper, 
and a little sugar if needed. Place the mixture in an oiled baking 
dish. Cover with the buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs 
are brown. 

BAKED CORN 

2 c. Stewed Corn 1 tb. butter 

2 eggs or less 2 c. hot milk or less 

1 t. salt Few grains pepper 

Beat the eggs slightly and add to the corn, seasonings and milk. 
If the amount of egg is reduced, the milk should be decreased also. 
Put into an oiled baking dish. Set the dish in hot water and bake 
in a slow oven. 



28 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

CORN OYSTERS 

2 c. pulp of corn Salt and pepper to taste 

2 eggs well beaten c. flour 

Grate raw corn slightly and scrape out the pulp with the dull 
edge of a knife. If canned corn is used it should be chopped or 
pressed through a sieve. Add the eggs to the corn and enough of 
the flour to make a pour batter. Season to taste, adding a little 
sugar if the corn is not sweet. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a hot oiled 
griddle, and brown on both sides. 

CORN CHOWDER 

3 medium sized potatoes 2 c. milk 

\ Ib. salt pork, or less 2 c. cooked corn 

1 small onion, minced 1 t. salt 

Pepper 

Follow the directions given for Potato Chowder, adding the corn 
with the milk. 

SUCCOTASH 

Cook lima beans until nearly tender. Cut off the tips of kernels 
of corn and scrape out the pulp with the dull edge of a knife. Add 
to the beans and cook 20 to 30 minutes. Season with butter, salt, 
and pepper. Dried lima beans and canned or dried corn may be 
used if the fresh vegetables are not at hand. 

BUTTERED PEAS 

Shell the peas and wash them. Cook until tender in enough hot 
water to cover them, allowing the liquor to cook down. Season 
with salt, pepper, and butter, and sugar if needed. 

CREAMED PEAS 

2 c. cooked peas 

1 c. Medium White Sauce 

Heat the peas in the White Sauce. The liquor from the peas 
may be used in making the sauce. 

PEA PATTIES 
Fill Patty Shells with hot Creamed Peas. 



VEGETABLES 29 

GREEN BEANS 

Wash the beans and string them. Cook in boiling water until 
tender, with or without a piece of ham, bacon, or salt pork. Allow 
the liquor to cook down, and season as desired. 

LIMA BEANS 

Wash and pick over the beans. If dried beans are used soak 
them several hours in cold water. Cook the beans in boiling water 
until tender, allowing the liquor to cook down. Season with butter, 
pepper and salt. Add cream or White Sauce if desired. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 qt. navy beans 1 tb. salt 

Cold water 1 tb. molasses or more 

i lb. salt pork or less 3 tb. sugar if desired 

1 c. tomato or i c. catsup if desired 

Pick over and wash the beans. Soak over night in cold water. 
Drain and cover with fresh water. Simmer until the skins begin to 
burst. Drain the beans, throwing the water out of doors not in 
the sink because of the odor. Scald and scrape the rind of the pork. 
Place a one-fourth-inch slice of pork in the bottom of the bean pot. 
Cut through the rind of the remaining pork, making cuts one inch 
deep. Put the beans in the pot and bury the pork in them. Mix the 
seasoning with 1 c. boiling water and pour over the beans. Add 
enough more boiling water to cover them. Cover the bean pot ; put 
into the oven and bake slowly 6 to 8 hours, uncovering for the 
last hour to allow the beans to brown. Add water as needed. 

BEANS WITH BACON 

2 c. navy beans 

i lb. or less bacon, sliced 

Pick over and wash the beans and soak over night in cold water. 
Boil 5 minutes in sufficient water to cover. Drain and put into a 
shallow pan, laying the bacon on top. Cover with hot water and 
bake in a moderate oven until beans are soft and brown. About c 
hours will be required. Add water at intervals as necessary and 
stir occasionally to brown the beans throughout. 

BAKED LENTILS 

Prepare as directed for Beans with Bacon, or Boston Baked 
Beans, adding a few drops of onion juice if desired. 



30 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 



BEAN OR LENTIL LOAF 

1 c. dried beans or lentils 1 tb. chopped parsley 
A few celery leaves if desired 

Bread crumbs if needed Few drops onion juice 

1 egg or none ^ c. broken nut meats 
H tb. melted fat if desired 

1 t. salt Water or stock to 
Pepper moisten if needed 

Pick over the beans or lentils and wash them. Soak them sev- 
eral hours in cold water and cook with the celery leaves until soft. 
Drain and press through a sieve or grind in a food chopper. To the 
pulp add the remaining ingredients. Cool the mixture, shape into 
a loaf and bake on a shallow pan. Serve with or without Tomato 
Sauce. 

NUT LOAF 

| to 1 c. chopped black wal- About 1 t. salt 

nuts, or other nut meats Few grains pepper 

2 c. cooked rice, or i t. sage, if desired 
Mashed Potato 1 tb. minced onion, 

Bread crumbs if needed if desired 

1 beaten egg or none 1 tb. melted fat 

Milk or stock to moisten if needed 

If the onion is to be used, brown it in the fat. Mix all the ingre- 
dients, using the crumbs or liquid needed to shape into a loaf. 
Place on a shallow oiled pan, and bake until brown in a hot oven. 
Serve with or without Tomato Sauce. 



BEAN OR LENTIL CROQUETTES 

Use the Bean or Lentil Loaf mixture. Cool and shape into cro- 
quettes. Dip in Fat-proof Coating, fry and drain on unglazed 
paper; or roll them in buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. 
Serve hot with or without Tomato Sauce. 



MILK 31 

Milk 

Each nutrient is represented in milk, making it an excellent 
food. Some products of milk are cream, skim milk, butter, butter- 
milk, and many kinds of cheese. 

CARE OF MILK 

1. Wash the tops of milk bottles before emptying them. 

2. Vessels used for milk should be thoroughly washed and scalded. 

3. Never leave milk uncovered. 

4. Keep milk in glass, earthen or enameled ware, or in new tin 

dishes. 

5. As milk absorbs odors very easily, it should not be left near 

anything which has a strong odor. 

6. Milk should be cooled quickly and kept cold. 

WHITE SAUCE 

Thin. Medium. Thick. 

Butter or other fat Itb.. ...2 tb. . ...2 tb. 

Flour Itb.. ...2tb. .. ..4 tb. 

Milk, whole or skim, .. ...Ic. . ...1 c. . ...1 c. 

Salt . ...Jt. . -it. . -it. 

Pepper ...f. g. . -f. g. ~.f. g. 

Note In making larger quantities the amount of butter may be 
decreased. It is safer to cook White Sauce over hot water after 
the boiling point is reached. 

Methods of Combining 

I. Mix the dry ingredients together. Melt the butter in a sauce- 

pan, remove from the fire and add the dry ingredients, stir- 
ring until all lumps disappear. Add the cold milk and re- 
turn to the fire. Stir constantly and cook five minutes. 

II. Cream the butter with the dry ingredients. Add the hot milk 

gradually, stirring to keep the mixture smooth. Cook 5 
minutes, stirring while it thickens. 

III. Mix the dry ingredients and blend with enough cold milk to 
pour easily. Have the rest of the milk hot and add the mix- 
ture to it gradually, stirring constantly until thickened. 
Cook 5 minutes. Stir in the butter. The amount of butter 
may be decreased or omitted, when the sauce is made by 
this method. 



32 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

JUNKET 

c. sugar 1 rennet tablet dissolved in 

1 qt. whole or 1 tb. cold water 

skimmed milk 1 t. vanilla 

Heat the milk in a double boiler until it is just lukewarm. Add 
the sugar and vanilla, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Pour 
into serving dishes and add rennet. Let the mixture stand in a 
warm room until it begins to thicken; then, taking care not to jar 
it, put in a cool place and leave until firm. Sprinkle with a little 
cinnamon or nutmeg if desired, and serve with cream and sugar. 

CHOCOLATE JUNKET 

Melt 1 square of chocolate. Heat ^ c. of milk and add to the 
chocolate gradually. Stir and cook until smooth. Cool and blend 
with the remaining milk. Proceed as for Plain Junket, adding 1 c. 
more sugar. 



Cheese 



COTTAGE CHEESE 

Place thick freshly soured skimmed milk or buttermilk over a 
pan of hot water (not boiling). When the milk is warm and the 
curd separates from the whey, drain in a cheese cloth until dry. 
Put the curd into a bowl and add salt, pepper, and cream to taste, 
mixing with a fork. Serve lightly heaped up. The whey should be 
saved and may be used cold as a beverage or as the liquid in flour 
or gelatin mixtures. 

SWEET MILK CHEESE 

1 qt. skimmed milk 1 rennet tablet dissolved in 

Cream 1 tb. cold water 

Salt 

Heat the milk in a double boiler until it is just lukewarm. Add 
the dissolved rennet and let the mixture stand in a warm room 
until it thickens, stirring occasionally. Drain until dry in a cheese 
cloth. Save the whey to serve cold as a beverage or to use as the 
liquid in flour or gelatin mixtures. Place the cheese in a bowl, add 
salt to taste and moisten with cream, mixing with a fork. Serve 
cold with salad or fruit, or use in a sandwich filling or Cheese Loaf. 



CHEESE .33 

SCALLOPED CHEESE 

5 or 6 slices stale bread If c. hot milk 

2 tb. butter or less 2 eggs or less 

1 c. grated cheese t. salt 

Butter the bread and cut it into small pieces. Arrange it in an 
oiled baking dish alternating with the cheese, using bread for the 
bottom and top layers. Beat the eggs slightly and add the milk 
and salt. Pour this mixture over the bread until it can be seen on 
top, adding more milk if necessary. Bake in a slow oven 20 to 30 
minutes. 

CHEESE FONDUE 

1 c. hot milk 1 tb. butter or less 

1 c. soft stale bread crumbs f t. salt 

1 Ib. cheese cut in small Few grains cayenne 
pieces 3 eggs or 2 

Mix all the ingredients but the eggs. Add the yolks well beaten, 
and fold in the whites of the eggs beaten until stiff. Pour into an 
oiled baking dish. Bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven and serve 
at once. 

CHEESE LOAF 

2 c. cottage cheese About 1 t. salt 

or 1 c. grated cheese Few grains cayenne 

2 c. or less cooked rice 2 tb. lemon juice if desired 
or bean pulp 1 tb. melted fat 

1 beaten egg, or none Bread crumbs if needed 
4 c. chopped nut meats Milk or water to moisten 

if desired if needed 

Mix all of the ingredients, using just enough liquid to moisten. 
Shape into a loaf, place on a shallow oiled pan, and bake until 
slightly brown. Serve with or without Tomato Sauce. 

WELSH RAREBIT 
If c. milk 1 t. mustard 

3 tb. flour Few grains cayenne 

2 tb. butter, or less About f Ib. cheese 
f t. salt Toast or crackers 

Grate the cheese or cut it in very small pieces. Make a White 
Sauce from the milk, flour, butter, and seasonings. Add the cheese 
and stir until it melts, keeping the mixture below the boiling point. 
Serve hot on toast or crackers. 



34 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

CHEESE SAUCE 

Follow the directions given for Medium White Sauce, and add 
from to \ c. grated or chopped cheese to each cup of sauce. Stir 
until the cheese melts, keeping the mixture below the boiling point. 
Serve on hot rice, macaroni, hominy, potatoes, or toast. 

CHEESE WAFERS 

Sprinkle crisp wafers with a thin layer of grated cheese seasoned 
with a few grains of cayenne. Bake in a slow oven until the cheese 
melts. Serve with salad. 



Eggs 



A fresh egg has a rough shell. It sinks to the bottom when 
placed in water and looks clear when held to the light. As the egg 
grows older the water in it evaporates, and air laden with bacteria 
takes its place, causing the egg to spoil. Placing in cold storage or 
excluding the air by packing in salt, limewater, or water glass, are 
common methods of preserving eggs. 

EGGS PRESERVED IN WATER GLASS 

1 pt. water glass (silicate of soda) 
6 qt. cool boiled water 
9 to 10 dozen eggs 

Eggs which are to be preserved should be collected in the spring 
when the supply is greatest. Only those which are clean, infertile, 
and freshly laid should be selected for packing. They must not be 
washed. The above amounts require a 4 gallon crock. See that the 
crock is scrupulously clean. Put it in a cool place where there is no 
danger of freezing, and where it will not need to be moved. Mix 
the water and water glass in the crock and place the eggs in the 
solution. They may be put in, a few at a time, as collected. The 
eggs should be at least 2 inches below the surface of the solution. 
Keep the crock covered. If properly packed, the eggs should keep 
for a year. They should be washed before using, and if to be cooked 
in the shells a small hole should be pricked in the large end of each 
egg before cooking. 



EGGS 35 

POINTS IN USING EGGS 

1. Eggs should be washed before using. 

2. Eggs used for enriching or thickening a mixture are only slightly 

beaten. 

3. Yolks and whites must be beaten separately when used to lighten 

a mixture. 

4. In separating the white from the yolk, be careful not to break 

the yolk, as even a small portion of it keeps the white from 
becoming stiff when beaten. 

5. Whites of eggs must not be beaten until just before using. 

6. Eggs should be cooked below the boiling point of water as they 

are toughened by too high a temperature. 

SOFT COOKED EGGS 

Lower the eggs with a spoon into a saucepan of boiling water, 
having enough water to cover them. Remove the saucepan imme- 
diately from the fire and let it stand covered 7 to 10 minutes or less 
if very soft eggs are desired. 

HARD COOKED EGGS 

Lower the eggs with a spoon into a saucepan of boiling water 
and place the pan where the water will keep just below the boiling 
point 30 to 45 minutes. The shells may be easily removed if the 
eggs are dropped into cold water as soon as they are done. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS 

6 eggs ^ c. milk or water 

t. salt | t. pepper 

1 1. butter 

Beat the eggs slightly, and add the salt, pepper and milk. Put 
the butter into a hot smooth frying pan and when it is melted pour 
in the egg mixture. Cook until creamy over a low fire or over hot 
water, stirring from the bottom of the pan as the mixture thickens. 
Serve on or with slices of hot buttered toast. 

POACHED EGGS 

Select a shallow sauce pan or skillet just large enough to allow 
sufficient space for each egg. Oil the bottom and sides of the pan 
and nearly fill it with boiling salted water. Break each egg into a 
saucer and slip it into the water which should be just below the 
boiling point and deep enough to cover the eggs. Let them cook 



36 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

without boiling until a him has formed over the yolk and the white 
is firm. Remove with a skimmer or large spoon and place each 
egg on a slice of hot buttered toast. Season with salt, pepper, and 
butter to taste. Egg poachers or oiled muffin rings may be placed 
in the water before putting in the eggs, to keep them in shape. 

EGGS POACHED IN MILK 

Follow the directions given for Poached Eggs, using milk in place 
of water. Pour the hot milk over the toast and eggs. 

FOAMY OMELET 

4 eggs Few grains pepper 

\ t. salt 4 tb. water 

1 tb. butter 

Separate the yolks from the whites. Add the water to the whites 
and beat until stiff. Drop in the unbeaten yolks, add the seasoning 
and fold in with a spatula. Heat an omelet pan and butter the sides 
and bottom ; turn in the mixture, spread evenly and cook over a low 
fire until well puffed and delicately browned underneath. Place on 
the grate in the oven to cook the top. The omelet is done, if firm 
and dry when pressed with the finger. Fold and turn out on a hot 
platter. Serve at once. 

CREAMY OMELET 

4 eggs \ t. salt 

4 tb. water or milk Few grains pepper 

1 tb. butter 

Beat the eggs slightly, using a fork. Add the salt, pepper, and 
milk or water. Melt the butter in a hot omelet pan without letting 
it brown. Turn in the egg mixture, cook over a low fire, and as it 
thickens, lift the edge lightly with a fork or knife to let the un- 
cooked part run underneath. When creamy all through and deli- 
cately browned underneath, fold and turn out in a hot platter. 
Serve at once. 

SPANISH OMELET 
Make a Foamy or Creamy Omelet and serve with Tomato Sauce. 

FANCY OMELETS 

Make a Foamy or Creamy Omelet and just before it is folded, 
spread over it a few teaspoonfuls of finely chopped warm ham or 
chicken, or a little grated cheese. This is an excellent way to utilize 
left-over materials. The omelet takes its name from the filling. 



EGGS 37 

GREEN PEPPER OMELET 

Brown 1 tb. minced onion in 2 tb. butter in an omelet pan, and 
pour in Creamy Omelet mixture to which has been added 1 c . 
chopped green peppers. Cook as directed for Creamy Omelet. 

CREAMED EGGS 

4 Hard Cooked Eggs 

14 c. Medium White Sauce 

Toast 

Chop the eggs and add them to the sauce, or add only the whites 
and reserve the yolks for garnish. Reheat the sauce but do not 
boil it after the eggs are added. Serve on toast. If reserved for 
the purpose, press the yolks through a sieve and sprinkle them on 
top. If desired garnish with parsley. Serve hot. 

EGG IN A NEST 

Separate the yolk and white of an egg, add a few grains of salt 
to the white, and beat until stiff. Place it in a saucer, or pile lightly 
on a piece of toast. Make a depression in the top, slip the unbroken 
yolk into it and bake in a moderate oven until the white is firm on 
top. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve at once. Garnish 
with parsley. 

STUFFED EGGS 

Follow the directions for Hard Cooked Eggs. Drop them in cold 
water. Remove the shells and cut the eggs into halves lengthwise. 
Take out the yolks, mash them and mix with Cooked Salad Dressing 
or season with melted butter, vinegar, sugar, salt, mustard, and 
cayenne. Refill the whites with this mixture and serve cold. 

BAKED EGGS 

Break each egg into an oiled cup. Add a few small pieces of 
cooked bacon if desired. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Put the 
cups into a pan of hot water in a moderate oven. Cook until the 
whites of the eggs are firm. Serve in the cups garnished with 
parsley or water cress. 



38 



HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 



Meat 

CARE OF MEAT 

When meat conies from the market it should be taken out of the 
paper and put in a dish in a cold place. Before cooking, the meat 
should be wiped with a clean cloth, wrung out of cold water, or 
scraped lightly with a knife to remove any particles that may have 
adhered to the surface. 

BEEF 

Beef is the most generally used of all meats, being in season 
throughout the year. Good beef is firm and elastic to the touch and 
is well mottled and coated with fat. The flesh is purplish red when 
first cut and the fat is a light straw color. Good meat has no dis- 
agreeable odor. 

BEEF CHART* 




CUTS OF BEEF. 



1. Neck 

2. Chuck 

3. Ribs 

4. Shoulder clod 

5. Fore shank 

6. Brisket 

7. Cross ribs 

8. Plate 



9. Navel 
10. Loin 
11: Flank 

12. Rump 

13. Round 

14. Second cut round 

15. Hind shank 



The above and following charts are from Bulletin No. 
Agriculture. 



28, U. S. Dept. of 



MEAT 39 

BROILED STEAK 

"Have the broiling oven hot. Wipe and trim a tender steak and 
place it in an oiled broiler. Sear the meat on one side and then on 
the other. For a steak an inch thick, cook 4 to 8 minutes, turning 
often. Place on a platter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, spread 
with butter, and serve. For cooking tough steaks, see the recipe 
for Smothered Steak. 

PAN-BROILED STEAK OR CHOPS 

Place the steak or chops on a very hot frying pan, with little or 
no fat, and proceed as for Broiled Steak. 

BROILED BEEF CAKES 
1 Ib. round steak 
Few grains pepper 
Few grains salt 

Chop or grind the steak and season it, adding a little minced 
onion, if desired. Shape into small cakes, handling lightly. Broil 
on an oiled broiler or a frying pan. A cup of moistened bread 
crumbs and a little chopped parsley may be mixed with the beef 
before shaping into cakes. . If desired, the cakes may be spread 
with butter or Lemon Butter. 

LEMON BUTTER 

1 tb. butter tb. lemon juice 

^ t. salt ^ tb. minced parsley 

Few grains pepper 

Mix well and serve on hot broiled steak, chops, or fish. 

SMOTHERED STEAK 

Round or chuck steak Beef or pork drippings 

Flour Salt 

Pepper 

This is a method of cooking steak that is somewhat too tough 
for broiling. Wipe and trim the meat and cut it into pieces suitable 
for serving. Lay it on a thickly floured board and dredge with 
flour. Pound the entire surface on both sides, using the edge of a 
porcelain plate or a mallet. Keep the meat sufficiently coated with 
flour so that the surface is dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Have ready a hot frying pan and sear the meat quickly on each side 
in a little fat. When it is well browned, reduce to a very low tern- 



40 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

perature and drain off the superfluous fat. Add a few spoonfuls of 
water and cover the pan as closely as possible. Cook until tender 
over a very low flame or in a slow oven. A spoonful of water may 
be needed from time to time, to keep the meat from getting dry. 



BEEF OR VEAL ROLLS 

Use round or chuck steak, or veal steak about one-half inch thick. 
Wipe and trim the meat and lay it on a thickly floured board and 
dredge with flour. Pound the entire surface on both sides, using 
the edge of a porcelain plate or a mallet. Keep the meat sufficiently 
coated with flour so that the surface is dry. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper. Cut into pieces about 4 inches square. After placing a 
heaping tablespoonful of Dressing on each piece, roll and tie it. 
Sear the rolls in a little hot fat and, when well browned, reduce to 
a very low temperature. Drain off the superfluous fat and add a 
few spoonfuls of hot water. Cover the pan as closely as possible and - 
cook until tender over a very low flame or in a slow oven. A 
spoonful of water may be needed from time to time to keep the 
meat from getting dry. Enough thin Tomato Sauce to half cover 
the meat may be used instead of water, and served with the meat 
as gravy. 

ROAST BEEF 

Cuts from the loin and ribs make the best roasts. Wipe and trim 
the meat, and dredge it with flour, salt, and pepper. Place it in a 
roasting pan and cook until seared in a very hot oven. Reduce the 
heat and continue cooking, allowing about 15 minutes to the pound. 
If roasted in an uncovered pan, the meat may need to be basted 
occasionally. Potatoes may be cooked and served with the roast as 
directed in the recipe for Potatoes Roasted with Meat. 

GRAVY 

4 tb. flour 2 c. broth, milk, or water 

4 tb. fat or less Salt and pepper to taste 

Combine as directed for the first or third method given for mak- 
ing White Sauce. If a brown gravy is desired, the flour may be 
browned with or without the fat before adding the liquid. Gravy 
from roasts or stews should be made in the pan in which the meat 
was cooked. It is often desirable to remove some of the fat and 
rarely necessary to add any. 



MEAT 4 | 

POT ROAST 

Pieces from the round, chuck or rump of beef are suitable for 
pot-roasting. Wipe the meat with a cloth wrung out of cold water. 
Dredge with flour and brown on all sides in a small amount of fat in 
an aluminum or iron pan. Surround with boiling water, cover 
closely and boil 5 minutes. Reduce the temperature and cook be- 
low the boiling point until tender. If desired, diced onions, carrots, 
turnips, celery, a few cloves, and a bit of bay leaf may be cooked 
with the meat. When tender, season the meat and cook it 15 min- 
utes longer. Remove the meat and make gravy from the broth. 

BEEF STEW 
2 Ibs. beef or less 6 medium potatoes 

1 onion, sliced 2 t. salt 

\ c. carrot and turnip, Few grains pepper 

diced Hot water to cover 

Wipe the meat, remove the bone and cut the meat into cubes. 
Dredge with flour and brown in a frying pan with the onion, using 
a small quantity of the fat. Turn the meat to sear it on all sides. 
Put it into a kettle or double boiler, add the bone and fat, and cover 
with hot water, rinsing the frying pan with some of the water. 
Cook below the boiling point until tender (2 or 3 hours), adding 
carrot and turnip 1 hour and potatoes 35 minutes before serving. 
Season when tender. Remove bones and large pieces of fat. Dump- 
lings may be added to the stew 10 minutes before serving. The 
gravy may be thickened with a little flour blended with cold water. 

DUMPLINGS 

2 c. flour 4 t. baking powder 

\ t. salt About 1 scant c. milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add the milk slowly, mixing 
with a knife until a soft dough is formed. Drop into boiling stew 
by spoonfuls, dipping the spoon into the stew each time before 
taking up the dough. Let the dumplings rest on the meat and 
potato. Cover closely and cook 10 to 12 minutes without uncov- 
ering. 

CORNED BEEF STEW 

2 Ib. corned beef or less 1 or 2 onions 

1 small cabbage 6 medium potatoes 

4 medium-sized turnips Salt, if needed 

3 carrots Pepper 

Wipe the meat, cover it with cold water, heat slowly to the boil- 
ing point, and simmer 3 hours. After the first few minutes of 



42 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

cooking remove the scum. When the meat is tender take it out of 
the broth. Cut the vegetables in uniform pieces, and boil them in 
the broth, reserving the potatoes until the other vegetables have 
cooked half an hour. Season and serve. 



CHILI CON CARNE 

1 Ib. beef or less 2 c. tomatoes 

i c. flour 1 small onion, sliced 

1 to 2 c. dried kidney Cayenne 

beans About l t. salt 

Pick over and wash the beans, soak them in cold water several 
hours, and cook with the onion until tender. Grind the beef, mix 
it with the flour and brown it in a little hot fat. Add the beans 
with their liquid and the other ingredients. Continue cooking until 
the liquid is reduced to the desired amount and consistency, thick- 
ening with a little more flour if necessary. This is a modification 
of a Mexican recipe which calls for Mexican beans, garlic, and chili 
peppers, and is very highly seasoned. 



BEEF LOAF 

2 Ib. beef or less 1 to 3 eggs 

$ Ib. salt pork, if desired 2 t. salt 

5 to 10 slices stale bread Few grains cayenne 

2 c. cooked rice, or Mashed Few drops onion juice 

Potato, if at hand \ t. sage, if desired 

Wipe, trim, and grind the meat. Wet the bread in milk, stock, 
or water and press out the excess moisture. Mix all of the ingredi- 
ents, using more salt if the pork is omitted. Add a little more 
liquid to moisten, if needed. Shape into a loaf and bake about an 
hour on a shallow oiled pan. 



MEAT PIE 

Cut remnants of left-over cooked meat into inch cubes, or grind 
it. Thicken the gravy with flour and season with salt and pepper. 
Place meat and gravy in an oiled baking dish. Cooked vegetables 
may be added if desired. Have the mixture hot and cover with 
Baking Powder Biscuit dough, Pie Crust, or Mashed Potatoes. 
Bake in a hot oven. 



MEAT 43 

BAKED HASH 

H c. chopped cooked meat Salt and pepper to taste 

2 c. chopped cooked potato Hot water or stock to moisten 

or cooked rice 1 tb. minced parsley, if desired 

1 t. chopped onion Buttered crumbs 

Mix all the ingredients but the crumbs, and place the mixture 
in an oiled baking dish, cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
the crumbs are brown. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF 

1 Ib. dried beef 

2 c. or more Medium White Sauce 

The beef should be cut in very thin slices. Tear it into small 
pieces. If very salty rinse it in warm water. If desired, the beef 
may be browned slightly in a little hot fat. When this is done it 
is possible to use a larger amount of sauce, which should be made 
in the pan with the meat after it has been browned. If desired, a 
beaten egg may be added to the mixture just before removing it 
from the fire. 

SCALLOPED MEAT 

2 c. chopped cooked meat 1 c. gravy or broth 

1 or 2 c. soft stale bread 1 tb. minced parsley, if desired 
crumbs or cooked rice Few drops onion juice 

Mix the meat, crumbs or rice, gravy, and seasoning, adding salt 
and pepper if needed. Bake in an oiled dish until heated through 
and browned on top. 

MEAT SOUFFLE 

H c. milk 1 c. soft stale bread crumbs 

2 tb. flour 1 c. chopped cooked meat 
1 tb. fat or less 2 egg yolks, beaten 

a t. salt 1 tb. finely chopped parsley 

Few grains pepper 2 egg whites, beaten stiff. 

Make a sauce of the first five ingredients, add the crumbs and 
meat, beaten yolks and parsley. Fold in the beaten whites, and bake 
in an oiled baking dish in a moderate oven about 30 minutes. 
Serve at once. 

MINCED MEAT ON TOAST 

Chop left-over meat and heat in a well-seasoned gravy or White 
Sauce. Pour over small slices of hot crisp toast. 



44 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

BEEF CROQUETTES 

H c. cooked beef Salt 

H c. Mashed Potato or Pepper or cayenne 

"l c. Thick White Sauce Few drops onion juice 

and 1 to H c. soft stale Few drops lemon juice, 

bread crumbs, if desired if desired 

Chop the meat and season to taste. Add Mashed Potato or 
Thick White Sauce and the bread crumbs, if used. When cold, 
shape into cylinders, cones, or balls. Roll them in Fat-proof Coat- 
ing, fry in deep fat, and drain the croquettes on unglazed paper. 
Instead of being fried the croquettes may be rolled in dry, sifted, 
buttered crumbs and browned in the oven. 

MEAT AND MUSH CROQUETTES 
Chopped cooked meat Onion juice, if desired 

Cornmeal mush Salt and pepper 

'Use about equal measures of mush and meat. Combine them, 
and season as desired. Drop by spoonfuls into hot fat and fry the 
croquettes, or saute them on a hot oiled pan. 

FAT-PROOF COATING 

Roll the food to be fried in fine, dry, sifted bread crumbs, and 
dip it into a mixture consisting of one egg beaten with 2 tb. water. 
Roll in crumbs. 

TO TRY OUT FAT 

To extract fat from fatty animal tissue, cut it into small pieces 
and heat in a double boiler until the tissue has shriveled. Pour 
off the fat and reserve it for use in cooking. The remaining tissue 
still contains some fat and should be used. 

TO CLARIFY FAT 

Particles of food and objectionable flavors may be removed from 
fat in the following manner. Melt the fat and add several thick 
slices of raw potato. Heat gradually and cook until the bubbling 
ceases and the potatoes are brown. Cool, strain through a cloth, 
and allow the fat to harden. 



MEAT 
VEAL CHART 



45 




OF VEAL 



1. Neck 

2. Chuck 

3. Shoulder 

4. Fore shank 

5. Breast 



6. Ribs 

7. Loin 

8. Flank 

9. Leg 

10. Hind shank 



VEAL 



Veal is the meat of calves killed when six to eight weeks old. 
It "is on the market throughout the year but is best in the spring. 
The flesh of good veal is pinkish in color and the fat is white. 
Veal requires thorough cooking. 

VEAL LOAF 

Make according to the directions for Beef Loaf, substituting 
veal for beef. If desired, season with nutmeg instead of onion. 



VEAL CROQUETTES 

Follow the directions for Beef Croquettes, 
is generally used in veal croquettes. 



Thick White Sauce 



VEAL CUTLETS 

Wipe the meat and cut it into pieces suitable for serving. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cover with Fat-Proof Coating, 
and saute until well browned on each side. Drain off most of the 
fat, add a few spoonfuls of hot water, cover closely and continue 
cooking over a low fire until thoroughly cooked and tender. Veal 
chops may be cooked in the same way. 



46 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

MUTTON 

Mutton is the flesh of sheep killed when three years old. It 
should hang some time to ripen before being used. The flesh 
should be firm, fine-grained and pink, and the fat hard and flaky. 
Lamb is used from six weeks to a year old and may be eaten soon 
after being killed. The flesh is lighter red than that of mutton 
and the end of the leg bone is rough at the joint. 

MUTTON CHART 




CUTS OF MUTTON 

1. Neck 4. Flank 

2. Chuck 5. Loin 

3. Shoulder 6. Leg 

ROAST LAMB OR MUTTON 

The leg of lamb or mutton is the best part for roasting. Wipe 
the surface with a cloth wrung out of cold water. Dredge the meat 
with flour, salt, and pepper, place it in a roasting pan and cook until 
browned in a very hot oven. Turn the meat over and cook in a 
slow oven, allowing 25 minutes to the pound. Baste occasionally 
if the pan is uncovered. Gravy may be made in the pan after the 
roast is taken out. Remove the fat and pour 1 or 2 cups of hot 
water into the pan. Thicken with 2 to 4 tb. flour blended with a 
little cold water. Add salt and pepper if needed. Serve the roast 
with or without Mint Sauce. 

MINT SAUCE 

4 c. mint leaves c. sugar 

| c. vinegar Few grains salt 

Wash the mint and chop it very fine or pound it in a mortar. 
Heat the vinegar, but do not boil it. Dissolve the sugar and salt 
in the hot vinegar and add the mint. 



MEAT 47 

STEWED LAMB OR MUTTON WITH RICE 
The neck or shoulder may be used. Wipe the meat with a 
cloth wrung out of cold water. Place it in a kettle, cover with 
boiling water and boil 10 minutes. If desired, the meat may be 
rubbed with flour and browned on all sides in a little hot fat before 
adding the water. Reduce the heat and cook below the boiling 
point until tender. This will take from H to 3 hours. When nearly 
tender, add the seasonings and, if desired, rice which has been 
boiled until partly done. When tender, remove the meat to a 
platter. Strain out the rice and serve with the meat or in a 
separate dish. Gravy may be made from the broth. 



PORK 

Pork is the meat of the hog. The flesh is light red and the fat 
white. Pork is more liable to disease than any other kind of meat 
and should be thoroughly cooked on this account. It should be 
used sparingly. 

PORK CHART 




CUTS OF PORK 

1. Head 5. Belly 

2. Shoulder 6. Ham 

3. Back 7. Ribs 

4. Middle cut 8. Loin 

ROAST PORK 

The loin and ham are suitable for roasting. Wipe and trim 
the meat, dredge with flour, salt and pepper and place it on a rack 
in a roasting pan. Cook until well seared in a very hot oven. Re- 
duce the temperature and cook until the meat is thoroughly tender. 
This usually requires several hours. A little water may be kept in 
the bottom of the pan during roasting. Unless a covered pan is 
used, the meat should be basted occasionally. 



48 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

BACON 

Have the bacon sliced very thin. Remove the rind from the 
slices and place them in a fine wire broiler. Lay the broiler over 
a dripping pan and place in a hot oven ; or cook until dry and crisp 
in a hot frying pan, draining off the fat as it cooks out. Drain on 
unglazed paper. Use the fat from the bacon for sauteing liver, 
eggs, or potatoes. 

LIVER AND BACON 

Pour boiling water over the liver and let it stand 5 minutes. 
Drain it and remove the thin outer membrane and the tough veins. 
Cut it into pieces suitable for serving. Sprinkle it with salt and 
pepper and roll it in flour. Cook in hot bacon fat in a frying pan. 
Serve with bacon. 

SCRAPPLE 

lb., or less, pork with bone 1 c. cornmeal 

Water Salt and pepper 

Cover the meat with water and cook it until tender. Remove the 
bone and cut the meat into small pieces. Measure the stock and 
add water or boil down to make about 4 cups. Pour the meal 
slowly into the boiling stock, stirring constantly to prevent lump- 
ing. Cook directly over the fire until thick and then place over a 
low flame or boiling water. Continue cooking 2 or 3 hours. Add 
the meat and seasoning. Pack in a mold. When cold cut into 
slices and brown in hot fat. 



Chicken 



TO DRESS AND CLEAN A CHICKEN 

Immediately after the chicken is killed the feathers should be 
removed. Take out the pin-feathers and singe off the hairs. If 
desirable to remove the tendons from the legs, it should be done 
before the feet are cut off. To do this, bend back the joint at the 
lower end of the drumstick, make an incision in the skin below the 
joint and insert a skewer under the tendons, one at a time, drawing 
them out. Cut off the head and feet. Scrub with warm water in 
which a little borax has been dissolved. Rinse in several waters. 
With a sharp knife or small scissors, cut the skin around the vent, 
and from this cut the skin to the end of the breastbone. Make 
another incision at the front of the neck. Draw away the skin in 



CHICKEN 49 

front and loosen the windpipe, gullet, and crop. Just above the 
vent, insert the hand and gradually work the entrails loose from 
the inside. Take hold of the gizzard and draw out the entrails. 
In so doing, care must be taken not to break the gall-bladder. Be 
sure that the lungs and kidneys are removed. The gizzard, liver, 
and heart constitute the giblets. These should be cleaned and used. 
Cut the gizzard through the thick part just to the inner lining, and 
peel back from the small sack inside. Remove the gall-bladder and 
a little surrounding tissue from the liver. Press the blood from 
the heart. Wash the giblets and stew them. They may be served 
whole, or chopped and used in Gravy or Dressing. 

ROAST CHICKEN 

Select a plump young fowl. Dress and clean it as directed. 
Stuff with Dressing seasoned with sage if desired. Sew the skin 
where it has been cut, with white cord, and tie the wings and legs 
close to the body. Rub with salt, and, if desired, spread with but- 
ter and flour creamed together. Place on the rack in a dripping 
pan and brown in a hot oven. Reduce the temperature, pour a 
little water into the pan, turn the chicken over and continue to 
cook until the breast meat is tender, basting occasionally with the 
liquor in the pan. If covered after browning, the chicken will 
require much less basting. Make Gravy, adding chopped cooked 
giblets, if desired. 

STEWED CHICKEN 

An older fowl, unsuitable for roasting or frying, may be made 
tender by stewing. Dress and clean the chicken as directed and 
cut it up as follows: Separate the legs and wings from the body 
and disjoint the legs. Separate the breast from the back by cut- 
ting through the ribs at the joint and disjointing the collar-bone, 
and cut off the neck as close to the back as possible. Cook in boil- 
ing water one minute, then simmer until tender, adding the salt 
and pepper when nearly done. The pieces may be rolled in flour 
and browned on all sides in a little hot fat before or after stewing. 
If desired, Dumplings may be cooked in the broth. After they are 
done make gravy from the broth. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Follow the directions given for Beef Croquettes. 
Sauce is generally used in chicken croquettes. 



50 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

CHICKEN OR VEAL PATTIES 

Cut cooked chicken or veal into small pieces and heat in an 
equal quantity of Medium White Sauce or gravy. Fill Patty Shells. 



FRIED CHICKEN 

Young tender chickens may be cooked in the following manner 
and are usually spoken of as being fried, although the process is 
really sauteing. Dress and clean a chicken as directed. It may be 
disjointed as for Stewed Chicken or divided into halves or quarters. 
Roll the pieces in flour or Fat-proof Coating, and brown them on 
all sides in a little fat in an iron or aluminum pan. When they are 
well browned, reduce the temperature and drain off the superfluous 
fat. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a few spoonfuls of water 
and cover the pan as closely as possible. Cook over a very low 
flame about one hour, or until tender. A spoonful of water may 
be needed from time to time to keep the chicken from getting dry. 
Gravy may be made in the pan after the chicken has been removed. 



Fish 



SELECTION OF FISH 

When fish is fresh the eyes are full and bright, the flesh is firm 
and the gills are red. 

BAKED FISH 

Remove the scales carefully. Clean, wipe, and dry the fish. Rub 
all over with salt. If desired, the bones may be removed, the fish 
stuffed with Dressing and sewed up. If a fish sheet is not at hand, 
put two strips of cotton cloth in the pan to help remove the fish 
when baked. Lay the fish on its side in the pan or skewer into the 
shape of a letter S. If the fish is very dry, cut gashes on top and 
lay strips of bacon or salt pork in them and around the pan. 
Sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper and dredge with flour. When 
the flour begins to brown, baste with the fat in the pan and boiling 
water. The fish is done when the flesh separates easily from the 
bone. Bake about one hour. Lift carefully to a hot platter, draw 
out the skewers and strings and serve with Drawn Butter or Egg 
Sauce if desired. 



FISH 5 1 

DRESSING 
1 c. stale bread crumbs Few drops onion juice 

1 tb. melted butter 1 tb. minced parsley 

or other fat Water to moisten 

| t. salt Few grains pepper 
Mix the ingredients in the order given, using enough water to 
moisten slightly. 

DRAWN BUTTER 

2 c. water or stock 4 tb. flour 
6 tb. butter t. salt 

Few grains pepper 

Make according to the directions for White Sauce, using the 
first method of combining. Reserve 2 tb. of the butter until after 
the sauce is thickened, and then stir it in. 

FRIED FISH 

Clean and dry the fish and, if desired, bone it. Rub with salt 
and pepper. Cut into pieces suitable for serving. Roll in Fat- 
proof Coating, cornmeal, or flour, and fry in deep fat or saute. 
Drain and serve. 

FISH CHOWDER 
4 to 1 Ib. salt cod or Water 

fresh fish 4 c. milk 

6 medium-sized potatoes Salt, if needed 

Ib. fat salt pork Pepper 

1 onion, minced A Ib. soda crackers 

If salt fish is to be used, cut it in pieces, removing the bones. 
Soak it in warm water until soft, and drain before using. Fresh 
fish should have the bones removed and be cut into 2-inch pieces. 
The bones and head of the fish may be boiled, and the stock used in 
the chowder. Wash the potatoes and boil them 10 minutes. Peel 
and dice them. Cut the pork into small pieces and cook with the 
onion until light brown. Cool slightly, add the potatoes and fish, 
and enough water or fish stock to cover them. Cook until the po- 
tatoes are done, add the milk, heat to the boiling point, add season- 
ing and crackers, and serve at once. 

CREAMED FISH 
2 c. cooked fish 
2 c. Medium White Sauce 

Remove the skin and bones, flake the fish with a fork and heat it 
in the sauce. 



52 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

SCALLOPED FISH 

2 c. cooked fish Paprika 

1 c. Medium White Sau c. buttered crumbs or 

1 1. chopped onion 2 c. Mashed Potato 

Remove the skin and bones and flake the fish with a fork. Add 
the fish to the sauce and seasoning, and mix lightly. Put into an 
oiled baking dish, cover with crumbs or Mashed Potato, and bake 
until brown. 

FISH HASH 

1 1 c. salt cod or other fish Salt to taste 

2 c. cooked potatoes, chop- Pepper 

ped, or 2 c. cooked rice Few drops onion juice, if 

1 c. tomatoes, if desired, desired 

with rice Water to moisten, if needed 

If salt cod is to be used, pick it into small pieces and soak until 
soft in lukewarm water, bring to the boiling point, and drain. 
Left-over cooked fish of any sort may be used. Remove the skin 
and bones and break the fish into small pieces. Mix the fish with 
the other ingredients. A few bits of cooked bacon may be added. 
Brown in an oiled pan; or put the hash into an oiled baking dish, 
cover with buttered crumbs, and bake until the crumbs are browned. 

SALMON LOAF 

1 Ib. salmon or less 2 beaten eggs or less 

1 or 2 c. soft stale bread Few drops lemon juice 

crumbs 1 tb. minced parsley 

1 c. Mashed Potato, or Salt 

cooked rice Cayenne 

Milk or water to moisten 

Remove bones and skin from the fish and mince it with a fork. 
Add crumbs, potato, eggs, seasoning, and enough milk or water to 
moisten. Place the mixture in an oiled mold and steam 1 hour; 
or shape it into a loaf and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with 
Salmon Sauce, Tomato Sauce, or White Sauce. 

SALMON SAUCE 
Add strained liquor from salmon to Medium White Sauce. 

SALMON CROQUETTES 

Follow the directions given for making Beef Croquettes, substi- 
tuting salmon for the beef. 



FISH 53 

CREAMED CODFISH 
l c. salt codfish 
2 c. Medium White Sauce 

Pick the codfish into small pieces and soak, until soft, in luke- 
warm water. Drain and add to the sauce. The beaten yolk of an 
egg may be added just before serving, if desired. Serve on or with 
hot buttered toast. 

CODFISH BALLS 

1 c. salt codfish 1 egg or none 

2 c. potatoes, mashed Salt, if needed 

Few grains pepper 

Pick the fish into small pieces and soak it in lukewarm water 
to soften it and remove some of the salt. Drain well and add the 
other ingredients. Shape into balls, fry, and drain them on un- 
glazed paper; or shape into cakes and saute them. 

TO CLEAN OYSTERS 

Drain off the liquor, straining it through a wire sieve if it is to 
be used. Examine the oysters with the fingers to see that no bits 
of shell are left clinging to them. 

OYSTER SOUP 
1 pt. oysters 
4 c. Thin White Sauce 
Other seasonings, if desired 

Clean the oysters, add to the hot White Sauce, and heat with- 
out boiling until the oysters are plump. Serve immediately. 

PANNED OYSTERS 

1 pt. oysters Salt 

2 tb. butter or more Few grains cayenne 
Clean the oysters. Melt the butter in a saucepan or chafing- 
dish, add the seasoning and the oysters. Heat the oysters until 
plump and the edges begin to curl. Serve on toast or wafers. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 pt. oysters 1 t. salt 

2 to 4 tb. melted fat Few grains pepper 

3 c. bread or cracker Oyster liquor, milk, or 
crumbs water, to moisten 

Follow the directions for cleaning oysters. Mix the crumbs with 
the salt, pepper, and fat. Spread one-third of them in an oiled 



54 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

baking dish, put in one-half of the oysters, another layer of crumbs, 
and the rest of the oysters, covering the top with the remaining 
crumbs. Add liquid to moisten. Bake until the oysters are plump 
and the edges begin to curl. 

CREAMED OYSTERS 

1 pt. oysters 1 c. milk 

3 tb. or less butter Salt 

4 tb. flour Pepper 

Make a White Sauce of the butter, flour and milk, and season 
with celery salt, if desired. Clean the oysters and put them into 
a saucepan with the strained liquor. Cook them until they are 
plump and the edges begin to curl. Add the oysters to the hot 
sauce, but do not boil them. Season to taste with pepper and salt. 
Serve on toast or in Patty Shells. 

OYSTER PATTIES 
Fill Patty Shells with hot Creamed Oysters. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Large oysters are best for frying. Clean them as directed To 
Clean Oysters. Dry them between the folds of a clean cloth. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in Fat-proof Coating and fry 
or saute. 



Soups 



Soups are divided in a general way into two classes. Those hav- 
ing a foundation of meat broth are called stock soups, and those 
made with milk or cream are called cream soups. Some, how- 
ever, are a combination of the two, while other very acceptable 
soups contain neither stock nor milk. Soups can be made in an 
unlimited number of combinations and they make it possible to 
utilize some materials which would otherwise be wasted. The 
coarse, tough parts of vegetables, the water in which vegetables, 
cereals, or meat have been cooked, as well as left-over materials 
may be used to advantage. 



SOUPS 55 

SOUP STOCK 

2 Ib. or less bone and meat 1 onion, minced 

2 qt. cold water or liquor ^ bay leaf 

from cooked vegetables 3 cloves, if desired 

^ c. diced carrots 1 sprig parsley 

c. diced turnips 2 t. salt 

^ c. diced celery Few grains pepper 

Vegetable stock can be made without the meat and bone. If 
fresh meat and bone are to be used, have the bone split. Wipe 
the meat, cut into small pieces and brown it slightly with the 
onion in a little fat. If left-over bones and bits of meat from 
stews, roasts, or steaks are to be used, the flavor may be improved 
by browning them in the oven. Add the water, heat slowly, and 
cook just below the boiling point 3 or 4 hours in a covered kettle. 
One hour before removing the stock from the fire add the season- 
ings, and if the vegetables are to be strained out, add them also. 
Strain the stock and cool it, allowing the fat to solidify. Remove 
the fat. Use the stock for making different kinds of soups. If the 
Vegetables have not been added they may be cooked in the stock 
when the soup is made. Meat from which stock has been made 
should be saved and may be used in various ways, if well seasoned. 



VEGETABLE SOUP 

Make Soup Stock, removing the bone and fat before adding the 
vegetables. Additional vegetables, such as tomatoes, peas, green 
beans, asparagus, cabbage and corn ; also rice, barley, tapioca, maca- 
roni, or noodles may be used in the soup. Add more water and 
seasoning, if needed. 

NOODLES 
1 egg- 
Flour 

Beat the egg slightly and add enough flour to make a very stiff 
dough. Knead on a slightly floured board and roll the dough out 
into a sheet about as thin as paper. Cover with a clean cloth and 
allow it to stand for 20 minutes. Roll it and cut in very thin slices. 
Unroll these small pieces and spread them to dry. When thor- 
oughly dry, they may be packed in glass jars. When ready for 
use, cook 20 minutes in boiling salted water, or stock. Serve in 
soup or with meat. 



56 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

TOMATO SOUP 

2 c. stewed and strained 1 qt. Soup Stock 

tomatoes Salt 

1 t. sugar Pepper 

Add the tomatoes to the boiling stock. Add more water if 
needed, and season. 

BOUILLON 
1 qt. Soup Stock 
White of 1 egg 

Stock made from fresh meat and bone should be used. Beat the 
white of egg slightly and add it to the stock from which the fat has 
been removed. Heat to the boiling point, stirring constantly. Boil 
2 minutes without stirring, then simmer for 10 minutes. Strain 
through a sieve, then through a cheese cloth. Reheat and serve. 

CREAM OF TOMATO SOUP 

2 c. tomatoes 2 c. milk 
1 t. sugar 2 tb. flour 

t. soda 2 tb. butter or less 

1 t. salt Few grains pepper 

t. minced onion 

Cook the tomato with the onion, sugar, and salt, 5 minutes. Add 
soda and when the bubbling ceases, strain into a White Sauce made 
from the other ingredients. Serve immediately. 

CROUTONS 

Cut stale bread into slices and remove the crusts. Cut the slices 
into cubes, put into a pan and bake until delicately brown, lifting 
and turning them occasionally. Serve with soups. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

2 c. cooked corn 2 tb. butter, or less 
2 c. water 2 tb. flour 

2 c. milk 1 t. salt 

1 slice onion, if desired Few grains pepper 

Add the water and the onion to the corn, and simmer 10 min- 
utes. Rub through a sieve if a smooth soup is desired. Make a 
White Sauce of the other ingredients and add the corn. Reheat and 
serve. This soup may be flavored with bay leaf, if desired. 



SOUPS 57 

CREAM OF BEAN SOUP 

Follow the directions for Cream of Corn Soup, substituting 
beans for corn. 

CREAM OF PEA SOUP 

Make as directed for Cream of Corn Soup, substituting peas 
for corn and using less water and more milk if desired. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

Make as directed for Cream of Corn Soup, substituting 2 c. of 
chopped celery for the corn. Cook the celery until tender before 
adding it to the White Sauce. 

CREAM OF POTATO SOUP 
3 medium potatoes 2 tb. flour 

2 slices onion 1 * sa ^ 

3 c. milk i t. celery salt 

3 tb. butter or less Few grains pepper 

Wash the potatoes and pare them. Cook with the onion in 
boiling salted water until soft and allow the liquor to cook down. 
Rub through a sieve and add to a White Sauce made from the 
remaining ingredients. Serve garnished with finely chopped pars- 
ley if desired. 

DRIED BEAN SOUP 

1 c. dried beans Small piece salt pork or 

Water ham bone, if desired 

1/16 t. soda 2 tb. flour 

1 small onion Salt, if needed 

Few celery leaves Pepper 

Pick over and wash the beans, and soak them several hours in 
cold water. Drain, add 2 quarts of water, the soda, onion, celery, 
and pork. Simmer until the beans are soft. Strain the soup 
and bind it with the flour blended with a little cold water or with 
fat. Add water or milk to make the soup of the desired consis- 
tency. Season and serve. 

DRIED PEA SOUP 

Follow the directions for Dried Bean Soup, substituting peas 
for beans. 



58 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 



Salads 



Select fresh crisp vegetables and fruits for salads. They 
should be thoroughly washed before using. Lettuce may be dried 
between the folds of a clean cloth. To keep salad plants, sprinkle 
with water, cover closely and keep in a cold place. To freshen 
them, let them stand an hour in a bowl of cold water. 

Salads should be combined just before serving and all the in- 
gredients should be cold. Meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, and fruits 
are used in many combinations to make salads. 

To marinate a salad, cut the materials into cubes and mix 
lightly with French Dressing or Cooked Salad Dressing thinned 
with cream. Chill for one hour, drain, and arrange in a salad. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING No. I 

3 tb. butter or less 1 t. mustard 

4 tb. flour 3 tb. sugar 

1 c. milk Few grains cayenne 
H t. salt About J c. vinegar 

Yolks of 2 eggs, or 1 whole egg 

Make a White Sauce of the butter, flour, and milk. Mix the 
remaining dry ingredients. When smooth, rub into the slightly 
beaten egg and add half of the vinegar. Have the first mixture 
over water just below the boiling point and add the second mix- 
ture to it gradually, stirring all the time and adding as much more 
vinegar as needed. Use cold. If too thick, thin with cr^am or 
the stiffly beaten white of an egg just before using. 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING No. II 

2 egg yolks J- t. salt 

4 tb. sugar Few grains pepper 

1 t. mustard 1 c. mild vinegar 

1 t. cornstarch 2 egg whites 

Mix the dry ingredients with the yolks. Add the vinegar and 
cook until thick, stirring constantly. Beat the egg whites and fold 
into the mixture. Cook 2 minutes over a low flame, stirring all the 
time. 



SALADS 59 

WHIPPED CREAM SALAD DRESSING 
1 c. whipped cream 
i c. sugar 

1 tb. vinegar or lemon juice 

Add the sugar and vinegar or lemon juice to the stiffly beaten 
cream and serve with Fruit Salad. 

MAYONNAISE 

\ t. mustard Yolk of 1 egg 

\ t. salt 2 tb. lemon juice or vinegar 

Few grains cayenne \ to f c. olive oil 

This may be made in a soup plate and beaten with a silver fork. 
A larger amount may be made in a bowl and beaten with a Dover 
egg beater. Keep the ingredients cold during the process. Mix 
the mustard, salt, and cayenne. Beat the yolk and add a few drops 
of oil at a time. Beat steadily until thick, then alternate oil with a 
few drops of lemon juice, until both are used, adding the seasoning 
part at a time. The amount of oil is determined by the size of the 
yolk. The dressing should be quite thick when finished and should 
be kept in a cold place and served cold. 

QUICK MAYONNAISE 

1 egg 2 tb. lemon juice or vinegar 

1 1. salt 1 c. salad oil 

1 t. sugar Few grains cayenne 

Have the materials and utensils very cold. Put the unbeaten 
egg, one-half of the lemon juice, and seasoning, into a bowl with 
one-fourth of the oil. Beat with a few turns of a Dover egg beater. 
Add the remaining oil, one-fourth at a time, beating as before. Add 
the remaining lemon juice. 

FRENCH DRESSING 
3 tb. olive oil } t. salt 

1 tb. vinegar i t. pepper 

Paprika 

Mix the salt and pepper with the oil and add enough paprika to 
color the dressing. Add the vinegar and beat until well mixed. 
Use immediately. 

DRESSED LETTUCE 

Wash and pick over the leaves of a head of lettuce. Dry them b 
placing between the folds of a clean cloth. Arrange in a salad bowl 
and pour French Dressing or any desired dressing over the lettuce. 



60 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

Very firm head lettuce may be soaked in cold water, drained, and 
cut into quarters instead of being separated. 

COLE SLAW 

Remove the outer leaves from a small firm head of cabbage. Cut 
into fine shreds with a sharp knife or vegetable shredder. Cover 
with cold water and let stand from 20 to 30 minutes. Drain and 
dry on a clean cloth. Mix with enough French or Cooked Salad 
Dressing to moisten, or season with 1 c. vinegar, 2 tb. sugar, ^ t. 
salt and a few grains of pepper. Serve cold. A few chopped 
stuffed olives or a chopped green pepper may be added if desired. 

POTATO SALAD 

2 c. cold Boiled Potatoes i c. diced cucumber if 

2 Hard Cooked Eggs in season 

if desired 1 tb. minced parsley 

-| c. diced celery if desired 

1 1. or less minced onion 

Dice the potatoes and eggs. Combine all of the ingredients, add 
Cooked Salad Dressing thinned with cream and mix lightly. Ar- 
range on lettuce and garnish with dressing. 

TOMATO SALAD 

Wash, scald, chill, and peel the tomatoes. They may be cut in 
slices or sections, or served whole. If desired whole tomatoes may 
be scooped out at the stem end and the cavity filled with cream 
cheese, nut butter, diced celery or cucumber. Serve on lettuce with 
any desired salad dressing. 

TOMATO JELLY SALAD 
2 tb. granulated gelatin 1 t. salt 

J c. cold water 1 1. sugar 

2.! c. strained tomato Few grains cayenne 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water. Heat the tomato and add the 
seasonings. If desired a small piece of bay leaf and a few cloves 
and celery leaves may be cooked with the tomato for a few minutes 
and then strained out. Dissolve the soaked gelatin in the hot liquid. 
Pour into small cups which have been dipped into cold water. Chill 
and serve on lettuce in place of fresh tomatoes. Use any desired 
dressing and garnish with celery. 



SALADS 6 I 

VEGETAELE JELLY SALAD 

2^ tb. granulated gelatin 1 c. chopped celery 

c. cold water 2 c. chopped cabbage 

2 c. hot water or whey 1 or 2 chopped pimentos 
c. vinegar or green peppers 

3 tb. sugar ^ c. chopped olives, 
1 t. salt if desired 

Few grains cayenne 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water and dissolve it in the hot 
liquid. Cool and add the remaining ingredients. Pour into molds 
that have been dipped into cold water. Chill and serve on lettuce 
with Mayonnaise or Cooked Salad Dressing. Garnish as desired 
with nuts or olives. 

BANANA SALAD 

Peel and scrape the bananas. Cut them in pieces or slice them. 
Arrange on lettuce and add Whipped Cream Salad Dressing or 
Cooked Salad Dressing. Garnish with nuts. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Fruits may be used in any desired combination to make salad. 
Pineapples, oranges, grapefruit, apples, bananas, cherries, straw- 
berries, peaches and Malaga grapes are frequently used. Cut large 
fruits in dice or small pieces and grapes in halves, removing the 
seeds. Nuts, dates and marshmallows cut in pieces may be added 
to the fruit. Serve on lettuce with any desired dressing. Garnish 
with Whipped Cream Salad Dressing, Cooked Salad Dressing and 
fruit or nuts as desired. 



SANDWICHES 

Bread for sandwiches should be of a close texture and at least 
twenty-four hours old. It should be cut in thin even slices and 
spread so that the edges match when the slices are laid together. 
If the butter is hard it should be creamed before using. For dainty 
sandwiches remove the crust and if desired cut into fancy shapes. 
Sandwiches may be kept from drying out by wrapping them in 
oiled paper or a clean cloth wrung out of cold water. All sand- 
wiches containing green vegetables should be put together just 
before serving. 



62 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

SUGGESTIONS FOR SANDWICH FILLINGS 

1. Sliced cold meat. 

2. Minced meat with salad dressing or seasoning. 

3. Bacon with lettuce and salad dressing. 

4. Lettuce with Mayonnaise. 

5. Lettuce with sliced cucumbers and salad dressing. 

6. Lettuce with Hard Cooked Eggs and salad dressing. 

7. Sliced Onions with French Dressing. 

8. Thin slices of cheese. 

9. Cream cheese with nuts. 

10. Cream cheese with pimentos or chopped olives. 

11. Chopped nuts with Cooked Salad Dressing. 

12. Peanut butter with white or brown bread. 

13. Scraped beef, seasoned. (Raw or cooked.) 

14. Sliced pineapple. 

15. Chopped prunes and figs. 



Flour Mixtures 



Flour mixtures for baking are called batters if thin enough to 
be beaten. When stiffer they are called doughs. The proportions 
are approximately as follows: 

A pour batter requires 1 to H c. flour to 1 c. liquid. 

A drop batter requires 2 c. flour to 1 c. liquid. 

A soft dough requires about 3 c. flour to 1 c. liquid. 

A stiff dough requires 3 to 4 c. flour to 1 c. liquid. 

These mixtures may contain eggs to enrich them; butter or 
other fat to make them tender; salt, sugar, spice, etc., for flavor; 
and a leavening agent. By varying the proportions of these in- 
gredients different kinds of bread, cake, and pastry are made. 

OVEN TESTS 

To test a heated oven for baking place a piece of white paper 
on the upper shelf: 

A quick oven browns paper in 2 or 3 minutes. 
A moderate oven browns paper in 5 minutes. 
A slow oven browns paper in 7 minutes. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 63 

LEAVENING AGENTS 

Flour mixtures would be hard and heavy when baked unless they 
contained some leavening agent. Air, steam, and carbon-dioxide 
are used. 

Air is in everything that is baked. There is a large quantity 
of it in the flour after sifting and more may be incorporated by 
beating and by the addition of beaten eggs. 

Steam is formed from the liquid in mixtures while baking, caus- 
ing them to puff up. Pop-overs and Cream Puffs depend almost 
entirely on steam to make them light. 

Carbon-dioxide as a leavening agent is formed by baking powder 
and its substitutes and by yeast. 

Leavening Agents 

I. Air Obtained by beating or by adding beaten eggs. 
II. Steam Obtained from liquid. 
III. Carbon-dioxide Obtained from: 

1. Yeast. 

2. Soda and acid. 

(a) Soda and sour milk. 

(b) Soda and molasses. 

(c) Soda and an acid powder. 

Baking Powder 

Baking powder is made of soda and an acid powder mixed with 
a little cornstarch to keep them dry. When sour milk or molasses 
is used in baking, the acid in it takes the place of an acid powder. 
Use one scant teaspoonful of soda to two cups of sour milk or to 
one cup of molasses. 

Yeast 

Yeast is a tiny plant, so small that it cannot be seen by the 
naked eye. Being a plant, it requires moisture, food, and a warm 
temperature for its growth. When it is planted in bread dough it 
grows and multiplies very fast, giving off the gas, carbon-dioxide, 
which makes the bread light. Yeast grows best at a lukewarm 
temperature ; it is killed by the heat of baking or boiling, and cold 
retards its growth. Cakes of dry yeast may be kept for some time 
in a dry cool place. Compressed yeast must be kept with ice as 
it spoils quickly. When fresh it is an even light color and does 
not crumble when broken. 



64 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

BAKING POWDER 
1 Ib. cream of tartar 
i Ib. comstarch 
^ Ib. baking soda 

Dry the ingredients separately in a slow oven. Mix and sift 
six times. Place in air-tight cans and keep in a dry place. If 
baking powder is to be made at home great care should be taken 
to have the proportions correct. 

GRIDDLE CAKES 
2 c. white or graham flour a t. salt 

1 t. soda 2 c. sour milk 

or 4 t. baking powder or 2 c. milk or water 

1 egg or none 

If sour milk is to be used soda will be needed. If sweet milk 
or water is used, substitute baking powder for soda and add 1 tb. 
melted fat to the batter. Mix and. sift the dry ingredients. Place 
the griddle where it will heat. Add half the milk to the dry in- 
gredients and beat until smooth. Add the rest of the milk, the 
beaten egg and the fat if used. Oil the griddle and drop the batter 
by spoonfuls on it. When the cakes are browned on one side and 
well puffed turn them to brown the other side. Serve immediately 
with butter and syrup or as desired. 

BREAD GRIDDLE CAKES 
2^ c. stale bread 1 c. white or graham flour 

2 c. hot milk or water 2 t. baking powder 
f t. salt 1 egg or none 

Left-oven muffins, corn bread, or stale bread of any sort may be 
used. Break the bread into pieces for convenience in measuring. 
It need not be made into crumbs. Soak the bread 20 minutes in 
the hot liquid. Mix the dry ingredients. Place the griddle where 
it will heat. Add the dry mixture to the soaked bread and add the 
beaten egg if used. It may be necessary to add a little more liquid. 
Oil the griddle and drop the batter on it by spoonfuls. When the 
cakes are brown on one side, turn them to brown the other side. 
Serve immediately with butter and syrup or as desired. 

QUICK BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

2 c. buckwheat flour 1 tb. molasses or sugar 

1 1. soda 2 c. sour milk 

or 4 t. baking powder or 2 c. water or milk 

f t. salt 

When sour milk is used soda is required. If no sour milk is at 
hand, sweet milk or water may be substituted, baking powder 



FLOUR MIXTURES 65 

used in place of soda and 1 tb. melted fat added. Cornmeal or 
other flour may be substituted for one-fourth of the buckwheat. 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Place the griddle where it will 
heat. Add the liquid, part at a time, to the dry mixture and beat 
until smooth. Oil the griddle and drop the batter by spoonfuls on 
it. When 'the cakes are brown on one side turn them to brown the 
other side. Serve immediately with butter and syrup, or as de- 
sired. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

2 c. buckwheat flour cake yeast dissolved in 

| t. salt $ c. lukewarm water 

1| c. lukewarm water 1 tb. molasses 

i t. soda 

Buckwheat cake batter made with yeast is usually mixed the 
evening before if the cakes are to be served for breakfast. Cornmeal 
or other flour may be substituted for one-fourth of the buckwheat 
flour. Mix all of the dry ingredients except the soda, add the water, 
molasses, and dissolved yeast. Beat well, cover and let the batter 
stand in a warm place to rise until light. Dissolve the soda 
in 1 tb. water, and add it to the batter. Bake on a hot oiled griddle 
and serve immediately with butter and syrup, or as desired. If any 
of the batter is left, keep it in a cold place. It may be added to a 
batter to be used the next day, and if there is at least \ c. it will 
not be necessary to add more yeast. 

WAFFLES 

la c. flour 1 c. milk or water 

sV 1 t. baking powder or sour milk 

4 t. soda if sour 1 tb. melted fat 

milk is used if desired 

4 t. salt 1 beaten egg 

When sour milk is to be used the soda and the smaller amount of 
baking powder will be needed. Mix the dry ingredients, add the 
milk, fat, and egg. Bake in an oiled waffle iron until crisp and 
brown. Serve immediately. 

CORNMEAL WAFFLES OR GRIDDLE CAKES 
Follow the directions given for making waffles, using 1 c. corn- 
meal and only 1 c . flour. Add a little more liquid if needed. 

RICE WAFFLES 

Follow either recipe for Waffles, adding 1 c. or less cooked rice 
and 1 t. baking powder to the dry ingredients. 



66 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

FRITTER BATTER 

H c. flour | c. milk 

2 t. baking powder 1 egg 

i t. salt 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Add the well beaten egg to the 
milk and stir this mixture into the dry ingredients, adding part at a 
time. For fruit fritters add 3 tb. sugar to the dry ingredients. 

APPLE FRITTERS 

Core and pare 2 apples of medium size and cut them into dice, 
rings, or slices. Sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice and let them 
stand a few minutes. Drain and mix with Fritter Batter. Drop 
by spoonfuls into deep fat and fry a few at a time until a delicate 
brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. 
Serve immediately. 

BANANA FRITTERS 

Cut bananas in halves lengthwise and in thirds crosswise and 
proceed as for Apple Fritters. 

TIMBALE CASES 

a c. flour ^ c. milk 

j t. salt I egg 

1 t. sugar 1 tb. olive or other oil 

Mix the dry ingredients, add half the milk, and beat until the 
mixture is smooth, then add the rest of the milk, the egg, and the 
oil. Heat the timbale iron in hot fat deep enough to cover it. Have 
a cup two-thirds full of the batter. Wipe the superfluous fat from 
the bottom of the iron, dip it into the batter and quickly place it in 
the hot fat. Fry the case until a delicate brown and slip it off on 
unglazed paper. If the fat is too hot or not hot enough, the batter 
will not adhere to the iron. Timbale cases may be filled with 
creamed chicken, sweetbreads, oysters, mushrooms or peas. 

POP-OVERS 

1 c. flour 1 scant c. milk 

I t. salt 2 eggs or 1 

Put the flour and salt into a bowl, stir in the milk gradually, so as 
to make a smooth mixture, add the well-beaten eggs, and beat with 
a Dover egg-beater two minutes. Pour into hot oiled pop-over cups 
or small round iron gem pans. Bake in a hot oven 30 or 35 minutes. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 67 

MUFFINS 

2 c. flour 2 tb. sugar if desired 

a t. salt 1 scant c. milk or water 

4 or 2 t. baking powder or 1 c. sour milk 

i t. soda if sour milk 1 egg or none 

is used 2 tb. or less melted fat 

When sour milk is to be used, the soda and the smaller amount 
of baking powder will be needed. Mix the dry ingredients, add the 
milk, beaten egg, and fat. Bake about 20 minutes in oiled muffin 
pans. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS 

Follow the directions for Muffins, substituting graham flour for 
part or all of the white flour. 

RICE MUFFINS 

Follow any of the recipes for making muffins, mixing 1 c. or less 
cooked rice with the dry ingredients. An additional teaspoonful of 
baking powder should be used. 

RYE MUFFINS 

Follow the directions for Muffins, substituting rye flour for part 
or all of the wheat flour. Add more flour, if needed, to make a drop 
batter. 

ROLLED OATS MUFFINS 
H c. hot milk or water 1 t. salt 

2 c. rolled oats 2 tb. sugar or 

1 c. flour molasses if desired 

4 t. baking powder 2 tb. melted fat 

1 beaten egg or none 

Add the rolled oats to the hot liquid and let the mixture stand 
about half an hour. Mix the dry ingredients. When the rolled 
oats mixture is cool add all the other ingredients. Bake in oiled 
muffin pans about 20 minutes. 

CORN BREAD OR MUFFINS 

li c. cornmeal 2 tb. sugar if desired 

f c. flour V t. salt 

4 or 2 t. baking powder 1 c. milk or water, 

1 t. soda if sour milk or sour milk 

is used 1 egg or none 

1 tb. melted fat 

Follow the directions for mixing Muffins. Bake in a shallow pan 
jr in muffin pans. 



68 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

SOUTHERN CORN BREAD 
1 egg or none 2 c. cornmeal 

14 c. sour milk 1 t. salt 

or sweet milk or water a t. soda 

1 tb. fat or 4 t. baking powder 
When sour milk is used, soda is required and 1 t. baking powder 

may be added. Use baking powder with sweet milk or water. 
Beat the egg in a mixing bowl and add the milk. Melt the fat in 
the oven in the pan in which the bread is to be baked. Mix the dry 
ingredients and sift them into the liquid. Add the melted fat, beat 
quickly, and bake in the hot oiled pan. 

CORN BREAD STICKS 

Follow the directions for making Corn Bread. Bake in hot oiled 
bread stick pans. 

SPOON BREAD 

2 c. water 2 eggs, slightly beaten 
1 c. cornmeal 1 1. salt 

1 tb. fat 1 c . milk 

Mix the meal with the water and cook it 5 minutes or until thick. 
Add the fat, cool the mixture slightly, add the eggs, salt, and milk. 
Beat well and turn into an oiled baking dish. Bake 25 to 30 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Serve at once from the baking dish. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

2 c. flour 2 tb. fat 
4 t. baking powder a 1. salt 

a c. milk (or milk and water) 

Mix and sift, the dry ingredients. Work in the shortening with 
the tips of the fingers or cut it in with knives. Pour in the milk 
gradually, lifting and turning the mass with a knife or spatula so as 
to moisten it evenly. Use just enough milk to make a soft dough. 
Turn out on a floured board. Shape with the hands and pat or roll 
lightly a i nc h thick. Cut with a biscuit cutter dipped in flour. Bake 
in a hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

DROP BISCUIT 

Follow the directions for Baking Powder Biscuit, using just 
enough more milk to make a drop batter stiff enough to hold its 
shape. Drop by spoonfuls on an oiled pan. Bake in a hot oven. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 69 

GRAHAM BISCUIT 

Follow the directions for making Baking Powder Biscuit substi- 
tuting graham flour for part or all of the white flour. 



CHEESE BISCUIT 

2 c. flour ^ t. salt 

4 t. baking powder \ c. soft cheese 

About 1 c. milk or water 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Work in the cheese with the 
tips of the fingers or cut it in with knives. Pour in the milk grad- 
ually, lifting and turning the mass with a knife or spatula, so as to 
moisten it evenly. Use just enough milk to make a soft dough. 
Turn out on a floured board. Shape with the hands and pat or roll 
lightly until three-fourths inch thick. Cut with a small biscuit 
cutter dipped in flour. Bake in a hot oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

1 c. graham flour 2 t. baking powder 

1 c. cornmeal 1 c. milk or water 

| t. salt \ c. washed raisins 

\ t. soda if desired 

\ c. molasses 

Sour milk may be substituted for the sweet milk or water, omit- 
ting the baking powder and using 1 t. soda. Mix and sift the dry 
ingredients and return the bran to the mixture. Add the milk and 
stir until smooth, then add the molasses and the raisins. Put into 
oiled molds having them two-thirds full. Steam 3 hours or more. 



BAKED BROWN BREAD 

2 c. cornmeal 2 tb. brown sugar, if desired 

2 c. graham flour : j. c. molasses 

7 t. baking powder 2 c. milk or water 

^ t. soda \ to 1 c. washed raisins or 

lit. salt chopped dates if desired 

Sour milk may be substituted for the sweet milk or water, omit- 
ting half of the baking powder, and adding 1 t. more soda. Mix and 
sift the dry ingredients and return the bran to the mixture. Add 
molasses, milk, and raisins or dates. If to be served hot add 2 tb. 
melted fat. Bake about 1 hour in a loaf pan or one-half hour in 
shallow pans. 



70 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

BARLEY AND CORN BREAD 

2 c. cornmeal 2 tb. sugar or molasses 

2 c. barley flour if desired 

li t. salt 2 c. milk or water 

8 or 4 t. baking powder or sour milk 

1 1. soda if sour milk 1 c. washed raisins 

is used if desired 

If sour milk is to be used, the soda and the smaller amount of 
baking powder will be needed. Mix the dry ingredients, add the 
liquid and the raisins, if used. If to be served hot add 2 tb. melted 
fat and bake about 30 minutes in shallow oiled pans. If to be used 
cold in slices, bake about 1 hour in an oiled loaf pan. 



NUT BREAD 

4 c. flour 1| t. salt 

| c. sugar or less f c. broken nut meats 

8 or 4 t. baking powder If c. milk or water 

a t. soda if sour milk or sour milk 

is used 1 egg or none 

A mixture of graham and com flour .may be used if desired. If 
sour milk is to be used, soda and the .smaller amount of baking 
powder will be required. Mix the dry ingredients, add the nuts, 
the milk and the egg, well beaten. Bake in an oiled bread pan in a 
moderate oven. If it is to be used for sandwiches, this bread is 
better the day after it is made. 



NOTES ON MAKING YEAST BREAD 

1. During the mixing and rising of bread, the mixture should not 

be overheated nor chilled, as heat kills yeast and cold retards 
its growth. 

2. If the batter is well beaten in mixing, the dough requires less 

kneading. 

3. Reasons for kneading dough: 

(1) To mix the ingredients thoroughly. 

(2) To make it elastic. 

(3) To work in air. 

4. Have the dough covered while rising, to keep out the dust, and to 

prevent a crust from forming. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 71 

5. Dough that stands too long to rise makes sour bread. 

6. Allow one cup of liquid to a loaf of wheat bread. Larger loaves 

than this quantity makes, are not likely to be thoroughly 
baked. 

7. Reasons for baking bread : 

(1) To kill the yeast. 

(2) To cook the starch 

(3) To drive off carbon-dioxide and alcohol. 

(4) To make it palatable. 

8. When bread is done it should be taken out of the pan and allowed 

to cool uncovered where the air can reach it on all sides. Then 
it should be placed in a clean dry bread box. 

WHEAT BREAD 

1 c. hot milk or water j to | cake compressed 
1 tb. fat if desired or dry yeast 

1 tb. sugar if desired } c. lukewarm water 

H t. salt 3 to 4 c. flour 

The amounts given above make one loaf of bread. Mix the yeast 
with lukewarm water until smooth. Put the salt, sugar, and fat in 
the mixing bowl, and add the hot liquid. Allow this mixture to cool 
until lukewarm, add the yeast and enough flour to make a drop 
batter. Beat thoroughly. Add enough flour to make a soft dough, 
and knead it on a floured board until no longer sticky. Return to 
the mixing bowl, cover, and keep it in a warm place until double in 
bulk. Shape into a loaf using little or no flour, and place in an oiled 
bread pan. Cover and let it rise until double in bulk. Bake from 
45 to 60 minutes. If it is necessary to use dry yeast, start the 
bread in the evening, soak the yeast well, and allow the drop bat- 
ter to stand in a warm place over night. In the morning add the 
remaining flour and proceed as with compressed yeast. 

GRAHAM BREAD 

Follow the directions for making Wheat Bread, substituting 
graham flour for part or all of the white flour. 

BARLEY BREAD 

Follow the directions for making Wheat Bread, substituting bar- 
ley flour for one-third to one-half of the wheat flour. 



72 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

POTATO BREAD 

1 c. Mashed Potato c. hot liquid (milk, 

2i c. flour water, or potato water) 

to | cake compressed yeast 1 tb. fat if desired 

2 tb. lukewarm water 1 t. sugar if desired 

1 t. salt 

Add the potato to the flour and rub it in with the tips of the 
fingers until well blended. Mix the yeast with the lukewarm water 
until smooth. Add the fat, sugar, and the salt to the hot liquid. 
When lukewarm add the yeast and the potato and flour mixture, 
part at a time. This will make a very stiff dough. Knead it well 
and let it rise until double in bulk. Work it down and place it in an 
oiled bread pan. Let the dough rise again until double in bulk and 
bake it from 45 to 60 minutes. 

RICE BREAD 

1 c. cooked rice \ to \ cake compressed yeast 

1 t. sugar, if desired % c. lukewarm water 

1 t. salt About 2 c. flour 

1 tb. melted fat, if desired 

Mix the yeast with the lukewarm water. When smooth add it to 
the rice with the sugar and salt and the fat, if used. Add the flour 
gradually, using enough to make a very stiff dough. Knead well 
and let the dough rise until double in bulk. Work it down and place 
it in an oiled bread pan. Let the dough rise again until double in 
bulk and then bake it from 45 to 60 minutes. 

RAISED CORN BREAD 

1} c. hot milk or water f c. cornmeal 

1 tb. sugar or molasses \ to \ cake compressed yeast 

1 tb. fat if desired \ c. lukewarm water 

H t. salt About 2 c. flour 

Add the sugar, fat, and salt to the hot liquid, and heat to the 
boiling point. Add the cornmeal gradually, stirring to prevent 
lumps from forming. Cool the mixture. Mix the yeast with the 
lukewarm water, and when smooth add it to the first mixture. Add 
flour enough to make a stiff dough, knead it well, and let it rise 
until double in bulk. Knead it again and place it in an oiled bread 
pan. Let the dough rise until double in bulk, and bake it in a 
moderate oven 45 to 60 minutes. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 73 

ROLLED OATS BREAD 

1 c. hot milk or water 1 t. sugar if desired 

1 c. rolled oats 1 to cake compressed 

1 tb. fat if desired yeast 

H t. salt ^ c. lukewarm water 

About 2-| c. flour 

Add the rolled oats, fat, salt, and sugar to the hot liquid and let 
the mixture stand about half an hour. Mix the yeast with the 
lukewarm water until smooth. When the rolled oats mixture is 
just lukewarm, add the yeast and enough flour to make a dough. 
Knead it well and let it rise until double in bulk. Work it down and 
place it in an oiled bread pan. Let the dough rise again until double 
in bulk and bake it from 45 to 60 minutes. 

ROLLS 

Use any one of the recipes given for making bread with yeast, 
using 2 tb. fat if desired. When the dough has risen until double 
in bulk, divide it into small pieces of equal size, shape them into 
rolls and place them on oiled baking sheets or individual pans. As 
dough made with some of the substitutes for wheat tends to be- 
come soft and sticky while rising, it is often desirable to shape the 
rolls without letting the dough rise first. Let them rise until double 
in bulk and bake in a hot oven. 

BREAD STICKS 

Follow the directions for making Rolls, using from 1 to 4 tb. fat 
as desired. After shaping the sticks, place them on oiled baking 
sheets or in bread stick pans. Bread sticks may be served with 
soup or salad. 

CORNMEAL WAFERS 

^ c. cornmeal | t. salt 

I c. wheat I tb. fat 

or barley flour About 3 tb. milk 

Mix the dry ingredients, cut in the fat and add just enough milk 
to moisten. Roll the dough into a thin sheet. If desired, sprinkle 
with a thin layer of grated cheese and paprika. Cut in any desired 
shape and bake in a quick oven. 

FRESHENED BREAD 

Place stale bread or rolls in a steamer and steam until heated 
through and then dry them in a hot oven; or moisten the surface 
with a little water and heat them in the oven. 



74 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

TO PREPARE CRUMBS 

Soft bread crumbs may be prepared by picking soft stale bread 
in pieces. Dry crumbs are made by grinding pieces of bread which 
have been thoroughly dried in the oven. They may be kept for 
some time in covered glass jars. 

TOAST 

Cut stale bread in slices. Place them on the rack in the broil- 
ing oven or over a flame and toast until brown on one side, then 
turn and brown the other side. If very dry toast is desired, it may 
be made in the oven. Serve hot with butter. 

MLLK TOAST 

2 c. hot milk Butter 

1 t. salt 6 to 8 slices of hot toast 
Butter the toast and place in a dish. Salt the milk and pour it 

over the toast. It may be necessary to use a little more hot milk 
than the recipe calls for. 

CREAM TOAST 

2 c. mil": 1 tb. butter or less 
2 tb. flour !, t. salt 

6 to 8 slices of hot toast 

Make a white sauce from the first four ingredients. Place the 
toast in a dish and pour the sauce between and over the slices. If 
desired, the toast may be dipped in hot salted water before adding 
the sauce. 

FRENCH TOAST 

2 c. milk \ t. salt 

6 to 8 slices of stale bread 3 eggs or 2 

Beat the eggs slightly and add the salt and the milk. Cut the 
slices of bread in halves. Dip the pieces, one at a time, in the mix- 
ture and saute. Serve hot, with syrup, if desired. 

SPANISH TOAST 
6 to 8 slices stale bread 1 t. sugar 

3 eggs or less .] t. salt 

2 c. cold cooked tomato Few grains pepper 

Beat the eggs slightly, add the seasoning and the tomato. Cut 
the slices of bread in halves. Dip the pieces, one at a time, in the 
mixture and saute them. Serve hot. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 75 

NOTES ON MAKING CAKE 

Cakes are divided into two classes, butter cakes, and those made 
without butter, or sponge cakes. 

Sponge cake includes angel cake, lady fingers, and the several 
kinds of sponge cakes. True sponge cake requires no baking 
powder, but depends entirely on the air held by the eggs to make it 
light. In many recipes, however, fewer eggs are called for and some 
baking powder is added. To prepare pans for sponge cake, line the 
bottom with an oiled paper and leave the sides unoiled. Sponge 
cakes require a slow oven because it takes a long time for them to 
heat through and they burn easily. Allow sponge cake to cool in 
the pan in which it was baked, inverting the pan with the ends sup- 
ported above the table. 

In making so-called butter cakes other fats of good flavor may be 
substituted. If this is done salt is needed, and more flavoring such 
as spice and molasses is often added. There are two general meth- 
ods of mixing butter cakes. The one usually followed is to cream 
the butter, add the sugar, the yolks or whole eggs and flavoring and 
then the flour and liquid alternately. If reserved, the beaten whites 
are folded in last. The other method is the one used in making 
muffins. The dry ingredients are mixed, the liquid and the melted 
fat added. Butter cake may be varied in many ways, by the ad- 
dition of chocolate or other flavoring ; by spices, fruit or nuts ; and 
by different frostings and fillings. It is safer to line the bottom of 
pans with paper, but the pans need not be oiled. In putting the 
mixture into the pans, if it is spread higher on the sides than in the 
center, the cake will be level when baked. A slightly hotter oven 
is required for small and layer cakes than for loaf cakes. 

WHEAT SUBSTITUTES IN CAKE 

Barley or corn flour may be substituted for one-third to one-half 
of the wheat flour in a cake recipe. Potato and rice flour may be 
used in place of one-fourth of the wheat flour. In so-called butter 
cakes, Mashed Potato may be used in place of one-fourth of the 
wheat flour. The potato should be well-mashed and cool. It may 
be creamed with the fat. Use 1 c. Mashed Potato in place of I c. 
flour and -1 c. liquid. 

USES FOR STALE CAKE 

Stale cake may be used as pudding. Remove the icing, cut the 
cake into pieces suitable for serving and steam until heated 



76 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

through. Serve with a hot sauce. The icing may be used in the 
sauce. Stale cake may be crumbled and added to Soft Custard, or 
baked in Baked Custard. Stale Sponge Cake may be cut in bars and 
used in Charlotte Russe. 

SPONGE CAKE No. I 
6 egg yolks Grated rind of \ lemon 

1 c. sugar 1 c. flour 

2 tb. lemon juice ^ t. salt 

6 egg whites 

Beat the yolks with a Dover beater, add the sugar gradually and 
continue beating. Add the lemon juice and rind, then add the flour, 
stirring just enough to mix. Add salt to the egg whites, beat until 
stiff and fold them into the mixture. Bake in a slow oven in an un- 
oiled pan, having the bottom lined with paper. 

SPONGE CAKE No. II 

1 c. sugar 7 egg whites 

1 c. flour ^ t. cream of tartar 

5 egg yolks \ t. salt 

1 t. vanilla 

Measure the flour after sifting as usual. Mix it with the sugar 
and sift 4 times. Beat the yolks until thick. Add salt to the whites, 
beat until foamy, add sifted cream of tartar and beat until stiff. 
Beat in the yolks and vanilla and fold in the flour and sugar mix- 
ture, part at a time. Bake in a slow oven in an unoiled pan, having 
the bottom lined with paper. 



HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE 
Yolks of 4 eggs 5 c. hot water 

1| c. sugar 2 c. flour 

2 tb. lemon juice \ t. salt 

Grated rind of \ lemon 24 t. baking powder 

Whites of 4 eggs 

Beat the yolks until thick, add half the sugar gradually and con- 
tinue beating. Add the lemon juice and rind and beat in the re- 
maining sugar, then stir in the hot water. Add this mixture part 
at a time to the flour, baking powder, and salt sifted together, stir- 
ring only enough to mix the ingredients. Beat the whites of the 
eggs until stiff and fold them into the mixture. Pour into an 



FLOUR MIXTURES 77 

unoiled pan having the bottom lined with paper. Bake one hour in 
a slow ovn. The cake is done if it springs back when pressed 
lightly with the finger tips. 

JELLY ROLL 

3 eggs 1 t. baking powder 

c. sugar A t. salt 

| tb. milk 1 c. flour 

t. vanilla 1 tb. melted fat 

Beat the eggs until light in the bowl in which the cake is to be 
mixed. Add the sugar gradually and continue beating. Add the 
milk and flavoring, then the flour, baking powder, and salt, sifted 
together, and lastly the melted fat. Pour into a large shallow 
pan having the sides oiled and the bottom lined with oiled paper. 
Spread the mixture evenly, having it only one-third inch thick. 
Bake in a moderate oven 12 minutes. Turn out on a clean cloth 
freshly wrung out of hot water. Quickly remove the paper and 
with a sharp knife trim off the edges of the cake. Spread it with 
jelly. Roll it up and wrap it with paper to hold the shape. 

ANGEL CAKE 

1 c. egg whites (about ; i ', t. salt 

1 c. granulated sugar 1 t. cream of tartar 

1 c. flour 1 1. vanilla or almond flavoring 

Sift the flour before measuring, as usual, and sift again 4 times 
with the sugar. Add salt to the whites, beat until foamy, add sifted 
cream of tartar, and beat until stiff and dry. Add the flavoring, 
fold in the flour and sugar and turn into an unoiled angel cake pan, 
having the bottom lined with paper. Bake in a slow oven until the 
surface springs back when pressed lightly with the finger tips. 
When the cake is done, place the pan bottom up on a wire rest to 
cool. 

PLAIN CAKE 

4 c. butter or 6 tb. other fat 2 c. flour 
a c. sugar f c - milk or water 

2 eggs or 1 3 t. baking powder 

| t. flavoring 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually, 
substituted for the butter add i t. salt, 
beaten, then the flavoring, and mix thoroughly 
and liquid alternately, having the baking powder sifted 



78 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

flour. Do not beat the mixture after the flour is added, but stir 
just enough to mix the ingredients. Put into a loaf or shallow pan 
and bake in a moderate oven until it shrinks from the sides of the 
pan and springs back when pressed lightly with the finger tips. Use 
any desired filling or frosting from which the cake then takes its 
name. 

WHITE CAKE 

^ c. butter or 6 tb. other fat 2 c. flour 
| c. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

I c. milk or water Whites of 2 eggs or 1 

i t. flavoring 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually, then the flavor- 
ing. Add the flour and liquid alternately, having the baking pow- 
der sifted with the flour. If other fat is substituted for butter, add 
i t. salt. Fold in the stiffly-beaten whites. Bake in layer or loaf 
pans and combine with any desired filling and frosting. 

GOLD CAKE 

Follow the directions for Plain Cake, using from 2 to 6 yolks in 
place of whole eggs. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE 

2 egg.; or 1 it. vanilla, or 

a c. sugar 1 1. cinnamon and J t. cloves 

1 c. thick sour cream 2 c. flour 

i t. salt 2 t. baking powder 

A t. soda 

Beat the eggs in the bowl in which the cake is to be mixed. Add 
the sugar, cream, and flavoring, and continue beating. Mix and sift 
the flour, baking powder, soda, and salt, and the spices, if used. Add 
this mixture to the one in the bowl and mix only enough to make 
the batter smooth. Bake in two layers, in a loaf, or in small pans. 

NUT CAKE 

Use the recipe given for Plain Cake. Omit 2 tb. fat and add } c. 
broken nut meats. 

SPICE CAKE 

Use the recipe given for Plain Cake or for Sour Cream Cake, 
using 14 t. cinnamon, ] t. nutmeg, and i t. cloves. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 79 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

Use the recipe given for Plain Cake or for Sour Cream Cake, 
adding 2 ounces of melted chocolate to the mixture ; or add i c. 
cocoa, omitting J c. flour. 

CREAM CAKE 

Bake Plain Cake mixture in shallow layer cake pans. Cool and 
spread Cream Filling between the layers and sift powdered sugar 
over the top. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 
^ c. butter or 6 tb. other fat 1 t. soda 

| c. brown or granulated sugar ] t. salt 
14 t. cinnamon 2 c. flour 

^ t. cloves 1 c. apple sauce 

A t. nutmeg -\ c. chopped raisins 

Cream the butter and add the sugar gradually. Add the apple 
sauce and raisins, and the dry ingredients which have been mixed 
and sifted. Bake in a shallow pan, or as a loaf. 

TEA BARS 
2 eggs 6 tb. butter or other fat 

1 c. sugar -i c. flour 

2 sq. chocolate 1 t. vanilla 

1 c. broken nut meats 

Beat the eggs and beat in the sugar part at a time. Melt the 
butter and chocolate together over hot water and add to the first 
mixture. If little or no butter is used add a few grains of salt. 
Add vanilla, nuts and flour. Spread one-third inch thick on an 
oiled shallow pan and bake in a moderate oven. When cool cut into 
small bars. These bars are suitable to serve at receptions or teas. 

BOILED FROSTING 

1 c. sugar 1 t. vanilla, or 

i c . water -A tb. lemon juice 

White of 1 egg or 2 

Dissolve the sugar in the water, and boil without stirring until 
the syrup threads when dropped from the tip of a spoon, 
on Making Candy. Cool slightly and pour syrup gradually on t 
stiffly-beaten white of egg, beating constantly. 
and continue beating until of the right consistency to spread, 
much beating makes the frosting rough ; if not beaten long enough 
it will run. If the whites of two eggs are used the frosting does 



80 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

not stiffen so quickly and is a little more easily made by the inexpe- 
rienced. 

FROSTING MADE WITH YOLKS 

Follow the directions for Boiled Frosting, substituting 2 well 
beaten yolks for the white of egg. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. I 

Follow the directions for Boiled Frosting or Frosting Made With 
Yolks, adding 2 oz. of melted chocolate after the egg and syrup 
have been combined. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING No. II 
1^ oz. chocolate 1 c. powdered sugar 

c. milk Yolk of 1 egg 

1 1. vanilla 

Melt the chocolate over hot water and add half of the sugar. 
When well mixed add the milk and the rest of the sugar, then the 
beaten yolk. Cook the mixture over hot water until it thickens, 
stirring constantly. Allow it to cool a little, add the vanilla and 
spread on cake. 

QUICK FROSTING 

About 1 c. confectioners sugar i t. flavoring 
2 tb. hot milk H tb. cocoa, if desired 

Sift the sugar and stir it part at a time into the hot milk and 
flavoring until the mixture is of the right consistency to spread. 
If the cocoa is used, mix it with the first half cup of sugar. 

CREAM FILLING 

| c. sugar 2 eggs 

J. c. flour 2 c. scalded milk 

\ t. salt 1 t. vanilla 

Mix the dry ingredients and add the scalded milk gradually. Cook 
over the flame until thickened, stirring constantly, and continue the 
cooking over hot water 15 minutes. Beat the eggs slightly and add 
the cooked mixture to them. Mix well and cook over hot water just 
below the boiling point for a few minutes, stirring while the eggs 
thicken. Remove from the fire and add the flavoring. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM FILLING 

Melt li ounces of chocolate and add to Cream Filling, using 1 c. 
sugar in place of a c. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 81 

CREAM PUFFS 
c. butter or 6 tb. other fat 4 eggs 

1 c. boiling water 1 c. flour 

t. salt 

Put the hot water, salt and butter in a sauce pan and bring the 
mixture to the boiling point. Add the flour all at once and stir over 
the fire until the mixture forms a ball. Cool slightly and add the 
unbeaten eggs, one at a time, beating in each until thoroughly 
mixed. Drop by spoonfuls on an oiled tin sheet, one and a half 
inches apart. If a glazed surface is desired, brush with white of 
egg before baking. Bake 30 to 35 minutes in a moderate oven. If 
not sufficiently baked they will fall. When cool, cut a slit in the top 
or side and fill the puff with sweetened whipped cream or Cream 
Filling. This recipe makes about 18 small cakes. 

ECLAIRS 

Use Cream Puff mixture, shaping it into cakes about 4 inches 
long and 1 inch wide. Bake as directed for Cream Puffs and fill 
with Cream Filling, Chocolate Cream Filling or sweetened whipped 
cream flavored with vanilla. Cover the top with frosting. 

DOUGHNUTS 

2 c. flour 1 tb. melted fat 

1 t. salt .'., c. sugar 

3 t. baking powder 1 c. milk or water 
^ t. cinnamon or nutmeg 1 egg 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients, reserving T \- c. flour. Mix 
the milk and beaten egg and add to the dry mixture. Add the 
melted fat and mix in as much of the remaining flour as is 
needed to make a soft dough. Chill the dough and roll it out, part 
at a time, on a well floured board. Cut and fry a few at a time. 
Drain on unglazed paper. Roll in powdered sugar, if desired. 

GINGERBREAD 

2 c. flour i t. nutmeg if desired 
t. salt V c. sour milk or 

14 or f t. soda sweet milk or water 

2 t. ginger or more ,' c. molasses 

14 t. cinnamon if desired 2 or 3 tb. melted fat 

1 1. cloves if desired 1 egg or none 

If this is to be made with sour milk use the larger amount of soda 
and the smaller amount of fat, but if sweet milk or water is to be 



82 HANDBOOK. OF RECIPES 

used the smaller amount of soda and the larger amount of fat are 
required. Mix and sift the -dry ingredients, add the milk, and stir 
until smooth, then add the molasses, fat, and egg if used. Bake in 
shallow oiled pans in a moderate oven. 



CORNMEAL GINGERBREAD 

1 c. flour t. cloves if desired 

I c. cornmeal | t. nutmeg if desired 

I 1 or a t. soda 1 scant c. sour milk or 

1 t. salt sweet milk or water 

2 t. ginger or more J c. molasses 

14 t. cinnamon if desired 2 or 3 tb. melted fat 

1 egg or none 

Follow the directions for mixing and making Gingerbread. 

GINGER SNAPS 

| c. molasses {> t. soda 

6 tb. fat 2 t. ginger 

2 c. flour i t. salt 

1 t. cinnamon 

Heat the molasses to the boiling point and pour it over the fat. 
Add the dry ingredients mixed and sifted. Chill thoroughly. Place 
the mixture part at a time on a slightly floured board and roll out 
one-eighth inch thick. Cut with a small round cutter first dipped in 
flour. Place on an oiled tin sheet and bake in a moderate oven. 
Keep the mixture cool until baked. 



MOLASSES COOKIES 

2 to 2^ c. flour \ t. soda 

,', t. salt 2 t. baking powder 

1 t. ginger ^ c. molasses 

1 t. cinnamon -1 c. milk or water 

4 tb. fat melted 

Mix 2 c. fbur with the other dry ingredients. Mix the molasses, 
milk and fat, and add to the dry mixture. Add enough more flour 
to make a very soft dough. Chill thoroughly. Roll out, part at a 
time, on a floured board. Bake on an oiled tin sheet in a moderate 
oven. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 83 

SUGAR COOKIES 

^ c. butter or 6 tb. other fat ] c. milk 
1 c. sugar 2 t. baking powder 

1 egg About 3 c. flour 

.', t. vanilla, if desired 

Mix as directed for Plain Cake, adding -i t. salt if other fat is used 
in place of butter. Use just enough flour to make a soft dough. 
Place it, part at a time, on a floured board and roll one-fourth 
inch thick. Keep the board and rolling pin slightly floured. Cut 
with a floured cutter. A sprinkling of nutmeg may be added after 
the cookies are cut. Bake 15 minutes on shallow pans. 

DROP CAKES 

i c. butter or 6 tb. other fat ! c. milk 
i c. sugar 2\ c. flour 

1 egg or none 3 t. baking powder 

.', t. vanilla 

Mix as directed for Plain Cake, adding J t. salt if butter is not 
used. Other flavoring, as suggested for Nut, Spice or Chocolate 
Cakes, or grated lemon rind or raisins, may be substituted for 
vanilla or used with it. Drop by spoonfuls on unoiled shallow pans 
about 2 inches apart. Bake in a hot oven about 12 minutes. Drop 
cakes make a very good substitute for cookies and are much more 
quickly made. 

CORNMEAL DROP CAKES 

2 c. cornmeal i c. molasses 

1 c. flour A c. corn syrup 

^ t. salt 4 c. sour milk 

1 1. soda 6 tb. melted fat 

Spices, if desired 1 c. washed raisins, if desired 

1 egg beaten 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients, adding H t. each of cinnamon 
and ginger, and i t. each of cloves and nutmeg, if desired. Add the 
remaining ingredients. Drop by small spoonfuls on a baking sheet. 
Garnish with nut meats if desired. Bake in a moderate oven. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS 

Use Baking Powder Biscuit dough or Pie Crust. Roll out and cut 
into 5-inch squares. In the center of each square place one small 
apple, pared and cored, or one-half apple sliced. Sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon and dot with butter. Draw up the edges of dough 



84 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

over the apples and press them together firmly. Steam for one hour 
or bake in a hot oven. Serve with Hard Sauce, or cream and 
sugar. 

PEACH DUMPLINGS 

Follow the directions for making Apple Dumplings, substituting 
peaches for the apples. 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

2 c. flour 1 egg 

t. salt 1 scant c. milk 

3 t. baking powder 2 sour apples 

4 tb. fat 2 tb. sugar 

i t. cinnamon 

Mix the dry ingredients except the sugar and cinnamon, cut or 
rub in the butter and add the milk and beaten egg. Spread \ inch 
thick on a shallow pan. Pare and cut the apples in sections length- 
wise and lay them in rows on the dough with the sharp edges 
pressed lightly into the dough. Sprinkle the top with the sugar and 
cinnamon. Bake in a hot oven 25 to 30 minutes. Serve hot with 
Lemon Sauce or Hard Sauce. 

HARD SAUCE 

1 c butter 1 to 2 tb. water or milk 
About 2 c. powdered sugar 1 t. flavoring 

Cream the butter. Add 1 c. sugar gradually and then the liquid, 
a few drops at a time. Add the flavoring and enough more sugar 
to give the desired consistency. The beaten white of an egg may 
be used in the sauce if desired. 

LEMON SAUCE 
\ c. sugar 2 c. hot water 

2 tb. cornstarch Grated rind and 
or 3 tb. flour juice of 1 lemon 

1 1. salt 1 tb. butter 

Mix the sugar, cornstarch, and salt. Add the hot water and boil 
10 minutes, stirring while the mixture thickens. Remove from the 
fire and add the butter, lemon juice and rind. 

VINEGAR SAUCE 

Follow the directions for Lemon Sauce, omitting the lemon juice 
and rind. Add a few grains of nutmeg and enough vinegar to give 
the desired flavor. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 85 

ORANGE SAUCE 

Follow the directions for Lemon Sauce and flavor with orange, 
omitting part or all of the lemon. 

RAISIN SAUCE 

c. raisins 2 tb. cornstarch 

2J, c. water 1 tb. butter 

1 c. sugar 2 tb. lemon juice if desired 

i t. salt 

Wash and chop the raisins. Simmer in the water 5 minutes. Mix 
the cornstarch, sugar, and salt and add to the liquid, stirring while 
it thickens. Cook 10 minutes, remove from the fire and beat in the 
butter and lemon juice. 

VANILLA SAUCE 

2 c. hot water 1 t. salt 

f c. sugar 1 tb. butter 

2 tb. cornstarch 1 t. vanilla 

Mix the sugar, cornstarch, and salt, add the boiling water, and 
boil 10 minutes, stirring while it thickens. Remove from the fire, 
beat in the butter and add the vanilla. 

FRUIT SAUCE 

2 c. fruit juice 2 tb. sugar 

2 tb. cornstarch or 3 tb. t. salt 

flour 1 tb. butter, if desired 

Heat the fruit juice. Mix the cornstarch, sugar, and salt, and 
blend with the hot fruit juice. Boil 10 minutes, stirring while it 
thickens. Remove from the fire and beat in the butter. If the 
sauce requires it, add more sugar and a little lemon juice. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 
2 c. flour c. sugar 

4 t. baking powder 4 tb. melted butter or 

] , t. salt other fat 

1 egg 1 scant c. milk 

Mix and sift the flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat the egg and 
add the sugar, fat, and milk. Stir this mixture, part at a time, 
into the dry mixture. Bake about 20 minutes in a shallow oiled 
pan. Serve hot with any desired sauce. 



86 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

U c. flour 3 tb. fat 

3 t. baking powder 1 qt. strawberries 

t. salt \ to 1 c. sugar 

i c. milk or milk and water 

Wash, drain, and hull the berries. Cut in halves and sprinkle 
with sugar. The best ones may be saved whole for garnishing. Mix 
and sift the flour, baking powder, and salt, adding 1 tb. of sugar, if 
desired. Work in the shortening with the tips of the fingers or cut 
it in with knives. Pour in the milk gradually, using just enough to 
make a soft dough. Lift and turn the mass with a knife or spatula, 
so as to moisten it evenly, and work it as little as possible. Turn 
out on a floured board. Divide into two parts and pat or roll lightly 
so as to make two layers, each about inch thick. Place one on an 
oiled pan, brush with melted butter and cover with the other layer. 
Bake in a hot oven. When done, separate the layers and spread 
sugared berries between them and on top. Serve with or without 
plain or whipped cream. 



ORANGE SHORTCAKE 

Make as directed for Strawberry Shortcake, using the sweetened 
pulp from oranges instead of berries. Meringue may be piled 
roughly on top and then browned in the oven, if desired. 

FRUIT COBBLER 

Heat stewed fruit, sweeten to taste, and place in an oiled baking 
dish. Cover with Short Cake or Biscuit dough. Bake in a hot oven. 
Serve with cream or Fruit Sauce. 



STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING 

2 c. flour 1 egg beaten 

4 t. baking powder \ c. melted fat 

i t. salt 1 scant c. milk 
1 c. fruit 

Cut large fruit in pieces. Mix and sift the dry ingredients and 
add the milk, egg, melted fat and fruit. Put into oiled cups or 
small molds. Steam 2 hours. Serve with Hard Sauce, Fruit 
Sauce, or cream. 



FLOUR MIXTURE 87 



SUET PUDDING 

2 c. flour ]- t. cloves 

~ t. soda ] t. nutmeg 

f" ViQklnrr n/"\\*:rlov 



2 t. baking powder 



t. salt 



c. molasses 



-. c. milk or water 



1 t. cinnamon -| c. finely chopped suet 

4 t. ginger 1 c. washed raisins 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients. Mix the molasses, milk and 
suet. Combine the mixtures and add the raisins. Other fruit, such 
as currants, dates, figs or citron; also chopped carrots, nut meats, 
and bits of orange peel may be used in the pudding as desired. 
Steam in an oiled mold 3 hours. Serve with anv desired sauce. 



PIE CRUST 

1 c. flour 4 tb. fat 

i t. salt. Cold water 

The amounts given above make one medium sized single crust. 
Wheat or barley flour may be used alone in making crust or they 
may be mixed with corn, potato or rice flour. It may be made with 
less shortening if baking powder is added. Mix the flour and 
salt. Cut in the fat with two knives or rub it in with the 
fingers. Add water a few drops at a time. Do not use any 
pressure, but give time for the flour to absorb the water. The mix- 
ture should be barely moist enough to stick together. Too much 
water makes a tough crust. Work in the ragged edges, handling 
as little as possible. Place the dough on a slightly floured board, 
turn it over and roll it with light strokes to make it a little larger 
than the pan in which it is to be baked. It should be lifted and 
turned occasionally to prevent sticking to the board. Line a pan 
with the dough, being careful not to stretch it nor to leave air 
bubbles under it. In making a single crust, press the dough over 
the edge of the pan and trim with a knife, then build up a rim as 
follows : First moisten the edge and lay a half inch strip of dough 
over it ; press the layers lightly together, shaping the rim with the 
fingers or marking- it with a fork. In baking a single crust, before 
filling with a cooked mixture, prick a few holes in the bottom to 
prevent large bubbles from forming. To cover a pie moisten the 
edge of the lower crust and lay over it an upper crust v:!' : ch has 
been perforated to allow steam to escape. Press the edges lightly 
together. Bake in a hot oven. 



88 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

LEMON PIE 

1 c. sugar 2 egg yolks 

c. flour Juice and grated rind of 

\ t. salt one lemon 

2 c. boiling water 1 t. butter 

Meringue 

Mix the flour, sugar, and salt, and blend with the hot water. Cook 
directly over the fire 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Place over hot 
water and add the butter and beaten egg yolks. Cook 2 minutes, 
remove from the fire, and add the strained lemon juice and grated 
rind. Have ready a Pie Crust, previously baked, and fill with the 
above mixture when it is cool. Cover with Meringue. Bake in a 
slow oven until delicately browned. 

MERINGUE 

Whites of 2 eggs \ tb. lemon juice, 

2 tb. sifted powdered sugar or \ t. vanilla 

Beat the whites until light, add the sugar gradually and continue 
beating. Add the flavoring. Spread the mixture roughly on a pie 
or pudding and bake in a slow oven until delicately browned. 
Meringue may be floated on hot water and browned and then placed 
on a pie or pudding. 

CUSTARD PIE 

2 eggs \ t. salt 

\ c. sugar If c. scalded milk 

Few grains nutmeg 

Beat the eggs slightly, add the sugar, salt, and milk. Line a pan 
with Pie Crust and build up a rim. Brush it inside with a little egg 
white, reserved from eggs used in the filling. Bake the crust in a 
hot oven long enough to harden this coating, pour in the filling, and 
reduce the temperature of the oven to cook the custard and finish 
baking the crust. 

PUMPKIN PIE 
1^ c. steamed and strained \ t. cinnamon 

pumpkin \ t. ginger 

\ c. brown sugar \ t. nutmeg 

\ t. salt 1 or 2 eggs 

1 c. hot milk 

Mix the pumpkin, sugar, salt, and spices. Add the eggs, beaten 
slightly, and then the milk. If two eggs are used, \ c. more milk 
or cream may be added. Prepare crust as for Custard Pie and bake 
until the filling is firm. 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 89 

RHUBARB PIE 

2 c. rhubarb 2 tb. flour 

1 c. sugar -j t. salt 

1 egg 1 t. lemon juice 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into ^ inch pieces without peeling. 
Mix the sugar, flour, salt, slightly beaten egg, and lemon juice. 
Add to the rhubarb and bake between crusts. 

APPLE PIE 

4 or 5 sour apples Few grains cinnamon or nutmeg 

i c. sugar or more 1 t. butter or more 

Line a pie pan with crust. Pare, core, and slice the apples and 
lay them on the crust. Sprinkle with sugar, and nutmeg or cinna- 
mon. Dot with butter. Moisten the edges of the lower crust and 
cover with the upper crust, pressing the edges together. The upper 
crust should always be perforated to allow steam to escape. Bake 
40 to 45 minutes in a moderate oven. 

PATTY SHELLS 

Line small patty pans with Pie Crust, or invert the pans and 
cover the bottom and sides with crust. Prick a few holes in the 
bottom to prevent large air bubbles from forming and bake. When 
ready to serve, fill with a hot creamed mixture. 



Miscellaneous Desserts 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

4 c. scalded milk 1 t. salt 

^ c. cornmeal 1 t. ginger 

\ c. New Orleans molasses \ t. cinnamon 

Stir the hot milk into the cornmeal. Add molasses, salt, and 
spices, and cook in a double boiler for 20 minutes. Pour into an 
oiled pudding dish and bake in a slow oven 2 hours. 

BREAD PUDDING 

1 c. stale bread cubes \ c. sugar 

2 c. hot milk 1 tb. butter or less 

1 egg, slightly beaten Few grains nutmeg, 

\ t. salt or 1 t. flavoring 

c. washed raisins, if desired 

Put the bread and milk in an oiled baking dish and let it stand 
a few minutes. Mix the egg, sugar, salt and flavoring, and add to 



90 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

the first mixture. Add the raisins if used, and dot the top with 
butter. Set the dish in a pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven 
until firm and delicately browned on top. Serve with any desired 
sauce, or with cream and sugar. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 

Follow the directions for Bread Pudding, adding i oz. of bitter 
chocolate or 1 tb. cocoa and flavor with vanilla omitting the raisins. 
If chocolate is used melt it and mix with part of the sugar and 
enough of the hot milk to thin the mixture. Add to the bread and 
milk. If cocoa is used mix it with the sugar. 

CREAMY RICE PUDDING 

4 c. milk t. salt 

1 c. rice Few grains nutmeg, or 

^ c. sugar grated rind of } lemon 

Wash the rice and mix it with the other ingredients in an oiled 
pudding dish. Cover and bake slowly from 2 to 3 hours. When the 
rice is puffed, remove the cover and stir in the brown crust as it 
forms. 

RICE PUDDING 

2 c. cooked rice c. seeded raisins 

| c. milk Grated rind of J lemon 

A c. sugar 

Mix the ingredients and bake in an oiled pudding dish until 
thickened and brown. Serve with cream or Vanilla Sauce. 

RICE AND APRICOT PUDDING 
1 c. rice 2 tb. butter 

1 t. salt I lb. dried apricots 

3i c. boiling water | c. sugar 

Wash the apricots and soak over night in sufficient cold water to 
cover them. Cook in the same water in a double boiler until soft 
and add the sugar. Let them stand some time in the sweetened 
juice. Cook the rice as directed under Steamed Rice. Put a layer 
in an oiled baking dish and add a layer of apricots. Repeat until 
the dish is full, having rice on top. Dot with butter. Reserve one 
cup of juice for sauce. Pour the remaining juice on the pudding 
until it may be seen through the top layer, using a little water if 
necessary. Bake about 15 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with 
a sauce made from the apricot juice, following the directions for 
Fruit Sauce. 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 91 

SCALLOPED APPLES 

4 c. sliced apples | t. nutmeg, or 

3 tb. melted butter, or less .', t. cinnamon 

2 c. soft stale bread crumbs ] c. sugar 

Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon 

Mix the crumbs, melted butter, spice, sugar, and rind and juice 
of lemon. Spread one-third of this mixture in the bottom of an 
oiled baking dish and alternate with layers of apple, having the 
crumb mixture on top. If the apples are not very juicy, add 
enough water to moisten. Bake covered about 35 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Remove the cover and brown the crumbs. 
Serve with cream and sugar or sauce. 

RHUBARB PUDDING 
4 c. rhubarb 

4 or 5 slices bread, buttered 
1 c. sugar 

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into 1 inch lengths, but do not peel 
it. Cut the slices of bread into cubes, mix lightly with the rhubarb 
and sugar and bake in an oiled pudding pan about 20 minutes. The 
pan should be covered during the first 10 minutes. 

APPLE MERINGUE 

6 apples 3 egg whites 

1 pt. Soft Custard .', c. powdered sugar 

Core, pare, and bake the apples, keeping a very small amount of 
water in the pan. Baste occasionally. When the apples are tender, 
pour the Soft Custard over them. Cover with Meringue made from 
the egg whites and the powdered sugar, and brown in a pan of cool 
water in a slow oven ; or float the Meringue in a pan of hot water, 
brown it and place it on the pudding. 

APPLE TAPIOCA 
f c. pearl tapioca or 2^ c. boiling water 

i c. granulated tapioca ,\ t. salt 

Cold water -i c. sugar 

6 sour apples 

If pearl tapioca is used, wash and soak it in cold water one hour 
or more. (Granulated tapioca need not be soaked.) Pour over it 
the boiling water, add the salt and cook in a double boiler until 
transparent. Pare and slice the apples, put them into a baking dish, 
sprinkle with the sugar and, if liked, add a little lemon juice or cin- 



92 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

namon. Add the cooked tapioca and bake in a moderate oven until 
the apples are very soft. Serve with sugar and cream. Apricots 
may be substituted for apples. 



FIG TAPIOCA 
c. granulated tapioca J c. light brown sugar 

or c. pearl tapioca \ c. chopped figs 

H c. hot water Few grains cinnamon 

\ t. salt \ t. vanilla or lemon juice 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak it an hour or more in cold water. 
(Granulated tapioca need not be soaked.) Mix the tapioca, sugar, 
figs, spice, and water. Boil for 5 minutes, and then cook in a double 
boiler for one hour, or until the tapioca is transparent. Remove 
from the fire, and add the flavoring. One-half cup of nuts may be 
added if desired. Serve cold with plain or whipped cream, or Soft 
Custard. 

FRUIT TAPIOCA 

i c. granulated tapioca Sugar to taste 

or | c. pearl tapioca Fruit 

3 c. hot liquid (fruit juice and water) 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak an hour or more in cold water. 
(Granulated tapioca need not be soaked.) Mix the tapioca and 
liquid. Boil for 5 minutes, and then cook in a double boiler for 1 
hour, or until the tapioca is transparent. Remove from the fire, 
add cooked fruit, and sugar to taste; or cool and add fresh fruit. 
Serve plain or with cream. 

TAPIOCA CREAM 

3 tb. granulated tapioca \ t. salt 

or 4 tb. pearl tapioca \ c. sugar 

1 pt. milk 2 egg whites 

2 egg yolks 1 t. vanilla 

If pearl tapioca is used, soak it for an hour in sufficient cold 
water to cover (granulated tapioca needs no soaking) ; add the milk, 
and cook in a double boiler until the tapioca is transparent. Mix 
the egg yolks, salt, and sugar. Stir in the hot mixture, return to 
the double boiler and cook 2 minutes or until it thickens slightly. 
Remove from the fire, add the flavoring and beaten whites. Cool 
and serve. 



MISCELLANEOUS DESSERTS 93 

PRUNE PUDDING 

| Ib. prunes J t. cinnamon 

2 c. cold water 1^ c. boiling water 

1 c. sugar c. cornstarch 

1 tb. lemon juice 

Pick over and wash the prunes. Soak several hours in the cold 
water and cook covered in the same water until soft. Remove the 
stones and add the sugar, cinnamon, and boiling water. Mix the 
cornstarch with enough cold water to pour easily and add to the 
hot prune mixture, stirring constantly. Cook directly over the fire 
until thick, then place over hot water. Add the lemon juice and con- 
tinue to cook for 20 minutes. The stiffly-beaten whites of 1 or 2 
eggs may be folded in, if desired. Mold and serve cold with cream. 

PRUNE WHIP 

^ Ib. prunes | tb. lemon juice 

\ c. sugar Whites of 5 eggs or less 

Pick over and wash the prunes and soak them in cold water. 
Cook in the same water until soft. Remove stones and chop the 
prunes. Add the sugar and cook 5 minutes, or until of the con- 
sistency of marmalade. Fold the prune mixture and lemon juice 
into the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. Pile lightly on an oiled pud- 
ding pan. Set in a pan of hot water and bake 20 minutes in a slow 
oven. Serve cold with cream or Soft Custard. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

2 c. hot milk or whey i c. sugar 
Yolks of 3 eggs 1 t. salt 

i t. vanilla 

Beat the yolks slightly and mix with the sugar and salt. Slowly 
add the scalded milk, stirring constantly. Cook until it thickens 
over water just below the boiling point. Flavor and cool. When 
made with whey, custard may be flavored with lemon juice. If the 
custard should curdle from being overcooked, place it in a pan of 
cold water and beat it with a Dover beater. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

1 qt. hot milk or whey i t. salt 

4 eggs or 3 It. vanilla, or 

^ c. sugar Few grains nutmeg 

Beat the eggs slightly, stir in the sugar and salt, then, slowly, 
the hot milk. When the sugar is dissolved add the flavoring. If 
made with whey, custard may be flavored with lemon juice. Pour 



94 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

the mixture into serving dishes. Set them in a pan of hot water 
and bake in a slow oven until firm. Do not allow the water in the 
pan to boil. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

Make Soft Custard and fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, or 
pile Meringue on top. 

CORNSTARCH MOLD 

4 c. hot milk 6 tb. cornstarch 

4 tb. sugar 1 t. salt 

1 t. flavoring 

Mix the dry ingredients. Stir in the hot milk gradually. Cook 
the mixture over the direct flame until it thickens, stirring all the 
while. Cook over hot water about half an hour. Remove from the 
fire, add the flavoring and turn the mixture into a mold that has 
been wet with cold water. Cool and serve with cream or Fruit 
Sauce. 

CHOCOLATE MOLD 

Proceed as for Cornstarch Mold, using J, c. sugar. Melt 1 square 
of chocolate, add to it c. boiling water and stir and cook until per- 
fectly smooth. Add this to the cornstarch and milk mixture just 
before removing from the fire. In place of chocolate, 2 tb. cocoa 
may be used by adding it to the dry ingredients. Flavor with 
vanilla. 

CORNSTARCH FRUIT MOLD 
4 c. hot fruit juice Fruit or nuts 

2 tb. sugar, or more Lemon juice, if desired 

6 tb. cornstarch 2 or 3 cloves, or small 

i t. salt piece of cinnamon 

Mix the cornstarch, sugar, and salt. Stir in the hot liquid grad- 
ually. Cook the mixture over the direct flame until it thickens, 
stirring all the while. Add the spice and cook one-half hour over 
hot water. Remove from the fire and add the fruit, nuts, and 
flavoring, if used. Pour into molds that have been wet with cold 
water. Cool and serve plain, or with cream or Fruit Sauce. 

CORNSTARCH MERINGUE 

Follow the directions for Cornstarch Mold. Upon removing the 
mixture from the fire fold in the stiffly-beaten whites of 2 or 3 
eggs with the flavoring. Mold and serve with Soft Custard or 
cream. 



GELATIN DESSERTS 95 

CORNSTARCH CUSTARD 

4 c. hot milk 3 egg yolks 

i c. cornstarch 1 t. vanilla 

J- t. salt 3 egg whites 

i c. granulated sugar 4 tb. powdered sugar 

Mix the cornstarch, salt, and granulated sugar. Stir in the hot 
milk gradually. Cook the mixture over the direct flame until it 
thickens, stirring all the while, then cook over hot water about half 
an hour. Beat the yolks slightly and blend w r ith the hot mixture. 
Cook and stir over hot water just until the yolks thicken. Remove 
from the fire, add the flavoring and pour into a baking dish. Cover 
with a Meringue made from the whites of eggs and powdered sugar. 
Brown slightly in a moderate oven. 



Gelatin Desserts 



Gelatin is obtained by boiling animal tissue. It is present in soup 
stock, as may be easily seen by the jelly-like mass which is formed 
when the broth is allowed to cool. It is carefully prepared for mar- 
1 et and is sold in three forms, granulated, shredded, and in sheets. 
It is a light, easily digested food and is used to prepare many attrac- 
tive desserts. It is particularly valuable in invalid cookery. 

In preparing gelatin dishes the following rules should be carefully 
observed: 

1. It should be soaked in cold water. 

2. It should be dissolved in hot liquid. 

3. It ^hould be quickly cooled after dissolving in hot liquid. 

4. It should be carefully covered to protect it from bacteria. 

5. It should be kept in a cool place to become firm. 

LEMON JELLY 

2 tb. granulated gelatin 2i c. hot water 

i c. cold water \ c. sugar 

i c. lemon juice 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft. Make a syrup by 
boiling the hot water and sugar. Remove from the fire and add the 
soaked gelatin. When the mixture is partly cool, add the lemon 
juice, and pour into a mold which has been dipped in cold water. 
Chill until firm, unmold and serve with or without cream. 



96 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

FRUIT GELATIN 

Make as directed for Lemon Jelly, adding fresh or cooked fruits. 
Grapes, cherries, strawberries, raspberries, peaches, oranges, 
bananas and pineapples are used in any desired combination. The 
amount of lemon juice may be decreased and fruit juice may be sub- 
stituted for part of the water. 

APRICOT JELLY 

Ib. dried apricots Juice of 1 lemon 

2 c. cold water l tb. granulated gelatin 

^ c. sugar soaked in | c. cold water 

Pick over and wash the apricots. Soak in the cold water several 
hours and then cook in the same water until soft. Rub through a 
sieve, add the sugar and enough water to make 3 c. Boil a minute, 
remove from the fire, add the soaked gelatin, and, when partly cool, 
the lemon juice. Pour into a mold which has been dipped in cold 
water. Chill until firm, and serve with or without cream. 

PRUNE JELLY 

Follow the directions given for Apricot Jelly, substituting prunes 
for apricots. 

SNOW PUDDING 

1 tb. granulated gelatin ^ c. sugar 

c. cold water 1 c. lemon juice 

1 c. boiling water Whites of 3 eggs, beaten stiff 
Soak the gelatin in cold water. Make a syrup by boiling the hot 

water and sugar. Remove from the fire and add to the soaked 
gelatin. Add the lemon juice when the mixture is partly cool. 
Stir occasionally until it begins to thicken. Then beat with a Dover 
egg-beater until frothy, and add the beaten whites. Place the bowl 
in a pan of ice water and continue beating the mixture until it is 
stiff enough to hold its shape. Pile lightly on a serving dish and 
serve with Soft Custard. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 
| tb. granulated gelatin 1 t. salt 

2 tb. cold water 1 t. vanilla 

i c. hot milk 1 c. heavy cream 

3 tb. powdered sugar 6 lady fingers 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft and dissolve it in the 
hot milk. Whip the cream. Add the sugar, salt, and vanilla to the 
dissolved gelatin and set the bowl containing the mixture in ice 
water, stirring until it begins to thicken. While it is still soft fold 



FROZEN DESSERTS 97 

in the whipped cream, adding about one-third at a time. Pour the 
mixture into a mold lined with lady fingers or bars of sponge cake. 
Chill thoroughly. 

ORANGE CHARLOTTE 

H tb. granulated gelatin Juice of 1 lemon 

^ c. cold water 1 c. orange juice and pulp 

^ c. boiling water Whites of 3 eggs, or 

i c. sugar 1 c. heavy cream 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water until soft and dissolve it in the 
hot water. Whip the cream. To the soaked gelatin add the sugar, 
lemon juice, orange juice and pulp, and a little grated rind. Set the 
bowl containing the mixture in ice water, stirring until it begins to 
thicken. Beat until light, add the beaten whites or whipped cream 
and continue beating until the mixture is stiff enough to hold its 
shape. Put into a mold lined with lady fingers or sections of 
orange. Chill and serve with or without whipped cream. 

FRUIT CHARLOTTE 

Follow the recipe given for Orange Charlotte, using in place of the 
orange 1 c. stewed peach, pineapple or apricot, or 1 pt. fresh straw- 
berries or raspberries rubbed through a sieve. 



Frozen Desserts 



DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING 
4 parts finely crushed ice 
1 part rock salt 

Put the mixture to be frozen into the can, put in the paddle, place 
the cover, and adjust the can in the freezer. Pound the ice in a 
strong cloth or bag, and put it in the freezer, alternating with layers 
of salt, or ice and salt may be mixed before packing. The salt and 
ice should come a little higher than the mixture in the can. Turn 
the crank slowly and steadily until the mixture is partly frozen, then 
turn faster. Remove the dasher when the mixture is frozen. Cover 
carefully, and if possible, allow it to stand an hour to ripen, before 
serving. 

LEMON ICE 

| c. lemon juice 4 c. water 

li c . sugar Grated rind of 1 lemon 

Make a syrup of the sugar and water, boiling 5 minutes. Cool 



98 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

and add juice and rind. Strain and freeze according to the direc- 
tions. 

LEMON SHERBET 

Add the stiffly-beaten white of 1 egg to the above when the mix- 
ture is frozen to the consistency of mush, and continue freezing. 

MILK SHERBET 

1 qt. milk 

1^ c. sugar 

i c. lemon juice 

Mix the sugar and the strained lemon juice. Add the milk slowly, 
stirring all the while. Freeze according to directions. Orange juice 
may be substituted for part of the lemon juice. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM 
2 c. hot milk ] t. salt 

2 tb. flour 1 egg 

1 c. sugar 4 c. thin cream 

2 t. vanilla 

Mix the dry ingredients and add the hot milk. Cook until thick- 
ened, stirring constantly. Beat the egg slightly and add the hot 
mixture to it. Cook and stir over hot water just until the egg 
thickens. Cool, add cream and flavoring. Freeze according to the 
directions. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM 

Follow the directions for Vanilla Ice Cream. Add 2 oz. of shaved 
chocolate to the hot thickened milk, stir and cook until smooth. 
Omit half of the vanilla. 

JUNKET ICE CREAM 

Make Junket or Chocolate Junket, using twice as much sugar and 
flavoring as the recipe calls for. When firm, freeze according to 
directions. One-fourth part cream may be added before freezing, 
but is not necessary. 

FRUIT ICE CREAM 

For a fruit cream, crushed berries, peaches, apricots, pineapple, 
etc., may be added to Vanilla or Junket Ice Cream (omitting tht 
vanilla) after the mixture is partly frozen. If fruit is added at 
first, the cream may curdle. 



CANDY 99 

FRUIT MOUSSE 

tb. granulated gelatin 4, c. fruit juice 

1 tb. cold water i to 1 c. fruit pulp 

1-J tb. hot water if desired 

| c. sugar I tb. lemon juice 

1 c. heavy cream 

Soak the gelatin in cold water and dissolve it in hot water. Dis- 
solve the sugar in the fruit juice without heating. Add the pulp, if 
used, and gelatin, and stir occasionally until it begins to thicken. 
Whip the cream and fold into the mixture. Put in a mold which 
has been dipped in cold water, spread an oiled paper over the top, 
large enough to extend over the edges. Cover closely and pack in 
equal parts of ice and salt. Let stand 3 to 6 hours. To remove from 
mold, dip into hot water for an instant and turn out on a serving 
dish. This quantity serves 6 people. 



Candy 



NOTES ON MAKING CANDY 

When sugar and a liquid are boiled together, a syrup is formed 
which is a foundation for candy. By varying the proportions and 
the length of time for boiling, and by the addition of other mate- 
rials, such as eggs, butter, chocolate, nuts and flavorings, various 
candies are made. 



TESTS FOR SYRUP 

As syrup boils, it gradually becomes thicker and hotter. For 
each kind of candy the syrup should boil to a certain stage. This 
may be determined by testing in various ways, the most accurate 
of which is by the use of a candy thermometer. The simplest 
method for home use, however, is to drop a little of the syrup into a 
cup of cold water, and to find out its consistency by working be- 
tween the fingers or striking against the side of the cup. Before the 
syrup can be tested in cold water it i-eaches a point called the thread 
stage. This is the first instant that it forms a thread when dropped 
from the tip of a spoon. 



91: 0" 



100 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

Following is a table of temperatures with their corresponding 
tests : 

110 C. 230 F. Thread 

113 C. 236 F. Soft ball 

123 C. 254 F. Hard ball 

145 C. 293 F. Crack 

154 C. 310 F. Caramel 

MOLASSES TAFFY 

c. molasses 1 tb. vinegar 

i c. sugar ^ tb. butter 

Mix the ingredients and cook to the crack stage. Pour into oiled 
pans. When cool, pull until it is light in color. Cut or break into 
pieces. 

FONDANT 
2i c. sugar 
f c. hot water 
1 1. cream of tartar 

Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a saucepan. Heat 
gradually and stir occasionally until dissolved, but do not stir after 
boiling begins. When completely dissolved, wash off the sugar 
adhering to the sides of the pan with a damp cloth. Cook, covered, 
for 5 minutes. Remove the cover and boil until a soft ball is 
formed when dropped into cold water. Pour out on a platter and, 
when almost cold, beat until creamy, and knead. It may be kept 
for some time if packed in a dish and covered. Fondant is the 
foundation for cream candies and may be colored and flavored as 
desired. 

MINT WAFERS 

Melt soft Fondant over hot water. Flavor with peppermint and 
drop from the tip of a spoon on oiled paper. The wafers may be 
colored, and flavored with wintergreen, lemon or pistachio, if 
desired. 

STUFFED DATES 

Select firm, unbroken dates. Wash them and remove the seeds. 
Fill the cavity with Fondant or nut meats. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS 

Fondant Bitter or confectioners chocolate 

Roll the Fondant into balls or any desired shapes. Place on sheets 
of oiled paper and allow the surface to dry slightly. Melt the 
chocolate in a deep narrow dish over hot water. Stir the chocolate 



CANDY 1 I 

until the fat globules disappear and it is partly cooled. Lift the 
balls, one at a time, on a fork or steel knitting needle, dip into the 
melted chocolate and dry on oiled paper. For a thick coating have 
the Fondant balls quite cold and the chocolate not too hot. If a 
sweet coating is desired use confectioners dipping chocolate. 

NUT BRITTLE 

1 c. nut meats 

1 c. sugar 

Few grains salt 

Spread the nuts on a shallow oiled pan. Melt the sugar in a frying 
pan over a low flame, stirring constantly until amber-colored but 
not scorched. Add the salt and quickly pour over the nuts. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

2 c. sugar 2 tb. butter 

f c. milk 2 squares chocolate 

1 t. vanilla 

Mix the sugar, milk and chocolate. Heat slowly and boil until a 
soft ball is formed when a little syrup is dropped into cold water. 
Add the butter, remove from the fire and let stand until cold. Beat 
until creamy and turn out on oiled plates. Mark into squares. 

VANILLA CARAMELS 
2 c. sugar i c. butter 

i c. corn syrup 1 t. vanilla 

c. milk c. nuts, if desired 

Cook the sugar, milk and corn syrup to the soft ball stage, add 
the butter and continue cooking to the hard ball stage. Remove 
from the fire, add vanilla and nuts and pour into oiled pans. When 
cool, cut into squares and wrap each caramel in oiled paper. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 

Use recipe for Vanilla Caramels. Add 2 squares of chocolate to 
the sugar, milk, and corn syrup and heat the mixture slowly to melt 
the chocolate before boiling begins. 

SALTED NUTS 

Use almonds or unroasted peanuts. To blanch them, cover with 
boiling water and boil 1 minute. Drain and cover with cold water 
and drain again. Remove the skins and dry the nuts on a clean 
cloth. Fry a few at a time in oil or fat, using a small deep pan. 



102 HANDBOOK. OF RECIPES 

Turn the nuts constantly in order to brown them evenly. Drain ,- 
spread on unglazed paper, and sprinkle with fine salt. Instead of 
frying them, the nuts may be dipped in olive oil or melted butter, 
spread in a shallow pan, and browned in the oven. They will need 
occasional stirring to brown them evenly. 

Preservation of Food 

Foods are spoiled by the action of bacteria, yeasts, and molds, 
unless preserved in some way. Any method which keeps these 
organisms inactive, or destroys those present and excludes others, 
may be used if it does not injure the food. The common ways of 
preserving are by drying, refrigeration, canning, and by the use of 
such preservatives as salt, sugar, vinegar, and spices. It is not safe 
to use the chemical preservatives sometimes sold as canning pow- 
ders, as they are injurious to health. 

Drying is one of the oldest and simplest methods of preserva- 
tion. It prevents the action of bacteria, yeasts, and molds by de- 
priving them of the moisture necessary to their growth, but it does 
not destroy all of those present. Dried foods may be kept for long 
periods. 

Refrigeration is a successful method for the temporary storage of 
perishable foods. It reduces the activity of organisms but does not 
destroy them. 

Canning has come to be a very common and practical way of 
preserving fruits, vegetables, and meats. The organisms present 
are destroyed by heat and others are excluded by sealing. There 
are different methods of canning. Those advised for use in the 
home require very simple equipment and the directions are easily 
followed. 

Such simple preservatives as salt, sugar, spice, and vinegar have 
long been used, and are satisfactory in certain cases, but as they 
change the flavor and character of the foods preserved in them they 
cannot always be used. 

DIRECTIONS FOR DRYING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

Drying is a simple method of preserving fruits and vegetables, 
and when dried they are convenient to handle, to store, and to use. 

Where fruits are grown in hot dry climates sun drying is prac- 
ticed on a large scale, but in most places indoor diying by artificial 
heat is more successful. 

Small quantities of food may be dried on wire trays in an oven, 
if the door is left ajar. For relatively larger amounts an 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD 103 

oven-like structure can be devised to be hung over the kitchen 
stove or placed upon it. Such a drier should have one or 
more movable wire shelves or trays which allow free circulation of 
air through all parts, and it should have an opening or ventilator at 
the top. If to be placed on the stove a drier should not be made of 
inflammable material. Provision should be made to protect the food 
while drying from dust and from flies and other insects. 

The drying of fruits and vegetables may be facilitated by placing 
them, with or without applying heat, where there is a constant cur- 
rent of air. An electric fan is very good for this purpose. 

1. Select sound ripe fruits and vegetables and dry them as quickly 

as possible after they are gathered. The young and tender 
vegetables make the best grades but older ones may be dried 
for use in many ways. They should all be in condition suit- 
able for table use. 

2. Pick over, wash, and grade the product to be dried. Remove 

tough stems, strings, inedible pods, husks, etc. Blanch and 
cold dip each product as directed in the recipe for canning it. 
Remove the skins and cores of hard fruits, and the skins and 
pits of other fruits if desired. Larger fruits and vegetables 
may be cut in halves, quarters, slices, or shreds to facilitate 
the drying. The knife used should be clean and bright to 
avoid discoloration of the product. Remove the surface 
moisture by spreading the fruit or vegetables on a clean dry 
cloth before placing them in the drier. 

3. Cover the trays of the drier with loosely woven clean cloth, and 

spread the prepared food on them in a thin layer. Apply 
enough heat to dry the product as quickly as possible without 
overheating or scorching it. It is necessary to shift the trays 
occasionally, and to stir or turn the contents to dry them uni- 
formly and to prevent the growth of mold. Several hours are 
required to complete the drying of most products. The pro- 
cess should be continued until no water can be pressed out of 
cut sections, but not until they are brittle. Dried fruits 
should be leathery, soft, and pliable to the touch. Cool the 
product quickly after removing it from the drier. If it seems 
too dry, expose the material to the air for a few hours to allow 
it to regain some moisture. 

1. It is safer to wait several days before packing a dried product, 
to be sure that it is not too moist, and that the moisture is 
evenly distributed. During this period the food should be 
emptied 2 or 3 times into another receptacle to mix it and to 



104 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

prevent molding. Examine the product carefully to see that 
it is in good condition. 

5. The development of insects may be prevented by heating the 

dried product in a very slow oven for a short time. Seeds that 
have been heated cannot be used for planting. 

6. Dried foods must be stored in such a way as to protect them from 

moisture, dust, and insects. A simple method of storing for 
home use is to hang the food in cloth bags in a dry place. For 
shipping it is necessary to use moisture-proof containers. 
These may be of tin or paraffin-coated paper. 

METHODS OF CANNING 

The Open Kettle or Hot Pack Method has been used commonly to 
can fruits, but not all vegetables can be preserved in this way be- 
cause it does not destroy all organisms present. It is not so suc- 
cessful and does not retain the color, flavor, and shape of the product 
as well as the Cold Pack Method. 

The One Period Cold Pack Method is advised for general use be- 
cause it makes complete sterilization easy, and because color, flavor, 
and shape of food materials are best retained by its use. It is suc- 
cessful for vegetables and meats, as well as for fruits. This is the 
only method explained in detail in the following pages. 

The Intermittent Sterilization Method consists in proceeding as 
for the One Period Cold Pack Method, but divides the sterilization 
into three periods twenty-four hours apart. This is successful but 
is not generally recommended as it is expensive in time, labor, and 
fuel. 

The Cold Water Method can be used only for rhubarb and a few 
sour berries. These may be washed, blanched, packed in cold 
water, and sealed without sterilization. As it cannot be put into 
general use this method is not recommended. The Cold Water 
Method should not be confused with the Cold Pack Method. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR CANNING 

by the 
ONE PERIOD COLD PACK METHOD 

All of the following recipes for canning refer to this method. 

1. Select sound, fresh fruit or vegetables. They should be pre- 
pared and canned as quickly as possible after they are 
gathered. 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD 105 

2. Clean and examine the jars to be used. Fit them with clean 

new rings which have been tested for elasticity. See that the 
lids are in good condition, and that they fit perfectly. Leave 
the jars upside down in the hot water while preparing the 
product. It is not necessary to sterilize them before filling, 
but they should be hot to prevent breaking when placed in 
the hot water bath. 

3. Wash and pick over the fruit or vegetables, grading them as to 

size, ripeness, and quality. Remove the tough stems, strings, 
husks, inedible pods, etc., of the fruits or vegetables requir- 
ing it. 

4. Most products, except soft fruits, should be blanched in steam 

or boiling water. For the time and method of blanching see 
the directions for canning each product. Blanch only enough 
for one or two jars at a time. Blanching is done to shrink 
the product for packing, to remove undesirable flavors, and 
to loosen skins. It is convenient to place the fruit or vege- 
tables in a large square of cheese cloth or in a wire basket 
for blanching and cold dipping. 

5. After blanching dip the fruit or vegetables quickly into cold 

water and drain them immediately. This is done to make 
them easier to handle, to make the skins separate easily from 
the pulp, and to set the color. 

6. Remove the skins, cores, and pits, and cut those fruits or vege- 

tables requiring it. 

7. Pack the cold product quickly in the hot jars, on which the 

rubbers have been placed. 

8. For each quart jar of vegetables add 1 t. salt, if desired, and fill 

the jar with hot water. Fill jars of fruit with hot water or 
hot syrup. A syrup made by boiling 3 parts of sugar with 2 
parts of water for 4 minutes is of average consistency. The 
proportions may be varied to suit the taste. 

9. Partly seal the jars,' in such a way that the rubbers and lids will 

stay in place and yet allow for expansion of the contents of 
the jars. 

10. Place the jars immediately in a hot water bath to sterilize. For 
this process it is necessary to have a deep can or boiler with 
a tight fitting cover, and with a rack in the bottom on which 
the jars may rest, allowing free circulation of water around 
and under them. The water should be hot when the jars are 
placed in it, and should be deep enough to come 2 inches 



106 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

above the tops. Cover the boiler closely. Bring the water 
to the boiling point quickly and sterilize each product 
according to the time specified for it, counting from the time 
the water begins to boil. Over-cooking makes the product too 
soft and spoils the flavor and color. 

11. Remove the jars from the cooker and seal them immediately 

without lifting the lids for any purpose. Set them on a dry 
towel, allowing a space around each jar. There is danger of 
breakage if the jars come in contact with anything cold or if 
they are exposed to a draft, but they should not be kept hot. 
As there is some evaporation during the cooking, and shrink- 
age due to cooling, the jars are often not quite full. The 
contents will keep, however, if perfectly sterilized, and sealed 
without allowing organisms to enter. 

12. Immediately after sealing test each seal by inverting the jar. 

If the seal is not perfect open the jar and, if desired, fill it 
with boiling water. Adjust a perfect rubber and cover. Boil 
again for 5 minutes. If an imperfect seal is discovered after 
cooling, correct the fault and place the jar in warm but not 
boiling water and sterilize as at first. Never screw down the 
lid of a jar after it has once been tightened, as this may 
break the seal. 

13. When cool, wipe the jars with a cloth wrung out of hot water 

and label them. It is desirable to indicate the contents, 
grade, cost, and date on the labels. 

14. Store the jars in a clean dry place where they will not be over- 

heated and where there is no danger of freezing. Dampness 
causes the rubbers to decompose and permits mold to develop. 



CANNED SOFT FRUITS 

Strawberries, raspberries, dewberries, blackberries, blueberries, 
peaches, and sweet cherries are included in this group. Follow the 
General Directions for Canning. Blanch the peaches just long 
enough to loo-en the skins and dip them quickly into cold water. 
Peel them and cut in halves or slices, removing the stones. If a 
can full of fruit with very little juice is desired, heat the fruit with 
syrup or sugar over hot water before packing. Let it stand until 
cool, or for several hours. Drain off and heat the syrup. Pack the 
fruit in the jars and add the hot syrup. Sterilize in the hot water 
bath 12 minutes. 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD 107 

CANNED SOUR BERRY FRUITS 

This group includes currants, gooseberries, cranberries, sour 
cherries and plums. Follow the General Directions for Canning-. 
Prick plums with a fork or steel knitting- needle before blanching 
them. Blanch in hot water 1 minute. Sterilize 15 minutes in the 
hot water bath. 

CANNED RHUBARB 

Rhubarb may be canned by the Cold Water Method which may 
be of advantage when time is limited, but the flavor is generally not 
so good as when the Cold Pack Method is used. The General Direc- 
tions for Canning may be followed. Cut the rhubarb in pieces before 
blanching, but do not peel it. Blanch one-half minute in hot water. 
It may be canned in water or syrup. If a can full of rhubarb with 
very little juice is desired mix the rhubarb with one-fourth as much 
sugar, heat it over hot water, and let it stand long enough to draw 
out the juice before packing. Do not use additional syrup unless 
needed to fill the jars. Sterilize for 15 minutes in the hot water 
bath. 

CANNED HARD FRUITS 

Apples, pears, and quinces are included in this group. Follow the 
General Directions for Canning. Blanch the fruit one and one-half 
minutes in hot water. Cut it in halves, quarters, or slices. Dis- 
coloration of apples may be prevented by dropping them into dilute 
salt water as they are cut. They should then be rinsed before pack- 
ing. Sterilize for 20 minutes in the hot water bath. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE 

Follow the General Directions for Canning. Cut the pineapple 
crosswise in slices. Pare and core them, and remove the eyes. Do 
not blanch or cold dip the pineapples. The slices may be packed 
whole, or cut as desired. Sterilize for 35 minutes in the hot water 
bath. 

CANNED FRUIT JUICE 

It is often desirable to can fruit juice for beverages, fruit sauces, 
or for making jelly. Left-over fruit syrups may also be kept in this 
way. Juice may be extracted in a fruit press or according to the 
Directions for Making Jelly. Sugar may be added to the juice, if 
desired. Pour the juice into clean hot bottles or jars. If bottles are 
used the juice should be within 2 inches of the top. Insert a piece 
of sterilized cotton in the neck of each bottle and place it on a rack 
in a hot water bath. The water should not be above the level of the 



108 HANDBOOK. OF RECIPES 

fruit juice. Sterilize for 15 minutes. Without removing the cotton 
fit each bottle with a cork which has been dipped in hot paraffin. 
Melted paraffin may be used in place of a cork if the cotton is pushed 
one-fourth inch below the mouth of the bottle. If jars are used 
they should be prepared, filled, and sealed according to the General 
Directions for Canning. 

CANNED TOMATOES 

Follow the General Directions for Canning. Scald the tomatoes 
just long enough to loosen the skins and dip quickly into cold water. 
Cut out the core before removing the skins. Pack the tomatoes 
whole, pressing them down well into the jars until all parts are filled. 
As tomatoes contain a large amount of water none should be added. 
Sterilize for 20 minutes in the hot water bath. 

CANNED STRAINED TOMATOES 

Wash the tomatoes and cut them in quarters, without peeling 
them. Cook until soft with a little onion, if desired. Strain and can 
according to the General Directions for Canning. Sterilize in the 
hot water bath for 20 minutes. 

CANNED VEGETABLE GREENS 

Asparagus, spinach, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, young beet 
tops, Swiss chard, kale, French endive, and dandelion are included 
in this group. Follow the General Directions for Canning. Remove 
the roots, tough stems and stalks before washing the vegetables. 
Strip off the leaves from the mid-ribs of Swiss chard and can them 
separately. Blanch in steam 15 minutes. As these vegetables are 
likely to shrink during the sterilization they should be packed 
tightly. Sterilize cauliflower 45 minutes, and the other products 90 
minutes in the hot water bath. 

CANNED CORN 

Young corn is best for canning. It should be canned as quickly as 
possible after it is picked. Follow the General Directions for Can- 
ning. After removing the husks, blanch the corn on the cob 5 min- 
utes. If whole kernels are desired cut the corn close to the cob. 
Scrape out the remaining pulp, which may be canned for soup. If 
corn free from hulls is desired, cut off only the tips of the kernels, 
or score them and then scrape out the pulp, leaving the hulls on the 
cob. As corn swells during sterilization it should be packed loosely 
in the jars, leaving a half inch space above the top. Sterilize 3 
hours in the hot water bath. 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD 109 

CANNED BEANS OR PEAS 

Young beans and peas are best for canning. They should be 
canned as quickly as possible after being picked. Blanch 5 minutes 
in hot water. Pack closely, leaving a half inch space at the top. 
Sterilize 2 hours in the hot water bath. 

CANNED BEETS OR CARROTS 

Select young tender beets and carrots for canning. Follow the 
General Directions for Canning. To retain the color of the beets 
leave on all of the roots and 3 or 4 inches of the stem, while blanch- 
ing. Blanch in hot water until the skins are loose. Small beets and 
carrots should be canned whole, and others may be cut. Pack 
closely, leaving a half inch space at the top. Hot vinegar and spices 
may be added to the beets if desired. Sterilize 90 minutes in the 
hot water bath. 

PRESERVING WITH SALT 

The preservation of vegetables by the use of salt is very easily 
accomplished in less time than is required for canning or drying 
them. There is some loss of nutritive material by this method, 
and the flavor of the vegetables is changed, but they are palatable 
to most people. 

If fermentation is desired, as in making Fermented Salt Cabbage 
(sauerkraut), the vegetables are packed with a relatively small 
amount of dry salt, or in a weak brine. If fermentation is to be 
prevented a larger proportion of salt is used. 

Salted vegetables may be cooked in the same way as fresh veg- 
etables, after soaking them for several hours in clear water. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVING VEGETABLES 

WITH SALT 

1. Select sound vegetables and pack them as quickly as possible 

after they are gathered. 

2. Pick over, wash, and drain the product. Remove tough stems, 

strings, inedible pods, husks, etc., and cut those vegetables 
requiring it. 

3. Weigh the product and measure the necessary amount of salt, or 

make the required amount of brine as directed for packing 
each vegetable. 

4. Pack the vegetables closely in clean wooden kegs or wide-mouthed 

stone crocks. If dry salt is used cover the bottom of the 
container with an inch layer of the vegetable and sprinkle it 
with salt. Repeat until the container is three-fourths full, 



I 1 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

pressing down each layer as it is packed. It is necessary to 
distribute the salt evenly, and to have it on the top layer. If 
brine is used pack the container three-fourths full of vege- 
tables, and pour the brine over them. 

5. Spread a piece of clean cheese cloth on the vegetables, tucking it 

down at the sides. Place a heavy plate or a round piece of 
board on the cloth and weight it down with clean bricks or 
stone. These should be heavy enough to press out the juices 
from the vegetables and form a brine with the salt. The 
vegetables must be completely covered with brine. 

6. If fermentation is desired, allow the container to stand in a mod- 

erately warm room. It takes from 8 days to 4 weeks to com- 
plete the fermentation, depending upon the temperature. As 
a scum forms remove it. Vegetables packed in a relatively 
large amount of salt and in which fermentation is not desired, 
should be put in a cool place as soon as they are packed. A 
slight amount of fermentation will take place at first. 

7. The fermentation is complete if no bubbles rise when the con- 

tainer is tapped lightly on the side. There is a tendency for 
a scum to form on the brine, especially in warm weather. If 
it starts to form it should be removed, and it can be prevented 
after fermentation by sealing. This is done by pouring on hot 
paraffin. Put the container in a cool place where there is no 
danger of freezing, and where it will not have to be moved, 
and see that the brine comes just up to the board or plate 
before pouring on the paraffin. It is necessary to be sure that 
fermentation has ceased before sealing, as bubbles of gas 
forming later would break the seal. 

8. As mentioned above, the containers should be stored in a cool 

place where there is no danger of freezing. It is necessary 
to protect the contents from mice and insects. If the brine 
should evaporate, exposing the vegetables and allowing them 
to decompose, or if a mold should form it will not necessarily 
spoil the entire contents, but the top layer must be removed 
and enough fresh brine must be added to cover the vegetables. 
The contents should then be re-sealed. 

FERMENTED SALT CABBAGE (Sauerkraut) 

Summer cabbage has not been used commonly for making Fer- 
mented Salt Cabbage, but if properly prepared and stored, cabbage 
grown at any time of the year may be used. Follow the General 
Directions for Preserving Vegetables with Salt. Select sound firm 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD 

heads of cabbage. Remove the outer green leaves, bruised spots, 
and core. Shred the cabbage with a slaw cutter or knife. Pack it 
with dry salt, using } Ib. for each 10 Ib. of cabbage, and press it 
down well. The fermentation progresses rapidly in warm weather, 
and unless the cabbage is frequently examined and cared for a scum 
is likely to form on the brine and spoil the product. Sealing with 
paraffin is very important in warm weather, but not so necessary in 
the fall if the product is stored in a cool place. 

SALTED STRING BEANS 

Follow the General Directions for Preserving with Salt. Cut the 
beans in 2-inch lengths. If fermentation is desired pack the beans 
with i c. salt to each 4 Ib. beans, or a brine made with 3 c. salt and 
1 c. vinegar to 1 gallon of water. If fermentation is to be prevented 
use 2 c. salt to 4 Ib. of beans. If after 24 hours the brine does not 
cover the material, add brine made by dissolving 1 part of salt in 4 
parts of water. 

SALTED PEAS 

Shell the peas and pack them as directed for Salted String Beans. 
Peas should be packed in small enough containers so that the quan- 
tity opened will not spoil before it can be used. 

SALTED VEGETABLE GREENS 

This group includes cabbage, Swiss chard, spinach, dandelion, 
kale, beet tops, turnip tops, etc. Follow the General Directions for 
Preserving with Salt. Use 2 c. of salt for each 4 Ibs. of the greens. 
If, after 24 hours, the brine does not cover the material, add a 
brine made by dissolving 1 part of salt in 4 parts of water. 

SALTED CUCUMBERS OR DILL PICKLES 

Follow the General Directions for Preserving with Salt. A layer 
of dill and some mixed spices may be placed in the bottom of the 
container before packing the cucumbers, if desired. Use a brine 
made with a c. salt and 1 c. vinegar to 1 gal. water. 

SALTED GREEN TOMATOES 

Follow the General Directions for Preserving with Salt. Pack 
the tomatoes whole, adding dill and spice if desired. Use a brine 
made with f c. salt and 1 c. vinegar to 1 gal. water. 



112 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

SALTED CORN 

Follow the General Directions for Preserving with Salt. After 
husking the corn, cook it 10 minutes in boiling water and dip it in 
cold water. Cut the kernels from the cob, using a sharp knife. 
Pack, using 1 c. salt to 2 Ib. corn. If, after 24 hours, the brine does 
not cover the material, add brine made by dissolving 1 part of salt 
in 4 parts of water. 

NOTES ON MAKING JELLY 

1. Fruits contain a peculiar substance called pectin, which in com- 

bination with sugar and an acid makes fruit juice jellify. 

2. Fruits that contain both pectin and an acid, such as green grapes, 

currants, plums, sour apples and blackberries, are easily 
jellified. 

3. Fruits that contain pectin but insufficient acid, such as sweet 

apples, quinces, peaches and pears, require the addition of an 
acid which may be supplied by lemon juice or sour apples. 

4. To test fruit juice for pectin mix a spoonful of grain alcohol with 

an equal amount of the juice. If it is rich in pectin a jelly- 
like mass will form. If the juice does not respond well to the 
test boil it down and test again. 

5. Fruits for jelly making should be barely ripe or under-ripe. 

6. Juice for jelly should be cooked out of the fruit, not simply 

pressed out. 

7. Jelly should be clear, firm, tender and of good color and flavor. 

8. Failures in jelly making may be caused by: 

(1.) Too much sugar. 

(2.) Too long or insufficient boiling. 

(3.) Insufficient acid or pectin. 

(4.) The use of over-ripe fruit. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING JELLY 

1. Wash the fruit and remove the stems and imperfections. 

2. Cut large fruit into pieces without removing the skins or seeds. 

3. Place the fruit in a preserving kettle. Add water, using only a 

little for very juicy fruits, and enough to cover hard fruits. 

4. Cook the fruit at least 45 minutes, crushing it as it cooks. 

5. Pour the cooked fruit and juice into a scalded jelly bag. Allow 

the juice to drip through without pressing the bag. The 
juice which remains in the pulp may be left in it to make an 
acceptable Fruit Butter; or it may be pressed out and used to 
make cloudy jelly; or more clear juice may be extracted by 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD I I 3 

adding water to the pulp, cooking and draining again. This 
process may be repeated several times, extracting clear juice 
which should be reduced by boiling. 

6. If there is any doubt as to the quality of the juice for jelly 

making, use the test for pectin given in the Notes on Making 
Jelly. 

7. Measure the juice, then measure the sugar. The amount of 

sugar which should be used depends upon the amount of 
pectin in the juice. The average juice will take about three- 
fourths as much sugar as juice. If weak in pectin measure 
only one-half as much sugar as juice. Place the sugar where 
it will be heated through but not scorched. 

8. Boil the juice about 20 minutes (longer if weak in pectin), re- 

moving the scum as it forms. 

9. Add the heated sugar and stir until it is dissolved. Boil until 

the syrup "sheets off" when a little is dropped from a spoon ; 
or until it thickens a little and a skin forms when a few 
drops are cooled on a plate. When the latter test is used 
there is danger that the jelly may be over-cooked while mak- 
ing the test. 

10. Pour the jelly immediately in,to hot sterilized glasses. 

11. When a skin has formed over the jelly cover it with a layer of 

hot paraffin. 

12. Cover the glasses to keep out the dust. 

13. Label the jelly and store it. 

PRESERVED FRUITS 

Fruits may be preserved in enough sugar to keep without sealing 
but canning is now so easily accomplished that this process is not 
extensively used. From three-fourths to the full weight of the 
fruit in sugar is required. Hard fruits should be cooked until 
nearly tender in water which may be used for the syrup. Make a 
heavy syrup, using one-fourth as much water as sugar. Add the 
fruit and cook till tender. 

FRUIT BUTTER 

Peaches, pears, apples, plums and grapes are used for making 
fruit butter. For peach, pear or apple butter, wash, pare and slice 
the fruit. Cook it in a little water until tender. For grape or plum 
butter wash the fruit, cook in a little water and when soft press 
through a colander. To the pulp add about half as much sugar and 
a little spice if desired. Cook until it thickens, taking care not to 
let it scorch, and seal in sterilized jars. Pulp left after extracting 



I 1 4 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

part or all of the juice for jelly may be used for fruit butter but 
usually requires the addition of other fruit and spice to improve the 
flavor. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

3 oranges Sugar 

1 lemon Water 

Boil the fruit whole for 10 minutes and soak in cold water over 
night. Drain and cut the fruit in very thin slices, removing the 
seeds. Add twice as much water as fruit and let it stand over 
night. Boil 30 minutes and let it stand until the next morning. 
Add to the mixture an equal measure of sugar and boil until it re- 
sponds to the jelly test. Boiling the fruit whole and soaking over 
night reduces the bitter flavor. If a bitter marmalade is desired 
omit that process. This amount makes about 8 glasses and takes 
about 4-i Ibs. of sugar. 

GRAPEFRUIT MARMALADE 
1 grapefruit 1 lemon 

1 orange Sugar 

Water 

Wash the fruit and cut it into very thin slices. Add three times 
as much water as fruit and let stand over night. Boil 30 minutes 
and let stand over night again. Add to the mixture an equal 
measure of sugar and cook until it responds to the jelly test. This 
will take from H to 2 hours and care must be taken not to let it 
scorch. Pour into jars or jelly glasses. 

RHUBARB CONSERVE 

2 oranges -i Ib. shelled nuts 

3 Ib. sugar Juice of 3 lemons 

4 c. rhubarb cut into inch pieces 

Wash the rhubarb before cutting it, but do not peel it. Wash the 
oranges and cut off thin strips of the yellow part of the skin. Mix 
the rhubarb, orange juice and pulp, strips of skin, and lemon juice 
with the sugar. Cook slowly, stirring constantly until ready to 
jellify. Add the nuts, and seal in sterilized glasses. 

GRAPE CONSERVE 

2 qt. stemmed grapes 3 oranges 

1-J Ib. raisins 4 Ib. nuts 

The grapes for conserve should not be over-ripe. Wash the 
grapes and separate the pulp from the skins. Cook the pulp until 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD I I 5 

soft and press through a sieve. Remove pulp and juice from the 
oranges, and add to the grape skins, pulp, and raisins. Measure and 
add an equal amount of sugar. Simmer until ready to jellify; add 
nuts if desired, broken in pieces; and pour into sterilized glasses. 
Cover with melted paraffin. 

CHILI SAUCE 

3 pt. ripe tomatoes, cut 1 tb. salt 

in pieces \ t. cloves 

1 red pepper, finely chopped 1 t. cinnamon 

1 onion, finely chopped 1 t. allspice 

1 c. sugar 1 t. nutmeg 
Vinegar Bay leaf if desired 

Peel tomatoes and cut them in pieces. Cook with onion and 
pepper about two hours, or until thick, stirring occasionally to pre- 
vent scorching. Add remaining ingredients, using as much vinegar 
as necessary to give the desired flavor. Bottle and seal. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES 

2 qt. small cucumbers 12 small onions 
Brine 4 inches stick cinnamon 
5 c. vinegar and water 2 small hot peppers 

a c. sugar or less 2 tb. mustard seed 

Select small firm cucumbers as soon after cutting as possible. 
Wash them with a cloth and let them stand over night in a brine 
strong enough to float an egg. Make a mixture of about equal parts 
of vinegar and water, varying the proportion according to the 
strength of the vinegar. Add sugar and cucumbers and heat just 
until the color changes. Remove the cucumbers and pack them in 
jars with the remaining ingredients. Heat the vinegar to the boil- 
ing point, fill the jars and seal. 

STORING OF VEGETABLES FOR WINTER USE 

Many vegetables, when properly stored in the fall, may be had 
fresh for winter use. This is the most desirable way of keeping 
turnips, beets, carrots, parsnips, rutabagas, horseradish, kohlrabi, 
salsify, cabbages, celery, onions, potatoes, sweet potatoes, squashes, 
and pumpkins. 

Vegetables for storing should be planted to mature in the fall. 
Only the sound products can be stored successfully for any length 
of time, as decay would soon develop in any bruised or broken vege- 
table and contaminate the others. Vegetables intended for storing 



116 HANDBOOK OF RECIPES 

should not be washed. Nearly all except squash, pumpkin, and 
sweet potatoes keep best at a temperature just above freezing. 

Storage places for vegetables may be provided easily in most 
homes, if a section of the house cellar or a small piece of ground can 
be used for this purpose. Cellars in which there are furnaces are 
usually so warm and dry that the space used for vegetables should 
be partitioned off with wood and heavy paper, brick, or concrete. It 
is necessary to ventilate the vegetable cellar by having a small 
opening near the floor, and another near the ceiling. Vegetables 
may be stored out of doors in piles on the ground, or in pits, if they 
are protected from freezing, by earth, boards, and straw or dry 
leaves. The ground must be well drained, and the pit ventilated by 
an opening at the top. 

POTATOES 

Potatoes for storing should be planted to mature in the fall and 
should be ripe before they are harvested. As those from blighted 
vines do not keep well, they should be kept separate and used first. 
Potatoes keep best if dried for a few hours on the ground, and then 
in open crates for a few days. They should not be washed before 
storing. It is necessary to examine the potatoes occasionally and 
remove any that show signs of decay. Sprouts which grow on the 
potatoes should be rubbed off as soon as they appear. 



CABBAGES 

Cabbages which have just matured at the time of storing may 
be kept for late use, and those which are immature or over-ripe 
should be used first. The roots must be left on and the cabbages 
stored upside down. They must not be frozen, but require a cool 
moist storage place. On account of their odor, it is often desirable 
to store cabbages out of doors. 



ONIONS 

Onions for storing should be pulled and allowed to lie on the 
ground for several days, and then kept in open crates for one or two 
weeks to continue drying. Thick necked varieties do not keep as 
well as others. When well dried the tops should be removed, but not 
cut too close to the onion. Store the onions in a cool dry place, dis- 
carding the soft ones. A cool attic where there is no danger of 
freezing is a good storage place for onions. 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD 117 

ROOT VEGETABLES 

Tender roots such as beets and carrots should be stored before 
frost, but parsnips are improved by freezing. About 1 or 2 inches 
of the stem should be left on root vegetables. They require a cool 
moist storage place to keep them from shriveling. When stored 
in the cellar it is advisable to pack them in damp sand, and to 
sprinkle them occasionally. Special directions are given for storing 
sweet potatoes. 

CELERY 

Celery should be harvested before freezing weather. It may 
be packed out of doors in pits or trenches with the roots imbedded 
in sand, or in a cool vegetable cellar. Celery requires moisture and 
a low temperature, but must not be frozen. 

PUMPKINS AND SQUASHES 

Pumpkins and squashes may be kept a long time under proper 
conditions. They should be cut with a short stem when mature,, 
and then left on the ground a few days to harden. They must be 
gathered before severe frost. Pumpkins and squashes should be 
handled carefully, as they are likely to decay when bruised or 
scratched. They should be stored on shelves in a warm, dry, well- 
ventilated place. 

SWEET POTATOES 

Sweet potatoes should be dug before hard frost. They should be 
placed in a warm ventilated room, with the temperature above 
80 F. for 10 days. Then they should be stored in racks or baskets 
in a dry warm place. 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Abbreviations, Table of... 

Angel Cake .. - 77 

Apple Compote .. 

Apple Dumplings . 

Apple Fritters . - 66 

Apple Meringue . 

Apple Pie .. 

Apple Sauce .. 

Apple Sauce Cake .. .- 79 

Apple Sauce, Green .. 

Apple Tapioca .. .. 91 

Apples, Baked .. 9 

Apples, Scalloped . 

Apples, Steamed . 10 

Apples, Stewed Dried .. 

Apricot Jelly .. 96 

Apricot and Rice Pudding .. .. 90 

Apricots, Stewed .. 11 

Asparagus .. 25 

Bacon . 

Bacon and Liver .. ...48 
Baked Apples . 

Baked Beans .. - 29 

Baked Brown Bread . - 69 
Bake! Corn 

Baked Custard .. - 93 

Baked Eggs .. - 37 

Baked Fish .. .. 50 

Baked Hash . - 43 

Baked Indian Pudding .. .. 89 

Baked Lentils .. - 29 

Baked Potatoes . -.20 

Baked Potatoes, Stuffed .. .. 21 

Baked Rhubarb 10 

Baked Spaghetti . 17 

Baked Sweet Potatoes ... .. 21 
Baked Squash .. 

Baking Powder 64 

Baking Powder Biscuit .. .. 68 

Banana Fritters . 66 

Banana Salad .. 61 

Bar'ey Bread .. - 71 

B-i.rley and Corn Bread 70 

Bean Croquettes . .. 30 

Bean or Lentil Loaf .. .. 30 



PAGE 

Bean Soup, Cream of.... 57 

Bean Soup, Dried 57 

Beans with Bacon 29 

Beans, Boston Baked .. .. 29 

Beans, Green 29 

Beans, Lima 29 

Beans or Peas, Canned 109 

Beans, Salted String .. ...Ill 

Beef Cakes, Broiled .. .. 39 

Beef Chart .. .. 38 

Beef, Creamed Dried 43 

Beef Croquettes .. 44 

Beef, Cuts of . .. 38 

Beef Loaf .. . 42 

Beef, Notes on .. .. 38 

Beef, Roast .. 40 

Beef Stew . . 41 

Beef or Veal Rolls ... .. 40 

Beet Relish .. .. 23 

Beets, Buttered ... .. 23 

Beets or Carrots, Canned 109 

Beets, Pickled . .. 23 

Beverages . 11 

Biscuit, Baking Powder 68 

Biscuit, Cheese .. .. 69 

Biscuit, Drop .. 68 

Biscuit, Graham 69 

Boiled Cabbage .. .. 24 

Boiled Coffee 11 

Boiled Frosting . .. 79 

Boiled Macaroni or Spaghetti 17 

Boiled Potatoes .. . 18 

Boiled Rice .. . 14 

Boiled Spaghetti .. .. 17 

Bouillon .. 56 

Bread, Baked Brown 69 

Bread, Barley 71 

Bread, Barley and Corn .. . 76 

Bread Crumbs .. . 74 

Bread, Freshened 73 

Bread, Graham .. 71 

Bread, Notes on .. .. 70 

Bread, Nut . . 70 

Rrr-vl, Potato . - 72 

Bread Pudding .. .. 89 



120 



INDEX Continued 



PAGE 

Bread, Raised Corn 72 

Bread, Rice 72 

Bread, Rolled Oats 73 

Bread, Spoon 68 

Bread, Steamed Brown 69 

Bread Sticks 73 

Bread Sticks, Corn 68 

Bread, Southern Corn 68 

Bread, Wheat 71 

Broiled Beef Cakes 39 

Broiled Steak 39 

Buckwheat Cakes 65 

Buckwheat Cakes, Quick 64 

Butter, Drawn 51 

Butter, Lemon 39 

Buttered Beets 23 

Buttered Peas 28 

Cabbage, Boiled 24 

Cabbage, Fermented Salt 110 

Cabbage, Scalloped 24 

Cabbage, Storing of 116 

Cabbage, Stuffed 24 

Cake, Angel 77 

Cake, Apple Sauce ... 79 

Cake, Chocolate . 79 

Cake, Cream 79 

Cake, Gold 78 

Cake, Hot Water Sponge 76 

Cake, Notes on Making 75 

Cake, Nut 78 

Cake, Plain 77 

Cake, Sour Cream _.... 78 

Cake, Spice 78 

Cake, Sponge No. 1 76 

Cake, Sponge No. II 76 

Cake, Uses of Stale 75 

Cake, White 78 

Cakes, Broiled Beef 39 

Cakes, Buckwheat 65 

Cakes, Cornmeal Drop 83 

Cakes, Cornmeal Griddle 65 

Cakes, Drop 83 

Cakes, Griddle 64 

Cakes, Hominy 16 

Cakes, Potato .. 18 

Cakes, Quick Buckwheat 64 

Cakes, Rice 15 

Candied Sweet Potatoes 22 

Candy, Notes on Making 99 

Canned Beans or Peas.... ....109 



PAGE 

Canned Beets or Carrots 109 

Canned Corn 108 

Canned Fruit Juice 107 

Canned Hard Fruits 107 

Canned Pineapple 107 

Canned Rhubarb 107 

Canned Soft Fruits 106 

Canned Sour Berry Fruits 107 

Canned Strained Tomatoes 108 

Canned Tomatoes 108 

Canned Vegetable Greens 108 

Canning, Directions for the One 

Period Cold Pack Process 104 

Canning, Methods of 104 

Caramel Syrup 16 

Caramels, Chocolate 101 

Caramels, Vanilla 101 

Carbohydrates, Notes on 3 

Carrots 23 

Carrots, Canned Beets or 109 

Carrots and Peas 23 

Cauliflower 24 

Celery, Creamed 25 

Celery, Storing of 117 

Celery Soup, Cream of 57 

Cereal with Fruit 16 

Cereals, Notes on 13 

Cereals, Time Table for Cooking.... 13 

Charlotte, Fruit 97 

Charlotte, Orange 97 

Charlotte Russe 96 

Chart of Beef 38 

Chart of Mutton 46 

Chart of Pork 47 

Chart of Veal 45 

Cheese Biscuit 69 

Cheese, Cottage 32 

Cheese Fondue 33 

Cheese, Hominy and 16 

Cheese Loaf 33 

Cheese, Macaroni and 17 

Cheese, Rice and 14 

Cheese Sauce 34 

Cheese, Scalloped 33 

Cheese, Sweet Milk 32 

Cheese Wafers 34 

Chicken Croquettes 49 

Chicken, Fried 50 

Chicken Patties 50 

Chicken, Roast 49 



INDEX Continued 



121 



PAGE 

Chicken, Stewed 49 

Chicken, To Dress and Clean 48 

Chili Con Carne 42 

Chili Sauce 115 

Chocolate Bread Pudding 90 

Chocolate Cake - 79 

Chocolate Caramels 101 

Chocolate Cream Filling 80 

Chocolate Creams 100 

Chocolate Frosting No. 1 80 

Chocolate Frosting No. II 80 

Chocolate Fudge .. 101 

Chocolate, Hot 11 

Chocolate, Iced . 12 

Chocolate Junket .. .. 32 

Chops, Pan Broiled ... .. 39 

Chowder, Corn 28 

Chowder, Fish 61 

Chowder, Potato 20 

Classification of Vegetables 18 

Cobbler, Fruit 86 

Cocoa 11 

Coffee, Boiled 11 

Coffee, Filtered 12 

Codfish Balls 53 

Codfish, Creamed 53 

Cole Slaw .. 60 

Conserve, Grape 114 

Conserve, Rhubarb 114 

Cooked Salad Dressing No. 1 58 

Cooked Salad Dressing No. II 58 

Cookies, Molasses - 82 

Cookies, Sugar 83 

Cooking, Methods of 

Cooking, Reasons for 7 

Corn, Baked 27 

Corn Bread .. 67 

Corn Bread, Barley and 70 

Corn Bread, Raised 72 

Corn Bread, Southern 68 

Corn Bread Sticks 68 

Corn, Canned 108 

Corn Chowder 28 

Corned Beef Stew 41 

Cornmeal Drop Cakes 

Cornmeal Gingerbread 

Cornmeal Griddle Cakes 65 

Cornmeal Waffles 65 

Cornmeal Mush 13 

Cornmeal Wafers 73 



PAGE 

Corn Oysters 28 

Corn, Salted Ill 

Corn, Scalloped 27 

Corn Soup, Cream of 56 

Corn, Stewed 27 

Corn, Stewed Dried 27 

Cornstarch Custard 95 

Cornstarch Fruit Mold 94 

Cornstarch Meringue 94 

Cornstarch Mold 94 

Cornstarch Mold, Chocolate 94 

Cottage Cheese 32 

Cottage Pudding ... 

Cranberry Jelly 10 

Cranberry Sauce 10 

Cream Cake 79 

Cream of Celery Soup 57 

Cream of Corn Soup 56 

Cream of Pea Soup 57 

Cream of Potato Soup 57 

Cream of Tomato Soup 56 

Cream Filling 80 

Cream Filling, Chocolate 80 

Cream Puffs 81 

Cream Toast 74 

Creamed Celery 25 

Creamed Codfish 53 

Creamed Eggs 37 

Creamed Dried Beef . 43 

Creamed Fish 51 

Creamed Oysters 54 

Creamed Peas 28 

Creamed Potatoes 19 

Creamed Potatoes (Quick Method) 19 
Creamed Potatoes (Onion Flavor) 19 

Creamed Turnips 

Creamed Salsify 

Creamy Omelet - 36 

Croquettes, Bean or Lentil 30 

Croquettes, Beef 44 

Croquettes, Chicken 49 

Croquettes, Meat and Mush 44 

Croquettes, Potato 19 

Croquettes, Rice 15 

Croquettes, Salmon 

Croquettes, Veal 45 

Croutons 56 

Crumbs, To Prepare .. 

Cucumber Pickles 

Cucumbers or Dill Pickles, Salted. .111 



122 



INDEX- 



Continued 



PAGE 

Custard, Cornstarch 95 

Custard, Baked . .. 93 

Custard Pie .. .. 88 

Custard, Soft .. 93 

Cutlets, Veal . .. 45 

Cuts of Beef .. 38 

Cuts of Mutton .. . 46 

Cuts of Pork .. . 47 

Cuts of Veal .. .. 45' 

Dates, Stuffed . ....100 

Dill Pickles, Salted Cucumbers Ill 

Directions for Drying Fruits and 

Vegetables . .-..102 

Directions for Preserving Vegeta- 
bles with Salt.... ....109 

Dish Towels, Care of. ... 8 

Dish Washing, Rules for 8 

Doughnuts .. 81 

Drawn Butter Sauce.... .. 51 

Dressed Lettuce 59 

Dressing . 51 

Dressing, Cooked Salad, No. 1 58 

Dressing, Cooked Salad, No. II 58 

Dressing, French .. 59 

Dressing, Mayonnaise .. 59 

Dressing, Quick Mayonnaise .. .. 59 
Dried Apples, Stewed.... 9 

Dried Bean Soup .. .. 57 

Dried Beef, Creamed . .. 43 

Dried Corn, Stewed .. .. 27 

Dried Pea Soup .. .. 57 

Drying Fruits and Vegetables 102 

Drop Biscuit .. .. 68 

Drop Cakes .. 83 

Drop Cakes, Cornmeal ... .. 83 

Dumplings . 41 

Dumplings, Apple .. 83 

Dumplings. Peach .. .. 8'4 

Dutch Apple Cake .. .. 84 

Eclairs .. .. 81 

Egg-plant, Fried .. .. 25 

Egg-plant, Stuffed .. .. 25 

Eggs, Baked .. .. 37 

Eggs, Creamed 37 

Eggs, Hard Cooked .. .. 35 

Egg in a Nest .. 37 

Eggs, Notes on .. 34 

Eggs, Poached .. .. 35 

Eggs Poached in Milk.... .. 36 

Egojs Preserved in Water Glass.... 34 



PAGE 

Eggs, Scrambled 35 

E'ggs, Soft Cooked.... 35 

Eggs, Stuffed .. .. 37 

Eggs, Points on Using.... 35 

Fat, To Clarify .. 44 

Fat, To Try Out.... .. 44 

Fats, Notes on 3 

Fat-proof Coating 44 

Fermented Salt Cabbage (Sauer- 
kraut) ....110 
Fig Tapioca . .. 92 
Filling, Cream .. .. 80 
Filling, Chocolate Cream .... .. 80 

Filling for Sandwiches 62 

Filtered Coffee . .. 12 

Fish, Baked .. .. 50 

Fish, Chowder .. .. 51 

Fish, Creamed .. 51 

Fish, Fried .. .. 51 

Fish, Hash . .. 52 

Fish, Scalloped .. .. 52 

Fish, Selection of .. .. 50 

Floating Island ... .. 94 

Flour Mixtures .. 62 

Foamy Omelet .. .. 36 

Fondant .. ...100 

Food, Definition and Classification 3 

Food Preservation of .. 102 

Food, Uses of .. 3 

Freezing, Directions for.... .. 97 

French Dressing 59 

French Fried Potatoes .. 21 

French Toast . .. 74 

Freshened Bread .. .. 73 

Fried Chicken .. ..50 

Fried Egg-plant ... .. 25 

Fried Fish . .. 51 

Fried Mush, Sauted or 16 

Fried Oysters .. 54 

Fritter Batter .. .. 66 

Fritters, Apple . .. 66 

Fritters, Banana .. .. 66 

Frosting, Boiled .. .. 79 

Frosting, Chocolate, No. 1 80 

Frosting, Chocolate, No. II 80 

Frosting Made with Yolks 80 

Frosting, Quick .. .. 86 

Frozen Desserts .. .. 97 

Fruit Butter .. ...113 

| Fruit, Canned Hard.... 107 



INDEX Continued 



123 



PAGE 

Fruit, Cereal with.... .. 16 

Fruit Charlotte ... .. 97 

Fruit Cobbler .. .. 86 

Fruit Gelatin .. .. 96 

Fruit Juice, Canned.... ...107 

Fruit Mold, Cornstarch.... .. 94 

Fruit Mousse .. .. 99 

Fruit Pudding, Steamed.... .. 86 

Fruit Salad .. 61 

Fruit Sauce . .. 85 

Fruit Tapioca . .. 92 

Fruits, Canned Hard.... ...107 

Fruits, Canned Soft... ...106 

Fruits, Canned Sour Berry 107 

Fruits, Preserved 113 

Fudge, Chocolate . ....101 

Gelatin, Fruit - 96 

Gelatin, Notes on 95 

General Directions for Canning by 
the One Period Cold Pack Pro- 
cess 104 

General Directions for Preserving 
Vegetables with Salt.... ...109 

Gingerbread .. 81 

Gingerbread, Cornmeal ... 

Ging'ersnaps . 

Glazed Sweet Potatoes. ... .. 22 

Gold Cake .. 

Graham Biscuit . .. 69 

Graham Bread .. . 71 

Graham Muffins .. .. 67 

Graham Mush .. 14 

Granulated Wheat .. .. 13 

Grape Conserve .. 

Grapefruit Marmalade .. ...114 

Gravy - 40 

Green Apple Sauce .. 9 

Green Beans - 29 

Green Pepper Omelet .. .. 37 

Green Tomatoes, Salted .... ...Ill 

Greens 26 

Greens, Canned Vegetable 108 

Greens, Salted Vegetable.... ..Ill 

Griddle Cakes .. . 64 

Griddle Cakes, Bread. ... .. 64 

Griddle Cakes, Cornmeal 65 

Hard Cooked Eggs.... 

Hard Fruits, Canned.... ...107 

Hard Sauce .. .. 84 

Hash, Baked 43 



PAGE 

Hash, Fish . 52 

Hominy 16 

Hominy Cakes .. 16 

Hominy and Cheese 16 

Hot Chocolate .. . 11 

Hot Water Sponge Cake 76 

Ice Cream, Chocolate 98 

Ice Cream, Fruit... 98 

Ice Cream, Junket 98 

Ice Cream, Vanilla.... 98 

Ice, Lemon .. 97 

Iced Chocolate .. .. 12 

Iced Tea .. .. 12 

Jelly, Apricot .. .. 96 

Jelly, Cranberry .. 10 

Jelly, Directions for Making ...112 

Jelly, Lemon .. 95 

Jelly, Notes on Making 112 

Jelly, Prune . .. 96 

Jelly Roll .. . 77 

Junket ... .. 32 

Junket, Chocolate .. .. 32 

Junket Ice Cream 98 

Lamb, Roast 46 

Lamb, Stewed with Rice .. 47 

Leavening Agents .. 63 

Lemonade 12 

Lemon Butter .. .. 39 

Lemon Ice 97 

Lemon Jelly .. 95 

Lemon Pie . 

Lemon Sauce 84 

Lemon Sherbet .. 98 

Lentils, Baked ... .. 29 

Lentil Croquettes, Bean or.... .. 30 

Lentil Loaf, Bean or... .. 30 

Lettuce, Dressed ... .. 59 

Lima Beans 29 

Liver and Bacon .. 48 

Loaf, Bean or Lentil 30 

Loaf, Beef .. . 42 

Loaf, Cheese . .. 33 

Loaf, Nut . .. 30 

Loaf, Salmon 52 

Loaf, Veal .. . 45 

Lyonnaise Potatoes 20 

Macaroni, Spaghetti or Boiled 17 

Macaroni and Cheese 17 

Marmalade, Grapefruit ...114 

Marmalade, Orange 114 



124 



INDEX Continued 



PAGE 

Mashed Potatoes .. .. 19 

Mashed Turnips .. .. 22 

Mayonnaise 59 

Mayonnaise, Quick 59 

Meals, Suggestions for Planning, ... 4 
Measures and Weights, Table of.... 8 

Meat 38 

Meat, Care of 38 

Meat, Minced on Toast 43 

Meat and Mush Croquettes.... . 44 
Meat Pie .. .. 42 

Meat, Scalloped . . 43 

Meat Souffle .. . 43 

Meat, Minced on Toast ... . 43 

Meringue .. 88 

Meringue, Apple ... .. 91 

Meringue, Cornstarch .. .. 94 

Methods of Canning .. ..104 

Methods of Cooking.... 7 

Milk, Care of.... . 31 

Milk, Notes on.... .. 31 

Milk Sherbet .. 98 

Milk Toast ... .. 74 

Minced Meat on Toast.... 43 

Mineral Matter, Notes on.... 4 

Mint Sauce .. . 46 

Mint Wafers .. .. 100 

Molasses Cookies 82 

Molasses Taffy .. ...100 

Mold, Cornstarch . 94 

Mold, Cornstarch Fruit.... .. 94 

Mold, Chocolate Cornstarch 94 

Mousse, Fruit 99 

Muffins .. .. 67 

Muffins, Corn Meal.... .. 67 

Muffins, Graham ..... .. 67 

Muffins, Rice .. .. 67 

Muffins, Rolled Oats 67 

Muffins, Rye 67 

Mush, Cornmeal _ 13 

Mush, Graham - 14 

Mush, Sauted or Fried.... . 16 

Mutton Chart . 46 

Mutton, Cuts of.... .. 46 

Mutton, Notes on 46 

Mutton, Stewed with Rice .. 47 

Mutton, Roast .. 46 

Notes on Making Bread 70 

Notes on Making- Cake 75 

Notes of Making Candy 99 



PAGE 

Notes on Making Jelly 112 

Notes on Preservation of Food 102 

Noodles 55 

Nut Bread 70 

Nut Brittle .. ....101 

Nut Cake 78 

Nut Loaf 30 

Nuts, Salted .. ....101 

Oats, Rolled 13 

Omelet, Creamy 36 

Omelet, Fancy .. 36 

Omelet, Foamy 36 

Omelet, Green Pepper.... .. 37 

Omelet, Spanish .. .. 36 

Onions 24 

Onions, Storing of 116 

Onions, Stuffed .. 24 

Orange Charlotte 97 

Orange Marmalade .. ...114 

Orange Sauce 85 

Orange Shortcake 86 

Oven Tests ... .. 62 

Oyster Patties ... .. 54 

Oyster Soup .. 53 

Oysters, To Clean 53 

Oysters, Creamed 54 

Oysters, Fried .. 54 

Oysters, Panned 53 

Oysters, Scalloped . . 53 

Pan-broiled Chops ..... .. 39 

Pan-broiled Steak 39 

Panned Potatoes (Quick Method).. 20 
Parsnips ... .. 22 

Patties, Chicken or Veal 50 

Patties, Oyster .. 54 

Patties, Pea .. 28 

Patty Shells .. -. 89 

Peach Dumplings .. .. 84 

Pea Patties . 28 

Pea Soup, Dried.... .. 57 

Peas, Buttered .. 28 

Peas, Canned Beans and 109 

Peas, Carrots and 23 

Peas, Creamed .. .. 28 

Peas, Salted . ...Ill 

Peppers, Stuffed . .. 26 

Pickled Beets .. .. 23 

Pickles. Cucumber ....115 

Pie, Apple .. 89 

Pie Crust .. .. 87 



INDEX Continued 



125 



PAGE 

Pie, Custard 88 

Pie, Lemon 88 

Pie, Meat 42 

Pie, Pumpkin .. 88 

Pie, Rhubarb .. 89 

Pineapple, Canned 107 

Plain Cake ..... . 77 

Planning of Meals 4 

Poached Eggs .. 35 

Poached in Milk, Eggs.... .. 36 

Popovers 66 

Pork Chart .. 47 

Pork, Cuts of . 47 

Pork, Notes on.... . 47 

Pork Roast . 47 

Potato Bread . 72 

Potato Cakes ... .. 19 

Potato Chips .. 21 

Potato Chowder .. 20 

Potato Croquettes ... .. 19 

Potato Salad .. 60 

Potato Soup, Cream of... . 57 

Potatoes, Baked .. 20 

Potatoes, Boiled . . 18 

Potatoes, Creamed 19 

Potatoes, Creamed (Quick Method) 19 
Potatoes, Creamed (Onion Flavor) 19 

Potatoes, French Fried 21 

Potatoes, Glazed Sweet.... 

Potatoes, Lyonnaise 20 

Potatoes, Mashed .. .. 19 

Potatoes, Panned (Quick Method) 20 

Potatoes Roasted with Meat 21 

Potatoes, Sauted .. .. 19 

Potatoes, Scalloped .. 21 

Potatoes, Storing of ...116 

Potatoes, Storing of Sweet ...117 

Potatoes, Stuffed Baked 21 

Potatoes, Sweet, Baked.... . 21 

Potatoes, Sweet, Sauted.... .. 21 

Pot Roast .. . 41 

Preservation of Foods 102 

Preserved Fruits 

Preserving with Salt ...109 

Protein 3 

Prune Jelly 96 

Prune Pudding 93 

Prune Whip .. 93 

Prunes, Stewed 11 

Pudding, Apple Tapioca 91 



PAGE 

Pudding, Baked Indian 89 

Pudding, Bread 89 

Pudding, Chocolate Bread 90 

Pudding, Cottage 93 

Pudding, Creamy Rice 90 

Pudding, Prune 93 

Pudding, Rhubarb 91 

Pudding, Rice 90 

Pudding, Rice and Apricot 90 

Pudding, Snow 96 

Pudding, Steamed Fruit 86 

Pudding, Suet 87 

Pudding, Tapioca Cream 92 

Pumpkin Pie 88 

Pumpkins and Squashes, Storing 

of 117 

Quick Buckwheat Cakes 64 

Quick Frosting 80 

Quick Mayonnaise ... 59 

Raised Corn Bread.... .. 72 

Raisin Sauce 85 

Reasons for Cooking 7 

Refrigerator 9 

Relish, Beet . .. 23 

Rhubarb, Baked .. .10 

Rhubarb, Canned 107 

Rhubarb Conserve 114 

Rhubarb Pie .. .. 89 

Rhubarb Pudding . .. 91 

Rhubarb Sauce 10 

Rice and Apricot Pudding 90 

Rice, Boiled . .. 14 

Rice Bread . 

Rice Cakes .. .. 15 

Rice and Cheese.... . 14 

Rice Croquettes 15 

Rice Muffins .. .. 67 

Rice with Lamb or Mutton.... . 47 
Rice Pudding .. - 90 

Rice Pudding, Creamy... .. 90 

Rice, Spanish . . 15 

Rice, Steamed .. 
Rice, Timbales .. - 15 

Rice Waffles 65 

Roast Beef 

Roast Chicken . . 49 

Roast Lamb or Mutton.... . 46 

Roast Pork .. 

Rolled Oats 

Rolled Oats Bread 73 



126 



INDEX Continued 



PAGE 

Rolled Oats Muffins 67 

Rolls 73 

Root Vegetables, Storing of 117 

Rye Muffins . .. 67 ] 

Salad, Banana .. 61 

Salad, Cabbage (See Cole Slaw).. 60 
Salad, Dressed Lettuce.... .. 59 

Salad Dressing, Cooked, No. 1 58 

Salad Dressing, Cooked, No. II 58 

Salad Dressing, French 59 

Salad Dressing, Mayonnaise 59 

Salad Dressing, Whipped Cream ... 59 
Salad, Fruit .. .. 61 

Salad, Notes on.... 58 

Salad, Potato .. .. 60 

Salad, Tomato .. 60 

Salad, Tomato Jelly .. .. 60 

Salad, Vegetable Jelly... .. 61 

Salmon Croquettes .. .. 52 

Salmon Loaf .. 52 

Salmon Sauce .. 5*2 

Salmon, Scalloped (See Fish) 52 

Salsify, Cakes . .. 23 

Salsify Creamed . .. 23 

Salt Cabbage, Fermented (Sauer- 
kraut) ....110 

Salt, Preserving with . ...109 

Salted Corn . ....Ill 

Salted Cucumbers or Dill Pickles..lll 
Salted Green Tomatoes.... ...Ill 

Salted Nuts . ...101 

Salted Peas .. ...Ill 

Salted String Beans.... ...Ill 

Salted Vegetable Greens. ... ...Ill 

Sandwich Fillings .. .. 62 

Sandwiches 61 

Sauce, Apple . 9 

Sauce, Cheese .. .. 34 

Sauce, Chili .. ...115 

Sauce, Cranberry 10 

Sauce, Drawn Butter .. 51 

Sauce, Fruit 85 

Sauce, Green Apple. 9 

Sauce, Hard . 84 

Sauce, Lemon .. .. 84 

Sauce, Lemon Butter 39 

Sauce, Mint .. .. 46 

Sauce, Orange . 85 

Sauce, Raisin 85 

Sauce, Rhubarb .. . 10 



PAGE 

Sauce, Salmon 52 

Sauce, Tomato . 17 

Sauce, Vanilla .. .. 85 

Sauce, Vinegar 84 

Sauce, White ... 31 

Sauerkraut, Fermented Salt Cab- 
bage . ....110 

Sauted or Fried Mush.... 16 

Sauted Potatoes .. .. 20 

Sauted Sweet Potatoes.... .. 21 

Sauted Tomatoes .. .. 26 

Scalloped Apples .. 91 

Scalloped Cabbage . .. 24 

Scalloped Cheese .. 33 

Scalloped Corn . .. 27 

Scalloped Fish . .. 52 

Scalloped Meat . .. 43 

Scalloped Oysters .. 53 

Scalloped Potatoes .. .. 21 

Scalloped Salmon (See Fish) 52 

Scalloped Tomatoes . .. 26 

Scrambled Eggs .. 35 

Scrapple .. 48 

Selection of Fish.... .. 50 

Serving, Suggestions for.... 6 

Setting the Table.... 5 

Sherbet, Lemon .. 98 

Sherbet, Milk .. .. 98 

Shortcake, Orange 86 

Shortcake, Strawberry .. 86 

Sink, Care of.... .- 8 

Slaw, Cole .. .. 60 

Smothered Steak .. .. 39 

Snow Pudding ... 96 

Soft Cooked Eggs ... .. 35 

Soft Custard . .. 93 

Soft Fruits, Canned.... ....106 

Souffle, Meat . . 43 

Soup, Cream of Bean.... .. 57 

Soup, Cream of Celery... .. 57 

Soup, Cream of Corn 56 

Soup, Cream of Pea.... 57 

Soup, Cream of Tomato.... .. 56 

Soup, Dried Bean.... .. 57 

Soup, Dried Pea.... .. 57 

Soup, Notes on.... .. 54 

Soup, Oyster .. . 53 

Soup Stock .. .. 55 

Soup, Tomato . - 56 

Soup, Vegetable . - 55 



INDEX Continued 



127 



PAGE 

Sour Berry Fruits, Canned.. 107 

Sour Cream Cake.... . 78 

Southern Corn Bread. 68 

Spaghetti, Baked .. . 17 

Spaghetti, Boiled Macaroni or 17 

Spanish Omelet . - 36 

Spanish Rice ... .. 15 

Spanish Toast 74 

Spinach . .. 27 

Spice Cake .. .. 78 

Sponge Cake, Hot Water 76 

Sponge Cake, No. I.... .. 76 

Sponge Cake, No. II.... . 76 

Spoon Bread 68 

Squash, Baked .. .. 22 

Squash, Steamed Winter 22 

Squashes, Pumpkins and.... ....117 

Stale Cake, Uses of.... .. 75 

Steak, Broiled . 39 

Steak, Pan-broiled . .. 39 

Steak, Smothered .. 39 

Steamed Brown Bread .. .. 69 

Steamed Fruit Pudding .. .. 86 

Steamed Rice .. . 14 

Steamed Winter Squash 22 

Stew, Corned Beef . . 41 

Stewed Apricots .. 

Stewed Corn .. .. 27 

Stewed Chicken .. . 49 

Stewed Dried Apples ... 9 

Stewed Dried Corn .. .. 27 

Stewed Lamb or Mutton with Rice 47 
Stewed Prunes .. .11 

Stewed Tomatoes .. 
Storing of Vegetables for Winter 
Use . -115 

Strained Tomatoes, Canned 108 

Strawberry Shortcake ... .. 86 

String Beans, Salted ...111 

Stuffed Baked Potatoes .. .. 21 

Stuffed Cabbage .. .. 24 

Stuffed Dates . ...100 

Stuffed Egg-plant .. 
Stuffed Eggs .. 

Stuffed Onions 

Stuffed Peppers .. 26 

Stuffed Tomatoes .. - 26 

Styles of Service .. 6 

Succotash 28 

Sugar Cookies .. 83 



PAGE 

Sugar Syrup .. 16 

Suggestions for Serving 6 

Sweet Milk Cheese ... .. 32 

Sweet Potatoes, Storing of 117 

Sweet Potatoes, Baked 21 

Sweet Potatoes, Glazed or Candied 22 
Sweet Potatoes, Sauted.... .. 21 

Syrup, Caramel 16 

Syrup, Sugar . . 16 

Syrup, Tests for 99 

Table, Setting the.... 5 

Taffy, Molasses . ....100 

Tapioca, Apple . .. 91 

Tapioca Cream . - 92 

Tapioca, Fig .. - 92 

Tapioca, Fruit . 92 

Tea . - 12 

Tea Bars . . 79 

Tea, Iced . - 12 

Tests for Syrup .. .. 99 

Timbale Cases - 66 

Timbales, Rice .. 15 

Time Table for Boiling Vegetables 18 
Time Table for Cooking Cereals.. 13 
Toast . - 74 

Toast, Cream .. . 74 

Toast, French . .. 74 

Toast, Milk . - 74 

Toast, Spanish .. 

To Clarify Fat ... . 44 

To Try Out Fat... . 44 

Tomato Jelly Salad .. 60 

Tomato Salad . - 60 

Tomato Sauce . 17 

Tomato Soup . -- 56 

Tomato Soup, Cream of... .. 56 

Tomatoes, Canned .. ...108 

Tomatoes, Canned Strained 108 

Tomatoes, Salted Green .. ...Ill 

Tomatoes, Sauted .. - 26 

Tomatoes, Scalloped 26 

Tomatoes, Stewed . 
Tomatoes, Strained .. ....108 

Tomatoes, Stuffed .. .. 26 

Turnips, Mashed .. 

Vanilla Sauce - 85 

Veal Chart . 

Veal Croquettes .. 

Veal Cutlets .. - 45 

Veal, Cuts of .. - 45 



128 



INDEX Continued 



PAGE 

Veal Loaf 45 

Veal, Notes on 45 

Veal Patties 50 

Veal Rolls 40 

Vegetable Greens, Canned 108 

Vegetable Greens, Salted Ill 

Vegetable Jelly Salad 61 

Vegetable Soup 55 

Vegetables, Classification of 18 

Vegetables, Preserved with Salt.. ..109 

Vegetables, Root 117 

Vegetables, Storing of, For Win- 
ter Use 115 

Vegetables, Time Table for Boiling 18 

Vinegar Sauce 84 

Vitamines 4 

Wafers, Cheese 34 



PAGE 

Wafers, Cornmeal 73 

Waffles 65 

Waffles, Cornmeal 65 

Waffles, Rice 65 

Washing Dishes, Rules for 8 

Water 4 

Weights and Measures 8 

Welsh Rarebit 33 

Wheat Bread - 71 

Wheat, Granulated 13 

Whip, Prune 93 

Whipped Cream Salad Dressing.. 59 

White Cake 78 

White Sauce 31 

Yeast Bread, Notes on Making 70 

Yeast, Notes on .. 63 



THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY 

REFERENCE DEPARTMENT 



This book is under no circumstances to be 
taken from the Building 




