CHRISTOPHER 
HOUSE GUILD 



GOOK BOuK 



UNIVERSITY OF 

ILLINOIS LIBRARY 

AT URBANA CHAMPAIGN 

OAK STREET 

LIBRARY ^AGILITY 



Corner Book Shop 

102 Fourth Ave. 
New York 3, N. Y. 



CHRISTOPHER 
HOUSE GUILD 

COOK BOOK :: :: 



The earliest known Cook Book was 
printed in Venice in 1475 



COMPILED BY 

CHRISTOPHER HOUSE GUILD 

OF THE 

FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
EVANSTON. ILLINOIS 



Copyright 1912 
By Mrs. Theodore Nelson Johnson. 






^0 Kfb. 30lrn If. Sogb, S. S.. 
^n anb tn Mvb, Sdyi, frnm hitynjs^ 
anltrttub? for lljf pwpU in a 
ton^Btth JitBtrtrt nf C!Il)tra90 our 
QIl|nBt0pI|er ^l^\XBt tjcii its mr?;itt0n 
an& ^arlij surrrfia. ll|? Cabt^B af 
flIlTrt0topI|^r if 0Ufi? (&uUi ttnto hthx- 
tntt ti\t vtBnlt of t\}nc labarja tit 
r^minltng ant) publtfilitng tt|tB %0ok« 



PREFACE 

**To be a good cook means the 
knowledge of all fruits, herbs, 
balms and spices, and of all that 
is healing and sweet in field and 
groves, and savory in meats; 
means carefulness, inventiveness, 
watchfulness, willingness and 
readiness of appliances. It means 
the economy of your great- 
grandmothers and the science of 
modern chemists. It means much 
tasting and no wasting. It means 
English thoroughness, French 
art and Arabian hospitality. It 
means, in fine, that you are to be 
perfectly and always ladies (loaf- 
givers) and to see that every one 
has something nice to eat." 

— RUSKIN. 



Capital, $150,000.00 Surplus, $200,000.00 



THE 

OLDEST 

BANK 

ON 

THE 
NORTH 
SHORE 




A TRUST COMPANY 



Banking for Women 

is nowadays not only a business necessity but also a distinct 
pleasure in an institution such as this, which affords every 
facility for the accommodation of its lady patrons. An at- 
tractively furnished rest room, containing desks, stationer^', 
telephone, etc., is constantly at their disposal. 

Small as well as large household checking accounts are 
received; 3% compound interest is paid on savings deposits 
from $1.00 upwards and Safe Deposit Boxes rented for 
$3.00 per year. 

State Bank of Evanston 

FOUNTAIN SQUARE 
EVANSTON. - - - ILLINOIS 

OFFICERS 



William A. Dyche, 

President 
F. J. Scheidenhelm, 

Vice-Pres. & Cashier 
C. J. Luther, 

Asst. Secretary 



H. J. Walliniford. 

Vice-President 
G. H. Tomlinson, 

Asst. Cashier & Sec'y 
L. J. Knapp, 

Asst. Secretary 



The QUALITY STORE 

O. J. MOCHON, Proprietor Formerly North Shore Grocery 

When you do not know what you want to eat just call us up 
and let us suggest something. 



Grocery Department 

Staple and Fancy Groceries of all kinds 
Fresh Fruits and Vegetables. 

Meat Department 

Choice Fresh Meats of all kinds. 

Phones 2751-2752 



Baker D Department 

We have our own make 
of delicious and whole- 
some Bakery Goods 
made fresh every day 
from our own ovens. 



616 Davis Street 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

BEVERAGES Page 25 

Boiled Coffee Page 25 

Tea Page 25 

Iced Tea Page 25 

Hot Chocolate Page 25 

Plain Lemonade Page 26 

Ginger Ale Lemonade Page 26 

Pineapple Lemonade Page 26 

Cherry Julip Page 26 

Chocolate Syrup for Iced Chocolate Page 26 

Grape Juice Punch Page 27 

Fruit Punch Page 27 



W. H. Cook Co. 

Wholesale and ReUil 

MEATS 

913 Chicago Avenue 
Evanstott, Illinois 

Telephones 280 and 281 



If. R. CHAPIN 



N. P. NELSON 



CHAPIN & 
NELSON 

Livery and Board- 
ing Stables 

Carriages and Cabs Famished 
for All Occasions 

831-833 Chicago Avenue 

Teleykones 163 3736 Evansttn, 111. 



You want good furniture 
in your home; furniture 
that improves on acquaint- 
ance and is so well made 
that your children, grand- 
children and great grand- 
children may use it and be 
proud of it. 

There's just as real honesty today 
in furniture making as there was in 
the Colonial days, if you know where 
to go to find it. 

Scholle furniture is the honest kind, 
and the new Scholle store is the best ap- 
pointed furniture store in the country. 

No matter what you want in furniture 
you'll find it here and at a price as low as 
honest workmanship and honest methods 
will justify — you'll get big value. 

You're as welcome if you come only to look 
around as if you came to buy. Come. 

Scholle Furniture Company 

121 South Wabash Avenue 

Telephone Randolph 6001 



Chas. H. Scholle, Pres. 
C. J. Mohr. 2nd V. Pres. 



F. Posthuma, V. Pres. 
Andrew J. Shea, Secy-Treas. 



THOMAS E. CONNOR 

ESTABLISHED 1895 

Hardware :: House Furnishing Goods 

^Tp Sole Agent for Visible New Process 

Steam, Hot Water ^It Gas Ranges— over 300 in Evanston. 

and Hot Air " Jt^^"?!,^ Porcelain Refrigerators. 

,, . New Idea uas Ranges. 
Heating ^ 

605 and 607 Davis Street 

Telephones 2154-2155 EVANSTON, ILL. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

BEY ERA GES—Con tinued 

Egg-Nogg Page 27 

Mulled Sherry Page 27 

Catawba Grape Juice Punch Page 28 

Claret Punch Page 28 

A Delicious Drink Page 28 



John Westreicher 

(INC.) 



Randlev s 


Good 


Coffee 


802 Dempster Street 

Telephone 62 

1928 Central Street 

Telephone 4567 Wilmette 220 



W. H. POWERS HARRY LAWLER 

W. H. POWERS CO. 

Distilled Water Ice 

Factorp and Office 

1932 Ridge Avenue 

Telephone Evanston 6-7 Evanston, Illinois 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES. Page 31 

White Bread Page 31 

Batter Bread Page 31 

Parker House Rolls Page 32 

Oatmeal Bread Page 32 

Whole Wheat Nut Bread Page 32 

Boston Brown Bread Page 33 

Corn Bread Page 33 

Graham Brown Bread Page 33 

Scotch Short Bread Page 33 

Date and Nut Loaf Page 34 

Graham Nut Bread Page 34 

Nut Bread Page 34 



G. C. SCHEIBE 

Grocer 

601 Dempster Street 

Telephone 2525 Evanston, 111. 



eSTABLISHEO I87S BY C.J.LEHMANN 




FAI 




STATE 
DEARBORN 



ADAMS AND | ^ri roHnNF^/ PR'VATE EXCHANGE 3 | STORE OPENS AT aSO AM 
BORNSTS I ^^'•^*^"'"*^* I AUTOMATIC 62-565. I AND CLOSES AT 6. RM. 




Best Results from the recipes in this book 

can be obtained only by using pure, wholesome food 

products such as alone are sold in our mammoth seventh floor 

Grocery and Market 

We are Chicago's greatest purveyors of staple groceries, carrying 
all the well recognized brands of supplies in every line; and we 
are at the same time the leading fancy grocers, well prepared to 
supply you with all the choicest and daintiest table delicacies 
which the world produces — many epicurean tid-bits for people 
who enjoy good living — some sold exclusively by us. In 

Fresh Fruits and Vegetables, Frah Meats and Fish 

Selected Teas and Coffees All Kinds of Fine Cheese 

Fresh and Pure Delicatessen Goods 

Our offerings are supreme. All our bakery and pastry goods are baked fresh 
daily in our own ovens. Our sample order room is a great convenience en- 
joyed by our patrons. Telephone and mail orders receive the best possible 
attention. 

We are never pleased till you are. 



MAIN OFFICE 
Telephones 2797-2798 



WILMETTE BRANCH 
615 W. Railroad Ave. 



^ Washington Laundry 



JOHN ORTLUND & SON 



700-2-4 Washington St. 



Evanston, 111. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

BREAD ASD BREAKFAST CAKES— Continued 

Ginger Bread Page 34 

Bran Bread Page 35 

Pettyjohn's Nut Bread Page 35 

Southern Rice Bread Page 35 

Hot Water Ginger Bread Page 35 

Ginger Bread Page 36 

Spoon Corn Bread Page 36 

Spider Corn Cake Page 36 

Corn Griddle Cakes . . , Page 36 

Johnny Cake Page 36 

Mrs. Lamprecht's Coffee Cake Page 37 



The Evanston 
Decorating Co. 

High Class Interior Work 
Exterior Painting 

1576 Maple Ave. 

Tdephoneisi Evanston, 111. 



Ghas. W Triggs Go. 

"The House of Quality" 

Fish and Oysters 

Producers of all Kinds of 

Fish in Season 

Positively the Only House in Evan- 
ston that can serve the trade with 
Seal-Shipt Oysters 

Connecticut Standards, Providence 
Selects and New York Counts 

606 Davis Street 

T. J. FITZGERALD, Manager 

Phones: Evanston 2555, 2556, 2557 



nrmS BANK is calculated 
to be of special conveni- 
ence to the women; a place 
where they can come and FEEL 
AT HOME. Rooms especially 
fitted up are set apart for their 
exclusive use. We welcome 
small transactions, and gladly 
explain matters of business 
whenever called upon to do so. 



The City National 
Bank of Evanston 



VOU want to be sure of two things 

-■■ about the milk you use: 

1st. It must come from healthy cows: 

2nd. It must be kept clean after it comes from the 
cows. 

There's one certain and safe way to know these — 
use only BORDEN'S milk and cream from healthy 
cows and the cleanest bottling plants on earth. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES— Continued 

Bran Muffins Page 37 

Whole Wheat Muffins Page 37 

Currant Buns Page 38 

Plain Muffins Page 38 

Blueberry Muffins Page 38 

Maryland Biscuits Page 38 

Rich English Muffins Page 39 

Nut Muffins Page 39 

Baking Powder Biscuit Page 39 

Waffles Page 40 

Snow Ball Biscuit Page 40 



Fred Strauss = Cleaners and Dyers 

1618 Orrington Avenue 

Telephone 1677 Evanston 



Established 1897 Telephone Evanston 1010 

General Manager 
EPRAM M. TORCOM 




Native Cleaners and Repairers of 

Oriental Rugs and Carpets 

Remember us when your rugs need attention. Advice given 

gladly at any time. We have beautiful, choice Oriental 

Rugs for sale. Ask your friends about our 

honesty and ability. 

1409 Sherman Avenue, Evanston, 111. 

EVANSTON-CHICAGO 

KABOB 

According to tlie size of family have Shoulder 
of Lamb cut in small pieces to correspond in size 
with quartered onions and tomatoes, with peppers 
cut about the same size as other vegetables, and 
place alternately on skewers. Sprinkle plentiful- 
ly with salt and pepper. 

Have the bottom of the broiler just covered 
with water, place skewers in rows on rack of 
broiler and put in with slow fire, turning fre- 
quently while broiling, that everything may be 
cooked through, being careful not to dry it. 

When done place on platter, leaving food on 
skewers "Oriental Style" just as we serve **corn 
on the cob." 

This may be made on the broiler without 
using skewers, if desired. 

Compliments of Torcom Bros. 



Peabody Coal Company 

1015 Church Street 
Evanston, 111. 



COAL 

BUILDING MATERIAL 

FEED 

GARDEN SEEDS 



Telephones : 

Evanston - 2450 
Wilmette - 141 
Glencoe - 75 
Niles Center 3 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES— Continued 

Pop Overs Page 40 

Cheese Straws Page 40 

Cinnamon Sticks Page 40 



The Pure Food 
Supply Co. 



High Grade Butter, Strictly Fresh 

Eggs, Tea, Coffee, Baking 

Powder and Extracts 

Satisfaction Guaranteed or Money 
Refunded 

26 Years in Business 
Daily Deliveries in Evanston 

3311 N. Clark Street 



Pure Hand Work 

Mutual Laundry 
Co. 

1508-10 Sherman Ave. 
EVANSTON 

Telephone 783 



% 



H. Ropinski & Co. 

Ladies Fashionable Tailor 
and Importer 

Now Showing the Correct Styles 

When choosing your costumes, it is 
important to consider your own in- 
dividuality as well as the prevailing 
styles. My specialty is to harmonize 
both, because I produce the highest 
grade work at a minimum cost, the 
best values fare obtained at my es- 
tablishment. Appointments by Tele- 
phone 1778, 



508 Davis Street. Evanston 



WOMAN'S EXCHANGE 



Ice Cream Department 




The New Sanitary Factory 



Tel. 988 



EVERYTHING IN 

Ice Creams 

Charlotte Russe Meringue* Spun Sugar Nests 
Special Rates to Clubs, Churches and Large Orders 

512 Davis Street 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

APPETIZERS AND SOUPS Page 43 

Soup Stock Page 43 

Beef Bouillon Page 43 

Old Fashioned Vegetable Soup Page 44 

Tomato Soup Page 41 

Canapes Page 44 

Caviar Canape Page 44 

Salted Almonds Page 45 

Sardine Canapes Page 45 

Anchovy and Sardine Canape Page 45 

Anchovy Paste Canape Page 45 

Tomato or Mock Bisque Soup Page 45 



ilOHN WEILAND 



Florist 



Greenhouses 
1516 Green wMd Booleyar^ 

Phono 83 

Retail Store 

1614 ShemuD ATenae 

Phone 502 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 



A. S. VAN DEUSEN 
The Grocer 



Peas, Corn and Tomatoes in 
the best grades were a failure 
this year and are hard to buy. 
When our future goods have been 
sold, they will be much higher in 
price. Buy them now. Everj'thing 
in this market in fresh fruits and 
vegetables. 



EVANSTON 



WILMEHE 



Complete Stock of Children 's 
Shoes at the Evanston Store 

Foster Shoes 

For Children and 

Young Folks 

It is no longer necessary to tire 
both the Mothers and their Child- 
ren with a trip to the city for pro- 
perly fitted Shoes. 

Foster Shoes are made of good 
materials and are scientifically 
fitted. 



Shoe Economy is Comfort plus Service 

F. E. FOSTER & CO. 

125 R W^bTh Ave. ^'^^^r.^:!;T °^^'^ 
CHICAGO EVANSTON 

i-i = — Ei 



"IS" AYRSHIRE 

QUALITY 1 ICREAMERY BUTTER 



RICH 

IN 

FLAVOR 



Ayrshire Creamery Butter is made in the most sani- 
tary and up-to-date Creameries in Wisconsin. 

Housewives will find that it possesses the sweetest 
flavor, the greatest uniformity and the most remark- 
able keeping qualities of any butter on the market. 

ASK YOUR GROCER 

H. C. CHRISTIANS CO., Johnson Creek, Wis. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

APPETIZERS AND SOUPS— Continued 

Corn Soup Page 46 

Cream of Corn Soup Page 46 

Potato Soup Page 46 

Cream of Oyster Soup Page 46 

Green Pea Soup Page 47 

Bean Soup Page 47 

Cream Potato Soup Page 47 

Split Pea Soup Page 47 

Green Pea Soup Page 47 

Cream Lettuce Soup Page 48 





A. C. GALITZ T. F. MAHON 


GEO. P. MILLS 


6ALITZ&MAH0N 


Druggist 


Market 


1000 Davis Street 

Cor. Nayie Ave. 


Phones 
2760, 2761, 2762. 2763 


EVANSTON, ILL. 


815 Davis Street 




EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 



Do you know the old- 
est fire insurance 
company in the 
world? 



IT 



Has Celebrated Its Two Hun- 
dredth Anniversary 

Was Organized in 1710. 

Furnishes the Longest Tried 
Indemnity. 



If you are interested in securing indemnity 
of this high character, put the above ques- 
tion to the following well-known firms in 
your city: 

MASON & SMART 

1580 Sherman Avenue 

GEORGE H. GRAIN 

845 Chicago Avenue 

CHAS. A. WIGHTMAN & CO. 

1564 Sherman Avenue 

GLASS & BECKSTROM 

1915 Central Street 

They can answer it and also furnish 
you with a policy contract. 



Beverages 

"He knew no beverages but the /lowing stream" 



BOILED COFFEE 

Mix 1 cup freshly ground coffee with 1 egg-white 
and mashed shell and 1 cup cold water. When thoroughly 
mixed put into a well-scalded and well-aired coffee pot and 
add 6 cups cold water; heat gradually until boiling, put a 
piece of cloth in spout to keep in aroma, boil 5 minutes ; 
add 2 tablespoons cold water, draw pot to back of range; 
in 2 minutes serve. — Mrs. E. H. Webster 

TEA 

Tea must be made of freshly boiled water. When the 
water boils hard pour upon the tea leaves the required quan- 
tity of water. Shut down the cover of the tea pot and let 
stand just 5 minutes. 

ICED TEA 

Serve in high straight glasses with plenty of cracked 
ice; the tea should not be very strong or it will become 
clouded when the ice is added ; serve with lemon and sugar. 
A novel and delicious addition is to add a good sized table- 
spoon lemon sherbet to each glass of ice cold tea ; serve 
before the sherbet melts. 

HOT CHOCOLATE 

2 oz. sweetened chocolate 4 cups milk 

Few grains salt Whipped cream 

Heat milk; add chocolate and stir until chocolate is 
melted. Let come to a boil and serv^e with whipped cream. 



26 BEVERAGES 

PLAIN LEMONADE 

Squeeze the juice from 2 lemons for ever}- 3 glasses 
of lemonade. Strain and sweeten to taste with sugar, or 
better with sugar syrup. Add about 3 glasses plain un- 
charged water and a large piece of ice. 

GINGER ALE LEMONADE 

Make a good strong lemonade, add a few slices or 
shavings of cucumber peel, when ready to serve add an equal 
quantity of ginger ale and serve very cold. An excellent 
summer drink. 

PINEAPPLE LEMONADE 

3 cups sugar 1 pint water 

Juice of 3 or 4 lemons 1 grated pineapple 

About 1 quart water 

Boil sugar and pint of water 10 minutes ; let cool and 
add the lemon juice and pineapple; let stand 2 hours arid 
add quart of apollinaris ; serve at once. 

CHERRY JULIP 

Bruise a sprig of mint in each glass ; add 1 or more 
tablespoons cherry syrup, and fill % full of either plain or 
charged water, ice cold. 

CHOCOLATE SYRUP FOR ICED CHOCOLATE 

5 oz. Baker's chocolate 5 tablespoons cocoa 

21^ cups sugar 5^^ cups water 

1 teaspoon salt Vanilla to taste 

Boil chocolate with most of the water, add cocoa mixed 
with the rest of water and boil 3 minutes ; add sugar 
and boil 5 minutes ; cool and add salt and vanilla. This 
makes 1^ quarts syrup. Keep closely covered in refrig- 
erator. Use about 2 tablespoons syrup to each glass of rich 
milk and serve ice cold. 



BEVERAGES 27 

GRAPE JUICE PUNCH 

Juice 3 lemons Juice 1 orange 

1 quart plain or Apollinaris 1 pint grape juice 
water 1 cup sugar 



FRUIT PUNCH 

1 pineapple or 3 cups boiling water 

1 can grated pineapple 1 cup tea, freshly made 

Juice 5 lemons 1 pint strawberry, currant or 

1 bottle charged Appollinaris grape juice 

water 1 quart sugar, or better, 3 

5 quarts water cups sugar syrup 

It is better to mix the punch several hours before serv- 
ing, then let stand closely covered on ice to chill and ripen. 
When ready to serve add apollinaris. Strawberries, mint 
leaves or slices of bananas are often added as a garnish. 

—Mrs. E. K. Webster 

EGG-NOGG 

6 eggs — whites and yolks 1 quart cream 
beaten separately and very 1 pint best brandy 
stiff ^2 cup sugar 

Flavor with nutmeg ^4 pint Jamaica rum 

Stir the yolks into the cream with the sugar, which 
should first be beaten with the yolks, next the brandy and 
rum; lastly, whip in the whites of the eggs. 

MULLED SHERRY 

1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon broken stick 
1 dozen cloves cinnamon 

% dozen cassia buds 4 eggs beaten until light 

% cup sugar 1 cup hot sherry 

Boil the cinnamon, cloves and cassia 1 minute in the 
cup of boiling water, add to the eggs and sugar gradually, 
stirring constantly, then add the hot sherry and serve. 

—Mrs. E. K. W. 



28 BEVERAGES 

CATAWBA GRAPE JUICE PUNCH 

1 quart white grape juice Juice of 3 oranges 

Juice of 3 lemons Sweeten to taste 

1 quart seltzer water 

Mix in a bowl with large piece of ice. This will serve 
about 12 people. 

CLARET PUNCH 

1 quart claret Juice and grated peel of 

6 cloves 3 oranges 

6 Cassia buds and stick cin- ^^ cup sugar 
namon 

Mix the above ingredients, all but the sugar; let stand 
12 hours, then add sugar. Strain, heat and serve. 

A DELICIOUS DRINK 
To serve for luncheons or card parties 

Take 2 quarts either orange or lemon ice and when 
ready to serve dilute it with ice cold ginger ale, making a 
drink of the consistency of f rappe. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 29 



30 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Bread and Breakfast Cakes 

*'All things are possible to diligence and skill" 



WHITE BREAD 

4 quarts flour 1 tablespoon lard 
1 quart milk, 1 quart water — 2 yeast cakes 

mixed and lukewarm 1 scant teaspoon salt 

Rub the lard and salt together in the flour; dissolve 
the yeast with 2 teaspoons sugar in a little luke warm 
water; mix this all together with the flour, milk and 
water. Knead ^ hour into firm dough; when light, knead 
down again; let rise again and mould into loaves, and 
when light bake 40 minutes in gas stove or 50 minutes in 
coal stove. — Miss Templeton 

WHITE BREAD 

For 4 loaves 3^/^ quarts flour 

5 tablespoons sugar 1 cake yeast — dissolved in 

1 big tablespoon lard about 3 pints luke-warm 

2 tablespoons salt water 

Mix and rub between your hands the flour, sugar, 
salt and lard (takes about 10 minutes) ; stir water into 
mixture enough to make a stiff dough ; beat with spoon for 
about 3 minutes. Set away where it will be warm until 
morning, when it is ready to put in pans. Let rise to 
top of pans. After putting loaves in oven turn on gas full 
for about 15 minutes, then turn down. Bake 1 hour. 

—Mrs. J. T. J. 

BATTER BREAD 

1 cup corn-meal (white or 2 eggs beaten separately 

yellow) 3 cups milk 

Little butter, sugar and 2 tablespoons baking pow- 

salt der 

Bake about 30 minutes ; stirring several times while 
baking. — Miss M. Painter 



32 BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS 

Scald 1 pint milk and set aside until luke warm; add 
to it 1 cake yeast, dissolved in a little luke warm water 
and flour enough to make a batter. Beat hard, cover and 
let stand in a warm place or in a pan of warm water until 
light. Add 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons sugar and 54 cup 
melted butter; beat well and when thoroughly mixed, add 
sufficient sifted flour to make a soft dough, then knead 
until very soft and velvety to the touc^i. Cover and let 
rise again to twice its bulk. Roll out on board ^ inch 
thick, cut in small biscuits ; let stand on floured board until 
light ; press across center of each, handle of wooden spoon, 
brush edges with soft butter, fold and press together. When 
light, bake in hot oven 20 minutes. — Mrs. E. K. Harris 

OATMEAL BREAD 

2 cups oatmeal 1 quart boiling water 

Pinch salt and flour enough 1 cake yeast 
to make a dough 1 cup molasses 

Pour boiling water over the oatmeal, let it cool, then 
stir in the molasses; dissolve yeast in 3^ cup luke warm 
water and add that, then the salt and flour enough to make 
a dough as for plain bread. Knead and set in warm 
place to rise over night. Make into loaves ; let rise again 
and bake in a slow oven. — Miss Pickering 

WHOLE W^HEAT NUT BREAD 

Scald 1 pint milk, add a piece butter size of an egg; 
set aside until luke warm ; add 1 teaspoon salt and 1 table- 
spoon sugar; dissolve 1 cake yeast in a little warm milk. 
Mix this all together with enough white flour to make a 
batter. When light, add whole wheat flour and 7^ cup 
English walnuts, cut up; beat well, using enough flour to 
make a firm dough. Mould into loaves ; let rise, grease 
the top of loaves with melted butter and bake in moderate 
oven ^ or 1 hour. — Mrs. E. K. Harris 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES 33 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup white flour 1 pint sweet milk 

1 cup corn-meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups rye or graham flour 1 heaping teaspoon soda^ 
% cup molasses 1 cup seeded raisins 

1 egg 

More milk may be needed. Crumble butter into mixed 
meal, add salt, milk and egg, then molasses ; then dissolved 
soda. Beat well after adding soda. Lastly add raisins 
floured and stir jj'st enough to distribute raisins. Steam 
3j/2 hours. — Mrs. S. F. Harris 

CORN BREAD 

2 cups corn-meal 1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon salt 1 heaping tablespoon butter 

1 teacup sugar 3 eggs 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 cups milk 

Bake in a sheet. Can also be made with sour milk or 
buttermilk by adding 1 teaspoon soda. 

— Mrs. W. E. Church 

GRAHAM BROWN BREAD 

3 cups graham flour % cup molasses 
1% cups sour milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda 

Mix graham flour, salt and soda well together, dry, 
then add molasses and milk and raisins to taste. Bake 
slowly for 1% hours (if in 3 loaves, of course less time is 
needed). — Miss Pickering 

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD 

y2 lb. butter 1 tablespoon lard 

V2 lb. pulverized sugar 1 lb. flour 

Cream the butter and sugar, then add the flour gradu- 
ally; work it well until all sticks together, then roll out 
several times and bake in pie tins in a moderate oven for 
about 40 minutes. — Mrs. James Hall 



i^'.i 



34 BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES 



DATE AND NUT LOAF 

3 cups graham flour 2 teaspoons (scant) baking 

1 cup whole wheat flour powder 

^ cup sugar 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup dates 

2 cups sour milk 

Bake in moderate oven for about 1 hour. 

— Mrs. James Hall 

GRAHAM NUT BREAD 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 

% cup molasses a little milk 

% teaspoon salt 

Mix, adding enough unsifted graham flour to make 
stiff so that the spoon will stand in the mixture. Add 
walnuts and raisins to taste, chopped. Bake 1^ hours. 
This makes 1 loaf. — .1//^^ Borup 

NUT BREAD 

1 cup milk 2 heaping teaspoons baking 

^ cup sugar powder 

3 cups flour Salt (about ^z teaspoon) 

1 egg (beaten) % cup broken walnut meats 

Put in pan and let rise 30 minutes. Bake in moderate 
oven from 30 to 45 minutes. — Mrs. J. IV. Szveet 

GINGER BREAD 

2 tablespoons butter A little salt 

1 cup flour 4 teaspoons milk (sour if pos- 

4 tablespoons sugar sible) 

2 tablespoons ginger % tablespoon soda with sour 
1 egg milk, or 

1 tablespoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon baking powder 

4 tablespoons molasses with sweet milk 

Cream butter, add sugar, add tgg well beaten, add 
molasses. Sift dry material and add alternately with milk. 

— Miss Clara Harris 




BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES 



BRAN BREAD ^ 

1 cup white flour 1 cup whole wheat 

2 cups bran 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon salt y^ teaspoon sugar % 
^ teaspoon molasses Sour milk to make batter 

Bake l^^ hours in slow oven. — Mrs. McNab 

PETTYJOHN'S NUT BREAD 

Vs package Pettyjohn's break- 1 pint milk 
fast food y2 cake yeast 

Let rise, then add ^ cup EngHsh walnuts, cut, and 
enough white flour to make right consistency to knead. 
Mould into loaf and bake 35 minutes. — Mrs. Simmons 

SOUTHERN RICE BREAD 

2 cups white corn-meal 1 oz. butter melted 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

IV4, pints milk 2 heaping teaspoons baking 

1 cup cold boiled rice powder 

Beat the eggs separately until very light, then add 
them to milk, then add meal, salt, butter, rice and beat thor- 
oughly ; add baking powder ; mix well and pour into greased 
pan. Bake 30 minutes in hot oven. — Mrs. Cayzcr 

HOT WATER GINGER BREAD 

1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons ginger 

1 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

Vz cup butter 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup boiling water 2^/^ cups flour measured after 
with 2 level teaspoons .soda sifting 

dissolved in it 

Mix together thoroughly, then add 2 well beaten eggs. 
Bake in 2 pans in a moderate oven. Should be about 1^ 
inches thick in the pan. Also delicious baked in muffin 
pans and served as a hot pudding with sauce or sweetened 
whipped cream. — Anna Rew Gross 




36 BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAK ES 

GINGER BREAD 

% cup butter ^^ teacup milk 

2 cups flour 1 cup molasses 

1 small teaspoon soda dis- 2 eggs 
solved in milk Heaping teaspoon ginger 

Bake in shallow pan from 20 to 30 minutes. 

—Mrs. W. E. Church 

SPOON CORN BREAD 

Scald 1 quart milk and pour over 1 pint white corn- 
meal ; while hot add 1 tablespoon butter ; when cool add 
the beaten yolks of 4 eggs, 1 teaspoon salt and last the 
whites of the eggs beaten stifif; cut and fold in. Bake 
30 minutes. • — Mrs. Cayzcr 

SPIDER CORN CAKE 

% cup corn-meal i,4 cup flour 

1 tablespoon sugar I/2 teaspoon salt 

% teaspoon soda (scant) ' 

Beat 1 egg, add 3^ cup sweet milk, ^ cup sour 
milk. Stir this into the dry mixture ; melt 1 tablespoon 
butter in a hot spider and pour the mixture into it; pour 
3^ cup sweet milk over the top. Bake 20 minutes in hot 
oven. — Mrs. M. A. Shumzvay 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES 

Pour 1 pint boiling water on 1 quart corn-meal, stir 
well ; when nearly cold, add 4 well beaten eggs, 1 teaspoon 
salt and 1 of soda, 1 large spoon flour and 1 of melted lard. 
Add milk enough to make into batter. 

JOHNNY CAKE 

1 cup corn-meal i/^ cup flour 

1 cup sweet milk 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 egg Butter size of an egg 

Teaspoon baking powder 

— Mrs. E. K. Harris 




BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES Zl 

MRS. LAMPRECHT'S COFFEE CAKE 

1 lb. flour V2 lb. butter 

IV2 cups warm milk 6 eggs 

1 cake yeast V^ lb. seeded raisins 

1 pinch salt Rind 1 lemon 

% lb. sugar 

Dissolve 1 teaspoon sugar, the salt and yeast in the 
lukewarm milk, make a sponge of this and half the flour, 
beat well, and set to rise in a warm place. Dredge raisins 
with a little flour and put all things where they will keep 
warm. When sponge is light, take a mixing bowl, cream 
butter and sugar and rind of lemon, then add alternately 
1 tgg at a time, part of the sponge and part of the flour 
until everything has been used. Stirring ought to take 20 
minutes. Lastly add the dredged raisins. Butter a round 
cake tin which has an opening in the middle, put dough into 
this, set in a warm place to rise until it is ^ again the size 
of the original dough. That will take about 3 hours. Bake 
slowlv about 1 hour. 



BRAN MUFFINS 

2 cups bran flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup white flour 2 cups buttermilk 

1 teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix dry ingredients ; dissolve soda in molasses, then 
pour in milk ; mix all together. Cook very slowly 40 
minutes. — Katherine S. Harper 

WHOLE WHEAT MUFFINS 

11/^ cups whole wheat flour ^A cup sugar 

V2 cup white flour 1 egg 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 
Vz teaspoon salt 2 lbs. butter 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, beat egg and add to milk, 
then add melted butter. Bake in buttered gem pans 25 
or 30 minutes. — Miss Pickering 



38 BREA ..^D BREAKFAST CAKES 

CURRAN'i BUNS 

Mix 1 cake yeast with ^ cup lukewarm water and 
add 1 cup scalded milk, cooled to a lukewarm tempera- 
ture; add also about Ij^ cups white flour and beat until the 
batter is very smooth, then cover and let stand in warm 
place to get very light. Add y^ cup currants, ^ cup 
sugar, 1 beaten ^gg, 1 teaspoon salt and ^ cup melted 
shortening; mix .thoroughly, then beat in flour to make a 
soft dough (about 2 cups flour will be needed). Let 
rise very light, then roll into a sheet and cut into rounds. 
Bake when about doubled in bulk (about 3^ hour), stir a 
teaspoon cornstarch with cold w^ater to a smooth liquid 
consistency, then pour in boiling water, let cook 5 minutes 
and use to baste top of rolls, dredge thickly with granu- 
lated sugar and glaze in oven. — Mrs. E. K. Harris 

PLAIN MUFFINS 

2 cups flour 1 cup milk 

4 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg 

1/^ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

2 tablespoons sugar 

Bake 20 minutes. 

BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 

2 eggs beaten light 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup sugar 1% cups fresh blueberries or 

1 cup milk 1 cup canned blueberries 

1 tablespoon lard Enough flour to hang to spoon 
1 tablespoon butter 

— Mrs. Bering 

MARYLAND BISCUITS 

10 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup lard 1 very small pinch soda 

Make into a stiff dough with ice water and beat with 
a hatchet 1 hour. — Mrs. Ingram 




BREAD AND BREAKF4 >g^> ^] AKE. 39 

RICH EN( pSH MUFFINS 

Scald and cool 2 cups milk and use a little to dissolve 
1 cake yeast, stir in 2f4 cups flour and yeast and beat 
thoroughly, cover and set aside to become light and puffy. 
Add Yz cup melted butter, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 table- 
spoon sugar, and about 2^ cups flour. Beat the mixture 
thoroughly; add more flour if needed but leave the dough 
too soft to be handled on moulding board. Cover and let 
it get light; cut dough into pieces that will about half fill 
the mufiin rings. Knead with floured hands or on well 
floured board, pat and fit into rings. Have board well 
floured and rings well buttered, standing on the board, 
set dough into rings, cover closely. When dough about 
half fill rings remove with a spatula to a well heated grid- 
dle that has been thoroughly rubbed over with fat salt pork. 
When muflins are baked on one side, turn and bake on the 
other side; then tear them apart and toast, spread with 
butter and serve hot. 

NUT MUFFINS 

1^2 cups bread flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 tablespoon sugar % teaspoon salt 

Work in 2 tablespoons butter and 1 tablespoon lard 
with finger tips ; add ^ cup milk, ^ cup walnut meats ; 
bake in small gem pans. Serve hot with orange marma- 
lade. — Mrs. Robert H. Gault 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

Pass through sieve three times, 2^/2 cups flour, 1 tea- 
spoon salt and 4 level teaspoons baking powder; with a 
knife or the tips of the fingers work in from 2 to 4 table- 
spoons shortening ; add from 3^ to % cup milk or milk and 
cold water, a little at a time, mixing it with a knife, little 
by little until the whole is a softish dough. Turn out on a 
floured board, knead lightly to a smooth mass, pat with 
the rolling pin, and roll into a sheet about ^4 inch thick, 
cut into rounds and bake 15 or 20 minutes. Graham, 
rye, or half white and half entire wheat may be used. 

— Mrs. S. F. Harris 



BREAD AND BREAKFAST CAKES 



WAFFLES 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 cups milk 

% (not quite) teaspoon salt Flour to make a batter 
Butter size of an egg 2 rounding teaspoons baking 

2 eggs (beat separately) powder 

— Miss Konsberg 

SNOW BALL BISCUIT 

4 cups flour 2 tablespoons butter 

Rub butter into flour, sift in 4 teaspoons baking powder, 
stir this lightly together, then add about 2 cups sweet milk. 
Handle as little as possible when rolling out; cut and bake 
in hot oven. — Miss Ethel Templeton 

POP OVERS 

Beat 1 &gg until very light, add 1 cup milk and con- 
tinue beating with an tgg beater, while 1 cup flour sifted 
with %. teaspoon salt is gradually beaten into the mixture. 
Butter 6 cups in an iron muflin pan and half fill the other 
6 with boiling water ; put 1 teaspoon butter into the buttered 
cups, heat well and pour in the mixture. Bake in mod- 
erate oven 35 minutes. By putting a little water into the 
unused cups burning is avoided. — Miss Templeton 

CHEESE STRAWS 

1 pint flour % pint grated cheese 

Mix into paste with a little butter, like pie crust ; roll 
into a thin sheet and cut into strips about 6 inches long. 
Bake a delicate brown. 

CINNAMON STICKS 

Cut sticks of bread 1 inch thick, then in strips 1 inch 
wide ; butter 2 sides of strips, sprinkle with sugar and cin- 
namon and toast. Serve hot. 

— Miss Margaret Raymond 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 41 



42 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Appetizers and Soups 

"One morning in the garden bed 
The onion and the carrot said 
Unto the parsley group: 

'Oh, when shall we three meet again. 
In thunder, lightning, hail or rain?* 

'Alasf replied in tones of pain 
The parsley, 'In the soup. ' " 



SOUP STOCK 

To every 5 lbs. meat from leg or shin of beef take 5 
quarts cold water with pinch of soda to make the water 
soft ; cut meat from the bones ; put bones in kettle with meat 
on bones ; simmer 5 hours ; strain the stock through fine 
sieve, add tablespoon salt. Next day remove grease. 

BEEF BOUILLON 

1 lb. round steak cut in small pieces, 1 soup bunch, 
cover with cold water and let simmer 1 hour, strain and 
let stand over night ; skim off fat, add heaping teaspoon 
extract of beef dissolved in 1 cup boiling water to soup 
stock and boil 20 minutes ; strain through fine cloth, clear 
with egg shell and beaten white of 1 egg; strain again 
through cloth and add % cup sherry before serving. 

— Mrs. D. H. Hozve 

BEEF BOUILLON 
This makes a large kettle full of delicious jelly that 
keeps well. 

Put together in soup kettle 2 lbs. clean beef, minced, 
3^ lb. lean veal, minced, 2 lbs. each of beef and veal bones, 
well cracked, cover deep with cold water and bring slowly 
to boil, then simmer for 4 hours, season with salt, pepper 
and 2 teaspoons kitchen bognet, then remove from fire. 
When very cold and like jelly, skim, heat and strain ; re- 
turn to fire, drop in white and crushed shell of 1 egg; 
bring to boil and 5 minutes later pour carefully through 
collander lined with white flannel. When heating it to 
serve, add 1 glass sherry or serve cold as "iced bouillon." 

— Mrs. Raymond C. Cook 



44 APPETIZERS AND SOUPS 

OLD FASHIONED VEGETABLE SOUP 

Use a good marrow bone cut from the leg. Cover 
with 4 quarts cold water, let come to a boil slowly and 
boil for 13^ hours, then lift the meats from the water and 
strain the water in order to remove all the skimmings ; re- 
turn to the kettle with the meats and when it again comes 
to a boil add 1 good tablespoon- rice, 1 white potato cut 
very fine, bunch of parsley, 1 small onion cut fine and all 
kinds of vegetables according to taste ; cook 4 or 5 hours ; 
season with salt and pepper and serve with vegetables in 
the soup. 1 or 2 bay leaves are an addition. 

— Mrs. H. M. Carle 

TOMATO SOUP 

1 quart tomatoes 8 cloves 

Ham size of tea saucer Sprig parsley 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 bay leaf 
16 pepper corns 

Boil w'ith 2 cups water 20 minutes. Brown 1 chopped 
onion in 2 tablespoons butter, put all together and strain ; 
return to fire and boil. When ready to serve add pinch 
soda in 1 cup cream, into which has been mixed 1 table- 
spoon flour. — Mrs. J. H. Mitchell 

CANAPES 

Cut bread into slices 2 inches thick ; then cut either 
into rounds or 4^/2 inches long by 3 inches wide ; remove 
part of bread from center, leaving a ^ inch wall. Butter 
and brown in oven. 

CA\^IAR CANAPE 

On toasted bread cut round, lay slice tomato, put layer 
of caviar in center of slice, yolk hard boiled Qgg put through 
ricer on side and white of tgg put through ricer on the op- 
posite side of caviar and pearl onions on top caviar. 

—Mrs. D. H. Hoivc 



APPETIZERS AND SOUPS 45 

SALTED ALMONDS 

1 lb. Jordan almonds Vz tablespoon olive oil 

Blanch the almonds by pouring boiHng water over 
them; dry thoroughly — better let stand until next day; put 
nuts into a pan and pour oil over them ; stir until each nut 
is oiled; place them in a cool oven, stirring them often 
until an even light brown. When done, sprinkle with salt. 

SARDINE CANAPES 

Mix the yolk of hard boiled eggs with an equal amount 
sardines rubbed to a paste; season w^ith lemon juice and 
spread on thin slices of toast. The white of the eggs rubbed 
through a sieve may be sprinkled on top. 

—Mrs. J. H. Mitchell 

ANCHOVY AND SARDINE CANAPE 

On 1 slice tomato lay 2 small sardines and 1 anchovy, 
with chipped onion on side of plate. 

—Mrs. D. H. Hoive 

ANCHOVY PASTE CANAPE 

Cut toasted bread into fancy shapes and spread with 
anchovy paste. 

TOMATO OR MOCK BISQUE SOUP 

 1 can tomatoes Butter the size of an egg 

3 pints milk Small teaspoon soda 

Vz pint water Pepper and salt to taste 
1 large tablespoon flour 

Boil the tomatoes and water together, put in soda and 
strain, then put in the milk and seasoning and add the 
butter and flour, stirred to a paste. 

— Mrs. E. P. Baird 



46 APPETIZERS AN D SOUPS 

CORN SOUP 

Boil Yz can corn with enough water so that after it is 
strained it will make 1 pint, then add 1 pint milk and 
thicken with butter the size of small t%% and 2 teaspoons 
sugar; salt and pepper to taste and add 1 teaspoon beef 
extract. 

CREAM OF CORN SOUP 

1 can corn 1 onion 

2 stalks celery 1 cup water 

Let simmer and mash fine while cooking, season with 
salt, strain, add 1 pint milk and butter size of walnut. 
Boil 15 minutes and serve with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. D. H. Hozve 

POTATO SOUP 

6 large potatoes 1 large onion 

1 quart milk 1 large tablespoon butter 

114 stalks celery 

Boil milk in double boiler with onion and celery for 
1 hour, mash the potatoes to a cream, strain the milk and 
add to the potatoes, then add the butter, salt and white 
pepper to taste, strain and serve immediately. Can be 
improved by adding 1 cup cream when in the tureen. 
Must be served hot. — Mrs. E. P. Baird 

CREAM OF OYSTER SOUP 

1 quart oysters 1 sprig parsley 

1 pint cold water 3 tablespoons butter 

1 quart milk 3 tablespoons flour 

1 slice onion 1 teaspoon salt 

1 stalk celery 1 teaspoon pepper 

Clean oysters, add the water and boil 2 minutes, re- 
move scum and rub through a sieve, cook together milk and 
seasoning 10 minutes, melt butter, add flour, salt and 
pepper, pour on slowly the strained oyster liquor, add the 
milk, reheat and serve. — Mrs. Cav^cr 



APPETIZERS AND SOUPS 47 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

Soak over night Yi lb. dried peas and put on to boil 
in 3 pints water with 1 small onion into which has been 
pressed 3 cloves. When the peas are well done put all 
through a colander. Return to the fire a few minutes 
before serving, adding 1 level tablespoon flour and 1 tea- 
spoon butter worked to a cream. Season to taste. 

BEAN SOUP 

1 cup navy beans cooked over night or during whole 
day in fireless cooker with 1 onion. Rub through colander ; 
add Yi cup milk, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper 
to taste. — Mrs, Schwender 

CREAM POTATO SOUP 

Mash 6 small boiled potatoes, add 1 onion shaved fine, 
put mixture through colander into 1 pint hot milk. Add 
small piece butter, cook 10 minutes and serve with whipped 
cream. — Mrs. D. H. Hozve 

SPLIT PEA SOUP 

1 pint dried green split peas soaked 12 hours in 1 quart 
water, soak over night; in the morning put on to boil and 
add 2 carrots and 2 onions chopped ; boil gently until 
thoroughly soft, then rub through a fine wire sieve and put 
into a sauce pan, season with salt and pepper. Just 
before serving add Y pint milk, serve with small squares 
toasted stale bread. — Anna Rezv Gross 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

1 cup green peas 4 whole cloves 

2 cups water 1 or 2 slices onion to taste 

Boil to a pulp and press through a sieve or ricer. In 
saucepan put 1 tablespoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour and 
cook over fire till it bubbles, then add the puree and when it 
has thickened add 1 tablespoon cream either whipped or 
plain and serve. — Mrs. Raymond C. Cook 



48 APPETIZERS AND SOUPS 

CREAM LETTUCE SOUP 
Considered by the French as very wholesome on ac- 
count of the properties of the lettuce leaves. 

Take the outside leaves of lettuce, boil until thoroughly 
soft in 1 pint water, strain through wire sieve, rubbing 
through as much of the lettuce as possible. Cream 1 table- 
spoon butter, 1 tablespoon flour and }^ pint milk. Season 
to taste with salt and pepper, add the lettuce, water and 
just before serving beat in yolk of 1 Qgg beaten very 
light. — Anna -Rew Gross 

CREAM OF CHEESE SOUP 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoons minced carrot 

1 tablespoon minced onion 1 blade mace 

Put in double boiler and let cook slowly, 1 rounded 
tablespoon butter, 1 rounded tablespoon flour, melt the 
butter, stir flour in, add little hot milk and stir until smooth, 
then strain in all the hot milk, add ^ cup grated cheese and 
stir until the cheese is melted. Just before serving add 
yolks of 2 eggs beaten to a froth, cook 2 minutes and serve in 
hot cups. — Anna Rew Gross 

OYSTER BISQUE 

1 quart oysters Salt and pepper to taste 

1 quart milk 1 large tablespoon butter 

Boil oysters in their liquor until edges curl ; strain liquor 
from oysters and add scalded milk to liquor. Add season- 
ing and butter and serve in bouillon cups with whipped 
cream and parsley on top. — Mrs, J. H. Mitchell 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 49 



50 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Fish and Oysters 

*'He was a brave man who first ate an oyster^' 



CODFISH BALLS 

1 cup raw salt fish 1 egg, well beaten 

2 cups potatoes i/4 saltspoon pepper 
1 teaspoon butter More salt if needed 

Wash the fish, pick in small pieces and free from 
bones. Pare potatoes and cut in quarters ; put the potatoes 
and fish in a stew pan and cover with boiling water; boil 
until potatoes are soft, not long enoiigh to become soggy. 
Drain off water, mash and beat the fish and potatoes till 
very light, add the butter and pepper and when slightly 
cooled, add the ^gg and more salt if needed. Drop by 
tablespoonful without smoothing, into the basket and fry in 
smoking hot lard 1 minute. Fry only 3 at a time as more 
will cool the fat. The lard should be hot enough to brown 
a piece of bread while you count 40 slowly. Drain on soft 
paper. — Mrs. M, G. S. 

CODFISH BALLS 
1^ cups shredded codfish 1^ cups raw potatoes 

Put together and cook until potatoes are done. Drain 
and mash with 1 well beaten tgg. Mould in croquette 
form. Fry in deep fat until a delicate brown. 

— Mrs. R. C. Dawes 

LOBSTER FARCfi 
1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon flour 

Put in saucepan and mix thoroughly ; add ^ cup milk, 
^ cup cream ; boil up once and take off fire ; add the meat 
of 4 or 5 small lobsters, cut into dice, pepper, salt and 
cayenne to taste, ^^ cup sherry ; mix thoroughly. Butter a 
small baking pan, pour in mixture, grate bread crumbs 
over, with pieces of butter on top. Bake until set. If no 
cream is to be had, use 3 eggs well beaten. — A. D. H. 



52 FISH AND OYSTERS 

OYSTER PATTIES 

1 pint small oysters 1 large teaspoon flour 

^> pint cream Little salt and pepper 

Let the cream come to a boil; mix the flour with a 
little cold milk, and stir into the boiling cream ; season with 
salt and pepper. While the cream is cooking let the oysters 
come to a boil in their own liquor ; skim carefully and drain 
off all the liquor. Add the oysters to the cream and boil 
up once. Fill the patty shells and serve. The quantities 
given are enough for 18 shells. 

ESCALLOPED OYSTERS 

Place in baking dish a layer of oysters ; spread over 
them bread crumbs, sprinkle with salt and pepper and put 
bits of butter on them. Alternate the layers until the dish 
is nearly full, leaving crumbs on top. Pour over the whole 
a sauce made of : 

1 cup milk A little oyster liquor 

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon flour 

Bake 25 minutes in a hot oven. 

MARIE'S CREAMED CRAB MEAT 
This may be made from fresh crabs, but the Izunni 
brand of crab meat is very convenient for the purpose. 

In a small porcelain kettle or saucepan pour the cream 
prepared as follows : 

2 cups rich sweet milk 2 tablespoons flour 
2 tablespoons butter 

Stir well until smooth over sufficient heat, adding the 
crab meat carefully freed from all hard pieces ; at the 
last add ^ cup sherry wine. The cream must be quite 
thick because the wine thins it. Pimentoes may be added. 
This cream is about the quantity for 1 can of Izunni crab 
meat (40 cents), and will serve six persons. Serve on 
slices of dry toast. — Mrs. M. B. Griswold 



FISH AND OYSTERS 53 

SALMON LOAF 

1 can salmon 1^ tablespoons melted butter 

% teaspoon salt % cup milk 

iy2 teaspoons sugar ^ cup vinegar 

% teaspoon flour % tablespoon granulated gela- 

1 teaspoon mustard tine 

Few grains cayenne pepper 2 tablespoons cold water 

Yolks 2 eggs 

Rinse salmon in hot water and separate ; mix dry ingre- 
dients ; add egg yolks, butter, milk and vinegar ; cook over 
boiling water until mixture thickens ; gelatine, soaked 
in cold water, strain and add to salmon. Fill mould and 
chill and serve with cucumber sauce. 

CUCUMBER SAUCE 

Beat }^ cup heavy cream until stiff, add % teaspoon 
salt, few grains pepper and gradually 2 tablespoons vine- 
gar; add 1 cucumber pared and chopped. 

— Mrs. C. H. Barry 

SALMON SOUFFLfi 

1 lb. salmon ^ cup buttered bread crumbs 

IV2 cups white sauce 2 eggs 

Remove all bones and skin from fish and flake. Mix 
flaked fish with white sauce and beaten yolks ; add well 
beaten whites, folding them in ; place mixture in a baking 
dish ; sprinkle with crumbs ; bake in moderate oven 30 
minutes. Serve immediately. — Mrs. R. B. Ennis 

AUNT HANNAH'S BAKED FISH 

Split fish and lay on greased paper in baking pan ; bake 
in hot oven for 15 minutes, then spread with following 
dressing and return to oven for 15 minutes more : 

1 cup bread crumbs 1 small onion, minced 

1 tablespoon butter Salt 

Yolk 1 egg Pepper 

Mix ingredients thoroughly and spread on fish. An 
egg sauce may be served with this. — Mrs. R. B. Ennis 



54 FISH AND OYSTERS 



BAKED CRAB 



Cream together 



1 tablespoon butter 1 pint half cream and milk 

1 tablespoon flour 

Simmer and stir until thick, then add: 

1 cup cheese (chopped or Beaten yolks 3 eggs 

grated) 1 pint boiled crab meat, pick- 

Salt ed fine 

Pepper 

Stir in the beaten whites of the eggs, pour into a but- 
tered baking dish, cover with buttered crumbs and bake in 
a quick oven about 15 or 20 minutes. 

— Betty M. Shutterly 

BAKED WHITE FISH 

Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs seasoned with sav- 
ory, chopped parsley, a little onion if you wish, salt and 
pepper, 1 lb. chopped pickle, and melted butter. Fill fish 
and sew up, sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour and put bits of butter on. Place on a cloth in baking 
pan, with strips of salt pork under it. Bake 1 hour; baste 
often with the melted fat. Serve with egg sauce. 

— L. H. Moore 

BAKED LAKE SUPERIOR WHITE FISH 

Dry well after cleaning; stuff with stale bread crumbs 
(slightly moistened) seasoned with salt, pepper and a 
dash of curry-powder. Cut small gashes in the fish, plac- 
ing in each a thin slice of salt pork; dredge with flour. 
Grease baking pan. Cover bottom of pan with a piece 
of cloth a little larger than the fish. Baste occasionally, 
after the flour begins to brown. A 2 lb. fish should be well 
done in about 35 minutes. Lift fish from pan by cloth ; 
it can then be placed on dish without breaking; garnish with 
parsley sprigs and lemon cut in quarters. 

— Adeline S. C. 



FISH AND OYSTERS 55 

SALMON CUTLETS 

Mix equal parts cold finely flaked salmon and hot 
mashed potatoes. Shape in cutlet form, dip in fine crumbs, 
then in egg, and again in crumbs, fry in deep fat. Serve 
on a napkin with a piece of macaroni stuck into small end 
of cutlet to simulate a bone, and garnish with parsley. 

— Nellie F. Kingsley 

FISH CHARTREUSE 

Mix 1 cup stale bread crumbs and 1 pint cold fish, 
flaked, and 2 eggs ; season to taste with Worcestershire 
sauce or tomato catsup, salt and cayenne pepper. Put 
into buttered mould. Boil 30 minutes and serve with any 
fish sauce. — Mrs. George M. Litdlozv 

FISH TURBET 

Steam a fine white fish ; remove the bones, add salt and 
white pepper. 

DRESSING 

1 quart sweet milk ; beat and thickened with 1 small cup 
flour. While hot, stir in 1 cup butter; when cool add 2 
beaten eggs, a very small onion (chopped fine), also a lit- 
tle parsley chopped with the onion. Put in a baking dish 
a layer of fish, then one of dressing until all is used. Cover 
top with bread crumbs. Bake ^ hour. — F. L. H. 

TURBET A LA CREAM 

Boil 3 lbs. fresh cod or white fish 20 minutes in a 
cheese cloth ; when cooked remove bones and skin ; care- 
fully break fish in pieces with fork. While fish is cooking 
prepare the f ollow^ing sauce : 

1 quart milk in double boiler, 2 small onions, sprig of 
parsley and let stand until milk is well flavored, then take 
4 tablespoons butter and 4 tablespoons flour and add milk, 
making cream sauce; add salt, pepper and 1 egg. Place 
fish in baking dish alternately with cream sauce ; have sauce 
on top. Sprinkle with bread crumbs and grated cheese. 
Bake V2 hour. — Mrs. M. B. Griswold 



56 FISH AND OYSTERS 

WHITE FISH STUFFING FOR GREEN PEPPERS 

Flake cold left over white fish with half the amount of 
bread crumbs which have been moistened with strained 
tomato. Salt and season to taste vvith onion juice and 
celery salt. Remove all seeds from green peppers ; boil 
gently until tender; about 15 minutes. Stuff with above 
mixture covered with dry bread crumbs and tiny bits of 
butter. Bake about 20 minutes. — Adeline S. C. 

FISH SOUFFLfi 



1 cup wtite sauce 


Salt 


1 cup flaked fish 


Pepper 


2 eggs 


Onion 



Add fish, seasoning, and well beaten yolks to white 
sauce. If thin, cook slightly. When cool cut and fold in 
whites beaten stiff and dry ; turn into buttered baking dish ; 
set in pan of warm water, bake in moderate oven 30 min- 
utes. Chopped meat may be substituted for fish. 

—F. L. H. 

FISH PUDDING 

2 lbs. fish (raw) 4 tablespoons flour 

^2 lb. butter 1 pint rich milk 

4 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

Free fish from fat, bone and skin and run through 
grinder 3 or 4 times ; blend with butter until it is of the 
consistency of whipped cream ; drop in eggs, 1 at a time 
and beat until very light; add milk and flour alternately, 
and gradually add salt and pepper ; put into tightly covered 
mould, buttered, and lined with dry bread crumbs, leaving 
room for swelling ; boil in water 2 hours ; turn from mould 
and serve with lobster sauce, which is made by adding 1 
can of lobster to a good white sauce. 

— Mrs. Edzvard W. Childs 

LEFT OVERS 

With creamed cod fish mix some stewed tomatoes : 
cover with buttered bread crumbs and bake in scallop shell>. 
Any boiled or baked fish, broken in flakes may be served 
the same way with or without tomatoes. — A. L. P. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 57 



58 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Meats 



"I am one that am nourished by my victuals 
and would fain have meat." 

Two Gentlemen of Verona 



HOW TO BROIL STEAK PROPERLY 

Trim the steak, cutting out a portion of the suet. Place 
the steak in a wire broiler and if you use coal or wood put 
it very near the fire. First sear it on one side, then turn 
and sear it on the other. Then lift it at least six inches from 
the fire and broil more quickly, turning it 2 or 3 times. 
If the steak is 1 inch thick broil it for 8 minutes ; if an 
inch and half thick, for 12 minutes; if 2 inches, for 
20 minutes. In a gas stove put the meat near the burners. 
Turn it at first until both sides are thoroughly seared ; then 
put the broiler near the bottom of the stove where the meat 
will broil slowly for 8, 12 or 20 minutes, according to its 
thickness. Turn 2 or 3 times during the broiling. Season 
when done. 

TO DRY-PAN A STEAK 

Where oil or flat-top gas stoves are used broiling is out 
of the question. The next best method is the dry-pan. 
Select a cast or sheet iron pan, heat it very hot ; quickly rub 
it with suet and put in the steak; when seared turn and 
sear quickly the other side. Cook at a high heat for 5 
minutes, turning every minute. Finish the cooking over 
a hot fire. Do not stand it in the oven to finish, which is 
the common fashion among the untrained cooks. The 
imprisoned odors penetrate the meat and destroy its deli- 
cate flavor. The standing at reduced temperature makes 
it more or less insipid. If the heat be insufficient in any 
method of meat cookery the proper flavor will not be 
developed. 



60 MEATS 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS 

1 pair sweetbreads 1 teaspoon salt 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon chopped par- 

2 tablespoons butter sley 

2 tablespoons flour Pepper to taste 

Clean sweetbreads and put in boiling water, cook 10 
minutes and drain, then add fresh boiling water in which 
may be put a little lemon juice; boil 10 minutes longer, re- 
move from fire, cut off tendons and when cold cut into 
dice. Make sauce of other ingredients as follows: Melt 
butter in sauce pan, add flour, gradually stirring till smooth, 
then pour in milk slowly; keep on stirring, put in salt, 
pepper and parsley; cook till it thickens, then add sweet- 
breads, heat and serve, or place sweetbreads with the sauce 
in individual patty cases, sprinkle with bread crumbs and 
bake 10 minutes in hot oven. 

FRIED SWEETBREADS 

Parboil sweetbreads, wipe them dry and dredge with 
salt, pepper and flour and fry in butter. Serve with green 
or canned peas. 

RICE AND MEAT CROQUETTES 

1 cup boiled rice A little pepper 

1 cup finely chopped, cooked 2 tablespoons butter 

meat — any kind % cup milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Put milk on to boil and add the meat, rice and season- 
ing. When this boils, add the egg, well beaten ; stir 1 min- 
ute after cooking; shape, dip in egg and crumbs and ivy. 

VEAL LOAF 

3 lbs. raw veal 1 teaspoon black pepper 
^ lb. salt pork chopped fine A little mace and nutmeg 
3 Boston crackers rolled fine 1 tablespoon salt 

3 eggs 
Sprinkle cracker crumbs on top and bake 2 hours in a 
bread tin, basting with a mixture of 1 cup hot water and 
..1 butter the size of an egg. — Mrs. W. E. Church 



MEAT S 61 

BOILED HAM 

Wash and scrub well, cover with cold water, add 1 
pint vinegar and 2 or 3 bay leaves, boil constantly until the 
skin will pull off readily. Cover with a thick paste made 
of cracker crumbs, a little vinegar and mustard and Yz 
cup brown sugar; stick cloves on top and bake in a slow 
oven 1 hour. — S. R. Beatty 

MEAT CROQUETTES 

% pint minced cold meat 1 teaspoon salt 

2 oz. butter Very little red pepper 

1 tablespoon flour i/^ cup stock, milk or cream 

^ lemon rind grated 2 egg yolks 

Pinch nutmeg 

]Melt butter in a spider, add flour but do not let brown ; 
add salt, pepper, meat and stock. When boiling, add lemon 
peel and nutmeg. Mix thoroughly ; at the last moment add 
beaten eggs, stir rapidly and remove from fire. When cool 
form into shape, roll in crumbs, then beaten egg. then 
crumbs. Fry in deep hot lard. 

SHOULDER OF PIG ROASTED 

Have a shoulder weighing about 4 lbs. Scour the 
skin, brushing with olive oil; dredge with salt, pepper and 
flour; cook in double pan in moderate oven for about 
3 hours, baste with oil and dredge with flour several times ; 
add a little water if needed. Serve on bed of mashed 
turnips. 

SPANISH MEAT LOAF 

Season 1^^ lbs. hamburg steak which must have ^ 
lb. salt pork ground with it, with salt, pepper, ^ cup milk, 
3 crackers and % . can pimeatoes ch^tpad ; mould in ob- 
long shape and place in dripping pan w4th pieces of butter 
on top and 1 cup water in pan, bake }i hour in a hot oven, 
basting frequently, covering toward the last. ^lake gravy 
as for any roast. 



62 MEAT S 

CALVES LIVER EN CASSEROLE 

Cream 1 tablespoon flour in 2 of butter, spread over 
bottom of casserole, put 1 bunch carrots cut in quarters, 
lengthwise, 1 can peas, 4 medium onions. 1 pint potatoes 
cut into halves, ^^ cup fresh or canned m^ushrooms, salt 
and pepper, and Yz cup soup stock. Bake 3^ hour, then 
place on top of vegetables 1 calves liver, larded, weighing 2 
lbs., and bake in covered casserole 1 hour. 

— Mrs. Lamprecht 

BRAISED BEEF TOXGUE 

Put a beef tongue in cold water over fire, add an onion 
with several cloves ; heat to boiling point ; simmer for 1 
hour ; remove skin from tongue. Have hot in a casserole, 1 
cup tomato puree, 2 cups brown stock, flavored with ham, 
parsley, onion, celery, carrot and sweet herbs ; put in tongue, 
cover and cook in moderate oven about 1 hour; cut the 
tongue in slices and arrange in a wreath on a bed of 
spinach, placing a slice of hard boiled egg on each slice of 
tongue. Thicken the liquor in casserole with flour cooked 
in butter. Strain and serve as a sauce. 

HAM AU GRATIX 

Place a thick slice of ham in a pan, peel several white 
potatoes and put around the ham, cover with a pint or 
more of milk, bake slowly about 45 minutes, or until the 
potatoes are done and until milk has evaporated, leaving a 
light brown skin over all. 

JELLIED VEAL LOAF ' 

4 lbs. veal. Stew w^ith joints. After washing place in 
kettle, cover with boiling water and cook slowly 3 hours or 
more, until meat is tender. When half done add 1 small 
onion cut fine, 1 tablespoon salt and a little pepper. When 
veal is done, remove from fire but leave meat in liquor until 
cool, then put through meat chopper and place meat in 
narrow bread pan ; pour liquor over it, stir well and smooth 
on top. It will jelly and make a delicious cold meat. 



MEATS 63 

BAKED CORNED BEEF HASH 

Mix y3 cooked corn beef chopped fine with % chopped 
boiled potatoes, season with butter and pepper. Put in 
spider with 1 cup milk. Cook 15 minutes, then put in bak- 
ing dish, cover with cracker crumbs and piece of butter on 
top, then pour 1 cup cream over all and bake for 30 minutes. 

BONED LEG OF LAMB STUFFED AND BAKED 
Remove the bone from a short leg of yearling lamb, 
fill the space with bread dressing, season the meat with 
salt and pepper and spread the outside liberally with bacon 
fat or dripping. Cook about 2 hours. 

IRISH STEAK WITH DUMPLINGS 
Select 3 or 4 lbs. from the upper part of the chuck 
rib or the flank cut from a large sirloin roast, large bones 
and superfluous fat should be removed. Remove the meat 
as far as possible from the bones, cut in pieces suitable 
for serving; dredge the meat in pepper, salt and flour 
and drain it in fat drippings ; remove to sauce pans, 
add boiling water to cover and simmer until meat is tender, 
about 3 hours. Peel an onion for each person to be 
served, boil them 15 minutes, then add to meat after it 
has cooked 1 hour, add also 1 hour later, 1 or 2 carrots 
cut up and 1 potato parboiled for each person ; add salt and 
pepper. When potatoes are nearly done add the biscuit 
mixture for dumplings. Cover close and cook 15 minutes 
without opening the kettle. 

FILLET OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 
Have your butcher lard the fillet. In the bottom of 
baking pan place }i onion, 1 carrot, chopped, 4 cloves, 2 
bay leaves, 1 cup boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt and 1 stalk 
celery, chopped. Put fillet in pan on top of these, sprinkle 
with pepper and spread with butter; bake in quick oven 30 
minutes, when done take out and place in hot dish. Add to 
the ingredients in pan 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour and mix well, pour in 1 pint boiling water, stirring 
until all boils ; strain into frying pan, then add 1 pint 
fresh stewed or canned mushrooms, cover until heated 
through ; take from fire and add 1 tablespoon sherry, salt 
and pepper to taste, pour sauce around fillet and serve. 
This recipe is for 4 lbs. of beef which will serve 6 persons. 



64 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 65 



Poultry and Game 



CREAM OF CHICKEN 

4 lbs. chicken, boiled tender l can mushrooms. If small, 
4 sweet-breads boiled in salt- do not cut 

ed water 

Stir together 4 tablespoons butter and 5 of flour ; scald 
1 quart cream and into it stir the flour and butter until it 
thickens ; season with salt, black and red pepper, and use 
a great deal of it. Cut chicken and sweetbreads into small 
pieces and mix into this mushrooms, over all pour cream 
mixture. Mix thoroughly and pour into buttered baking 
dish. Cover the top with bread crumbs; bake ^ hour. 

— Helen C. Daives 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

1 solid pint finely chopped 4 eggs 

chicken 1 tablespoon onion juice 

1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Vz teaspoon pepper 1 pint crumbs 

1 cup cream or chicken stock 3 tablespoons butter 
1 tablespoon flour 

Put the cream or stock on to boil, mix the flour and 
butter together and stir into the boiling cream, then add 
chicken and seasoning; boil for 2 minutes and add 2 eggs, 
well beaten. Take from the fire immediately and set 
away to cool. When cool, shape, dip in ^gg, then in bread 
crumbs, then in egg again and fry. 

— Mrs. T. ]St„ Johnson 

TURKEY WITH SPANISH DRESSING 

Prepare the fowl in the usual way and make the dress- 
ing as follows: Melt a tablespoon butter and fry 2 large 
onions until a light brown, add ^ lb. hamburg, fry until 
done, add 4 slices bread, minced, a spoon capers, % lb. 
blanched almonds chopped fine, %. lb. seeded raisins, a few 
olives, minced ; season to suite the taste and fill the bird. 



POULTRY 67 

CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 



1 chicken 1 teaspoon salt 

1 carrot 12 small onions 

1 quart boiling water or 1 saltspoon pepper 
stock 



Draw and truss the chicken. Peel the onions, and put 
them into the bottom of a casserole dish; add the carrot 
cut into fancy shapes, the stock or water, and the pepper. 
Pour it into the mould. Place the chicken on top of the 
vegetables and bake, uncovered, in a hot oven for half an 
hour. When the chicken is nicely browned add the salt, 
cover the dish and bake slowly for 1 hour longer. 

Birds, rabbits, hares, and all the so-called inferior 
pieces of meat may be cooked en casserole the same as 
chicken. The oven must be exceedingly hot at first to 
sear the meat before placing the cover on the mould. Al- 
ways add the salt when the meat is partly done. Adding it 
at first draws out the juices and leaves the fibre exposed 
and tough. 



ROASTED DUCK 

After the duck is picked, drain and thoroughly wash, 
cut the neck close to the back and beat the breast bone 
flat ; tie wings and legs securely and fill with potato stuffing 
prepared as follows : Cook 1 quart potatoes and 2 apples, 
beat up well and season with ^ teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon 
pepper, 1 teaspoon butter, spread duck with soft butter 
and dredge w4th flour, baste often until tender. 2 hours 
is sufficient for a large young duck. Cook giblets in 1 quart 
water with small onion, blade of mace and dash of cayenne 
pepper. When very tender cut giblets up very fine, strain 
the water they have cooked in and add to gravy the duck 
was cooked with and boil up and thicken, then add 1 table- 
spoon maderia, pour a little on the duck and the rest in 
gravy bowl. Serve with any kind of tart sauce and garnish 
with water-cress. 



68 POULTRY 

FRIED CHICKEN 

Southern style of frying. Cut the chicken into pieces, 
dip each piece separately into cold water, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt and roll well in flour. Have an equal 
quantity of butter and lard hot in a frying pan, put the 
chicken on and cover. When brown on one side turn un- 
til all sides are done and brown. Remove chicken to a hot 
dish, sprinkle a teaspoon flour in hot grease, stirring un- 
til brown, then pour in ^ pint cream, stir well and pour 
over chicken. 

CHICKEN A LA KING 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a pan ; add Yz green 
pepper, chopped fine, ^ cup fresh mushrooms, peeled and 
broken in pieces, stir and cook 3 minutes; add 2 level 
tablespoons flour, ^ teaspoon salt and cook until frothy; 
add 1 pint cream and stir until sauce thickens. Put the 
sauce pan over hot water and stir into it 3 cups chicken 
cut into cubes ; cover and let stand until it gets very hot. 
Beat the yolks 3 eggs, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon 
onion juice, Yz teaspoon paprika; stir this mixture into the 
hot chicken, stirring until the ^^'g thickens. Serve on toast. 

— Mrs. J. M. Glenn 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 69 



70 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Fish and Meat Sauces 

"All things come to him who waits on himself" 



HORSERADISH FLUFF 
To serve with game or roast beef. 

Grate fresh horseradish. To ^2 cup put 1 teaspoon 
vinegar, a good sized pinch of salt; stir well. Whip ^ 
pint whipping cream very dry, add horseradish gradually, 
folding it into the cream without stirring much. Serve 
very cold. . — Mrs. Lane 

DRAWN BUTTER SAUCE 

% cup butter % teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour i^ teaspoon pepper 

1% cups hot water 

Melt ^ the butter, add to this the flour and seasoning. 
Pour on this gradually the hot water; boil 5 minutes and 
add remaining butter in small pieces. 

MINT SAUCE 

1 cup chopped mint % cup vinegar 

1/4 cup sugar 

Let it stand 1 hour before serving. If vinegar is very 
strong use more sugar. 

TOMATO SAUCE FOR FISH 

Put in a sauce pan 1 pint stewed tomatoes. If a 
highly seasoned sauce is desired, add 1 small onion, 1 bay 
leaf, 1 stick mace and a few drops Worcestershire sauce ; 
simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Melt 3 teaspoons butter, 
add 1 tablespoon flour and mix until smooth. Mash the 
tomato through a sieve, add the flour and butter, season 
with ^ teaspoon salt and 34 teaspoon pepper. Stir for 
a moment, or until it is of the consistency of thick cream and 
serve. 



72 FISH AND MEAT SAUCE S 

HORSERADISH SAUCE 

4 tablespoons grated horse- 1 teaspoon each of sugar and 

radish salt 

4 tablespoons powdered crack- 14 teaspoon pepper 

er crumbs 1 teaspoon made mustard 

% cup cream 2 tablespoons vinegar 

Mix and beat in double boiler. Serve hot with hot 
meats. 



SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

1 cup butter Juice l^ lemon 

Yolks 4 eggs (beat with Paprika to taste 
Dover beater) 1 cup boiling water 

Place in double boiler, beat continually over fire un- 
til it reaches proper consistency. — Mrs. F. H. Scott 



CAPER SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter 2 bay leaves 

1 pint boiling water 2 tablespoons flour 

2 tablespoons capers 1 gill Tarragon vinegar 
1 teaspoon salt % teaspoon pepper 

4 cloves 

Put vinegar on to cook with all the flavoring for 4 
minutes, brown the butter and flour, add water and flour, 
add water, stirring continually, when it thickens strain in 
the vinegar and add capers. Cook 4 minutes. 



COLD MEAT SAUCE 

Wash and cut fine, without pulling, 6 lbs. pieplant, add 
6 lbs. sugar and let stand over night. Then boil until it 
thickens ; add 2 ounces bitter almonds, blanched and chopped 
fine, juice of 1 lemon and ^ tablespoon ginger root pound- 
ed fine. Lastly add ^ wine glass brandy. Put in glasses. 

— Mrs. Philip P. Lcc 



FISH AND MEAT SAUCES 73 

SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Make the drawn butter sauce and add gradually yolks 
of 2 eggs well beaten ; then add juice ^ lemon, 1 teaspoon 
onion juice and a teaspoon chopped parsley. 

— Mrs. Rogers 



74 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 75 



Vegetables 

'Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, 
than a stalled ox and hatred thereof^ 
Soloman 



SWEET POTATOES FLAMBES AU MARRONES 

• 

Use cold boiled sweet potatoes cut in small squares. 
Pile up on a fire proof platter, or silver au gratin dish. 
The French marrons a la vanilla, about 3 marrons to each 
person, are mixed with the potatoes, pour over the juice 
of the marrons. Sprinkle with fine sugar and put under a 
grilling fire until brown, brushing every few minutes with 
butter. Send to the table with 4 tablespoons rum poured 
over the top and lighted. Potatoes should stand 5 hours 
before using. — A. D. H. 

STUFFED EGGPLANT 

Take fresh, purple eggplants of a middling size, cut 
them in two ; scrape out all the inside and put it in a 
saucepan with a little minced ham; cover with water and 
boil until soft ; drain off the water ; add 2 tablespoons grated 
crumbs, 1 tablespoon butter, 3^ minced onion, salt and 
pepper. Stuff each half of the hull with the mixture; add 
a small lump of butter to each and bake 15 minutes. Minced 
veal or chicken in the place of ham, is equally as good and 
many prefer it. 

SPINACH TIMBALE 
Quickly made but must be served at once. 

2 cups cooked spinach chopped very fine. Beat 2 eggs 
until very light, add % cup milk, ^ teaspoon salt and pepper 
to taste. Beat in the spinach and pour into buttered cups or 
timbale forms. Bake 20 to 30 minutes, until firm like a 
custard. Turn out on a hot dish and serve at once with 
cream sauce. These timbales are delicious but spoil if al- 
lowed to stand. — Anna Rczv Gross 



VEGETABLES 77 

CREAMED CARROTS 

Scrape the carrots and cut in slices ^ inch thick. Let 
them lie in cold water 1 hour before cooking. Boil till 
tender in salted water, drain and pour over them a well 
seasoned white sauce. — Maude Griswold Schzvender 

POTATO PUFF 

Soak old potatoes for several hours and boil in salted 
water. To 2 cups potatoes mashed, or put through the 
ricer, add 2 tablespoons butter, 1 teaspoon salt and a little 
white pepper; fold in the whites of 2 eggs whipped stiff. 
Bake in buttered dish. 

POTATOES IN THE HALF SHELL 

Bake 6 medium sized potatoes; when they are soft, 
cut them in halves and scoop out the potato. Mash it, add 
2 tablespoons butter, salt, pepper, 2 tablespoons hot milk. 
Put this mixture back into the skins, sprinkle with grated 
cheese and bake for 5 minutes in a very hot oven. 

GREEN CORN CUSTARD WITH BROILED TOMA- 
TOES 

Cut corn from young ears to make 1 cup, add 4 eggs 
beaten slightly with ^2 teaspoon salt, dash paprika, few 
drops onion juice and 1^ cups milk. Bake in buttered 
moulds in hot water. When firm, turn from moulds and 
surround with slices of broiled tomatoes. When green 
corn is out of season Kornlet may be used. ^ can will be 
enough. 

MASHED TURNIPS 

Select the large yellow turnips, as they are sweetest (the 
Cape Cod turnip is a good kind). Wash, pare, and cut them 
into pieces. Boil them in salted boiling water until tender. 
Drain, mash, season with butter, pepper and salt and heap 
lightly in a vegetable dish. 



78 VEGETABLES 

CORN TIMBALES 

Beat 2 eggs until very light. Add Yz teaspoon salt, 
pinch black pepper and ^ cup milk. Beat in 1 can Kornlet 
or grated corn. Pour into buttered cups and bake like a 
custard, 20 to 30 minutes. Serve at once with fingers of 
bread covered with grated cheese and browned in a quick 
oven. This is nicest when made in individual dishes. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

Boil or bake sweet potatoes, mash with plenty of but- 
ter; salt, pepper and sugar to taste, and enough cream to 
make easy to handle; make into balls. Roll in ^gg and 
bread crumbs ; fry in deep lard. 

CORN OYSTERS 

1 pint grated corn 2 tablespoons flour 

3 eggs Little salt and pepper 

Fry on griddle. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER 

Remove the outer leaves, cut off the stem close to the 
flowers. Wash thoroughly in cold water and soak in cold 
salted water (top downward) for 1 hour, allowing 1 table- 
spoon salt to 1 gallon water. Then tie in a piece of muslin 
or cheesecloth to keep it whole and cook it in slightly salted 
water, boiling until tender, keeping it closely covered. 
When done, lift it from the water, remove the cloth, stand 
it in a round dish with the flowers up. Pour cream sauce 
over it and serve at once. 

GLACI SWEET POTATOES 

2 tablespoons butter Salt 

2 tablespoons brown sugar Pepper 

y^ cup sherry 

Alake caramel sauce; add cold sliced sweet potatoes; 
fry until a golden brown. — K. S, H. 



VEGETABLES 79 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

Cut a thin slice from the stem end of large, smooth 
tomatoes. Remove the seeds and soft pulp. Mix with the 
pulp an equal amount of buttered cracker crumbs, season 
to taste with salt, pepper, sugar and onion juice. Fill the 
cavity with the mixture, heaping it in the center and 
sprinkle buttered crumbs over the top; place the tomatoes 
in a buttered pan and bake until the crumbs are brown. 
Take them carefully up with a broad knife and serve very 
hot. A small quantity of cooked meat finely chopped may 
be used with the crumbs. 

STUFFED GREEN PEPPERS 

Cut oft* the top and remove seeds of 6 green peppers. 
Boil in cold water for 15 minutes until tender. 

FILLING 

Place in a frying pan 1 tablespoon butter, 1 chopped 
onion and 2 cups fine bread crumbs, fry brown, fill the 
peppers and bake in moderate oven 15 minutes. 

SAUCE TO COVER 

Cook together in double boiler 2 tablespoons flour, 1 
tablespoon butter, add 2 cups strained canned tomatoes ; 
salt and pepper to taste ; cook 10 minutes, pour over pep- 
pers and serve. — A. D. H. 

SAVORY CARROTS 

Scrape, then cut new carrots into straws; cook tender 
in salted water and drain dry. Season with salt, pepper and 
a little onion juice and return to the kettle with a generous 
piece of butter and shake until hot and glazed. Pile on a 
dish in pyramid style; add 1 cup fresh green peas well 
seasoned and a sprinkling of chopped parsley. 

LATTICE POTATOES 

Cut with lattice cutter. Fry like French fried in deep 

lard. Are unusual. 



80 VEGETABLES 

RICE WITH CHEESE 

Boil the rice tender in plenty of salted water; drain 
and put into a pudding dish; alternate layers of rice and 
grated cheese until the pan is full. Have a layer of cheese 
on top. Dot with butter and nearly cover with milk. Bake 
to a nice brown. — Maude G. Schwender 

TOMATOES DES OEUFS 

1 small tablespoon butter 1 can tomatoes (or less) 

1 large teaspoon onion Salt, pepper, paprika and 

chopped chopped green peppers 

Add 5 eggs and when nearly poached, pick up with a 
fork until all are well mixed. Add 3^ cup grated cheese, 
serve on toast. This can be made in the chafing dish. 

CORN PUDDING 

(Southern Style) 

Grate 1 dozen ears firm corn, add 1 cup milk, 2 table- 
spoons butter, 3 eggs beaten separately, 1 tablespoon sugar, 
salt and pepper to taste. Add whites of eggs last and bake 
in quick oven. — Mrs. E. H. Ball 

MACARONI SOUFFLfi 

Season 1 cup white sauce with 1 teaspoon chopped 
parsley and little onion juice. Stir in 1 cup boiled maca- 
roni chopped rather coarse, then the yolks of 2 eggs beaten 
light, folding in the whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff and turn 
into a buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with }^ cup soft 
crumbs mixed with 2 tablespoons melted butter and bake 
in a moderate oven about 20 minutes or until firm in the 
center. — Mrs. H. M. Carle 

FRIED TOMATOES 

Cut firm, large, ripe tomatoes into thick slices, more 
than ^ inch thick, season with salt and pepper, dredge with 
flour, roll in egg and crumbs and fry them brown on both 
sides in hot butter and lard mixed. 



VEGETABLES 81 

SCALLOPED CAULIFLOWER 

Break the cauliflower into small sprigs and cook in boil- 
ing water, salted, until tender. Place the pieces in a but- 
tered pudding dish and pour over them a sauce made as 
follows : Mix well together Yz pint bread crumbs, 1 pint 
sweet milk, 1 beaten tg%, 2 teaspoons salt and a little pep- 
per. Bake until slightly brown. 1 cup diced chicken or 
veal added to the sauce makes a great improvement. When 
this is used, allow an extra cup of milk and a little more 
seasoning. 

Boiled cauliflower may be served in a shallow dish and 
covered with a cream or HoUandaise sauce, or add a little 
grated cheese and cover with cracker crumbs, moistened 
with melted butter and bake until crumbs are brown. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

Cut eggplant in slices ^ inch thick and soak for ^ 
hour in cold water wdth 1 teaspoon salt in it. Have ready 
bread crumbs and 1 ^gg beaten ; drain off water from the 
slices, lay them on a napkin, dip them in the crumbs and 
then in the tgg, put another coat of crumbs on them and fry 
them in butter to a light brown. The frying pan must be 
hot before the slices are put in. They wull fry in 10 
minutes. 

BAKED BEANS 

Soak 1 pint beans in cold water over night. In the 
morning drain, cover with fresh water and heat slowly, 
keeping water below boiling. Cook until skins burst when 
blown. Drain off water and put in baking dish. Scrape 
and scald ^ lb. salt pork cut in dice on top. Put with 
beans, having beans on top and bottom. Mix : 

2 tablespoons molasses 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon mustard 3 tablespoons brown sugar 

Cover with boiling w^ater, baking all day, add water if 
beans become dry. Cover at first, but remove cover last 
half hour and brown top. 



82 VEGETABLES 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

Season 1 quart tomatoes with 1 teaspoon salt, 1 salt- 
spoon pepper, ^ cup sugar and a few drops onion juice. 
Butter a deep dish and sprinkle with fine crumbs. Pour 
in the tomatoes. Moisten 1 cup cracker crumbs with ^ 
cup melted butter. Spread over the top and brown in the 
oven. Raw tomatoes sliced may be used in layers, alternat- 
ing with crumbs and seasoning. 

BOILED CABBAGE 

Cut a head of cabbage in 4 quarters. If this recipe is 
followed exactly, this much despised vegetable will be found 
very acceptable and its odor will not be perceptible through 
the house. 

Cut the cabbage into 4 quarters, cut away the hard core. 
Wash it well in 2 changes of water and place the pieces, 
open side down on a colander to drain. Have a very gen- 
erous amount of water in a large saucepan or pot. Let it 
boil violently ; add 1 tablespoon salt and Y^ teaspoon baking 
soda, put in the cabbage 1 piece at a time so as to check 
the boiling as little as possible. Let it cook for 25 minutes. 
Turn it into the colander and press out all the water. Put 
into a saucepan : 1 tablespoon butter, 1 heaping teaspoon 
flour, ^ teaspoon salt and a dash of pepper ; add slowly ^ 
cup milk and stir till smooth; then add the cabbage. Cut 
it into large pieces with a knife and mix it lightly with the 
sauce. If the cabbage is free from w^ater, the sauce will 
adhere to it and form a creamy coating. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 83 



84 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Salads and Salad Dressings 

**The imaginary relish is so sweet that it enchants my sense. " 

Troilus and Cressida 



PINEAPPLE CUCUMBER SALAD 

1 large can Hawaiian pine- Juice 6 lemons ^ 

apple, cut in small cubes % cup sugar mixed with 

1 cucumber, cut in cubes juice of lemons and pine- 
% package Knox's gelatine ^ apple 

soaked in 1 cup cold water 

Mix gelatine with heated juice; allow to cool; when it 
starts to thicken add pineapple and cucumber cubes, a few 
pieces red and green cherries, cut in small strips ; put in 
mould to cool ; individual are prettiest, served on lettuce 
with mayonnaise dressing, to which whipped cream is 
added at the last moment. — Mrs. Osborn 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

On a lettuce leaf place a slice of Hawaiian pineapple 
(canned) ; pour over the pineapple 2 or 3 spoons French 
dressing (oil, vinegar, salt and red pepper, etc.) ; on the 
pineapple make a ring of rather dry cottage cheese or 
cream cheese put through the ricer ; say a maraschino cherry 
or mint cherry in the center and serve quite cold with any 
kind of wafers. — Mrs. Curtis 

FRUIT SALAD 

Put on plate a leaf of lettuce, a slice of pineapple and 
on top of pineapple put ^ Bartlett pear ; fill the center of 
pear with pecan nuts and put a spoonful of fruit salad 
dressing on top of nuts ; also a cherry. Use canned fruit. 

FRUIT SALAD DRESSING 

2 eggs Juice 1 large lemon 
Vz cup sugar % cup water 

Beat all together and cook in double boiler until it 
thickens ; add a pinch of salt. Before using add ^ pint 
whipped cream. — Mrs. Peaks 



O 



86 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

AMBROSIA SALAD 

3 bananas i/4 cup grated cocoanut 

3 oranges 

Mix together and serve in banana skins with mayon- 
naise. 

DATE AND ALMOND SALAD 

1 lb. dates 1 lemon 

2 dozen almonds 1 bunch parsley or water- 
2 tablespoons grated cocoanut cress 

Cut dates in strips, blanch and brown almonds, chop 
fine and add to dates, mix with boiled dressing, sprinkle 
with grated cocoanut and garnish with parsley or cress and 
lemon cut in slices and then in eighths. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

2 large grape fruit, peel and extract the quarters ; 1 
cup English walnuts, cut small. Arrange on lettuce, cover 
with French dressing and garnish with Malaga grapes. 

PINEAPPLE AND CELERY SALAD 

2 cups shredded pineapple 1 pimento, cut small 

1 cup celery, cut into dice 

Mix with mayonnaise cream dressing. Serve ice cold 
on lettuce and garnish with nut meats ; or serve in apples 
peeled and scraped out. 

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD 

Pare 2 or 3 large grape fruit and divide into lobes; 
free these from seeds and skin, then arrange 4 or 5 lobes 
grape fruit together with a thin strip green pepper between 
each lobe. Put a wreath of water-cress around that and 
serve with French dressing. — Mrs. Peaks 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 87 

PEAR SALAD , *-*_s4 

Select good halves canned pears, arrange on crisp head 
lettuce; sprinkle with chopped candied ginger; top with 
cream salad dressing and put cream cheese through a ricer 
over the halves. Serve very cold. 

BANANA SALAD 

Cut bananas in 2 pieces lengthwise, put on lettuce leaf, 
cover with salad dressing and sprinkle thickly with chopped 
nuts. Serve with toasted cheese crackers. 

WALDORF SALAD 

Equal parts of chopped celery and apple, 3^ cup nuts 
to 2 cups salad cooked dressing. 

CHEESE AND CHERRY SALAD 

Mix chopped nuts in white cream cheese and form in- 
to balls the size of cherries. Take an equal amount of 
'Maraschino cherries and put both on a lettuce leaf. Pour 
salad dressing over them. 

CHERRY SALAD 

Remove pits from 1 lb. California cherries, mixing 
dark and light evenly; put into each a crisp, fresh baked 
peanut or hazel nut. Arrange on circular platter the crisp 
heart leaves of head lettuce; sprinkle cherries all through 
the leaves (cress or sorrel may be used in place of let- 
tuce). Serve with claret dressing or French dressing, to 
which has been added 1 tablespoon cherry juice in place of 
vinegar or lemon juice. 

CLARET DRESSING 

Mix % teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons olive oil 

% teaspoon paprika 

Add gradually 1 tablespoon claret and 1 tablespoon 
lemon juice. — Mrs. Hypes 



88 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

TOMATO SALAD 

Scoop out the inside of a ripe tomato. Fill with 
mixture of tomato pulp, almost any kind of chopped meat, 
celery and nuts. Mix some dressing in the filling and put 
some on top of the tomato. 

FRUIT SALAD 

Yz lb. white Malaga grapes, stoned, 6 oranges cut into 
small pieces, sliced pineapple, medium sized can. cut small. 
A few Maraschino cherries halved; mix and let stand 1 
hour or more to drain, in cold place. Serve with any good 
cooked dressing. — Mrs. E. C. Dazvcs 

APPLE RING SALAD 

Pare and core 2 apples ; cut them in rings, brush the 
slices with lemon juice and dip each slice in French dress- 
ing. Arrange the rings on lettuce leaves and put between 
them layers of chopped English walnuts and celer}-. Lay 
a ball of cream cheese on top and serve with mayonnaise. 

FRUIT DRESSING 

White of 1 egg, beaten ; add 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 
tablespoon lemon juice (sometimes 2), 1 tablespoon orange 
juice, add 3^ as much whipped cream as there is in the 
mixture. Any combination of fruit. 

PEAR SALAD 

Grapes, grape fruit, pineapple, English walnuts, served 
in pear cups on lettuce. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD 

Add to cream cheese as much sweet cream as it will take 
and chopped nuts, almonds preferred ; put this mixture on a 
slice of canned pineapple and serve on head lettuce, adding 
French dressing. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 89 

CHERRY SALAD 

1 quart oxheart cherries carefully stoned and the cavi- 
ties filled with nuts. Serve in lettuce cups or little salad 
baskets. For the latter crisp lettuce leaves are fastened to- 
gether in the shape of baskets with nasturtium stems. Two 
stems form the handle. Place on lace paper doily or indi- 
vidual plates, garnish with white mayonnaise and nastur- 
tium blossoms. 

Chop Yz cabbage, 1 stalk celery and a green pepper. 
Mix mayonnaise with it, and serve on lettuce. 

A slice of tomato on a lettuce leaf, cut oranges and put 
on the tomato. Mayonnaise and chopped nuts on top. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD NO. 1 

Serve a few tips of asparagus on lettuce leaves, and 
use French dressing and cream cheese on the plate. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD NO. 2 

Use the tips on lettuce as above, but instead of the 
dressing use the following: Fry bacon quite crisp, break 
into small bits placing them on the asparagus. Into the 
brown fat put a little vinegar and a mere trace of onion 
(if desired) and pour over asparagus while hot. This is 
said to be delicious. 

SARDINE SALAD 

12 boneless sardines, scald, drain and put on ice for 
1 hour, 2 hard boiled eggs cut in slices, 6 stoned olives cut 
in half, 3 gherkins diced. Serve on lettuce with French 
dressing. 

PIMENTO SALAD 

Wash and dry pimentoes, removing any stray seeds ; 
stuff with cream or cottage cheese, and after standing on 
or near ice, cut in slices and serve with French dressing on 
lettuce. 



90 SA LADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

CREAM CHEESE AND WATER-CRESS 

Mash 1 cream cheese with a little cream. Add Yz, 
cup chopped walnuts. Form in balls and serve 3 to a 
person on a bed of water-cress. Use French dressing. 

JELLIED PECAN 

To 1 pint lemon jelly when nearly hard add 1 cup 
broken pecans, mould and serve on lettuce leaves with finely 
shaved sweet green peppers and mayonnaise. 

A DAINTY SALAD DISH 

Take large and long cucumbers, cut them once through 
the middle lengthwise,, scrape out the inside and you have a 
pretty individual green boat in which to serve the salad. 
They must be kept on ice until ready for use. This is at- 
tractive with shrimp salad, as the colors blend so nicely. 

NEST EGG SALAD 

Make little tgg shaped balls of pimento cream cheese 
and place in a nest of crisp shredded celery or diced orange 
or grape fruit. Serve with any desired dressing. 

A novel decoration for the top of orange salad or any 
ojher salad is to arrange pieces of candied orange peel to 
simulate a daisy, using a small chocolate candy for the 
center. 

EASTER SALAD 

Prepare nice head lettuce as usual and make little balls 
of cream or cottage cheese, adding salt, paprika and a little 
cream, if necessary, to roll them. When they are finished 
put a small fork or skewer in each one in turn and so dip 
and roll it in grated American cheese till the white surface 
is completely covered with the yellow coating; lay in piles 
in the cup shaped leaves ; pass French dressing with them, 
or put the dressing on the lettuce first and then lay on the 
balls. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 91 

POND LILY SALAD 

Cut the whites of hard boiled eggs into lengthwise 
pieces (about 8 to each egg) and arrange them on 
nasturtium leaves to form the petals of a pond lily. Grate 
the yolks, mix them with chopped olives and celery and 
then pile the mixture into little mounds in the center of 
the white petals. The salad should be served on cracked 
ice, to represent water under the lily pads. 

PIMENTO SALAD 

Drain the contents of a small can of red peppers. x\fter 
drying them in a cloth, slice in rings, cut fine an equal 
amount of celery and mix ; add 1 teacup of tiny balls made 
from cream cheese, which should be rolled in fine cracker 
crumbs. Rub the yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs to a paste 
with the oil drained from the peppers. Rub the salad bowl 
with garlic and put in the salad, over which pour a good 
French dressing. Serve on crisp lettuce leaves. 

NEW SALAD 

Cut off crusts of white bread (fresh), cut in diamond 
shape and toast a light brown. On ^ of each piece, grate 
the yolk of hard boiled egg, on other half white of egg 
minced fine, and then place on the slice a sardine; on this 
lay 3 strips of sweet green peppers, crossed, putting over the 
whole a nice mayonnaise dressing ; the bread is then placed 
in a nest of crisp lettuce leaves and a thin slice of lemon is 
placed on each plate. 

NEW SALAD 

Peel an apple, core and cut in cross slices. Lay 1 slice 
on a few lettuce leaves on each plate, and over it put a 
layer of cream cheese, which has been put through a potato 
ricer; around this put a circle of mayonnaise dressing and 
bar-le-duc in center. A prettier dish can hardly be imagined 
and cream cheese is never so good as when used in this 
way. 



92 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

LAMB SALAD 

Cubes of lamb, green peas and chopped mint. Let it 
get very cold, then serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 

RUSSIAN SALAD 

Marinate in oil and vinegar, in separate bowls, spinach, 
chopped carrots, potatoes, and beets ; arrange on a platter 
in rings, the spinach outside, then the carrots and then the 
potatoes and the beets in the middle. Serve with generous 
supply of dressing. 

WATER-CRESS SALAD 

2 bunches cress, 3 slices crisply fried bacon cut fine. 
Pinch salt and pepper and ^ cup mayonnaise. 

RICE SALAD 

2 cups well cooked dry rice and equal quantity of 
apples and celery or cucumbers run through meat chopper, 
salt and red pepper or a chopped green pepper. Cover 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

SPINACH SALAD 

1 peck spinach, boil, drain and chop ; season and mould 
in 6 claret glasses ; 6 pieces cold boiled ham or tongue laid 
on lettuce leaves, turn moulded spinach on this and serve 
with French dressing. 

ANOTHER NEW SALAD 

Slice evenly in thick pieces, good sized tomatoes, 2 
slices to a person. Cut slices of bread very thin and cut out 
in rounds, the same size as the tomato slices. Spread the 
bread thickly with stiflf mayonnaise and arrange the whole 
on lettuce, piling tomato, bread and tomato, cover the top 
with more mayonnaise and arrange 5 half olives on each 
in the form of a star. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 93 

SWEETBREAD SALAD 

1 lb. blanched sweetbreads, cut into small pieces, or 
left in individual pieces; 2 small cucumbers sliced, or 1 
cup celery diced. Serve on lettuce with boiled dressing and 
garnish with truffles. 

WATER-CRESS AND APPLE SALAD 

2 bunches water-cress crisp and dry. 1 cup sour apples 
cut in thin slices. Serve with French dressing with roasted 
duck. 

CAULIFLOWER SALAD 

1 cold boiled cauliflower cut in pieces, 1 tablespoon 
grated cheese. Arrange on bed of water-cress and serve 
with mayonnaise dressing. 

SALAD OF PEPPERS AND CREAM CHEESE 

Select 2 large green peppers, being sure they are sweet. 
Cut off stem end and remove seeds and wash in cold water, 
turning them upside down to drain. Take 2 cream cheeses, 
mash and mix thoroughly through them chopped English 
walnuts or pecan nuts. Press the mixture into the peppers, 
taking pains to fill all the crevices and put away on ice to 
cool and grow firm. When ready to use, cut the peppers 
in slices, about % inch thick, using a sharp knife. Lay on 
each plate 2 slices arranged on a lettuce leaf or endive, add 
a few slices of cucumber and mayonnaise dressing. 

CHEESE SALAD 

iMash fine cold yolks of 3 hard boiled eggs ; rub them 
with 1 cup finely grated cheese, 1 tablespoon mustard, 1 
teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon white pepper. When mixed well. 
add 2 tablespoons each of oil and vinegar. Heap this upon 
lettuce and garnish with whites of eggs into rings and few 
tips celery. Serve with hot buttered crackers. 



94 SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 

HAM AND POTATO SALAD 

1 quart cold boiled potatoes, 1 small white onion, 
chopped fine, 1 cup cold boiled ham, chopped or put through 
a coarse grinder, 1 cup boiled salad dressing. Serve in let- 
tuce hearts, with thin rye bread sandwiches spread with 
finely chopped pickles mixed with mustard and cream. 

LUNXHEON SALAD 

An attractive salad for luncheon shows crisp celery 
cut fine and arrange on a bed of water-cress with mayon- 
naise dressing poured over it. Around the edge is a bor- 
der of tomato jelly. 

SWEETBREAD AND CUCUMBER SALAD 

Parboil a sweetbread 20 minutes, adding to water a bit 
of bay leaf. 1 slice onion, 1 blade mace, salt and 1 tablespoon 
vinegar. Plunge in cold water, drain and cut in small cubes ; 
there should be % cup ; add an equal quantity of cucumber 
cubes. Beat Yi cup thick cream until stiif, add Y\ tablespoon 
granulated gelatine, soaked in Yi tablespoon cold water 
and dissolved m. V/z tablespoons boiling water, then add 
XYi tablespoons lemon juice, saltspoon salt and dash cay- 
enne. Add sweetbread and cucumber, mix, mould and 
chill. Arrange on lettuce leaves, garnish with strips pimento 
and serve with mayonnaise dressing which has been made 
more delicate by the addition of whipped cream. This 
quantity makes 5 small moulds. — Mrs. L. J. Braddock 

ITALIAN DRESSING 

Put into a bowl ^ teaspoon salt, %. teaspoon white 
pepper and a teaspoon tomato paste or tomato catsup. Add 
gradually 4 tablespoons olive oil, mixing all the while. Cut 
into small pieces 1 clove of garlic ; with the back of a spoon 
rub the garlic and the paste well into the oil; add 1 table- 
spoon tarragon vinegar, beat thoroughly, strain and it is 
ready to use. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 99 



100 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Entrees 



GLAZED SWEETBREADS 

Place sweetbreads, prepared as directed below, in a 
saute pan with butter and a few slices onion. Saute them 
for a few minutes on both sides, then place them in the 
oven to finish cooking. Put a little stock in the baking pan 
and baste them frequently and brown and glaze them. 

TO PREPARE THE SWEETBREADS 

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for 2 hours, 
changing the water several times. Put them on the fire in 
cold water. When they are whitened, or firm to the touch, 
or parboiled, remove and immerse again in cold water 
to blanch them. Remove all the pipes, fibers and fatty 
substances. Roll each one in a piece of cheese cloth, draw 
the cloth tight and tie it at the ends, pressing the sweet- 
breads into an oval shape. Place them under a light weight 
for several hours. 

EGGS IN TOMATO CASES 

Scoop out the centers of as many large tomatoes as 
there are people to serve. Drain them, then sprinkle the 
inside with tarragon vinegar, salt and pepper. Drop care- 
fully in each one a raw ^gg and 1 teaspoon butter. 

Place in a baking pan in a hot oven until the eggs are 
set and serve very hot. 

ASPARAGUS OMELETTE 

Boil a bunch of asparagus and when tender, cut the 
green ends into very small pieces, mix with well beaten 
eggs and add a little salt and pepper. Melt a piece of but- 
ter (about 2 ounces) in a metal pan, pour in the mixture, 
stir until it thickens, fold over and serve with clear brown 
gravy. 



102 ENTREES 

COQUILLES OF SWEETBREADS 

Parboil 1 pair sweetbreads. Trim them and put under 
a light weight to cool. When they are cold and firm cut 
into dice. Saute them in a tablespoon of butter for a 
few minutes, then add a cup button mushrooms (cut in 
quarters), 1 tablespoon white wine or lemon juice, a dash 
pepper, a saltspoon salt, and cook until tender. Then add 
a white sauce, as given below% and turn over the mixture 
until it is creamy. 

Fill shells with the mixture, cover the tops with white 
bread crumbs wet with melted butter and place in the oven 
to brown. 

Chicken, turkey or veal can be used instead of sweet- 
breads in the same way. 

SAUCE 

Put 1 tablespoon butter in a saucepan ; when it bubbles 
add 1 tablespoon flour. Cook the flour a few minutes, but 
do not let it brown. Remove from the fire and add (stirr- 
ing all the time) Yi cup stock (chicken stock pre- 
ferred), a dash of nutmeg and of pepper and 1 saltspoon 
salt. Put the saucepan on the fire again and stir until the 
sauce has thickened, then add 2 tablespoons cream. 

ZEPHYR EGGS 

Beat 4 eggs very light, add 1 pint cream and season 
with salt and pepper. Butter small moulds and pour in the 
mixture. Stand the moulds in a pan w4th about 2 inches 
of water, steam for 20 minutes. Turn them out and pour 
a rich brown gravy around. 

Garnish with chopped olives and red pimentoes. 

CORN TIMBALE 

Grate com from cob and for each cupful mix in un- 
beaten whites of 3 eggs, 1 small teaspoon salt, 1 saltspoon 
white pepper, ^ cup sweet cream whipped slightly, dust 
buttered timbale mould very thickly with chopped parsley, 
fill mould with the mixture and cook in oven 25 minutes. 

Serve in a nest of parsley with slices of broiled toma- 
toes. 



ENTREES 103 

DEVILED CRABS 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup chopped crab meat 

2 tablespoons flour % cup mushrooms finely 
% cup white stock, add yolks chopped 

2 eggs Pepper and salt to taste 
2 tablespoons sherry wine 

Cook the mixture 3 minutes, add 1 teaspoon finely 
chopped parsley and cool the mixture. 

Wash and trim crab shells and fill with the above 
mixture. Sprinkle stale bread crumbs mixed with a little 
butter on the top and bake until the crumbs are brown. 

CHEESE TIMBALE 

Make a sauce with 2 tablespoons each of butter and 
flour, ^ cup thin cream and y^ cup white stock. Melt in 
this ^ lb. grated cheese, add a dash of salt and paprika, and 
pour over 3 whole eggs and the yolks of 4, beaten until a 
spoonful can be taken up. Turn into buttered timbale 
moulds and bake standing in a pan of hot water (the water 
should not boil) until the centers are firm. 

Serve hot with tomato sauce. 

SHAD ROE CROQUETTES 

Boil the roe for 15 minutes in salt water, then drain 
and wash. Mix 4 tablespoons each of butter and corn- 
starch and stir into 1 pint boiling milk. Add to this 
the roe and 1 teaspoon salt, the juice of 1 lemon, cayenne 
and a grating of nutmeg. Boil up once and let get cold. 

Shape into croquettes and fry. 

SAVORY TOMATOES 

Take 3 large tomatoes and cut them in halves. Take 
out the insides and mix thoroughly with 2 tablespoons 
bread crumbs, 1 teaspoon grated cheese, 1 gill cream, ^ 
teaspoon sugar, salt and cayenne to taste. Fill the toma- 
toes with this and on top of each piece put a thin slice of 
bacon. Put into the oven to cook and when the bacon is 
done serve each one on a thin slice of toast. 



104 ENTREES 

STUFFED MUSHROOMS 

Cut the stems off close to the gills and peel the caps of 
the mushrooms. Cut the stems fine. Saute all the parts 
together in butter. Remove the caps when they are tender 
and before they lose their shape. After the caps are re- 
moved add 6 drops onion juice and 1 teaspoon flour. Let 
the flour cook a few minutes, then add ^ cup stock and 1 
tablespoon minced chicken, pepper and :^a\t, and stir until 
the mixture is thickened. Place a little of this mixture on 
the gills of each mushroom. 

This quantity is enough for 6 or 8 large cups. Serve 
on rounds of buttered toast. 



CHICKEN TIMBALES 

The white meat of 1 uncooked chicken chopped very 
fine. 1 tablespoon butter rubbed with the chicken to a 
cream, add a little red and white pepper and a little grated 
lemon peel, then 1 pint cream put in little by little, rubbing 
all till very thick. Then add 4 eggs well whipped and 
stirred slowly into the rest and lastly a little salt. 

Cover the bottom of individual moulds with 2 thin 
slices of trufiies. Fill the moulds just half full. Have a 
pan of boiling water ready and stand the moulds in the 
water which must only come half way up the moulds. 

Boil 15 minutes. 



CHEESE RAMKIN 

4 tablespoons grated cheese 1 cup bread crumbs 

V2 pint milk Whites 3 eggs 

Yolks 2 eggs Salt and pepper 
2 tablespoons butter 

Boil bread and milk until smooth, add cheese and but- 
ter, stir for 1 minute. Take off fire and add seasoning, 
and yolks of eggs ; beat whites to stiff froth and stir in 
gently; turn into greased baking dish and bake 15 minutes. 



ENTREES 105 

LOBSTER CUTLETS 

1 5 lb. lobster 2 tablespoons chopped par- 

1 pair sweetbreads sley 

Juice 1 lemon sauce 

A little nutmeg ^ lb. butter 

^ teaspoon mace 1 onion 

2 oz. butter Juice 1 small onion 
2 tablespoons flour, salt and Salt and cayenne 

cayenne Large spoon flour 

^ lb. butter y^ pint cream 

1 pint cream 

Make a sauce as follows : 

Put butter in double boiler, add flour and stir until 
melted and smooth, then add the cream, onion, pepper and 
salt. Boil about 1 minute. Cut lobster and sweetbreads 
fine and add to sauce. Pour in shallow dish to cool. When 
cool shape like chops and fry in hot fat. 

Stick lobster claw in end of each cutlet and serve. 

CHEESE SOUFFLfi 

Put 1 tablespoon butter in saucepan, add 1 heaping 
tablespoon flour ; when smooth add 2 cups milk, Yz tea- 
spoon salt, few grains cayenne ; cook 2 minutes, add the 
yolks of 3 eggs, well weaten and 2 cups grated strong 
American cheese. Set away to cool. When cold, add the 
whites, beaten to stiff froth, turn into a buttered pan and 
bake 20 minutes in slow oven. — Mrs. E. H. Ball 

ARTICHOKE AND SAUCE HOLLANDAISE 

Cut off stems close to the leaves, remove outside bot- 
tom leaves, trim and tie the artichoke with string to keep 
in place. Soak ^ hour in cold water. Drain and cook 30 
to 45 minutes in boiling salted water. Remove from the 
water and place upside down to drain. Cut the string and 
serve with the following sauce : 

To 1 large cup butter add yolks of 4 eggs beaten with 
Dover beater, add juice of ^ lemon, 1 teaspoon onion 
juice and paprika to taste, and 1 cup boiling water. Place 
in a double boiler, heat continually over fire until it reaches 
proper consistency. 



106 ENTREES 

OYSTERS WITH FORCEMEAT AND HAM 

Rinse 8 choice good sized oysters and dry on a cloth. 
Cover with veal forcemeat, then wrap in very thin slices 
of ham, roll in soft bread crumbs, then dip them in a beaten 
egg, dilute with 2 tablespoons milk and roll again in crumbs. 
Saute in olive oil or clarified butter until well browned on 
both sides. Drain on soft paper. Place on rounds of 
toast. Fill a grape fruit rind with lettuce and place the 
oysters around, garnish each with a paper aigrette. 

CHICKEN TERRAPIN 

1 good sized chicken, with 1 teacup chicken broth 

giblets 1 cup rich cream 

3 hard boiled eggs 

Boil chicken and giblets until done. When cold cut 
in pieces ^ inch square. Place in stewing pan with half 
a pod red pepper, salt to taste, 2 blades mace and 3 hard 
boiled eggs chopped fine. 

Mix the butter with 1 heaping tablespoon flour. Add 
this to a cup of the broth in which the chicken was cooked, 
and 1 cup rich cream. Let all simmer for 10 minutes, or 
until thoroughly hot. 

Add 1 cup sherry just before serving. 

FISH TIMBALES 

1 lb. halibut 1 cup celery, chopped very 

1 green pepper, chopped very fine 

fine 1 egg, yolk and white beaten 

1 onion, chopped very fine separately 

Boil the halibut until done and pick up in very fine 
pieces. Add the pepper, celery, onion and yolk of egg. 
Mix this with a white sauce made of 1 cup cream, butter 
and flour to thicken, and at the last add the white of egg, 
well beaten. 

Steam in small moulds or a ring mould for ^ hour 
and serve with Hollandaise sauce. 

If ring mould is used fill center with sliced cucum- 
bers. 



ENTREES 107 

HALIBUT TIMBALES 

1 lb. halibut Few grains cayenne 

% cup thick cream 114 teaspoons onion juice 

% teaspoon salt Whites 3 eggs 

Cook halibut in boiling salted water, drain, rub through 
a sieve, season with salt, cayenne, lemon juice and cream 
beaten stiff, then whites of eggs beaten. Turn into small 
buttered moulds and bake in moderate oven ; surround 
moulds with water and cover with paper ; bake 20 minutes. 
Serve with Normandy sauce. 

NORMANDY SAUCE 

Cook skin and bones of fish with 3 slices carrot, 1 slice 
onion, sprig of parsley, bit of bay leaf, ^ teaspoon pep- 
percorns and 2 cups cold water 30 minutes and strain. 
There should be left after straining, 1 cup. JMelt 2 table- 
spoons butter, add 3 tablespoons flour, fish stock, ji cup 
cream, yolks 2 eggs. Season. — H. P. J. Rezv 

FISH ENTREfi 

Have 2 slices halibut. Make a stuffing of bread crumbs 
moistened with butter and seasoned well with salt, pepper 
and a little sage. 

Put this stuffing between the slices of halibut, sprinkle 
buttered bread crumbs over the top and bake. Serve with 
Hollandaise sauce. — A. L. P. 

EGGS A LA VALENTINE 

Make cups by cutting stale bread with a heart shaped 
cutter. The cups should be about 2 inches high and 3 
inches across. Scoop all the inside of bread out leaving a 
shell about ^ inch thick. Fry these heart shaped shells in 
butter until a very light brown, or cover them with butter, 
and brown in oven. Fill with a rich lobster a la Xewburg 
about %. full; then drop an tgg on top and add a little 
more of the Newburg. Place in oven until the tgg is firm. 



108 ENTREES 

CREM£ FRET£ 

Boil 1 pint milk with 1 inch stick cinnamon. Beat to- 
gether y2 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons corn starch, 1 tablespoon 
flour, the yolks of 3 eggs, ^ cup cold milk and a little salt. 
Pour the boiling milk on the mixture and stir well. Strain 
into a double boiler and cook 15 minutes, stirring often. 
Add 1 teaspoon butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Pour into a 
buttered bread pan about 1 inch thick and set away to cool. 
When very hard sprinkle bread board with fine bread 
crumbs. Turn the cream out on it and cut into strips 2^ 
inches long and 1 inch wide or in squares or diamonds. 
Roll these in crumbs, then in ^gg, then in crumbs again 
and fry in boiling lard. Sprinkle little sugar on them be- 
fore serving. 

ORANGE CREAM FRITTERS 

Boil 1 pint milk Yolks 3 eggs 

Beat together 14 cup sugar 14 cup milk 

2 teaspoons corn starch Pinch salt 
1 teaspoon flour 

Pour the boiling milk over the mixture, stir well and 
cook in double boiler 15 minutes. Add 1 teaspoon butter, 
1 of vanilla. Pour into a buttered pan 1 inch deep and 
press into it a small section of orange every few inches. - 
When cold, cut into pieces 3 inches long by 1^ wide. Roll 
in crumbs, dip in beaten eggs, then in crumbs and fry in 
deep hot fat until a pretty brown. Serve with powdered 
sugar and grated nutmeg. 

EGG TIMBALES 

Beat 4 eggs slightly, mix with 1 cup chicken or veal 
stock, or milk or cream, season with few drops onion juice, 
54 teaspoon salt, a very little celery, salt and paprika and 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley; pour mixture into small 
buttered timbale moulds ; set in pan of hot water, cover 
and cook in oven until firm in center. Serve with tomato 
or cream sauce. — Mrs. Jarcd Morse 



ENTREES 109 

STEWED BANANAS IN SHERRY 

Cut bananas, stew in quite a thick syrup made of granu- 
lated sugar and water until transparent ; then add sherry 
wine to taste and serve hot with dinner. 

— Mrs. Whitney 



110 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 111 



Puddings and Sauces 

"The proof of the pudding is in the eating. " 

Shakespeare 



MARSHMALLOW PUDDING 

% lb. marshmallows cut in % pint cream whipped 
small pieces ^ lb. English walnuts broken 

Prepare and mix about 3 hours before using. Put on 
ice. Serve with candied cherries. 

PEACH SNOW BALLS 

Fresh peaches, pealed, soaked sometime in any liquor 
(cognac or rum), dried thoroughly, rolled in white icing,, 
then shredded cocoanut. Garnish the dish with maiden 
hair ferns. — Mrs. Treat 

Rockford, IlL 



^4 



PRUNE SOUFFLfi 



Take stewed prunes sweetened to taste; pour off the 
juice and rub through a colander until you have 2 cups of 
the prune pulp; take the whites of 5 eggs, beaten stiff, and 
slowly add the prune pulp, stirring it well all the while. 
Turn into a pan and place in a larger pan of water and 
bake in the oven for 3^ hour. Serve with plain cream. 

—Helen W. Scott 
FIG PUDDING 

1 cup chopped figs 1 egg 

y^ cup chopped suet 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups bread crumbs % teaspoon soda 
1 cup milk Pinch salt 

1 cup molasses 

Stir soda in molasses and mix all ingredients together. 
Steam 2^^ hours and serve with either whipped cream or 
wine sauce. — S. C. Pusey 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 113 

PEACHES MANHATTAN STYLE 

Cut round nearly 1 inch thick from slices stale sponge 
cake. Set them on a serving dish ; put Yi canned peach on 
each round cake, hollow side up. Put ^ blanched almond 
or a cherry in each hollow; reduce the syrup with a lit- 
tle sugar and the juice Yz lemon; set aside to cool and pour 
over peaches and cake whipped cream, passed in a bowl. 

— Mrs. Dakin 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

% box gelatine 1 cup sugar 

2 squares chocolate 2 cups XX cream 

V2 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup milk 

Soak gelatine in cold water; melt chocolate in double 
boiler, then add sugar, milk and vanilla, stir until boil- 
ing hot ; add the gelatine ; stir until it begins to thicken and 
add the whipped cream. Set on ice until ready to serve. 

— Mrs. J. M. Glenn 

PRUNE SOUFFLfi 

Stew 24 prunes until very soft, remove the pits and 
chop skins and pulp fine. Beat the whites 6 eggs to a stiff 
froth, adding gradually 6 tablespoons granulated sugar. 
Stir in the prunes and bake for }i hour in a moderate oven 
with the pudding dish standing in a pan of water. Serve 
cold with cream. — Mrs. W. E. Church 

ORANGE CHARLOTTES 

% box gelatine dissolved in 3^3 cup boiling water. Pour 
on y^ cup boiling water, add 1 cup sugar and juice 1 lemon 
and strain ; add 1 cup orange juice and pulp and a little grat- 
ed rind ; stir over ice until it thickens, then beat very light 
and add 1 pint whipped cream. Line a mould with lady 
fingers or sections of oranges ; put lightly and carefully into 
the lined mould. Serve very cold. — F. M. Barnhart 



A 



f*. 



%^ 



114 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

CARAMEL PUDDING 

1 cup granulated sugar put on the stove and carameled, 
then add 1^ cups boiling water, pour the caramel into thf 
beaten yolks 5 eggs, put into double boiler and cook as foi 
custard. When done, add 1 tablespoon Cox's gelatine that 
has been melted in water enough to cover the gelatine; put 
in bowl to let cool, then add the whites of eggs, beaten verj 
stiff; flavor with vanilla; stir egg in thoroughly and put in 
dish or tall glasses you are to serve it in. Place near the 
ice; put whipped cream on top. It is better made the da> 
before. 

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING 

V2 cup butter 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon soda 

IVz cups sugar 1 quart berries 
4% cups flour 

Bake and serve with sauce. 



SAUCE 

Beat white 1 egg stiff; add well beaten yolks. Beat in 
gradually 1 cup powdered sugar; flavor with vanilla (or 
brandy if preferred) ; add 1 cup cream, whipped stiff*. 

"^ — Mrs. J. W. Szvcct. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING 

3 tablespoons tapioca 1 cup sugar * 

3 tablespoons prepared cocoa- 3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

nut 4 eggs 
1 quart rich milk 

Soak tapioca over night in water; drain water off and 
put tapioca into boiling milk and boil ^ hour. Beat the 
yolks of eggs with the cup sugar, add cocoanut and stir into 
the tapioca and boil 10 minutes longer; pour into pudding 
dish. Beat the whites of eggs an*^! stir in; powdered sugar 
spread on top; sprinkle with caramel; brown in oven. 
Serve cold. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 115 

APPLE BALLS 

SERVES SIX 

Cut 24 apple balls with a 14 cup sugar 

vegetable scoop 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

V2 cup water 

Cook these until tender but unbroken. Take 6 round 
slices of bread ; toast slightly and dip in melted butter, mixed 
with hot milk, ^ cup jelly, marmalade or chopped nuts, 
then a meringue made of 2 egg whites, 2 tablespoons 
powdered sugar. Lemon or vanilla flavoring. Pile the 
apple balls on the pieces of toast, cover with the meringue 
and brown in oven. Serve at once. — Mrs. Dakin 

CARAMEL CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

Line a charlotte mould with strips of chocolate or fudge 
cake. The strips of cake should not be more than ^ 
inch thick and 1 inch wide and of length to come just to 
top of mould. Soften ^ package of gelatine in % cup 
cold water, cook ^ cup sugar to caramel ; add Yz cup 
boiling water and let simmer until the caramel is dissolved, 
then pour over the gelatine. Set the dish in crushed ice and 
stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then fold in 1^ 
* cups cream, beaten very light (1 cup heavy cream and 3^ 
cup cream from top of bottle will answer). Turn into lined 
moulds. 

STEAMED DATE PUDDING 

^ cup butter 14 cup milk 

% cup molasses 1 egg 

1% cups graham flour, mixed % teaspoon soda 

and sifted with 1 teaspoon 1 cup dates, stoned and cut 
salt in small pieces 

Put in buttered mould and steam 2^^ hours. 

SAUCE 
Vz cup butter % teaspoon lemon extract 

1 cup powdered sugar % teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon cream Grain of salt 

Beat till light and creamy. 



116 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

LEMON DUMPLINGS 

y2 lb. stale bread crumbs 1 lemon and 1 apple, grated 

ii lb. chopped suet 2 tablespoons butter 

jBSns -qi =^ 2 eggs 

Mix all together; put a tablespoon mixture in small 
squares of cloth; tie closely and steam 1 hour. Eat with 
creamy sauce. — Mrs. Armshy 

FIG SWEETMEAT 

Soak figs in sherry wine until tender, open, stuff wnth 
a whole marshmallow in center; fill in with chopped 
candied cherries and walnuts rolled in fine sugar. 

SPONGE BANANAS 

Cover the bottom of a flat baking dish with smal? 
sponge cakes, or lady fingers ; upon these place a layer ol 
whole bananas; sprinkle well with sugar and the juice 1 
whole orange; cover with chopped nuts or shredded cocoa- 
nut. Bake in a medium oven about 15 minutes. Serve with 
custard sauce or thick cream. 

PINEAPPLE CREAM 

% box gelatine, dissolved in 1 pint cream, whipped stiff 
syrup of pineapple; chop 1 cup sugar in syrup 
fruit fine 

Beat all together and mould in individual glasses or a 
fancy mould, using shredded oranges sprinkled with sugai 
in center. 

OLD FASHIONED WINE JELLY 

1 box Cox's gelatine 1 pint boiling water 

1 pint cold water 1 pint sugar 

Soak 1 hour 1 pint sherry wine 
Rind and juice 1 lemon 

Strain and cool in fancy mould. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 117 

STRAWBERRIES EN SURPRISE 

1 quart large strawberries % cup maraschino or sherry 

^ cup powdered sugar wine 

Mix together lightly, partly fill sherbet glasses, then 
cover with whipped cream and garnish with whipped cream 
colored pink and put through a pastry tube. Set on ice 
for 1 hour before serving. — Mrs. Dakin. 

STEAMED FIGS 

Wash 1 lb. figs, cover with cold water and let soak over 
night. Next morning add ^ cup sugar, bring slowly to 
steaming point, then simmer for 5 minutes. Transfer the 
figs to a serving dish, reduce the syrup J4, let stand until 
cool, then add a teaspoon sherry and pour over fruit. Serve 
cold with cream. 

MACAROON SURPRISE 

Fill bottom of large dish with macaroons, which have 
been dipped in brandy ; cover with whipped cream, then add 
layer marshmallows (whole). Continue cream and marsh- 
mallows until dish is full. Place Maraschino cherries on 
top. Whipped cream should be flavored with sherry. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING 

1 quart milk ^2 teaspoon salt 

5 eggs, whites and yolks beat- 10 tablespoons flour sifted 
en separately 

Stir flour and little milk and yolks of eggs to a paste ; 
add balance of milk and whites of eggs ; put in greased pan ; 
bake in an even oven about ^ hour. 

SAUCE 

Butter the size of an ^gg and 1 tablespoon flour, stirred 
to a paste. Pour over it 1 pint boiling water and boil untiJ 
it thickens. Stir in a bowl 1 tgg and 4 tablespoons sugar, 
and flavor to taste. Put into the thickened flour and butter 
and serve while hot. — Mrs. E. P. Baird 



118 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS 

Pour 1 quart boiling milk over 1 pint finely grated 
fresh bread crumbs and allow it to stand for ^ hour; add 
the yolks 4 eggs, well beaten, with 1 teacup sugar and 1 
small teaspoon vanilla, and bake slowly in a moderate 
oven for ^ hour. When the pudding is cool spread a 
small glass currant jelly on top, then make a meringue of 
the whites of the eggs, beaten with 4 tablespoons sugar 
and the juice Yi lemon and spread it over the jelly. Put 
it in the oven just long enough to color the meringue a 
delicate brown. — Mrs, W . E. Church 

GELATINE RICE 

1/4 cup rice or y^ cup cooked l^/^ cups milk 
rice left over from day be- 14 teaspoon salt 
fore 

Cook again until milk is absorbed. Add 2 teaspoons 
gelatine, dissolved in cold water. When mixture is cold and 
beginning to thicken, add ^ cup powdered sugar, ^ tea- 
spoon vanilla, y^ pint bottle cream whipped to a stiff froth ; 
stir it all well and put in mould to harden. Serve with 
canned cherries, or raspberries or a jelly sauce (jelly melted 
and flavored with sherry). — Mrs. Raymond C. Cook 

ANGEL CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 tablespoon Knox's gelatine 2 dozen marshmallows, cut 

^ cup cold water in small pieces 

% cup boiling water 2 tablespoons chopped candi- 

1 cup sugar ed cherries 

1 pint thick cream i^ lb. blanched and chopped 

y2 dozen rolled stale maca- almonds 
roons 

Soak gelatine in the cold water; dissolve in boiHng 
water and add sugar. When mixture is cold add cream, 
beaten stiiY, almonds, marshmallows and candied cherries. 
Flavor with vanilla or sherry wine. Turn into a mould, 
first dipped in cold water. When firm turn out. Cover 
with whipped cream and serve. — Mrs. Fall 



N 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 119 

BREAD PUDDING 

2 cups stale bread, cut in 1 quart boiled milk 
dice Vi cup butter 

3 eggs separated, cream eggs Pour boiled milk into eggs, 
and 1 cup sugar together butter and sugar 

Put the bread into a baking dish ; pour the milk, sugar 
and eggs over the bread; flavor with vanilla and bake in a 
slow oven. Make a meringue of the 3 whites and 1 cup of 
sugar, flour, milk, and brown in the oven. Serve at once. 

SWEETMEAT PUDDING 

Make pastry for 2 bottom crusts ; spread 1 with jam 
or peach preserves ; beat 4 eggs, 2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon 
flour and 1 tablespoon butter together ; pour over and cover 
with crust and bake. Serve with a meringue on top and 
brown. 

STEAM PUDDING 

1 cup suet, chopped fine 3 cups flour 

1 cup raisins % teaspoon soda, dissolved in 

1 cup milk little warm water 
% cup molasses 

Steam 3 hours. 

SAUCE 

2 cups powdered sugar 1 egg 
1 cup butter 

Cream the butter and add the sugar and yolks of tggy 
stand bowl in a pan boiling water and stir. Add the well 
beaten white of ^gg last. 

RAISIN PUFFS ' : 

1 egg V'i cup sweet milk 

^ cup butter ^^ cup raisins, stoned and 

\y^ teaspoons baking powder chopped fine; flavor with 

1 tablespoon sugar vanilla 

1 cup flour 

Steam in cups ^ hour. This will make 5 cups. Serve 
with any good wine or brandy sauce. 



120 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

LEMON RICE PUDDING 

1 cup thoroughly washed rice put into 1 pint cold water 
and cooked in double boiler until dry. Then add 1 quart 
milk and cook until rice is soft. Remove from stove and 
add yolks 3 eggs, 7 tablespoons sugar, pinch salt, grated 
rind and juice 1 lemon; put all in baking dish and bake 20 
minutes. Take 3 egg whites, beaten stiff, 7 tablespoons 
sugar; flavor with lemon and spread this meringue over 
pudding. Brown in oven. — Mrs. B. Griszvold 

FRUIT MOUSSE 

1 pint cream, whipped stiff % cup strawberry preserves 
3 tablespoons powdered sugar Vz cup pineapple preserves 

Put in a mould with a tight cover ; pack in ice and salt 
for 4 hours. — Ruth Woodley Carman 

PUDDING A LA CREME 

Boil 1 pint milk; mix ^ cup sugar, 3^ cup flour to a 
smooth paste, with ^ cup cold milk ; stir this into the 
boiling milk and cook for ten minutes, stirring continuously. 
Stir in ^ cup butter and set away to cool. Half an hour 
before serving stir in the well beaten yolks of 4 eggs and 
mix in lightly the stiff beaten whites ; turn into a well but- 
tered pudding dish; place in oven and bake 25 minutes. 
Serve the minute it comes from oven with good cream 
sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

12 tablespoons bread crumbs 4 eggs, keeping out whites of 

6 tablespoons grated choco- 2 for the meringue 

late 1 teacup sugar 
1 quart milk 

Boil crumbs, milk and sugar and chocolate together 
until thick; when cold, add eggs, well beaten. Bake ^ 
hour. Before serving drop on a meringue and brown 
lightly. To be eaten with a hard sauce. — Mrs. Dakin 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 121 

MAPLE PARFAIT 

To 1 cup rich maple syrup add yolks 4 eggs, well 
beaten. Cook in sauce pan, stirring continuously until it 
boils; boil 5 minutes, strain and set aside to cool. Beat 2 
cups heavy cream until stiff; then add in the beaten whites 
of Ggg ; whip the syrup with a Dover beater until very light 
and stir all the ingredients together. Mould and pack in 
ice and salt for 3 hours. This amount will serve 12 people. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING 

4 tablespoons Indian meal 1 egg 

4 teaspoons suet Pinch salt, and 1 allspice 

Vz teacup molasses 

Mix all together and add a scant cup boiling milk; 
after baking 15 minutes, stir up well and bake it well. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING IN CUPS 

2 eggs 2 cups flour 

1 tablespoon sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Mix with water to the consistency of jelly cake. Fill 
cups with fruit about 2 inches deep, sweeten and season 
with cinnamon ; pour in the batter and steam 20 minutes ; 
turn out of cups and serve with fruit sauce or sauce flavored 
with brandy. — Mrs. Hill 



ORANGE MARMALADE PUDDING 



1 cup orange marmalade 1 cup sweet milk 

1 cup chopped suet 1 egg 

2 cups dried bread crumbs 1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
Vi lb. sugar hot water 

SAUCE 
Large cup sugar V2 cup butter, beaten to a 

Yolks 2 eggs cream 

Warm over a teakettle, stirring constantly, but do not 
cook it ; when ready to serve, add whites, beaten thoroughly. 
Flavor with brandy. — Mrs. Armsby 



X 



122 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

NUT PUDDING 

1 cup nuts, pecans or English 2 eggs, beaten separately 

walnuts (cut them, not 1 teacup granulated sugar 

chopped) 1 tablespoon flour 

1 cup dates, cut 1 teaspoon baking powder 

Mix flour and baking powder together ; beat yolks with 
part of sugar; put all dry ingredients in a bowl and mix 
well; stir in yolks, adding whites last; cannot mix thor- 
oughly until all the eggs are in. Bake in round tin, size of 
small pie dish, but deep enough to allow it to raise. Serve 
warm or cold. After baking Yz hour, cover deeply with 
whipped cream, decorated with Maraschino cherries. 

— Mrs, A, R. Reynolds 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 



1 cup Sultana raisins 


2 large cups bread crumbs 


1 cup cooking raisins, stoned 


3 eggs, well beaten 


and cut 


1^ lb. citron, cut fine 


1 cup currants 


1 teaspoon cinnamon 


1 cup suet, chopped fine 


% teaspoon cloves 


1 cup sugar 


% teaspoon allspice 


1 cup sweet cider 


% nutmeg 



Makes about 3 pints ; 1 large or 2 small puddings. Put 
a little suet in the mould to grease it and fill within 2 
inches of the top. Seal with a strip of cotton cloth, but- 
tered and well floured. Steam 6 hours in constantly boil- 
ing water. — Ruth Woodley Carman 

CHERRY PUDDING 

2 eggs Flour to make stiff batter 

1 cup sweet milk As many cherries as can be 

3 teaspoons baking powder stirred in 

Steam 2 hours. 

SAUCE 

Cook fresh cherries, sweeten them and strain through 
a sieve ; add a very little corn starch. Pour this over the 
pudding when ready to serve. — Mrs. /.. W. Sweet 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 123 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING 

1^ lbs. raisins 8 eggs 

1 lb. currants Juice and rind of 1 large 

1/4 lb. citron (chopped fine) lemon 

1 lb. suet 2 wine glasses brandy or 

1 lb. stale bread crumbs whiskey 

1 lb. sugar 

Steam 7 or 8 hours. — Mrs. French 

TAPJOCA PUDDING 

1 pint water Vz cup sugar 

Vs cup tapioca 

Boil in double boiler until tapioca is done; remove 
from stove ; add some blanched almonds and whites 2 eggs, 
beaten stiff ; put in mould. Serve cold with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. John B. 

Highland Park 

PRUNE WHIPS 

10 prunes, cut fine Whites 5 eggs, beaten very 

1/4 cup chopped nuts stiff 

% cup sugar 

Butter the dish and bake 20 minutes in moderate 
oven. The dish must be surrounded by water. Serve with 
whipped cream. 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING NO. 1 

Take an unfrosted angel cake, bake in round pan with 
hole in middle ; cut some of the cake out of the center so it 
will have a wall similar to a ring mould. Fill with the fol- 
lowing : ^ lb. marshmallows ; cut each piece into 4 pieces ; 
soak these in cream enough to soften them. Beat 1 pint 
double cream stiff; add 1 tablespor _ .'iverized sugar; 
roll free from lumps ; flavor with sh^^rry ; add the marsh- 
mallows, pouring off any cream they did not absorb in 
soaking. — Mrs. Dakin 



124 PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 

MARSHMALLOW PUDDING NO. 2 

Weigh 3 eggs and take their weight in each of follow- 
ing : Butter, flour and sugar ; cream the butter ; add sugar 
and cream again; add 1 tablespoon orange flower water, 
pinch salt, then eggs one at a time; beat hard and long, 
until the mixture is full grained; add gradually the sifted 
flour ; mix in lightly 1 dozen marshmallows cut in quarters, 
and turn into buttered mould. Cover and steam for 1 hour ; 
serve with : 

SAUCE SABAYAN 

Put in sauce pan: 

1 unbeaten egg % cup wine 

% cup sugar 

Place beside the fire and whip without stopping until 
mixture is light and thick. Serve at once. 

— Mrs. Dakin 

SALPICON OF FRUIT 

1 large pineapple 2 oranges 

1 lb. oxheart cherries (mixed 2 limes 

red and ^/hite) 1 grape fruit, cut in cubes, 

1 box large strawberries using pulp only- 

Cut pineapple into ^-inch cubes, pit cherries, cut in 
half, cut strawberries in quarters, cut limes and oranges in- 
to cubes. Malaga grapes may be added. Remove skins and 
seeds ; serve with wine sauce. Canned goods may be used 
instead of fresh fruit and Maraschino cherries. 

WINE SAUCE 

Mix ^ cup sugar, ^ cup boiling water thoroughly 
and boil 10 minutes, cool slightly, add to this % cup Ma- 
deria wine, ^ cup Maraschino wine, 2 tablespoons Cog- 
nac, bring it to boiling point, stir sufficiently to blend in- 
gredients, then pour slowly over fruit; let stand 1 hour or 
more in a cool place; chill thoroughly. Serve in orange 
basliets or crystalized glasses. — Elizabeth O. Hiller 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 125 

SPANISH CREAM 

Yi box Cox's gelatine, soaked in 1 quart milk 1 hour, 
then place on the fire until dissolved ; have ready the yolks 
4 eggs, well beaten, with 4 tablespoons sugar, over which 
pour the milk; place again on the fire and stir until it 
thickens, then pour this over the whites 4 eggs, well beaten 
Vv'ith 4 tablespoons sugar and flavored with ^ teaspoon 
vanilla. Stir quickly and pour into moulds to harden. 

^Mrs. J, H. B. Howell 



126 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 





f • / ' 

/u^Z^ /AA. /y,^^^C^ <:^ '^Ozsisu ^^ CZ-^^ 

.^Jof^ ^^^^ 4^^ tr^z^^^^LOj^ . ^r ^TT 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



127 




Pies and Pastry 

''Had I hut known — it would have been my fate 
To bear of mundane burdens all this weight, 
This day's defeat — this agony of night, 
This vague unrest — this longing after light, 
I would have let that — that mince pie alone 
Had I but known" 



PIE CRUST 



1 cup flour % cup cold water 
% cup lard Pinch salt 

Cut lard in pieces with knife, then mix a Httle with 
hands and add water. Roll out and handle as little as pos- 
sible. Makes 2 crusts. — Mrs. E. P. Baird 

LEMON PIE FILLING 

Grated rind and juice 1 lemon 1 cup boiling water 

Nearly 1 cup sugar Piece butter % size of an egg 

Put this in a double boiler to heat, beat the yolks 2 
2ggs, leaving the whites for the top. Stir a tablespoon corn 
starch, stirred fine in cold water in the beaten yolks and 
add to the lemon juice. Cook until thick and pour into the 
already baked crust. Frost with beaten whites and 2 table- 
spoons powdered sugar and brown slightly. 

—Mrs. E. P. Baird 

PUMPKIN PIE 

1% cups canned pumpkin 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

% cup sugar 1 egg, well beaten 

2 tablespoons molasses Add 1 cup milk and % cup 
% teaspoon salt cream, scalded 

1 dessertspoon ginger 

Bake in deep pan slowly 1 houn Use any good pie 
crust. When cold serve with whipped cream. 

— Mrs. L. J. Braddock 



PIES AND PASTRY 129 

PUMPKIN PIES 

12 tablespoons strained pump- 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

kin 1 nutmeg 

1 quart boiled milk . 1 teaspoon salt 

4 eggs - Sugar to taste 

1 teaspoon ginger 

This will make three large pies. — Mrs. W, E. Church 
LEMON PIE 

2 cups granulated sugar Juice 2 lemons and the grat- 
2 tablespoons flour ed rind 

1 heaping tablespoon cold Yolks 5 eggs ^k 

butter ^1^ 

Beat together until very light, then add 2^4 cups milk 
and the 5 whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Make a lower 
crust only (double edge,) bake slowly (warm the milk first 
to save time in oven.) This recipe is for 2 pies. 

— Mrs. Whitney 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

1 cup sugar % cup water 
% square Baker's chocolate 

Boil 10 minutes, stir in yolks 2 eggs, let cool, bake 
crust on bottom of pan, put in filling, add meringue on top 
and bake in quick oven. 

MINCE MEAT .^ 

2 lbs. meat after it is cooked, 1 lb. citron, chopped 
chopped (take about 4^ 4 oranges, juice only- 
lbs, beef) * 2 lemons, juice only ^ 

1 lb. suet, chopped 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

4 lbs. apples (not too fine) 2 tablespoons ground cloves 

2V2 lbs. sugar 2 tablespoons salt 

2 lbs. raisins ^ Liquor of meat, enough to wet 
2 lbs. currants ^ it 

Let it simmer on the stove about 1 hour; when cold, 
add 1 pint brandy and 1 pint sherry wine. 

—Mrs. E. P. Baird 



ISO PIES AND PASTRY 

MINCE MEAT 

1 large fresh beef tongue % dozen lemons, grate yel- 

3 lbs. best seeded raisins, cut low of rind 

in two 2 lbs. suet, chopped very fine 

3 lbs. currants 1 large tablespoon each of 

1% lbs. citron salt, nutmeg, allspice, cloves 

% lb. candied orange peel and mace 

% Ih. candied lemon peel 1 quart California brandy 

1 dozen large apples 3 quarts wine or cider 

1 dozen oranges, scoop out 5^ pints C. sugar 

the inside 

Mix well and allow to cook until just boiling and seal 
in Mason jars. — Mrs. T. N. Johnson 

QUEEN APPLE PIE 

Grate 1 large apple, pour over it the juice 3^ lemon 
and add the rind. Beat 2 level tablespoons butter to a 
cream, then beat into it }^ cup sugar, the yolks 2 eggs and 
^2 cup sweet cream. Turn into a pie plate lined with rich 
pastry and when baked cover with meringue, made of whites 
2 eggs and 2 tablespoons sugar ; brown lightly. 

MARLBOROUGH PIE 

Pare and grate sweet apples. To 1 pint pulp add 1 
pint milk, 2 tablespoons melted butter, the grated peel 1 
lemon, ^^ wine glass sherry, a little sugar. Beat the eggs, 
stir in the sugar and mix in the rest of ingredients. Bake 
in a pudding dish with a crust on the bottom. 

— Mrs. Dakin 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 131 



132 ' ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Frozen Desserts 

"And like the snow falls on the river, a moment white; then 
melts forever." — Burns. 



LEMON ICE CREAM 

2 cups sugar 1 quart cream and milk in 

Juice and grated rind 3 lem- even proportions 

ons 1 tablespoon gelatine 

Let juice of lemons and sugar stand 1 hour. Dissolve 
gelatine in a little of this mixture and then in a little hot 
water. Put gelatine into milk ; mix together and freeze im- 
mediately. — Mrs. Robert H. Gaiilt 

PISTACHIO ICE CREAM 

Heat — 1 quart milk 1 scant teaspoon almond ex- 

1 cup whipping cream tract to a lukewarm tem- 

1 cup sugar perature 
1 tablespoon vanilla 

Stir in 1 junket tablet, crushed and dissolved in 1 
tablespoon cold water and let stand in a warm place, undis- 
turbed until the milk jellies; then cool and freeze in usual 
tnanner. 

FROZEN PUDDING 

1 pint rich milk scalded in a double boiler and pour 
over yolks of 6 eggs, which have been well beaten. Stir 
into this mixture 3^ lb. powdered sugar. Scald again 
and add 1 pint cream and 1 tablespoon vanilla, put aside 
to cool. Partly freeze, then add cherries which have been 
soaked in rum over night, also 1 cup nuts chopped fine 
und a few macaroons. Freeze and pack in mold. 

SAUCE 

Make a syrup; 2 cups brown sugar to 1 cup water. 
When cold add 1 tablespoon rum. — Mrs. W. H. Hill 



134 FROZEN DESSERTS 

COLLINS' CREAM 

Cut Yz lb. marshmallows into small pieces and 
soften in a double boiler. Whip 1^ cups cream; add Yi 
cup powdered sugar, 3^ cup blanched almonds, minced; a 
dash of salt, the softened marshmallows, and 2 table- 
spoons rich pineapple juice. Now put in jar on ice until 
ready to serve. Serve in glasses with tiny angelica sham- 
rock leaves and bits of green candy mints. — Mrs. Dakin 

TORTONI 
A Frozen Dessert 

1 pint cream % cup water 

1 dozen macaroons 3 eggs 

% cup sugar 

This recipe will make 3 pints of cream, and is to be 
packed, like mousse, in ice and salt. 

Boil sugar and water until it threads. Beat the eggs, 
yolks and whites separately, until very light, mix together, 
then add hot syrup gradually, beating with the egg beater 
until it is cool, thick and creamy. Add 1 tablespoon va- 
nilla and when ready to freeze, 1 pint cream whipped stiff. 
Bring the macaroons to a crisp brown in the the oven and 
when cool roll fine and sift. Then mix the macaroon 
dust with the other ingredients. Put in the mould and 
fasten cover on securely, pack in ice and salt and let stand 
for 4 hours. A little sherry for flavoring can be added if 
desired. — F. M. Barnhart 

FROZEN APRICOTS 

1 quart can apricots 1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons gelatine 1 pint cream 

Drain the apricots and cut them up with a silver knife, 
add sugar to the syrup and enough water to make 1^^ 
pints. Boil 5 minutes, skim carefully, add gelatine to the 
apricots. Let cool and put in freezer. When nearly frozen 
add whipped cream and let stand several hours. 

— Mrs. Dakin 



FROZEN DESSERTS 135 

FROZEN COFFEE CUSTARD 

y2 pint cold coffee, strong 1 pint milk 

1 pint whipping cream 4 eggs 

1 cup sugar 
Scald the milk in double boiler; beat eggs and sugar 
together until light. Add to the hot milk; stir over the 
fire for a few minutes, then let cool. Stir in the whipped 
cream and coffee and freeze. 

COFFEE PUFF 

1 pint cream i/^ cup strong coffee 

% cup powdered sugar 3 teaspoons extract of coffee 

Beat cream, add sugar slowly, then beat in the coffee. 
Pour into moulds, pack in ice and salt for 3 hours. 

CHILLED RED RASPBERRY PEACHES 

7 boxes red raspberries Sugar to taste 

12 large ripe peaches 

Mash berries, strain through a cloth and sweeten. Peel 
carefully the peaches, leave them whole and put in crock 
and cover with the raspberry juice; keep on ice 24 hours. 
Serve with whipped cream. 

MAPLE BISQUE 

Cook 4 beaten tgg yolks with 1 cup thick maple syrup 
until boiling, stirring constantly. Strain and cool. Beat 1 
pint thick cream ; add to that beaten whites 4 eggs ; add 
the cooked syrup and beat until whole mixture is light. 
Pour in mould and freeze 4 hours. Cover with macaroon 
crumbs when served. 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

Beat yolks of 4 eggs with 1 cup maple syrup, put in 
double boiler and boil thick like custard. Beat 4 whites 
stiff and then beat them into 1 quart whipped cream. When 
the custard is cool, beat it into the cream and then freeze. 



136 FROZEN DESSERTS 

FRUIT SHERBET 

3 cups water 3 bananas 

3 cups powdered sugar 3 tablespoons grated pine- 

3 oranges apple 

3 lemons 

Dissolve sugar in boiling water, when cold add juice 
of oranges, lemons, and grated pineapple. Mash the 
bananas ; add to the other ingredients and freeze. 

— Mrs. Armshy 

MINT SHERBET 

2 tablespoons chopped mint 2 cups sugar 
(very fine) 1 cup water 

2 lemons White 1 egg 

3 oranges 1 cup whipped cream 

Soak the mint leaves and grated rind of the lemons 
in the orange and lemon juice for 3^ hour. Boil sugar 
and water together 5 minutes, then pour at once on other 
ingredients, when cold strain into freezer and add white 
of tgg beaten stiff; also the cream. 

GRAPE ICE 

Vz basket Concord grapes 1 cup cold sterile water 

3 oranges 1 cup sugar 

To make 1 quart of the ice take juice of 3 oranges, 1 
lemon and 1 pint grape juice. Add 1 cup water, 1 cup 
sugar; pack and freeze in usual way. This makes a deep 
grape colored ice. The beaten white of 1 ^gg may be added 
if desired. — \irs. Scott 



^2 vil-/ ^ h> ^diy^^-^^ 




4 



^^^ ADDITIONAL RECIPES 137 




1^ 



i 



Ii3 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



^-0 



^ 









/ C / /QM(^a^^ 



Z' 






/^. 



r'e^/t'44^^ y^n.-U\y 






Ca4a£^Uj^ 



^^'r^ ^u^^>^^ ^ 



X . cCwi4r ;^^ ^^ ^ 



-- ^-c^Ti-t-^H^ 



.c^^ 



^'-t^^' 



V 



;^7^. 



Cake 



"Sweet cakes and short cakes, ginger cakes and honey cakes, and 
the whole family of cakes." — Irving. 



GOOD CAKE FOR COMMON USE 

CAKE 
% cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 

% cup milk Whites 6 eggs .w. 

FILLING FOR CAKE 
1 scant cup sweet milk 1 egg 

Vz teacup granulated sugar 1 cup chopped hickory nuts 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 

Mix milk, sugar, flour and egg and cook ftl double 
boiler until thick. When cold stir in nuts and spread be- 
tween layers of cake. 

EGOLESS, BUTTERLESS AND MILKLESS CAKE 

Put in a saucepan 1 pinch salt . ^ 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg ^ 

2 cups raisins 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup cold water % teaspoon cloves 
, 1 tablespoon lard 

Boil all together 3 minutes ; when cold, add 1 teaspoon 
soda dissolved in tablespoon boiling water, then add 2 cups 
flour, ^ teaspoon baking powder, % cup nuts. The batter 
is very stiff. Bake in a loaf 40 minutes. — A. B. V. 

GOOD YELLOW CAKE 

% cup butter 3^ cups flour 

2 cups sugar 4 eggs 

Vz cup milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, then milk 
and flour, having baking powder sifted into the last cup 
flour; add whites last, beaten very stiff. Bake in layer 
pans. 



A 



140 CAKE 

SPONGE CAKE 

^ lb. granulated sugar 5 eggs 

V4 lb. flour, sifted Juice and rind % lemon 

Beat half the sugar with the yolks of the eggs; beat 
whites very stiff and add remaining sugar. Beat the mix- 
tures well together, add lemon, then work in the flour slowly 
stirring the dough very lightly. Bake in a shallow tin from 
20 to 30 minutes in a moderate oven. A small handful of 
granulated sugar sprinkled over the top of the cake just 
before it goes into the oven is an improvement. 

— Mrs. W. E. Church 

MOCHA CAKE 

% cup butter, 2 cups sugar — 3 eggs 

cream together 3 teaspoons baking powder in 

V2 cup milk last cup flour 

1/^ cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 cups flour 

Make the day before wanted. Bake in sheet. 

FROSTING 

4 oz. butter (4 tablespoons of 10 oz. powdered sugar (20 
butter well rounded) tablespoons) 

Cream butter and sugar together; add 2 tablespoons 
cold water and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Cut cake in 1 inch 
squares. Have prepared almonds blanched, browned and 
chopped rather fine. Roll squares of cake in frosting and 
then in chopped nuts. 

COCOA CAKE 

1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

Vz cup shortening y^ cup water 

Vz cup cocoa ^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1^ cups flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream butter and sugar; add the cocoa, the yolks 
(beaten), water, cinnamon, beaten whites and lastly flour 
and baking powder sifted together. Mix thoroughly. 

— Mrs. A. B. Lord 



CAKE 



141 



ORANGE CAKE 



rind (grated) 1 



Juice and 

orange 
1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/^ teaspoon soda 



2 cups flour 
2 cups sugar 
14 cup water 
Yolks 5 eggs 
Whites 2 eggs 

THE JELLY 

Beat whites of 2 eggs stiff, add juice and rind of 1 
orange and add sugar to the thickness of jelly. Put this be- 
tween loaves and frost the top. — Mrs. J. W. Sweet 

MOCHA (COFFEE) FROSTING 

Take 3 tablespoons cofifee (left from breakfast) and 
heat quickly to boiling point; add confectioner's sugar 
gradually, stirring constantly until of right consistency to 
spread, amount required being about 2^ cups ; then add 
2 teaspoons melted butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Add a 
little more sugar to get right consistency and spread on 
cake. — Mrs. Raymond C. Cook 

CHOCOLATE CAKE WITH COCOANUT 



2 cups sugar 
1 cup butter 
1 cup sour milk 
2V2 cups flour 



Yolks 5 eggs 

1/^ cup grated chocolate 

1 teaspoon soda 



FILLING 
1 lb. pulverized sugar wet Whites 3 eggs beaten to not a 

with water stiff froth 

y2 cake chocolate, melted 
Let filling cook until it is quite thick and add 1 grated 
cocoanut the very last. — Mrs. J. IV. Szveet 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 



IVz cups brown sugar 
1/^ cup butter 

1 cup quite wet apple sauce 
yz teaspoon cloves, a little 
nutmeg 



I 



1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup raisins 

1 cup chopped nuts 

2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda in hot water 

— Mrs. Moody 



142 CAKE 

POTATO FLOUR CAKE 

Break 2 eggs into bowl, add 1 tablespoon cold water 
and beat until light, using an egg beater ; then add ^ cup 
sugar gradually while heating. Mix and sift 3^ cup potato 
flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and ^ teaspoon salt ; com- 
bine mixtures and add ^ teaspoon vanilla and 1 tablespoon 
melted butter. Turn into a buttered and floured square 
cake pan, sprinkle wnth powdered sugar and bake in mod- 
erate oven from 20 to 25 minutes. This cake is good for 
splitting and filling with cream or lemon filling, jelly, jam 
or whipped cream. 

SPICE CAKE 

1/^ cup butter 1 cup raisins 

1 cup light brown sugar 1 cup currants 

V2 cup milk 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1^ cups flour V2 teaspoon cloves 

iy2 teaspoons baking powder A little nutmeg, if liked 

Yolks 4 eggs 

Bake in bread tin for 50 minutes in a slow oven. 

COFFEE CAKE 

1 cup butter 1 cup raisins (chopped) 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups flour % teaspoon allspice 
1 cup strong coffee % teaspoon cloves 

5 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

— Mrs, J. A. Colby 

CREAM ALMOND CAKE 

Vz cup butter, 1 cup sugar — 2 cups pastry flour 

creamed % cup milk 

4 level teaspoons Royal bak- Whites 4 eggs, beaten stiff 
ing powder in the flour Vz teaspoon almond flavoring 

- This makes 2 layers. 

ICING 

\y2 cups sugar, a little more than ys cup water, boil 
until it threads, then beat into the whites 2 eggs beaten stiff 
and beat until thick enough to spread. Vanilla to taste. 

— Mrs. H. M. Carle 



CAKE 143 

FRUIT CAKE 

% lb. butter 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

1 lb. light brown sugar 2 tablespoons allspice 

12 eggs beaten separately 1 tablespoon cloves 

1 tumbler New Orleans mo- 3 lbs. seeded raisins 

lasses 3 lbs. currants 

1 pint sherry wine and brandy 1% lbs. citron cut thin in 

mixed strips 

1 lb. flour, not frowned 

This makes a cake of 10 lbs, and requires 5 hours to 
bake in a moderate oven. 

DIRECTIONS FOR MIXING 

Cream the butter and sugar very light, add yolks beaten 
light, then the molasses, next the wine and brandy, next 
flour (leaving out a little to flour the fruit), next spices, 
then the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Then the fruit 
gradually until it is all stirred in. Grease the pan well 
with butter and put 4 thicknesses of light brown paper in 
the bottom of pan. When it is baked leave in pan until 
it gets nearly cold. In winter this may be made 6 or 8 
weeks before using ; in summer 2 or 3 weeks. 

— Mrs. E. P. Baird 

REAL LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

1 cup butter Whites 6 eggs 

2 cups sugar 2 level teaspoons baking pow- 
Zy2 cups flour der 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon rose water 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, beating 
continually, then the milk and the flavoring, next the flour 
and baking powder, and lastly the stiffly beaten whites of 
the eggs, which should be folded lightly into the dough. 
Bake in 3 layer cake tins, in an oven that is hotter than 
necessary for loaf cake. To make the filling dissolve 3 
cups sugar in 1 cup boiling water, cook until it threads, 
then pour over the stiffly beaten whites of 3 eggs, stirring 
constantly. To this icing add 1 cup chopped rasins, 1 cup 
nutmeats, pecans preferred, and 5 figs cut into very thin 
strips. With this ice both the top and sides of the cake. 



144 CAKE 

ANGEL FOOD CAKE 

Whites 8 eggs % cup flour 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar i/4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon vanilla 

Beat whites of eggs until frothy; add cream of tartar 
and continue beating until eggs are stiflF ; then add sugar 
gradually. Fold in flour mixed with salt and sift 4 
: times and add vanilla. Bake 45 to 50 minutes in an unbut- 
tered angel cake pan. After cake has risen and begins to 
brown, cover with a buttered paper. — Francis Szveet 

FRUIT CAKE 

% lb. butter 6 lbs. currants 

1 lb. flour 6 lbs. raisins 

2 lbs. sugar 2 lbs. citron 
1 cup milk 1 lb. figs 

1 dozen eggs 1 lb. dates 

1 pint New Orleans molasses 1 lb, prunes 
1 heaping teaspoon soda 

Beat whites and yolks of eggs separately, cream but- 
ter and sugar, add yolks, milk, flour and last add whites. 
Have soda mixed in molasses a few moments before using, 
then add it to cake mixture ; flour all fruit with extra flour 
and mix well, then add gradually to the cake. Stir in good 
brandy or fruit juice until cake seems right thickness. 
Bake in small bread pan lined with greased paper. Have 
slow fire and cover pan with brown paper when first put 
in oven. In small pans it takes about 3 hours to bake. 

— Mrs. T. N. Johnson 

LOAF SPICE CAKE 

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon lard or butter 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup sour milk 

1^ teaspoon allspice 1 cup unsifted flour 

yz teaspoon cloves 1 cup raisins 

1 egg beaten with other in- 1 teaspoon soda 

gredients 20 walnuts chopped ^ 

— Mrs. Anderson 



</• 



CAKE 



145 



HERMIT COOKIES 



iy2 cups brown sugar 

1 cup butter 

3 eggs 

1 teaspoon soda in little hot 

water 
1 cup raisins 

Bake slowly. 



1 cup chopped nuts, a little 

citron 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, a little 

nutmeg 
Flour enough to drop from 

the spoon 

— Mrs. Moody 



SUNSHINE CAKE 



Whites 8 eggs 

Yolks 4 eggs 

1^ cups granulated sugar 

1 cup cake flour 



% teaspoon cream of tartar 
Pinch of salt, added to whites 

of eggs before whipping 
Flavor to taste 



Sift, measure and set aside flour and sugar, separate 
eggs, putting the whites in mixing bowl and the yolks in 
small bowl; beat yolks to very stiff froth; whip whites to 
foam; add cream of tartar and whip until very stiff; add 
sugar to whites and fold in ; then yolks and fold in ; flavor 
and fold in; then add flour and fold lightly through. Put 
in moderate oven at once. Will bake in about 25 minutes. 
(Use angel food cake tin.) — Mrs. H. C. Colby 

"An optimist and a pessimist — 

The difference is droll — 
The optimist sees the doughnut 

The pessimist sees the hole.'' 



V 



CUP CAKES 



1^ cup butter 
1 cup sugar 
V2 cup milk 
IV2 cups flour 



3 eggs 

Teaspoon baking powder 

Vanilla 



Cream sugar and butter, then add milk, pouring a 
little at a time and beating well. Add 3^ the flour, then the 
yolks of eggs well beaten, then the rest of the flour with 
baking powder sifted in it. Last, flavor and add well 
beaten whites of eggs. Are nice with chopped nuts stirred 
in at last moment. Bake in small tins in hot oven. 



146 CAKE 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 cup sugar, ^ tablespoon 4 small cups flour 
butter — cream 3 teaspoons baking powder 

2 eggs Nutmeg if desired 
1 cup milk 

Mix in order given; cut and ivy in deep fat. 

— Mrs. Bruce 

COOKIES 

1 cup sugar 1 egg 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda in the milk 

1 cup thick, sour milk 

Flavor with vanilla and a little nutmeg. Flour enough 
to roll out nicely, without being too stiff. 

SUGAR COOKIES 

1% cups sugar ^ cup sour cream with 1 

1 cup butter teaspoon soda in it 

2 eggs 

Add flour so you can roll out thin ; sprinkle with sugar. 
Bake quickly. — Mrs. Caldwell 

WALNUT COOKIES 

4 eggs 8 level tablespoons flour 

2 cups brown sugar Flavor with vanilla 

1 cup chopped walnuts 

Stir all together and drop from a spoon. 

PEANUT COOKIES 

% cup chopped peanuts 1 well beaten egg 

1 cup flour 2 tablespoons butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 2 tablespoons milk 
% cup sugar Pinch of salt 

Drop and bake in moderate oven. 

^"*~' - — Mrs. J. A. 'McLcod 



CAKE 147 

OATMEAL COOKIES 

1 cup sugar 3^ teaspoons soda C dissolve 
V2 cup butter in 1 teaspoon warm water) 

2 cups flour 1 cup chopped raisins 
2 cups oatmeal 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 eggs 

If dough is too stiff add a little milk. Pad in thin 
cakes and bake. — Mrs. J, A. Colby 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

1 cup very light brown sugar 1% cups flour 

V2 cup butter melted soft 2 squares Baker's chocolate 

1 egg beaten with sugar (melted) 

Vz cup sweet milk with Yz % cup chopped raisins and 
teaspoon soda English walnuts mixed 

Drop from spoon on buttered tins and bake. Frost 
with chocolate fudge icing. ^ — Mrs. Sale 

LACE COOKIES 

Beat together well: 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons milk 

1 cup sugar IVz teaspoons baking powder 

2 tablespoons melted butter 214 cups Quaker oats 
Then add: 

Butter bottom (under) sides of tins very well and put 
5^ teaspoon mixture every 2 inches apart. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. Do not try to remove cakes from tins until cool. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

6 eggs, beaten separately, the lYz cups granulated sugar 

whites very stiff % cake Baker's chocolate 

Scant cup flour measured Quite a little vanilla (over a 

after sifting teaspoon) 

Mix sugar and yolks together very lightly. Cut the 
whites into that, then the flour. Stir as little as possible. 
Then add melted chocolate and vanilla. Bake in pretty 
quick oven and put j4 inch thick in pan. When done cut 
in squares. Do not put paper in pan. Melt chocolate 
over tea kettle. 



148 CAKE 

HERMITS 

2 cups brown sugar 1 cup raisins, cut small 

1 cup butter 1 cup walnut meats, chopped 

3 eggs, beaten fine 

% cup water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda 

Drop by teaspoonfuls on tins; bake in a moderately 
quick oven. — Mrs. H. M. Carle 

COLLEGE GIRLS' BROWNIES 

2 cups sugar . 4 eggs, beaten together 

1 cup butter ly^ cups flour 

3 squares melted chocolate 1 cup chopped walnuts 

Bake in 2 medium sized flat tins, and cut in squares 
when done. — Mrs. W. H. Redington 

SPONGE CAKE 

3 eggs, well beaten 1% cups granulated sugar 

2 cups flour 14 cup water 

Cup flour beaten in well, then add to it ^ cup water, 
then 1 more cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. — Mrs. French 

DELICIOUS GINGER DROPS 

1 cup molasses 1 egg 

3 cups flour, rounded 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
% cup shortening Saltspoon salt 

% cup hot water 1 teaspoon ginger 

Stir 1 teaspoon soda (rounded) in molasses till it 
foams, add %. cup flour, then beaten egg and another ^4 
cup flour; then the shortening which has been put in 
cup, and hot water added to fill the cup and allowed to 
cool. Add remainder of flour, drop on buttered tins from 
spoon and 1 seeded raisin placed on each. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. — Mary B. Grisivold 



CAKE 149 

CHEESE CAKES . ' 

1 cup cottage cheese Rind and juice 1 lemon 

4 tablespoons sugar Vs cup chopped citron 

1 teaspoon salt % cup Sultana raisins 
3 eggs 

Beat the eggs, add the other ingredients and beat until 
smooth; hne tartlet tins with pastry and fill with cheese 
mixture. Bake in a moderate oven 20 minutes. When 
cool decorate the tops of the cakes with whipped cream, 
sweetened, and a few chopped nuts. — F. M. B. 

SAND TARTS 

1 lb. pulverized sugar 1 egg 

% lb. butter 

Mix these ingredients and add enough flour to make 
dough roll out very thin ; cut into cookies with biscuit cutter. 
Beat whites of 7 eggs very stiff and put small amount on 
each tart. Pound fine 2 lbs. blanched almonds ; poit small 
amount of mits on top of ^gg and sprinkle each tart with 
granulated sugar. 

CHOCOLATE JUMBLES 

1 cup butter 4 eggs 

2 cups sugar 2 even teaspoons cream of 

3 cups flour tartar 

2 cups grated chocolate 2 even teaspoons soda 

Flavor with vanilla and drop. 

— Mrs. H. F. Ross 

ORANGE CAKES 

1% cups sugar 2^^ teaspoons baking powder 

% cup butter Grated rind and juice 1 

1 cup milk orange 

2 small cups flour, sifted 3 eggs, beaten separately 

Bake in gem pans. — Mrs. Walcott 



150 CAKE 

NUT CAKES 

2 eggs, beaten light % cup flour 

1 cup brown sugar 14 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup walnuts, chopped ^ teaspoon salt 

Bake in small cakes. — Mrs. A. B. Lord 

MARGUERITTES 

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs slightly beaten 

Beat eggs and sugar thoroughly together. 

% to 1 cup flour, sifted Pinch salt 

twice 1 cup chopped pecans 

^ teaspoon baking powder 

Butter pans generously ; drop from teaspoon, put whole 
pecan meat on each cake; bake in hot oven 5 minutes. 
Makes 20 small cakes. — Mrs. H. F. Ross 

FILLING FOR CREAM CHOCOLATE CAKE 

1 lb. granulated sugar 1 cup sweet milk 

Bjoil together for 6 minutes, then beat to a cream ; 
spread on the layers; melt 5^ cake chocolate (Baker's) and 
spread on cream. Use any cake batter. 

—Mrs. J. E. Ingram 

FRUIT BRAN COOKIES 

% cup butter % cup brown sugar 

1^/4 cups bran 2 tablespoons cream or milk 

1% cups chopped figs or 1 well beaten egg 
prunes 

Flour enough to make a dough that will drop. If pre- 
ferred add more flour and roll thin, shape with cutter and 
bake about 15 or 20 minutes. — Mrs. Jarcd Morse 



Candy 

"A wilderness of sweets" — Milton. 



MAPLE FUDGE 

4 cups light brown sugar Butter size of walnut 

1 cup milk 1 cup English walnuts 

Cook until soft ball may be formed in cold water, beat 
until stiff, add nuts, pour into buttered tin to cool. 

DIVINITY CANDY 

2 cups granulated sugar Whites of 2 eggs 

1/^ cup cold water Yz cup walnuts, chopped 

1/^ cup Karo syrup A few candy cherries 

Cook sugar, water and Karo syrup until it strings or 
forms soft ball; remove from fire, pour on beaten whites 
of 2 eggs, beat until stiff, add nuts and cherries. Set aside 
to cool. 

ICE CREAM CANDY 

3 cups sugar % teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/^ cup water 

Boil without stirring until when tried in cold water 
it is brittle. Turn into a well buttered pan ; as it cools fold 
the edges toward the center. When it can be handled, pull 
until white and glossy. Cut in small pieces. 

— Mrs. A. L. Cayzer 

SEA FOAM 

2 cups sugar Butter size of walnut 

1 cup milk 

Cook until soft ball is formed in water, then stir into 
beaten whites of 2 eggs, beat until stiff. Pecans may be 
used if desired. 



# 



152 CANDY 

BUTTER-SCOTCH 

3 cups brown sugar % cup vinegar 

% cup cold water 

Cook until brittle in cold water then add ^ cup butter, 
1 teaspoon vanilla; pour in buttered tins until cool. 

— Mrs. Sullivan 

GLAZED FRUITS AND NUTS 

Boil without stirring for 10 or 15 minutes, 1 lb. granu- 
lated sugar and ^ cup water, test in water and when brit- 
tle remove from fire, add 1 teaspoon lemon juice and set 
the pan containing the candy in a bowl of hot water. With 
a long pin or needle immerse section of oranges, grapes, 
figs, almonds, walnuts or pecans and put upon oiled paper. 
The fruit or nuts must be thoroughly dry before dipping 
into the candy. 

PEPPERMINTS 

l'^^ cups sugar 6 drops oil of peppermint 

^ cup boiling water 

Boil water and sugar 10 minutes, remove from fire, 
add peppermint, beat until of right consistency to drop from 
spoon on buttered paper. 

PEANUT NOUGAT 

1 lb. sugar 1 quart peanuts 

Cook sugar until dissolved, remove from fire, add nuts, 
set aside to cool, break in pieces. 

COCOANUT CANDY 

2 cups sugar 1 cup hot water 

Cook until soft ball is formed in cold water; remove 
from fire, beat until stiff, then add 3^ cup cocoanut. Drop 
from spoon on buttered paper. 



CANDY 



153 



.V 



PRALINES 



1% cups powdered sugar 
1 cup maple sugar 
y2 cup cream 



2 cups hickory or pecan nuts 
cut into pieces 



Boil first three ingredients until soft ball is formed in 
cold water; remove from fire, beat well, add nuts and drop 
from spoon on buttered paper. — Mary Ross 



DIVINITY FUDGE 



3 cups white sugar 
1 cup hot water 
1 cup Karo syrup 
White 2 eggs 



Pinch cream of tartar 
1^/^ cups chopped walnuts 
Candied pineapple and cher- 
ries 



Boil candy until it makes a medium ball when dropped 
in water. Pour over beaten whites of eggs, put pinch salt in 
eggs before beating. Beat until cold, then stir in nuts and 
fruit. — L. B. Caldzvell 



CHOCOLATE CREAM TAFFY 



3 cups sugar 
Vz cup butter 



1 cup milk 

^ cup chocolate 



Boil 10 minutes. When done add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat with Dover egg beater until it begins to sugar around 
the kettle. Pour into buttered tins and cut in squares. 

— Mrs. Cayser 

FUDGE 

Heat 2 cups sugar and Yz cup milk to the boiling point ; 
add 2 squares chocolate and stir constantly until the choco- 
late is melted. Boil 8 minutes; add 3 (level) tablespoons 
butter and boil 7 minutes ; remove from the fire, add 1 
teaspoon vanilla and beat until the mixture is creamy and 
sygars around the edge of the saucepan. Pour into but- 
tered pans, cool slightly then mark in squares. 

— Mrs. L. J. Braddock 



154 CANDY 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE 

2 cups sugar ^4 cake chocolate 

1 cup milk Vanilla 
Butter size of walnut 

Cook sugar, milk and butter until boiling point is 
reached, then add chocolate. Cook until soft ball may be 
formed in cold water ; remove from fire, beat well until stiff, 
add vanilla, turn into buttered tin. 

PECAN CANDY 

2 cups granulated sugar ^ cup pecans 

Place sugar in sauce pan, stir until sugar is well melted, 
remove from fire, add nuts and beat until stiff enough to 
pour into buttered tin. 

BUTTERCUPS 

2 cups molasses % cup water 

1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

(1 scant teaspoon cream of tartar added when done.) 
Cook until a soft ball may be formed in cold water, 
then pour into buttered tin. Pull when cool enough to 
handle. Place on a buttered tin, lay in the center some 
French fondant, folding the candy carefully over it. Cut 
in strips. — Mrs. Cayzer 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 155 







2 t^ y<l<CT::l^^ ' 



7" X''U,'^^<^:::t^<L>zJl^ , ^^x^^c^ t^t^^jC^ /Uj'cj^ , :a^ 

CTl^ >t^.^^^ ' TL:^ ^^^^ '^i^^^ ^ 




156 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Luncheon Dishes 

''Such and so various are the tastes of riienT 



SPICED SALMON 

1 cup vinegar, or % vinegar 8 Allspice 

and 1/^ water 2 inch stick cinnamon 

6 cloves 

Let spices and vinegar boil 5 minutes. Prepare 1 can 
salmon by removing skin and bones and breaking into 2 
inch pieces ; place in a deep china bowl and pour over it 
•the hot spiced vinegar. Let stand 24 hours. Serve the 
fish cold on crisp lettuce leaves. 

— Mrs. A. H, Gross 

EGGS TIVOLI 

With pointed small knife outline opening in 3 inch 
cubes of baker's bread ; toast on all sides first, then remove 
center of bread to form cup; put 1 tablespoon cream 
sauce then 1 softly poached egg, more cream sauce, grated 
cheese on top, put into oven and heat through, served with 
minced parsley and strips of bacon on top. 

— Belleviie Stratford 
ENGLISH MONKEY 

1 cup milk or cream 1 egg, well beaten 

1 cup cheese (cut fine) % teaspoon Armour's Ex- 
1 cup soft bread crumbs tract of Beef 

Butter, size of an English V2 teaspoon salt 

walnut ^/4 teaspoon paprika 

Put milk in pan over boiling water. \Mien hot add 
cheese, stir until cheese is nearly dissolved, then add bread 
crumbs, butter, salt, paprika and extract of beef, dissolved 
in 1 tablespoon hot water, stir, then add 1 egg. cover and 
let steam for 7 minutes. Serve on toast or Zephyrettes. 

— Mrs. Young 



158 LUNCHEON DISHES 

EGG \'ERMICELLI 

2 hard boiled eggs 1 cup white sauce 

3 slices toast 

Chop the whites of the eggs and add to white sauce, 
season and pour over toast. Rub the yolks through a 
strainer over top of the toast. Garnish with parsley and 
serve hot. — Miss Clara Harris 

Denver School of Domestic Science 

OMELETTE 

6 eggs — whites and yolks 1 teaspoon flour, wet with 

beaten separately and then milk 

put together Salt and pepper to taste 
1 cup milk 

Cook on top of the stove until done on the bottom, then 
brown in the oven. — Mrs. J. H. B. Hozvell 

SPANISH OMELETTE 

OMELETTE 

6 eggs % teaspoon salt 

1 saltspoon cayenne pepper 6 tablespoons milk 

SAUCE 
% can tomatoes 2 tablespoons butter 

1 clove garlic 2 tablespoons flour 

1 tablespoon ham 2 tablespoons capers 

2 tablespoons green peppers % teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons mushrooms % saltspoon cayenne pepper 

Cook together tomatoes and garlic; melt butter and 
in it put green peppers and ham ; add flour into which has 
been mixed salt and cayenne pepper. Pour in slowly the 
tomatoes, add mushrooms and capers. Beat eggs until a 
spoonful can be lifted, add salt, pepper and milk. Butter 
an omelette pan with 1 tablespoon butter and pour in eggs. 
With a fork lift the egg as it cooks, letting the uncooked 
portion run under. W^hen creamy throughout let it brown 
on bottom. Turn part of tomato sauce on one side of ome- 
lette, fold and turn out on platter. Pour the rest of the 
sauce around the omelette. 



LUNCHEON DISHES 159 

ATKEN'S GOULASHE 

Yz can tomatoes (or fresh if convenient), ^ box 
macaroni (boiled), put in alternate layers in baking dish. 
Fry thick slices of bacon cut in pieces ; remove and fry some 
sliced onions in bacon fat. Pour remaining fat with onions 
and bacon into baking dish with tomatoes and macaroni. 
Bake 30 minutes. Serve with grated cheese. 

EGG OMELETTE 

4 eggs Beat whites and yolks separ- 

4 tablespoons boiling water ately, then mix together 

Add pinch salt and water 

Butter frying pan and cook slowly over flame, then 
put under broiler to brown. A little beaten white of an 
^gg saved out is nice folded in omelette before serving. 

— Mrs. French 

FINNAN HADDIE IN THE CHAFING DISH 

1 cup Finnan Haddie flaked Salt 
1 small can pimentoes Pepper 

IVz cups white sauce 

Cut fish in strips, place in pan, cover with water and 
heat very slowly. After 30 minutes drain and flake fish. 
Cut pimentoes in narrow strips. Add these to flaked fish 
and heat all together with white sauce in chafing dish. 
Serve on buttered toast. — Mrs. R. B. Emits 

CHEESE TOAST WITH BACON 

This dish may be made of any variety of bread, but it 
is particularly good when made of Boston brown bread. 
While the bread is being toasted, melt 3 level tablespoons 
butter; cook in it ^ level tablespoon flour and 34 teaspoon 
each of salt and paprika. When frothy, stir in ^4 cup rich 
milk. Stir until boiling, then stir in ^^ or ^ cup grated 
cheese, continue stirring until cheese is melted, then pour 
over toast. A slice of bacon is a good addition to each 
slice of toast. — Mrs. E. K. Harris 



160 LUNCHEON DISHES 

RAREBIT 

% cup tomato 1 chafing dish spoon Worces- 

Butter Yz size of egg tershire sauce 

Pinch of soda ^A cup milk 

1^ teaspoon salt 1 lb. cheese, cut nne 

Pinch mustard 2 eggs well beaten 

Pinch cayenne pepper 

CREAM TOAST 

% cup butter 2 cups milk or cream 

1 teaspoon salt 6 or 8 slices toast 

2 tablespoons flour 

H-eat butter; when it bubbles, add flour and salt, add 
hot milk gradually, stirring constantly and allowing mix- 
ture to thicken and bubble each time before adding another 
portion of milk. Pour this sauce over slices of dry or 
moist toast. Moist toast is prepared by quickly dipping 
dry toast into hot salted water or hot milk. 

— Miss Templeton 

FRENCH TOAST 

1 or 2 eggs 'hi teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 6 or 8 slices stale bread 

Beat eggs, milk and salt together, dip slices of bread 
and brown in butter; serve hot with cinnamon and sugar 
or sauce. — Miss Ethel Templeton 

Chicago School of Domestic Science 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 161 



162 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



Sandwiches 

''Who peppered the highest ivas surest to please" — Goldsmith. 



SANDWICHES 

Cut thin slices of white bread, also thin slices of 
either beef, lamb, ham, chicken or turkey. Butter bread and 
lay a slice of meat on a slice of buttered bread, over the 
meat spread a little of Major Gray's chutney, put over this 
the second slice of buttered bread, press together and set 
under toaster, let heat (not toast) and turn on the other 
side. — Mrs. E. K. Harris 

BROWN BREAD SANDWICHES 

Slice Boston brown bread thin, cut into rounds, butter 
lightly and spread with cream or cottage cheese, minced 
olives very fine. Lay a crisp leaf of lettuce upon the 
cheese and another buttered round of bread with cheese 
on lettuce, pressing firmly together. Set in a cold place 
until needed. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS AND BROWN BREAD 

SANDWICHES 

Butter 2 slices Boston brown bread; on 1 of these 
place a heart-leaf of lettuce, spread over this 1 generous 
teaspoon cold bernaise or Hollandaise sauce, or cooked 
salad dressing, then 1 tablespoon cold baked beans, then 
another leaf of lettuce, a little more sauce and the second 
slice of bread. 

STRIPED BREAD SANDWICHES 

Make equal number of white and brown bread sand- 
wiches, place them together in alternating colors; wrap in 
damp cheese cloth, press over night, cut in thin slices, then 
in strips. When cut, sandwiches give appearance of 
marbled bread. — Mrs. Templeton 



164 SANDWICHES 

TOASTED HAM SANDWICHES 

Slices of bread buttered ; spread with minced ham, 
toast in wire toaster. — Mrs. Ross 

SARDINE AND EGG SANDWICHES 

Use equal measures of well cooked yolks of eggs, 
pressed through a sieve and the meat of sardines freed 
from bones and skin, and pounded in a mortar, or use twice 
as much sardine as egg. Flavor to taste with tobasco sauce 
or paprika, salt, onion juice, fine chopped parsley, and lemon 
juice; mix all together thoroughly. Spread thin slices of 
bread with butter, then the mixture. Remove the crusts 
and cut desired shape. 

EGG AND CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Yolk of 1 hard boiled egg, mashed smooth with 1 table- 
spoon melted butter. Add ^ teaspoon each of salt, white 
pepper, mustard and 34 lb. grated cheese. Then stir 
in 1 scant tablespoon vinegar and spread between thin 
slices of bread. 

FILLING FOR SANDWICHES 

1 raw egg 1 tablespoon butter 

1 tablespoon flour ^l cup milk 

1 tablespoon sugar Dash cayenne pepper 

2 tablespoons vinegar ^ teaspoon salt 

Beat the egg, add the vinegar and flour, sugar, butter 
and milk. Cook until it thickens (takes only 2 or 3 minu- 
tes. ) Grind together 10 cents worth of New York cream 
cheese, 2 hard boiled eggs and 2 Spanish peppers ; add these 
to mixture. — Miss Sarah Harris 

CUCUMBER SANDWICHES 

Slice 1 cucumber, marinate w^ith French dressing, 
sprinkle thin slices of white bread with cayenne pepper, 
spread with cucumber and cover with white bread. 



SANDWICHES 165 

EGG SALAD SANDWICHES 

For each sandwich have several heart-leaves of let- 
tuce, 1 hard boiled egg and 2 triangular slices stale bread; 
also a generous allowance of mayonnaise salad dressing. 
Spread the bread with the dressing on it, press thin slices 
of egg and the lettuce, add more dressing and press 2 
slices of prepared bread. This may form a course at a 
luncheon party, or be the principal dish of a home luncheon. 



166 ADDITIONAL RECIPES 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 167 



Pickles and Preserves 

"Variety is the very spice of life that gives it all the flavor.'* 

— Cowper. 



ENGLISH CHOW-CHOW 

^ peck small white onions % pint small red peppers 

50 small cucumbers 2 large green peppers 

iy2 dozen large cucumbers 2 large heads cauliflower 
sliced 

Cut and sprinkle with 1 pint table salt, and let stand 
over night. Next morning add ^ lb. celery seed, 2 lbs. brown 
sugar, y2 ounce tumeric powder. Cover all with vinegar 
and boil until cauliflower is tender. Stir often to prevent 
burning. — Mrs. Ingram 

TOMATO CATSUP 

Skin a bushel of firm tomatoes, boil them and strain 
through a sieve. Then add: 

2 quarts strong cider vinegar l^^ tablespoons ground mus- 

1 pint salt tard 

2 lbs. brown sugar 2 ounces celery seed 

2 ounces allspice 12 good sized onions, peeled 

1 tablespoon black pepper and sliced 

1 ounce whole cloves And a handful of peach leaves 

Boil 6 or 8 hours, then strain, bottle and cork tight. 

CHRISTMAS PICKLES 

12 red peppers 8 large onions 

12 green peppers 

Remove seeds, wash and put all through chopper, pour 
boiling water to cover and let stand 5 minutes. Put all 
through colander to drain water out. Have ready 3 pint- 
vinegar, 4 tablespoons salt and 2 cups sugar, let come to a 
boil, then add ground ingredients, let cook 5 minutes and 
put in jars while hot. — Mrs. John Builder 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 169 

SOUR PICKLE 

Pare and slice 100 cucumbers and ^ peck onions. 
Sprinkle these with salt and let stand 24 hours. Drain 
off salt and pack down a layer of onions, cucumbers and 
spices alternately. The spices used are as follows : 

2 ounces whole mace 1 lb. Elnglish mustard (Cole- 

2 ounces celery seed man's) 

Fill the jar with cold cider vinegar. Cover the top 
layer of pickles, etc., with salad oil. As you pour vinegar on, 
shake the jar well so that the vinegar may mix through the 
ingredients. After standing 24 hours stir well with wooden 
spoon or ladel. Use after standing one month. 

WALNUT CATSUP 

Take 100 tender young walnuts (June walnuts), bruise 
or beat to paste and put in jar with a handful salt and 1 
quart vinegar. Let stand 8 days, stirring every day, drain 
off liquor and boil Yi hour with : 



^ ounce mace 


Piece horse radish 


^ ounce nutmeg 


20 chalotes 


y^ ounce cloves 


^4 lb. anchovies 


% ounce ginger 


1 pint port wine 


^4 ounce black pepper 




CUCUMBER PICKLES 


1 quart cut cucumbers 


1 pint vinegar 


3 large onions 


1 large cup brown sugar 


2 red peppers 


1 dessertspoon white mustard 


Vz cup salt 


1 dessertspoon allspice 


Horse-radish 


(whole) 



Pare cucumbers and cut very fine, chop onions, re- 
move seeds from peppers and chop fine, sprinkle salt over 
cucumbers, onions and peppers and let stand over night. 
Next day squeeze dry and put in boiling vinegar, in which 
sugar, mustard and allspice have been mixed. Let cook 
for ^ hour. When ready to put in jar mix strips of 
horse-radish with it, then seal. — Mrs. Purncll 

Baltimore, Md. 



170 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

SMALL CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Pour boiling water over 3^ bushel small pickles fresh 
from the vines. When water has cooled and on the same 
day, drain pickles and sprinkle dry salt over them — 3^ pint 
salt to 100 medium sized pickles. Then cover again with 
boiling water. The brine thus made must be boiled and 
poured over pickles 7 mornings, counting the first one. 
The eighth day, let them stand on the stove and simmer 
in weak vinegar until they look plump. Rinse them, dry 
and pack in jars with some of each of the following spices : 

Cover with boiling vinegar 14 ounce black pepper 

using 4 lbs. sugar to V2 ounce cinnamon 

1 gallon vinegar i^ ounce horse-radish root 
V2 lb. white mustard ^/i ounce celery seed 

y2 lb. black mustard 1 pint small onions 

^ ounce allspice V2 ounce caraway seed 

% ounce red pepper ^A ounce mace 

Spices are all to be whole and then pickles do not need 
to be sealed. — Mrs. J. H. Burns 

CHILI SAUCE 

30 good sized ripe tomatoes 5 tablespoons salt 

7 red peppers (hot) 20 tablespoons white sugar 

10 onions 11 cups vinegar 

Chop onions and peppers fine. Peel and slice tomatoes. 
Cook all together I3/2 hours. Bottle and keep in a cool 
place. — Mrs. J. H. B. Howell 

UNCOOKED CUCUMBER RELISH 

Peel 24 large cucumbers 1 teacup salt 

Vz gallon white onions 1 ounce white mustard seed 

2 large red sweet peppers Mix well 
Grind in food chopper — add 

Put into cheese cloth bag. Drain 24 hours. Turn into 
crock ; add 2 tablespoons grated horse-radish and enough 
cold cider vinegar to cover well ; stir all together, put into 
cans and seal. This will keep 2 or 3 months. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 



171 



CHILI SAUCE 



24 ripe tomatoes 
10 green peppers 
4 white onions 

Boil 3 hours. 



8 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons salt 

4 teacups vinegar 



SMALL CUCUMBER PICKLES 

Make strong salt brine and pour boiling hot over 
pickles 3 successive mornings. On fourth morning rinse 
pickles through colander with fresh water. Take 1 pint 
vinegar to 1 quart water, put in pickles and let simmer 
(not boil). Pack pickles in pint Mason jars and in each 
jar put: 



1 teaspoon whole black pep- 
pers 
1 small piece red pepper 
1 small piece horse-radish 



1 small piece alum 
1 teaspoon white 
seed 



mustard 



Boil fresh vinegar and make quite sweet to taste. 
Pour over pickles boiling hot and seal. — Mrs. T. A 



J. 



CUCUMBER PICKLE 



4 lbs. cucumbers 

2 lbs. white onions 

2 tablespoons white mustard 

seed 
2 tablespoons horse-radish 



1 tablespoon celery seed 
6 pods red peppers 
3 pints vinegar 
1 lb. brown sugar 



Slice cucumbers and onions, sprinkle with salt and let 
stand over night. Drain off water; mix with other in- 
gredients and boil J^ hour; put in jars while hot. Cut 
cucumbers fully %. inch thick. — Mrs. John Builder 

CURRANT RELISH 



Stem and mash 6 lbs. currants, 6 lbs. white sugar, 6 
peeled and seeded oranges, cut in small bits, 2 lbs. seeded 
raisins. Mix together and cook y^ hour. Seal while hot. 

— F. L. H. 



172 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

6 oranges and 3 lemons unpeeled; cut as thin as pos- 
sible cross-wise with sharp knife. Remove all seeds. To 
1 pint sliced fruit add 1^ pints water and boil ^^ hour. 
Let stand 24 hours. To each pint cooked fruit add 1^ 
pints granulated sugar and boil ^ hour. Cool a little to 
see if jellies, if not cook 10 minutes more. Take from fire 
and when partly cool fill tumblers. — Mrs. Snyder 

CONSERVE 

6 lbs. Damson plums, after 2 lbs. seeded raisins 

pits removed Juice 2 lemons and grated 

6 lbs. sugar rinds 

2 lbs. English walnuts Juice 4 oranges, rind of 2 
chopped 

Boil until very thick. — A. L. Miller 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

3 dozen oranges 7 quarts water 
11/^ dozen lemons 24 lbs. sugar 

Scrub oranges and lemons clean with a brush, then slice 
very thin with sharp knife into stone jars (cut across few 
times before slicing). Put in water and let soak over night. 
Then boil from 2 to 3 hours. Add sugar and boil •)4 hour. 
Put in glasses. — Mrs. A. B. Lord 

DUNDEE MARMALADE 

12 oranges Juice 3 lemons 

12 lbs. sugar 5 quarts water 

Use bitter oranges during the month of March. 

Cut oranges very thin, lengthwise, cover with water 
(be careful to measure water), let stand over night and in 
morning add rest of 5 quarts water, boil until soft, about 
2y2 hours ; then add sugar and boil ^ hour longer. 

— Mrs. J. A. McLcnd 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 173 

GRAPE. AND RAISIN CONSERVE 

6 lbs. grapes cooked soft and rubbed through the colan- 
der. Add 4 lbs. white sugar and cook 20 minutes, then 
add 2 lbs. raisins seeded and chopped, also the thin yellow 
rind of 4 large oranges chopped very fine. Cook until it 
jellies. Cherries or plums can be used in place of grapes. 

— Anna Rezv Gross 

TOMATO MARMALADE 

Pare and slice, without wetting, 4 lbs. unripe toma- 
toes, give them a slow boil for several hours until a large 
portion of the water has evaporated, add for each pound 
tomatoes ^ lb. sugar and 2 sliced lemons. Boil for 1 
hour longer. — Mrs. Snyder 

GRAPE FRUIT MARMALADE 

Wash well 1 large grape fruit, 2 oranges, and 2 
lemons. Cut the oranges and lemons into quarters and the 
grape fruit into eighths. Remove the seeds and tough 
centers, then slice thin with a sharp knife. When all is 
sHced, add 3 times as much water as there is fruit and let 
stand until the next day. Put over the fire and cook 20 
minutes, then measure and add an equal amount of granu- 
lated sugar and boil about 20 minutes longer, or until it 
will jelly. When done, pour into glasses. 

PICKLED CHERRIES 

7 lbs. cherries 2 tablespoons stick cinna- 

4 lbs. white sugar mon 

1 pint strong vinegar A pinch ground mace 

1 tablespoon whole cloves 

Put the fruit into a kettle with alternate layers of 
sugar. Heat slowly to boiling point; add vinegar and 
spices and boil 5 minutes. Take out the fruit with a skim- 
mer and spread upon dishes to cool. Boil the syrup until 
thick; pack the fruit in glass jars and pour the syrup on 
boiling hot. — A. L. D. 



174 PICKLES AND PRES'ERVES 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLE 

Slice green tomatoes and boil in ginger water till the 
wild taste is removed. Then to 2 lbs. tomatoes put 1 lb. 
sugar and 1 pint vinegar. Spice very highly with mace, 
cloves, and cinnamon. Boil all together. 

— Mrs. Vinnedge 

GOOSEBERRY TUTTI FRUTTI 

3 quarts gooseberries Juice and rind 2 oranges 

4 quarts sugar % lb. seeded raisins 
1 pint water 

Boil 15 minutes. 

INDIA RELISH 

% peck green tomatoes 1 cabbage 

15 white onions 4 green peppers 

Chop all fine, mix with 1 cup salt, let stand over night. 
Drain; add vinegar to cover, 3 lbs. brown sugar, 1 table- 
spoon tumeric, ^ cup ground black pepper, 1 ounce celery 
seed and ^ lb. mustard seed. 

Boil all together 15 minutes. When cool add 1 cup 
olive oil and 1 quart cold vinegar with 1 teaspoon curry- 
powder, dissolved in it. This makes 6 quarts. 

EAST INDIA PRESERVES 

8 lbs. fruit (pears) after it % lb. preserved or candied 

is pared ginger 

8 lbs. sugar 4 lemons 

Cut lemons into small bits and cook till tender in 1 
pint water. Cut ginger into small bits and add to this. 
Then add sugar and when dissolved drop in the pears 
which have been cut into chips or small bits and cook slowly 
2 hours, or until the juice is of proper consistency. Will 
fill 20 tumblers. Takes 1 peck of pears. 

— Mrs. Vinnedge 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 175 

JIM JAM 

1 quart currant juice 1 lb. raisins (cut) 

1 quart raspberry juice 5 lbs. sugar 

2 oranges cut fine 

Boil 40 minutes. 

CURRANT JELLY WITH CHERRIES 

2 cups selected Richmond cherries (measured after 
stones are removed). Add 2 cups cane sugar, cook until 
cherries are tender. Skim out cherries and fill glasses % 
full. Boil syrup 15 minutes and pour over cherries making 
glasses less than half full, then fill glasses with hot currant 
jelly. Always make this same day that the currant jelly 
is made. — Grace Griszvold 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

10 quarts red raspberries 2 quarts vinegar 

Pour vinegar over the berries and let stand over night. 
Squeeze through a jelly bag and add 1 lb. sugar for 
each pint juice; boil to a syrup, bottle and seal. Use about 
a wine glass full to a tumbler of water. — A. S. D. 

RHUBARB MARMALADE 

1 cup rhubarb cut fine 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

Pulp and juice of 1 orange 1^^ cups sugar 

1 teaspoon yellow orange rind 

Boil until transparent, then add 1 cup blanched almonds 
(chopped or otherwise) ; boil and put in glasses. 

— Mrs. French 

CURRANT JELLY 

Wash the currants, but do not stem, put in a kettle, 
cook 25 minutes and strain. Boil the juice alone 5 minutes. 
Weigh the sugar, 1 lb. to 1 pint juice, and heat it in the 
oven. When the juice has boiled 5 minutes stir in the 
sugar until it dissolves, then put into glasses. 



176 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

PICKLED WATERMELON RIND 
To each quart of the best vinegar add : 

3 lbs. brown sugar 2 ounces cloves 

4 ounces stick cinnamon 

Bruise the spices, tie in a musHn bag and boil with the 
vinegar for 5 minutes, then pour over the rind, letting it 
stand 24 hours ; remove the liquor and after heating it, 
pour it over the rind again and let it stand another 24 
hours, after which boil all together for a short time. 

—S. M. S. 

QUINCE AND CRANBERRY JELLY 

3^ peck quinces, put on wnth just enough cold water to 
cover, cook until soft enough to squeeze. To this add 2 
or 3 pints cranberries, all quince cores and plenty of skins. 
Cook about 15 minutes. Strain and add sugar (pound for 
pound). Cook about 10 minutes after beginning to boil, 
or until it begins to jelly. Pour into glasses. 

—Mrs. W. A. L 

CRAB APPLE JELLY 

Wash as many ripe crab apples as required, quarter 
them and cut out the black spots at the cores, put them on 
the fire in preserving kettle, adding 3^ pint water, boil them 
gently until they are reduced to a smooth pulp, strain this 
through a coarse flannel using considerable pressure ; re- 
turn the juice to the fire; allow 1 lb. sugar to each pint 
juice. Bring to boiling point, skimming it carefully, then 
boil it 20 minutes. — Mrs. H. C. Snyder 

APPLE BUTTER 

2 gallons cider, boiled down to 1 gallon; add 2 gal- 
lons apples pared and quartered. Cook until it is a smooth 
pulp, like thin marmalade. Then add 1 heaping teaspoon 
each, ground cinnamon and allspice and 4 pints sugar. Boil 
3/2 hour stirring constantly. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 177 

SPICED CRAB APPLE JELLY 

% peck crab apples. 14 lb. each whole cinnamon, 

1 quart vinegar cloves, allspice 

2 quarts water 

Boil crab apples, water and vinegar together until very 
soft, strain over night. Measure pint for pint of juice and 
sugar; put spices in a bag and boil together for 20 
minutes. — Mrs. Chas. F. Morse 



JELLIED CURRANTS 

Select large not over ripe currants, stem and wash. To 
every cup currants take 1 cup sugar (granulated). Put a 
little water in porcelain kettle, add sugar and boil until it 
begins to hair; add whole currants and boil very gently 20 
minutes longer. Pour into glasses and when it begins to 
jelly stir with a silver fork. Let stand 24 hours before cov- 
ering. Jellied currants may be served as "Bar-le-duc" and 
are quite as delicate. — A. J. VV. 

CRANBERRY RELISH 

5 lbs. cranberries. 3 lbs. seeded raisins. 

5 large oranges, juice and 3 lbs. granulated sugar 
peel 

Put orange through meat chopper ; mix all together and 
let it boil up quickly, then let simmer for 3 hours. A little 
may be added while it is cooking if needed. 

APPLE GINGER 

8 lbs. sour apples ^A lb. white or green ginger 

8 lbs. sugar root crushed 

4 lemons 

Make a syrup of the sugar, adding 4 teacups water; 
then add apples, ginger and grated rind and juice of lemons. 
Cook until apples are soft. 



178 PICKLES AND PRESERVES 

QUINCE JAM 

Pare, core and quarter the quinces, boil them in enough 
water to just cover them until they begin to soften, then 
rub them through a fine sieve, return the quinces to the 
fire and add 3 cups sugar to each 5 cups quinces. Boil it 
gently until it is stiff. Fill jars from the boiling hot pre- 
serving kettle and seal immediately. 

STRAWBERRY JAM 

Hull and weigh the berries and put them on the fire 
in the preserving kettle. Boil them 30 minutes, skimming 
them carefully ; add ^ lb. sugar to each pound fruit and boil 
the berries slowly until they become thick, then fill jars 
and seal at once. 

RED OR BLACK RASPBERRY JAM 

To every 4 lbs. berries add 1 pint currant juice ; ^ 
lb. sugar to 1 lb. berries and to each pint juice allow 1 lb. 
sugar. Cook the berries and juice together 20 minutes; 
add sugar and boil about 10 minutes. Put in glasses and 
cover same as jelly. — Mrs. J. H. B. Hozi'cU 

FOUR FRUIT JAM 

2 quarts strawberries 1 quart currants 

2 quarts cherries 1 quart red raspberries 

Weigh all ; add equal weight granulated sugar ; cook 
40 minutes, stirring constantly. This makes a good thick 
jam. — Mrs. W. A. I. 

BRANDY PEACHES 

Choose fine juicy cling stone peaches (free stones will 
do.) Pare, and to every pound of fruit allow^ ^ lb. sugar. 
Put them in kettle with very little water and let simmer 
steadily until straw can be run through them ; set away 
to cool. To every pint juice add 1 pint brandy. Do not 
add brandy until it is cool. Put into jars and cover tight. 



PICKLES AND PRESERVES 179 

PRESERVED GRAPES 

California grapes, cut each grape open with a knife and 
extract the seeds ; add sugar to the fruit, pound for pound ; 
cook slowly for 3^ hour or longer until the syrup and pulp 
of the grape are perfectly clear. — S. M. S. 

PINEAPPLE AND STRAWBERRY PRESERVES 

1 cup shredded pineapple 3 cups granulated sugar 

2 cups strawberries 

Bring all slowly to a boil ; cook steadily from 25 to 30 
minutes. 

SPICED GRAPES 

5 lbs. grapes 1 tablespoon ground cloves 

4 lbs. sugar (if grapes are 1 tablespoon ground cinna- 

very sweet, 3 lbs. sugar) mon 
1 pint vinegar 

Wash, then skin fruit, boil pulp until the seeds seem 
well loosened, strain through a colander. Add skins, sugar 
and spices to juice; also vinegar and boil until quite thick. 
Put spices in bag. — Mrs. F. B. Carter 

SPICED PEARS 

Wash lA peck seckel pears, prick with a fork and 
cook in boiling water until soft. Take out carefully, put 
in a stone jar and pour over the following syrup: 

1 lb. white sugar I14 tablespoons each, whole 

1% cups vinegar cloves and stick cinnamon 

broken in pieces 

Bring to the boiling point and let simmer 3 minutes. 
Cover jar and let stand 2 days; drain off the syrup, bring 
to the boiling point, let simmer 3 minutes and pour over 
fruit; repeat. In the jar keep a muslin bag in which are 
tied 2 tablespoons each of whole cloves and stick cinnamon. 

— Mrs. Andreiv Patterson 



180 PICKLES AND J-RESERVES 

PEACH JAM 

Peel and stone the fruit, then weigh it ; add ^ lb. 
sugar to each pound peaches, also add a cup water. Boil the 
peaches gently for 1^ hours, then fill jars. — Mrs. J. B. 

GOOSEBERRY AND RAISIN CONSERVE 

4 lbs. gooseberries 1 lb. raisins 

4 lbs. sugar 

Cook slowly ly^ hours. — Mrs. Andrew Patterson 

APRICOT JAM 

8 lbs. apricots, wipe and stone, cut up to suit taste. 
Blanch the kernels and bruise them fine, using just ^ of 
them. Take ^ teacup juice of sweet oranges or water to 
each pound fruit, and allow 7 lbs. sugar to the whole. Boil 
sugar and orange juice and almonds for 15 minutes, then 
add fruit and boil 30 minutes. 



Recipes for Invalids and Infants 

"Let good digestion luait on appetite and health on both." 

1^^^ — Shakespeare. 



INDIVIDUAL CREAM SOUPS 

QUEEN SOUP 

1 tablespoon Robinson's bar- 1/4 cup chicken or veal stock 
ley, dissolved in a little 14 cup cream 

cold milk Pinch celery salt 

Serve with whipped cream. 

CORN SOUP 

2 tablespoons canned corn 1 stalk celery 
1 cup half milk and cream A little onion 
1 small shred of cod fish 

Simmer a few minutes ; add the yolk of an egg before 
taking from fire. Serve with whipped cream. 

POTATO SOUP 

Mashed potato, size of an egg A little onion 
Small pinch curry-powder 1 cup milk 

Few green celery leaves 

Simmer a few minutes and return to fire ; add 2 table- 
spoons cream and the white of 1 tgg, beaten slightly. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

VEAL BROTH 

1 scant cup veal stock 1 cracker rolled fine just be- 

2 tablespoons cream fore taking from fire 

Oyster and clam broth can be made in same manner. 

— Catherine M. Hayes 



184 RECIPES FOR INVALIDS AND INFANTS 

INDIVIDUAL TRAY RECIPES 

TOAST WATER 

2 slices stale bread cut in y^ inch slices, crust removed. 
Put in pan and bake in slow oven till thoroughly dried and 
well browned. Break in small pieces, add 1 cup boiling 
water, cover and stand 1 hour. Squeeze through cheese- 
cloth. Season with salt. Serve hot or cold. 

BARLEY WATER 

Wash 2 tablespoons barley, add 1 quart cold water, soak 

4 hours; cook in same water till water is reduced Yt, if 
it is to be used for infant feeding; for adults reduce to 1 
cup. Salt and cream may be added or lemon juice and 
sugar, as case requires. 

WINE WHEY 

Scald % cup milk, add 3 tablespoons sherry, stand 5 
minutes ; strain through double thickness cheese-cloth. Serve 
hot or cold. 

LEMON WHEY 

Add 2 tablespoons lemon juice to ^ cup milk, stand 

5 minutes ; strain through double thickness cheese-cloth. 

CLAM WATER 

Wash and thoroughly scrub 1 dozen clams, changing 
water several times. Put in saucepan, add 2 tablespoons 
cold water, cover and cook till shells open. Remove clams 
from shell, adding liquor which comes from them to liquor 
already in saucepan. Strain through double cheese-cloth. 
Serve hot, cold or frozen. 

OMELETTE 

Add 1 tablespoon milk to beaten yolk of 1 tgg, pinch of 
salt ; stir in white beaten until stiff and pour into hot but- 
tered pan. Set in quick oven till light brown. Fold over 
and serv^e at once. — Gretta P. Fuller 



RECIPES FOR INVALIDS AND INFANTS 185 

COCOA 

Mix 1^ teaspoons cocoa, 1^^ teaspoons sugar, few 
grains salt ; add gradually 4 tablespoons boiling water, bring 
to boiling point, boil 1 minute, turn into % cup scalded 
milk, beat with Dover egg beater. 

BRANDY COCOA 

Add 3 teaspoons brandy to above just before serving. 

COCOA WITH EGG 

Beat 1 egg till frothy, add hot cocoa gradually, con- 
tine beating. 

ALBUMEN WATER 

Stir white of 1 egg with fork to free albumen that it 
may dissolve easily ; add gradually ^ cup cold water ; strain 
and serve. A few grains salt may be added or %. teaspoon 
beef extract dissolved in ^ cup boiling water may be used 
instead of cold w^ater. Season with few grains celery salt. 

ORANGE ALBUMEN 

Beat 1 egg slightly, add yi cup orange juice, strain over 
2 tablespoons crushed ice; add sugar to sweeten slightly. 

SHERRY ALBUMEN 

Beat white of egg till stiff, using egg beater; add 1 
tablespoon sherry and y^ tablespoon powdered sugar grad- 
ually, beating constantly; pour over 2 tablespoons crushed 
ice. Serve with spoon. — A Mother 

EGG AND BEEF BROTH 

Pour beef broth over a well beaten egg. Season with 
salt and serve with toast. 



V/^? 



186 RECIPES FOR INVALIDS AND INFANTS 

HEALTH BREAD 

1 quart bran ^ cup molasses 

1 pint white flour 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon soda, dissolved in 1 quart good buttermilk 
a little molasses 

"^ Mix all ingredients well together ; bake 1 hour in square 

or oblong pan. — Norwegian Physician 

Elizabeth Bragdori 

OATMEAL WATER 

1 level cup rolled oats 1 quart cold water 

Let stand from 5 to 12 hours ; over night if possible. 
Boil until reduced one-half (rapid boiling with constant 
stirring ^^ hour) ; strain through cheese-cloth. 

Oatmeal water can be made also from Robinson's pre- 
pared Gwats, an oatmeal flour; 1 heaping teaspoon to 1 
pint water; boil 20 minutes, stirring constantly and strain. 

—Mabel Hyde Gillette 

VEGETABLE PUREE FOR CHILDREN 

Puree of celery, spinach, carrots, green beans, peas, 
asparagus, salsify, etc., for very small children is made by 
boiling the vegetables in salted water until very tender and 
pressing them through a sieve. Season lightly with salt, 

— Mabel Hyde Gillette 

BRAN MUFFINS 

1 cup wheat flour ^4 cup white flour 

% teaspoon salt ^ teaspoon soda 

% cup milk 2 tablespoons molasses or 

1 egg brown sugar 

Mix and sift together the flour, soda and salt ; add 
bran, molasses or sugar and milk ; beat well, add ^gg beaten 
light. Turn into hot buttered gem pans, bake in moderate 
oven about 35 minutes. — Mrs. Jarcd Morse 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES 189 



Household Hints 



GREASE ON SILK 

Mix equal parts powdered French chalk and fuller's 
earth to a paste with turpentine or water and apply to 
spots, allowing it to stay on a few days before brushing 
off. 

FRUIT STAINS AND MILDEW 

If on white fabric soak first in water, then in ^ pint 
of water containing 1 teaspoon oxalic acid. 

GOLD BRAID 

Brush free dust with fine brush and rub it in powdered 
rock alum, which will remove the tarnish. 

TO TAKE RUST SPOTS OUT OF WHITE GOODS 

Hold the stain over the nose of a boiling teakettle and 
drop on lemon juice. The spot will immediately disap- 
pear. If it is a bad stain repeat the operation. 

Equal parts of ammonia and turpentine will remove 
paint of long standing from clothing. 

Turpentine will often remove ink from white goods. 
Soak the stain in the turpentine. 

Mustard plasters made with white of an egg will not 
blister, while the result is just as good. 

The white of a raw tgg turned over a burn or scald 
is soothing and cooling. If applied quickly it will prevent 
inflamation. 

As soon as a cold sore appears, wet the spot with 
camphor and cover with powdered subnitrate of bismuth. 



HOUSEHOLD HINTS 191 

It is said, if a piece of camphor be placed in a silver 
chest, the silver will not become discolored. 

To cut hard boiled eggs in smooth slices, dip knife in 
water. 

Open canned fruit 1 or 2 hours before using — it is 
far richer when the oxygen is restored to it. 

A curry comb makes an excellent fish scraper. 

Fold the whipped white of eggs into any mixture, 
rather than stir them in, as the latter method breaks the 
air cells. 



„ ®ss^iiSB^Si|ggo. . 




When You Buy Fruit 

Look for this Trademark 

Discriminating housewives serve only Hunt's Quality Fruits 

in their homes. They are the choicest of sunny California's 

tree-ripened fruits, packed w^ith clean and scientific methods, 

and come to you, fresh as when picked, every -day in the year. 





Hunts SJi^I Fruits 

"The Kind that U NOT Lyepeeled" 

are knife peeled, not as most others, peeled by a boiling lye bath. This pro- 
cess, used by others but never by us, softens a green unripe peach — makes 
it look ripe, but lacking in flavor. By tasting Hunt's Quality Fruits you note 
the difference instantly. Its nature's full ripe flavor. 

Served for breakfast or dessert they provide at your own table the rich delicious ripe fruit 
which makes CaHfornia famous. Insist on your grocer supplying yo«i with Hunt's. Other 
brands, not as good, but allowing more profit, due to cheap canning methods, are sometimes 
offered as "just as good as HuntV^^ Beware of the "just as good"* kind. Hunt for Hunt's — 
they're worth looking for. 

Make Your Choice from this List 

Apricots . Bartlett Pears Raspberries Muscat Grapes Pmnes 
Strawberries Cherries Plums Hawaiian Pineapple 

/ Sold" under Three Labels — All Good 




HUNTS SUPREME QUALITY ' (Red Label) 

is everything the name implies 35e per can. 

HUNT'S SUPERIOR QUALITY (White Label ) 

is better than most people have ever used. 

30c per can. 

HUNT'S STAPLE QUALITY (Blue Label) 

' Pure and delicious, in medium heavy syrup, s^ 
25c per can. -^ 



V HUNT BROTHERS COMPANY 

112 Market Street San Francisco. Cal. 

htr Assoxiation for Promotion of Puritij in Foods 



^mH^ 



«UfORN«fRUITS 



Nothing more delicious than a fruit punch 
made with 

WHITE ROCK GINGER ALE 



Trg this one: 

1 doz. lemons, }i pineapple. 
3 oranges, 1 box strawberries, 
/i-lb. candied cherries, 1 lb. sugar. 

1 qt. Corinnis Waukesha Water. 

2 qts. White Rock Ginger Ale. 

HINCKLEY & SCHMiTT, Inc. 

Distributors 

Telephone 980 1919 Asbury Avenue 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

APPETIZERS AND SOUPS— Continued 

Cream of Cheese Soup Page 48 

Oyster Bisque Page 48 

FISH AND OYSTERS Page 51 

Codfish Balls Page 51 

Lobster Farce Page 51 

Oyster Patties Page 52 

Escalloped Oysters Page 52 

Marie's Creamed Crab Meat Page 52 

Salmon Loaf Page 53 

Salmon Souffle Page 53 

Aunt Hannah's Baked Fish Page 53 

Baked Crab Page 54 

Baked White Fish Page 54 

Baked Lake Superior White Fish Page 54 

Salmon Cutlets Page 55 

Fish Chartreuse Page 55 

Fish Turbet Page 55 

Turbet a La Cream Page 55 

White Fish Stuffing for Green Peppers Page 56 

Fish Souffle Page 56 



IS 




TONES is a 
•J farmer and 
hasbeenmak- 
ing little pig 
sausages 
every winter 
for forty 
years — first 
for himself, 
then for his 
neigh bo r s 
and then for 
their neigh- 
bors an d — 
well, you know how it is yourself — when 
there is a good thing everyone wants to be 
counted in the neighborhood. 

We'll be glad to have you move in — 
join "the neighborhood" — eat Jones 
Dairy Farm Sausages. You'll never 
move out. 

They are sold in one and two pound packages, 
with the weight — net — plainly marked on the 
outside. 

A SUGGESTION -PLACE AN ORDER WITH YOUR GRO- 
CER FOR WEEKLY DELIVERY. WE HAVE ONLY A LIMITED 
SUPPLY EACH DAY- THAT INSURES PERFECT FRESHNESS- 

MILO C. JONES 

Fort Atkinson - - Wisconsin 



\2h 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

FISH AND OYSTERS— Continued 

Fish Pudding Page 56 

Left Overs Page 56 

MEATS Page 59 

How to Broil Steak Properly Page 59 

To Dry-Pan a Steak Page 59 

Creamed Sweetbreads Page 60 

Fried Sweetbreads Page 60 

Rice and Meat Croquettes Page 60 

Veal Loaf Page 60 

Boiled Ham Page 61 

Meat Croquettes Page 61 

Shoulder of Pig Roasted Page 61 

Spanish Meat Loaf Page 61 

Calves Liver en Casserole Page 62 

Braised Beef Tongue Page 62 

Ham au Gratin Page 62 

Jellied Veal Loaf Page 62 

Baked Corned Beef Hash Page 63 

Boned Leg of Lamb Stuffed and Baked Page 63 

Irish Steak with Dumplings Page 63 

Fillet of Beef with Mushroom Sauce Page 63 

POULTRY AND GAME Page 66 

Cream of Chicken Page 66 

Chicken Croquettes Page 66 

Turkey with Spanish Dressing Page 66 

Chicken en Casserole Page 67 

Roasted Duck Page 67 

Fried Chicken Page 68 

Chicken a la King Page 68 

FISH AND MEAT SAUCES Page 71 

Horseradish Fluff Page 71 

Drawn Butter Sauce Page 71 

Mint Sauce Page 71 

Tomato Sauce for Fish Page 71 

Horseradish Sauce Page 72 

Sauce Hollandaise Page 72 

Caper Sauce Page 72 

Cold Meat Sauce Page 72 

Sauce Hollandaise Page 73 

VEGETABLES Page 76 

Sweet Potatoes Flambes Au Marrones Page 76 

Stuffed Eggplant ^ . .Page 76 

Spinach Timbale Page 76 

Creamed Carrots Page 77 

Potato Puff Page 77 

Potatoes in the Half Shell Page 77 



"New Process" Gas Ran^e 



IN selecting a Gas Range convince yourself that 
you are buying an appliance giving extreme sat- 
isfaction at all times, labor and fuel saving, 
thoroughly sanitary and convenient in every 
operation and detail. 

Economy is manifested in the oven construction of 
the "New Process'' Range as it is not necessary to 

heat the oven before bak- 
ing — put the baking in 
the oven, then light the 
fire and the baking starts 
at once. 

Instead of a broad, fiat 
fire underneath the cook- 
ing top, the "New Pro- 
cess" Ranges are equip- 
ped with burners which 
concentrate the heat on 
the center of the cooking 
vessel, spreading the fire 
across the bottom and 
preventing any waste 
around the side — a fur- 
ther economy in Gas. 

Do not overlook the sani- 
tary features in your selection. 
"JVez:; Process" Ranges are 
equipped with removable 
burners and linings, no tools 
necessary, dirt trays, broiler 
pan and door panels white 
enamel, finish perfectly plain 
and smooth, no dirt catcher of 
any kind- 

The " Visible" oven burner 
is an exclusive "AVc Pro- 
cess" feature. It makes the 
operation of the range absolutely safe as the door must be opened to light the 
burner, also the fire can be regulated without opening the door. That means no 
unnecessary jarring of the oven, no waste of heat or variation of temperature. 

The No. 18-83 "Neir Process" Range shown in the cut is provided \%jth 
large and small oven, six cooking burners. Broiling and Boiling compartment 
and hood. Our experience in the stove business is of long standing and before 
requesting and obtaining the exclusive sale of 'Wets Process" in Evanston all 
other lines were given careful consideration and our experience with this line 
has proven our judgment faultless. 

We cheerfully solicit a call from you for further particulars and prices. 

THOMAS E. CONNOR 

605-7 Davis Street 




i * 


.  :! 


.[newpp.cc 


ESS) 


i '■' 




Evanston, Illinois 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

VEGETABLES— Continued 

Green Corn Custard with Broiled Tomatoes Page 77 

Mashed Turnips Page 77 

Corn Timbales Page 78 

Sweet Potato Croquettes Page 78 

Corn Oysters Page 78 

Boiled Cauliflower Page 78 

Glaci Sweet Potatoes Page 78 

Stuffed Tomatoes Page 79 

Stuffed Green Peppers Page 79 

Savory Carrots Page 79 

Lattice Potatoes Page 79 

Rice with Cheese Page 80 

Tomatoes Des Oeufs Page 80 

Corn Pudding Page 80 

Macaroni Souffle Page 80 

Fried Tomatoes Page 80 

Scalloped Cauliflower Page 81 

Fried Eggplant Page 81 

Baked Beans Page 81 

Scalloped Tomatoes Page 82 

Boiled Cabbage Page 82 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS Page 85 

Pineapple Cucumber Salad Page 85 

Pineapple Salad Page 85 

Fruit Salad Page 85 

Ambrosia Salad Page 86 

Date and Almond Salad Page 86 

Grape Fruit Salad Page 86 

Pineapple and Celery Salad Page 86 

Grape Fruit Salad Page 86 

Pear Salad Page 87 

Banana Salad Page 87 

Waldorf Salad Page 87 

Cheese and Cherry Salad Page 87 

Cherry Salad Page 87 

Tomato Salad Page 88 

Fruit Salad Page 88 

Apple Ring Salad Page 88 

Fruit Dressing Page 88 

Pear Salad Page 88 

Pineapple Salad Page 88 

Cherry Salad Page 89 

Asparagus Salad, No. 1 Page 89 

Asparagus Salad, No. 2 Page 89 

Sardine Salad Page 89 

Pimento Salad Page 89 

Cream Cheese and Water Cress Page 90 

Jellied Pecan Page 90 

A Dainty Salad Dish Page 90 



=s 



Salads — Their Importance 
OOCIALLY speaking, good breed- 

^ ing and good salads are almost synonymous 

terms. One of the 
brightest club-women in 
America happily ex- 
pressed this idea when 
she wittily said: "In 
good society a woman 
is known, not by the 
company she keeps, 
but by the salads she 
serves.'* Instinctively, 

the accomplished hostess 
puts forth her best effort in 
the preparation of a salad. 
She realizes that it is the true 
test of culinary competency. 
The dividing-line between a 
salad that is just ordinarily 
good, and one that has pre- 
cisely the proper tang, flavor, 
freshness and delicacy, is 
narrow and slender. 

It is conceded that nothing 
but the freshest and choicest 
ingredients should enter into 
a salad, but the very impor- 
tant fact that the success or 
failure, of any salad, lies in 
the dressing is often over- 
looked. 

In "Yacht Club" you have 
the "perfect dressing." A 
combination of the finest in- 
gredients scientifically blend- 
ed. A uniformity of flavor 
and consistency obtainable in 
no other. 




ALWAYS READY 



ALWAYS GOOD 



For Sale by all First-Class Grocers 

TILDESLEY & CO. 
CHICAGO. ILLS. 



EE 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS— Continued 

Nest Egg Salad Page 90 

Easter Salad Page 90 

Pond Lily Salad Page 91 

Pimento Salad Page 91 

New Salad Page 91 

Lamb Salad Page 92 

Russian Salad Page 92 

Water-Cress Salad Page 92 

Rice Salad Page 92 

Spinach Salad Page 92 

Another New Salad Page 92 

Sweetbread Salad Page 93 

Water-Cress and Apple Salad Page 93 

Cauliflower Salad Page 93 

Salad of Peppers and Cream Cheese Page 93 

Cheese Salad Page 93 

Ham and Potato Salad Page 94 

Luncheon Salad Page 94 

Sweetbread and Cucumber Salad Page 94 

Italian Dressing Page 94 

Chinese Salad Page 95 

Potato Salad Page 95 

Salmon Salad Page 95 

ivoquefort Cheese Dressing for Lettuce Hearts Page 96 

Dressing for Lettuce Page 96 

Mrs. Pusey's Recipe for Garnished Cheese Page 96 

Cheese Puffs Page 96 

Tomato Jelly Page 97 

Boiled Dressing Page 97 

Slaw Dressing Page 97 

Boiled Salad Dressing Page 98 

Salad Dressing Page 98 

A Green Mayonnaise Dressing Page 98 

ENTREES Page 101 

Glaced Sweetbreads Page 101 

Eggs in Tomato Cases Page 101 

Asparagus Omelette Page 101 

Coquilles of Sweetbreads Page 102 

Zephyr Eggs Page 102 

Corn Timbale Page 102 

Deviled Crabs Page 103 

Cheese Timbale Page 103 

Shad Roe Croquettes Page 103 

Savory Tomatoes Page 103 

Stuffed Mushrooms Page 104 

Chicken Timbales Page 104 

Cheese Ramkin Page 104 

Lobster Cutlets Page 105 

Cheese Souffle Page 105 



In the Worlds 









Sold « 

Preparedinthe 
Labordfory 
of the 
Murine tye 
Remedy Co. , 



Devotees o! Auto Sport — encounter Cutting Winds 

— Dust and Cinders. Wise ones apply Murine after other ablutions and 
their Eyes respond to the soothing "Two Drops." 

Greater Eye Ills are thus Prevented. Try Murine. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS— Continued 

Artichoke and Sauce Hollandaise Page 105 

Oysters with Forcemeat and Ham Page 106 

Chicken Terrapin Page 106 

Fish Timbales Page 106 

Halibut Timbales Page 107 

Fish Entree Page 107 

Eggs a La Valentine Page 107 

Creme Frete Page 108 

Orange Cream Fritters Page 108 

Egg Timbales Page 108 

Stewed Bananas in Sherry Page 109 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES Page 112 

Marshmallow Pudding Page 112 

Peach Snow Balls Page 112 

Prune Souffle Page 112 

Fig Pudding Page 112 

Peaches Manhattan Style Page 113 

Chocolate Pudding Page 113 

Prune Souffle Page 113 

Orange Charlottes Page 113 

Caramel Pudding Page 114 

Huckleberry Pudding Page 114 

Cream Tapioca Pudding Page 114 

Apple Balls Page 115 

Caramel Charlotte Russe Page 115 

Stewed Date Pudding Page 115 

Lemon Dumplings Page 116 

Fig Sweetmeat Page 116 

Sponge Bananas Page 116 

Pineapple Cream Page 116 

Old-Fashioned Wine Jelly Page 116 

Strawberries en Surprise Page 117 

Steam^ed Figs Page 117 

Macaroon Surprise Page 117 

Sunderland Pudding Page 117 

Queen of Puddings Page 118 

Gelatine Rice Page 118 

Angel Charlotte Russe Page 118 

Bread Pudding Page 119 

Sweetmeat Pudding Page 119 

Steam Pudding Page 119 

Raisin Puffs Page 119 

Lemon Rice Puddings Page 120 

Fruit Mousse Page 120 

Pudding a La Creme Page 120 

Chocolate Pudding Page 120 

Maple Parfait Page 121 

Baked Indian Pudding Page 121 

Steamed Fruit Pudding in Cups Page 121 



Bowman Dairy Oompainy 

MILK BOTTLED IN THE COUNTRY 




CHXCAQO 



Finest Cream Butter Churned Daily 

Choicest Buttermilk 

Perfectly Pasteurized Plilk 

EVANSTON 



OAK TABS 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCE 8— Continued 

Orange Marmalade Pudding Page 121 

Nut Pudding Page 122 

English Plum Pudding Page 122 

Cherry Pudding Page 122 

English Plum Pudding Page 123 

Tapioca Pudding Page 123 

Prune Whips Page 123 

Marshmallow Pudding, No. 1 Page 123 

Marshmallow Pudding, No. 2 Page 124 

Salpicon of Fruit Pa^e 124 

Spanish Cream Page 125 

PIES AND PASTRY Page 128 

Pie Crust Page 128 

Lemon Pie Pilling , Page 128 

Pumpkin Pie Page 128 

Pumpkin Pies Page 129 

Lemon Pie Page 129 

Chocolate Pie Page 129 

Mince Meat Page 129 

Mince Meat Page 130 

Queen Apple Pie ' Page 103 

Marlborough Pie Page 130 

FROZEN DESSERTS Page 133 

Lemon Ice Cream Page 133 

Pistachio Ice Cream Page 133 

Frozen Pudding Page 133 

Collins' Cream Page 134 

Tortoni, A Frozen Dessert Page 134 

Frozen Apricots Page 13 i 

Frozen Coffee Custard Page 135 

Coffee Puff Page 135 

Chilled Red Raspberry Peaches Page 135 

Maple Bisque Page 135 

Maple Mousse Page 135 

Fruit Sherbet Page 136 

Mint Sherbet Page 136 

Grape Ice Page 136 

CAETE Page 139 

Good Cake for Common Use Page 139 

Eggless, Butterless and Milkless Cake Page 139 

Good Yellow Cake Page 139 

Sponge Cake Page 140 

Mocha Cake Page 140 

Cocoa Cake Page 140 

Orange Cake Page 141 

Mocha (Coffee) Frosting Page 141 

Chocolate Cake with Cocoanut Page 141 



AA/^E are particular 

buyers and we 
like to serve particular 
people. 

Our Specialties: 

The choicest of Fresh Fruits 

The daintiest of Fresh Vegetables 

The fanciest of Fresh Poultry 



I 



W. J. O'CONNELL 

Grocer 

Tel. 2188 926 Davis Street 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CaTce — Continued 

Apple Sauce Cake Page 141 

Potato Flour Cake Page 142 

Spice Cake Page 142 

Coffee Cake Page 142 

Cream Almond Cake Page 142 

Fruit Cake Page 143 

Real Lady Baltimore Cake Page 143 

Angel Food Cake Page 144 

Fruit Cake Page 144 

Loaf Spice Cake Page 144 

Hermit Cookies i'age 1^5 

Sunshine Cake Page 145 

Cup Cakes Page 145 

Doughnuts Page 146 

Cookies Page 14S 

Sugar Cookies Page 146 

Walnut Cookies Page 146 

Peanut Cookies Page 146 

Oatmeal Cookies Page 147 

Chocolate Cookies Page 147 

Lace Cookies Page 147 

Chocolate Cookies Page 147 

Hermits Page 148 

College Girls' Brownies Page 148 

Sponge Cake Page 148 

Delicious Ginger Drops Page 148 

Cheese Cakes Page 149 

Sand Tarts Page 149 

Chocolate Jumbles Page 149 

Orange Cake Page 1-! 9 

Nut Cakes Page 150 

Marguerittes Page 150 

Filling for Cream Chocolate Cake Page 150 

Fruit Bran Cookies Page 150 

CA:SDY Page 151 

Maple Fudge Page 151 

Divinity Candy Page 151 

Ice Cream Candy Page 151 

Sea Foam Page 151 

Butter-Scotch Page 152 

Glazed Fruits and Nuts Page 152 

Peppermints Page 152 

Peanut Nougat Page 152 

Cocoanut Candy Page 152 

Pralines Page 153 

Divinity Fudge Page 153 

Chocolate Cream Taffy Page 153 

Fudge Page 153 

Chocolate Fudge Page 154 



TASTY HONE DECORATIONS 
SL'S:: TASTY DISHES 

ART LEATHERS 

May be used for table covers, den deco- 
rations, mats, center pieces, pillow covers, card 
cases, collar bags, hand bags, etc. according to 
your ingenuity. 



Velvet 

Sheep ^^^^^^^^^^^^^F 

^l^^^^^^^^^^^r Large 

Calf ^^^^^^^^ 

Variety 
Hair ^^^^^^^^^ 

Calf fli^^^^^^A. 

Tooling *^^^^^^^^ ^«^<»" 

Calf 



We solicit your patronage. Small orders ap- 
preciated. Please favor us with a call. 

ART DEPARTMENT OF 

WILDER & COMPANY 

226-228 W. Lake Street, CHICAGO 




TABLE OF CONTENTS 

CANDY— Continued 

Pecan Candy Page 154 

Buttercups Page 154 

LUNCHEON DISHES Page 157 

Spiced Salmon Page 157 

Eggs Tivoli Page 157 

English Monkey Page 157 

Egg Vermicelli Page 158 

Omelette Page 158 

Spanish Omelette Page 158 

Atken's Goulashe Page 159 

Egg Omelette Page 159 

Finnan Haddie in the Chaffing Dish Page 159 

Cheese Toast With Bacon Page 159 

Rarebit Page 160 

Cream Toast Page 160 

French Toast Page 160 

SANDWICHES Page 163 

Sandwiches Page 163 

Brown Bread Sandwiches Page 163 

Boston Baked Beans and Brown Bread Sandwiches Page 163 

Striped Bread Sandwiches Page 163 

Toasted Ham Sandwiches Page 164 

Sardine and Egg Sandwiches Page 164 

Egg and Cheese Sandwiches Page 164 

Filling for Sandwiches Page 164 

Cucumber Sandwiches Page 164 

Egg Salad Sandwiches Page 165 

PICKLES AND PRESERVES Page 168 

English Chow-Chow Page 168 

Tomato Catsup Page 168 

Christmas Pickles Page 168 

Sour Pickles Page 169 

Walnut Catsup Page 169 

Cucumber Pickles Page 169 

Small Cucumber Pickles Page 170 

Chili Sauce Page 170 

Uncooked Cucumber Relish Page 170 

Chili Sauce Page 171 

Small Cucumber Pickles Page 171 

Cucumber Pickle Page 171 

Currant Relish Page 171 

Orange Marmalade Page 172 

Conserve Page 172 

Dundee Marmalade Page 172 

Orange Marmalade Page 172 

Grape and Raisin Conserve Page 173 

Tomato Marmalade Page 173 



I THOROUGHLY RELIABLE | 

^ THE BEST RESULTS ARE OBTAINED ^ 

^ BY USING » 

X X 

I Baker's | 

I Chocolate | 

X r7^ (Blue Wrapper, Yeflow Label) 5£ 

V ^^X '" n^fiking Cakes» PieSj Puddings, ^ 

X ^^^ f2, '^^^^(■"d* '^^ Cream, Sauces, ^ 

3€ ^^^^^^ Pudges, Hot and Cold Drinks ^ 

X ^^BIR/ ^^^ more than 132 years this §5 

K M IfjviTOiV chocolate has been the standard ^ 

55 jffl \\i\l|\ ^^^ purity, delicacy of flavor 55 

58 /1| il|l|\ ^^^ uniform quality. 54 

«^ f ^ll I' I 1 1\ 53 Kighest Awards in Europe and America fOi 

X '^ 1 I i f I m X 

X am I # / ' ]m "^^^ trade-mark, "La Belle Chocolatiere," & 

S Hill / llj ||f//lfi ^^ every genuine package. A beautifully |^ 

sS iSHl I nil i,'» '^ 1 fflM illustrated booklet of new recipes for K 

[^ '^■'^ Home Made Candies and Dainty Dishes 3i( 

W u. s. rat. Office sent free. Drop a Postal to 5C 

5« Walter Baker & Co. Ltd. 

55 Established 1780 DORCHESTER, MASS. 

55 

V^KJC KJtsuK Jixsut v^ v^ V' V^V^ V VV^ V* V* V^'V' V^V^ V* V^V^'W* 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PICKLES AND PRESERVES— Continued 

Grape Fruit Marmalade Page 173 

Pickled Cherries Page 173 

Sweet Tomato Pickle Page 174 

Gooseberry Tutti Frutti Page 174 

India Relish Page 174 

East India Preserves Page 174 

Jim Jam Page 175 

Currant Jelly with Cherries Page 175 

Raspberry Vinegar Page 175 

Rhubarb Marmalade Page 175 

Currant Jelly Page 175 

Pickled Watermelon Rind Page 176 

Quince and Cranberry Jelly Page 176 

Crab Apple Jelly Page 176 

Apple Butter Page 176 

Spiced Crab Apple Jelly Page 177 

Jellied Currants Page 111 

Cranberry Relish Page 177 

Apple Ginger Page 177 

Quince Jam Page 178 

Strawberry Jam ' Page 178 

Red or Black Raspberry Jam Page 178 

Four Fruit Jam Page 178 

Brandy Peaches Page 178 

Preserved Grapes Page 179 

Pineapple and Strawberry Preserves Page 179 

Spiced Grapes Page 179 

Spiced Pears Page 179 

Peach Jam Page 180 

Gooseberry and Raisin Conserve Page 180 

Apricot Jam Page 180 

RECIPES FOR INVALIDS AND INFANTS Page 183 

Individual Cream Soups Page 183 

Queen Soup Page 183 

Corn Soup Page 183 

Potato Soup Page 183 

Veal Broth Page 183 

Individual Tray Recipes Page 184 

Toast Water Page 184 

Barley Water Page 184 

Wine Whey Page 184 

Lemon Whey Page 184 

Clam IVater Page 18 1 

Omelette Page 184 

Cocoa Page 185 

Brandy Cocoa Page 185 

Cocoa with Egg Page 185 

Albumen Water Page 185 

Orange Albumen , , , , Page 18& 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

RECEIPTS FOR INVALIDS AND INFANTS— continued 

Sherry Albumen Page 185 

Egg and Beef Broth Page 185 

Health Bread Page 186 

Oatmeal Water Page 186 

Vegetable Puree for Children Page 186 

Bran Muffins Page 186 

Bran Bread Page 187 

HOUSEHOLD HINTS Page 190 

Grease on Silk Page 190 

Fruit Stains and Mildew Page 190 

Gold Braid Page 190 

To Take Rust Spots out of White Goods Page 190 



Table of Weights 

2 cups butter (packed solidly) - - - - = 

4 " flour (pastry) = 

2 " granulated sugar = 

2% " powdered " - 

3% " confectioners' sugar = 

2% " brown sugar --.-.-.- = 

2% " oatmeal = 

4% " rolled oats = 

2% " granulated corn meal - - - - = 

4% " rye meal = 

IVs " rice = 

4% " graham flour = 

3% " entire wheat flour = 

41/3 " coffee = 

2 " finely chopped meat = 

9 large eggs = 

1 square Baker's chocolate = 

Va cup almonds blanched and chopped - - = 
A few grains is less than one-eighth teaspoon, 

3 teaspoons = 

16 tablespoons = 

2 tablespoons butter = 

4 tablespoons flour = 



pound. 



ounce. 



tablespoon 

cup. 

ounce. 



'** 



List of Advertisers 



Page 

State Bank of Evanston 8 

The Quality Store 9 

W. H. Cook Co 9 

Chapin & Nelson 9 

Scholle Furniture Co 10 

Thomas E. Connor 11 

John Westreicher 11 

Randlev's 12 

W. H. Powers Co 13 

G. C. Scheibe 13 

The Fair 14 

The Washington Laundry 15 

The Evanston Decorating Co 15 

Chas. W. Triggs Co 15 

City National Bank 16 

Borden's 17j 

Fred Strauss 17 

Rosenberg's 17 

Torcom Bros 18 

Peabody Coal Co l.^ 

Pure Food Supply Co 19 

Mutual Laundry Co 19 

H. Ropinski & Co 20 

Woman's Exchange 21 

John Weiland 21 

A. S. Van Deusen 21 

F. E. Foster & Co 22 

Ayrshire Co 23 

Geo. P. Mills 23 

Galitz & Mahon 23 

Hunt Brothers Co 192 

Hinckley & Schmitt 193 

Jones Dairy Farm 194 

Thomas E. Connor 196 

Tildesley & Co 198 

Murine Eye Remedy 200 

Bowman Dairy Co 202 

W. J. O'Connell 204 

Wilder & Co 206 

Baker's Chocolate 208 

Dr. Price's Baking Powder 210 



