= *'/ 




Public Health Services 
Private Health Agencies 



PART Two 







Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Public Health Services 
Private Health Agencies 



PART Two 



Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 




Copyright, 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 
308 Anisfield Bldg. 
Cleveland Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBmDE, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A: BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUQHLIN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCKWOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary] 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director 

and the following collaborators: 
GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D. f Director of Tuberculosis Survey; 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found hi the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
I. Introduction 103 

II. Public Health Services. 

Division of Health 

Administration 110 

Appointments 112 

Appropriations 113 

Administrative Districts 114 

Bureaus 

Communicable Disease 122 

District Physicians 138 

Tuberculosis 142 

Child Hygiene 143 

Sanitation _ 144 

Food and Dairy Inspection 148 

Milk Control 150 

Laboratories 155 

Patent Medicines 161 

Vital Statistics 165 

New Activities Proposed 

Institutional Inspection 173 

Industrial Hygiene 185 

Medical Examination for City Employes 185 

Public Health Education 186 

Control of Drug Addicts 189 

Health Centers 190 

Coroner Service 191 

III. Private Health Agencies. 

Anti-Tuberculosis League 193 

Visiting Nurse Association 193 

Day Nursery and Free Kindergarten Association 193 

Hospital Council .. 193 

Society for the Blind and a Program for the Prevention of 
Blindness 193 

Associated Charities... . 196 



TABLE OF CONTENTS Continued 

Association for the Crippled and Disabled and a Program 
for the Care of Cripples .............................................................. 197 

Proposed Agencies and Programs for 

Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease ...................... 

Prevention and Cure of Cancer 

IV. Summary of Recommendations 



Appendix : 

Tables .. .. 231 



Health Services 

My HAVIA F,\n.i<s< )\, M. D. 
INTRODUCTORY 

"Public health is the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging 
life, and promoting physical health and efficiency through organized com- 
munity efforts for the sanitation of the environment, the control of commun- 
ity infections, the education of the individual in principles of personal hygiene, 
the organization of medical and nursing service for the early diagnosis and 
preventive treatment of disease, and the development of the social machinery 
which will insure to every individual in the community a standard of living 
adequate for the maintenance of health." C.-E. A. Winslow. 

PUBLIC Health Organization in the majority of the cities of the United 
States is more a vision than a reality, a hoj>e of a few rather than a living, 
growing, democratic function of civil government and private endeavor. 
Cleveland has gone further than any city in the country in the marshaling 
of its voluntary community resources, both financial and organization for 
social service. It has created the spirit of universal support for those activi- 
ties which are indispensable to human progress, and there has been capital- 
ized in Cleveland, as nowhere else, the conception that central direction, 
study, control and support are as necessary in private* agencies created for 
the prevention and remedy of the evils resulting from social neglect as they 
are in private business or in the functions of civil government. We have in 
Cleveland the legal authority, the administrative skeleton for a public health 
service capable of including all the functions accepted as necessary or desir- 
able in the interest of health conservation, for the detection or arrest of in- 
cipient disease, and for education in the principles and practice of health 
development and protection. What we see in action is but a meager struc- 
ture, starved by scanty appropriations, occasionally hampered by party 
politics, only partially serving some of the elementary functions, and in- 
capable of undertaking others because of lack of heads and hands to plan 
and carry out the work. 

Supplementing the public health service of the city and serving many of 
the functions already assumed by the public authorities in many other places 
here and abroad we find the private agencies working under a community 
budget, receiving support by a voluntary self-taxation of the same people 
who pay the legal compulsory taxes of the city. Roughly speaking, about 
twice as much money is raised for the services included under health pres- 
ervation to be spent by private agencies annually in Cleveland as is appro- 
priated by the civil government for this group of functions. We have, as it 
were, a democracy within a democracy, an administrator selected by agents 
serving under unofficial direction, countless human needs, exercising many 
of the functions of Chief Executive of the city, as well as an elected Mayor. 

The Mayor of the city has his directors of departments, his technical 
advisors, his commissioners. 



104 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The Director of the Welfare Federation lacks any adequate permanent 
specialist in the field of health to advise him as to the relative necessities and 
probable results in preventive medical efforts of private agencies. 

On the part of the city we have a good plan for a machine, but lacking 
certain essential parts and without the power to produce results. 

In the Welfare Federation there is vision, imagination, insight into the 
needs and sufficient funds to supplement the public service for health, but 
without a trained officer, a professional student or administrator of health 
and without a plan for its own future in this field. 

In order to make the demonstration of voluntary community organiza- 
tion clear and brilliant Cleveland owes it to itself and to the other great 
municipalities of the country to assemble within one local public health 
association all the agencies which in innumerable ways apply the knowledge 
of modern science to develop health, to prolong life, to prevent disease, to 
secure in physical and mental happiness all we know normal child and man 
are capable of. 

It is recommended: That there be created a Cleveland Public Health 
Association, which shall include in its membership members of all medical 
and social agencies which contribute to public health protection, and the 
governing board of which shall be composed of officially designated repre- 
sentatives of each component agency or group of agencies. 

That there be created in the Welfare Federation the position of Secretary 
for Health, and that this position be filled by one who has" had professional 
training or experience in public health work, preferably a doctor of public 
health or a physician, and that the functions of such a secretary be to advise 
the Director and through him the Board of Directors in all plans, expendi- 
tures, policies and undertakings of the Federation in the field of health and 
preventive medicine, to make studies of the results of public and private 
efforts in this field, to plan and carry out demonstrations of health services 
which it may be desirable to establish permanently under public or private 
auspices, to cooperate with and in every way to assist and supplement the 
service provided by the Division of Health of the eity. 

It is believed that unless the above two recommendations are substan- 
tially met, in spirit if not in the precise form indicated, a large part of the 
value of the present critical inspection and analysis of Cleveland's hospital 
and health resources will be lost and the public interest aroused in the course 
of the very broad contact with many groups of citizens and officers of the 
city government will be dissipated before action is taken. 

In order to picture more definitely than we find it understood by many 
interested citizens of Cleveland, the history, evolution and present functions 
of the Welfare Federation, the following brief statement is included through 
the courtesy of the Director: 

"The Welfare Federation is an outgrowth of the community teamwork evidenced 
for many years in Cleveland. 






Hi M.TII >i K\ i i - 105 



In November, 1903, the Federation for Jewish Charities was incorporated to collect 
and apportion contributions for the maintenance of all Jewish charities, the promotion 
of education, science and art, and the interests of members of the Jewish faith and of 
humanity in general. 

The idea of federating all local civic and philanthropic work originated with the 
Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Martin A. Marks, interested in the Jewish Federation and 
Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce Endorsement Committee, with the members of 
that committee, visualized the strategic advantage of conducting an attack on Cleveland's 
social problems from the vantage point of the "Allied Council" principle. This step 
followed several years' work of the Endorsement Committee, through which it carefully 
worked out standards and practices which should govern the organization and adminis- 
tration of a philanthropic agency. 

The Federation for Charity and Philanthropy, as the organization was originally 
named, was formed in 1913 to aid the agencies in the most crucial part of their work 
campaign-planning and money raising; to save them from going twice over the same 
ground, and to give each agency and Clevelanders in general a view of the city's social 
field and problems as a whole. 

By 1917 Cleveland had largely lost its small-town view of merely localized institu- 
tions to be cared for. It had seen how the work of the agencies and the Federation were 
related and how they must be coordinated if progress for the city were to be made without 
lost motion or waste energy. Recognition of this broadened vision was evidenced by 
an enlarged understanding of the social service field and by increased and popularized 
subscription of funds for social service work. 

During this time the Welfare Council, a voluntary combination of social agencies 
and civic bodies, with no budget or executive staff, had been formed to counsel and co- 
operate with the newly created Department of Public Welfare, as well as to promote social 
welfare measures and practices among private' philanthropic organizations. 

The merger of the Federation for Charity and Philanthropy and the Welfare Council 
into the Welfare Federation of Cleveland, in 1917, was a recognition by all concerned 
that the functions of the two belonged together. Counsel and cooperation between public 
and private agencies and democratic representation of the social service bodies were thus 
secured for the benefit of the Welfare Federation and the good of the city when each mem- 
ber agency of the old Welfare Council was accorded representation by two delegates on 
the General Board of the new organization. 

This body, called the General Board, is composed of two delegates from each member 
agency of the Federation. It hears and discusses policies and plans for new movements, 
investigates problems, recommends action and elects the active Board of Trustees. 

The Welfare Federation office became the focal center for cooperation and planning 
among the social service agencies. It is the larger self of its constituent organizations 
and serves constituent agencies and the public along two general lines of activity: 

First: Budget-making and money raising. 

Second: Social planning, problem study and education. 

Under the impulse of the unifying motive growing out of the war, Cleveland, in 
common with many cities, built up a very strong organization which, through united 



106 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

effort, gathered money for the various purposes connected with the war. This organiza- 
tion succeeded in securing more than one-third of all the population as subscribers and 
generous over-subscription on each effort and, greatest of all, these experiences revealed 
to the community itself a fuller measure of satisfaction and achievement in cooperative 
effort than the city had ever known before. All distinctions of creed, faith or political 
affiliation were forgotten in behalf of common ideals and a great collective purpose. 

Cleveland's habit of working together through its federations and in other civic ways, 
made it quite natural that it should preserve this effective piece of machinery created 
during the war. Accordingly the war organization was continued under the name of 
the Community Fund, and in the fall of 1919 a campaign was conducted to take care of 
the current needs of all the social service agencies and to raise Cleveland's quota for un- 
finished war needs and for national and international organizations having a claim on 
the city's cooperation. 

A broad campaign of education and publicity, conducted through the press, the 
movies, the pulpit and lecture platform, window exhibits, parades and other graphic means 
of publicity, preceded the campaign. The number of subscribers usually contributing 
to peace-time enterprises was about twenty thousand. This campaign enrolled 160,000 
givers, again more than reaching the goal, which was $3,425,000, the amount subscribed 
being $4,015,000. 

For nearly twenty years Cleveland has been studying its social service agencies. In 
turn it developed endorsing work, the Jewish Federation, the Welfare Council, the Welfare 
Federation, and finally the Community Fund. While this development had made much 
progress in the way of budget studies and in the planning of work, each year's experience 
has shown the need for more definite knowledge and for more intensive effort in the crea- 
tion of standards.* The city feels a responsibility for meeting the great future which is 
before it, with as much foresight and vision as is humanly possible for it to apply to these 
problems." 

CHARTER PROVISIONS 

The charter of the city of Cleveland, approved July 1, 1913, in section 69, 
provides for the election of a Mayor every two years. The City Council, 
now consisting of 26 members, one councilman from each ward, is elected at 
the same time. In the council is vested the legislative power of the city, 
except as reserved to the people by the charter. These are the only elective 
city officials provided under the charter. 

Section 78 of the charter provides for administrative functions to be 
carried out under several departments, the directors of which form the May- 
or's cabinet Law, Public Service, Public Welfare, Public Safety, Finance, 
Public Utilities, Parks and Public Property. 

|Section 82 of the charter provides that the Mayor and directors of the 
various departments shall constitute the Board of ^Control. No contracts 
involving an expenditure in excess of $1,000 can be awarded except on the 

Ft 'Plans for a hospital and health survey began here several years ago. A tentative plan was then 
drawn up and considered by the Cleveland Foundation. This was the beginning of agitation for a sur- 
vey. The thing that brought it to the forefront again last year was the number of hospital projects under 
consideration. As the result of a conference in Lakeside Hospital, the Community Fund wrote the Presi- 
dent of the Welfare Federation about it and he called a meeting of interested hospital and health workers 
at the time and out of this developed the Hospital and Health Survey under the auspices of the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. 



Pi 1:1. 1C 111 \l.l II M u VICES 



107 



approval of the Board of Control (Section 124). Section 189 gives theJBoard 
of Control authority to fix the number and salaries or compensation of all 
the ofiieials ;md employes except the directors of the departments, members 
of the City Council and its employes, members of the Division of Policejand 
Fire under the immediate control of the chiefs thereof, and of thejmembers 
of boards or commissions in the unclassified service of the city. 

Section 41 states that the fiscal year begins on|the first day of January. 
On or before the l.Mh day of November in each year the Mayor prepares an 
esl imate of the expense of conducting the affairs of the city for the following 
year. This estimate is compiled from detailed information obtained from 
the various departments on uniform blanks prepared by the Director^ of 



CD O (D 
O P C 
B (f 



3 

C 




3 t)0 CB 
m B O C 

o H- a i 








108 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH. SURVEY 

Finance. This is submitted to the council, which, in accordance with Sec- 
tion 42, prepares an appropriation ordinance, using the Mayor's estimate as 
a basis. Provisions are made for public hearings upon the appropriation 
ordinance before a committee of the council or before the entire council 
sitting in committee as a whole. These proceedings are public and are pub- 
lished. 

Section 83 provides that the director of a department, with the approval 
of the Mayor, may appoint a board composed of citizens qualified to act in 
an advisory capacity to the commissioner in any division under his super- 
vision. 

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WELFARE 

A glance at the organization chart of the city government (Figure I) 
will make it plain that, with the exception of the health functions (educa- 
tional, protective and constructive) which are served by the Board of Edu- 
cation, all the public health services of the city of Cleveland fall within the 
Department of Public Welfare. Sections 81, 97, 98 and 99 of the charter 
concern us particularly here. 

SECTION 81 

The Department of Public Welfare is the one to which is entrusted the 
administration of the public health activities in the city. 

GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES. SECTION 97 

The Director of Public Welfare shall manage and control all charitable, 
correctional and reformatory institutions and agencies belonging to the city; 
the use of all recreational facilities of the city, including parks, playgrounds, 
public gymnasiums, public bath houses, bathing beaches and social centers . 
He shall have charge of the inspection and supervision of all public amuse- 
ments and entertainments. He shall enforce all laws, ordinances and regula- 
tions relative to the preservation and promotion of the public health, the 
prevention and restriction of disease, the. prevention, abatement and sup- 
pression of nuisances, and the sanitary inspection and supervision of the 
production, transportation, storage and sale of foods and food-stuffs. He 
shall cause a complete and accurate system of vital statistics to be kept. 
In time of epidemic he may enforce such quarantine and isolation regulations 
as are appropriate to the emergency. He shall have the supervision of the 
free employment office. The Commissioner of Charities and Corrections 
shall be the Deputy Director of Public Welfare. 

PUBLICITY AND RESEARCH. SECTION 98 

The Commissioner of Publicity and Research shall provide for the study 
of and research into causes of poverty, delinquency, crime, disease and other 
similar problems in the community and shall by means of lectures, exhibits 
and in other proper ways promote the education and understanding of the 
community in those matters which concern the public health and welfare. 



PUBLIC Hi \i.i n Si i;\ i< i - 109 

HEALTH COMMISSION KK SKCTION 99 

The Commissioner of the Division of Health shall be the health officer of 
the <-ity, and shall, under the direction and control of the Director of Public 
Welfare, enforce all ordinances and laws relating to health, and shall per- 
form all duties and have all the powers provided by general law relative to 
the public health to be exercised in municipalities by health officers; pro- 
vided that regulations affecting the public health, additional to those estab- 
lished by general law, and for the violation of which penalties are imposed, 
shall be enacted by the council and enforced as provided herein. 



Public Health Services* 

THE divisions of the Department of Public Welfare, as outlined in the 
charter, are: Health, Charities and Corrections, Recreation, Research 
and Publicity and Employment. The Division of Recreation has been 
transferred from the Department of Public Welfare to the Department of 
Public Service. The Division of Housing has been transferred from the 
Department of Public Safety to that of Public Welfare. The Divisions now 
functioning are those of Health, Charities and Correction, Employment, 
and Housing. 

There is no Commissioner of Research and Publicity, although a brief 
experience with the service of the Division of Health shows clearly the sad 
lack of the functions which such a Commissioner might have been supposed 
to fill. Inquiry at the City Hall as to why this important charter position 
was left vacant elicited the reply that such a service would only create 
jealousy among the departments and commissioners because of the cer- 
tainty that the "advertisement" would always exploit one at the expense of 
the others. There seemed to be no conception of the idea that was obviously 
in the minds of the charter framers that a city government needs to test 
administrative, social and health measures and must, in honesty to its citi- 
zens, use systematic educational publicity to interpret its work, its needs, 
its difficulties to the people, and to have an organized service free from com- 
mercial pressure or the warp of special interests. 

With the right man in such a place the community would double its return 
on its present investment in its Department of Welfare. The health interests 
of the city should demand that the position be filled. 

Among the obvious and desirable services to be rendered by educational 
publicity for the Division of Health are: 

(a) Advertising the services of nurses, clinics, dispensaries, health 
centers and hospitals. 

(6) Gaining the cooperation of special groups, as tenement dwellers, 
restaurant proprietors and storekeepers, so that the work of inspection may 
be made easier and more effective. 

(c) Gaining the support of voters for legislative programs on public 
health and sanitation. 

(</) Developing a community sensitiveness and conscience in matters 
affecting the sanitation of environment and the maintenance of personal 
health. 

There is no Board of Health and no permanent advisory commission or 
board upon whom the Commissioner of Health relies for consideration of 
policies and programs, although Section 83 provides for such. 

*In the preparation of the following description of the powers, functions and accomplishments of the 
Division of Health the Survey has received, with the consent and approval of the Commissioner of Health, 
Dr. H. L. Rockwood, valuable original data from the unpublished records of the Division, collected and 
written out for the purposes of this publication by Dr. G. W. Moorehouse. Chief of the Bureau of Com- 
municable Disease, whose services as contributor to the Survey report have been of much value. 



I'l BUG Hi \i.i n >i i{\ i' 111 

The Director of the Department of Public Welfare is appointed by the 
Mayor. The Commissioner <f Health is supposed to be appointed and 
may be removed by the Director in conformity with the civil service pro- 
vision of the charter (Section 81). As a matter of fact the selection is a 
personal one and must in practice suit the Mayor. Health Commissioners 
are not selected on a civil service basis, although the present commissioner 
could easily qualify in any impartial examination. The commissioner is 
supposed to appoint all officers and employes of the division, but as a matter 
of fact he has to accept, in major official, as in the humble positions of inspec- 
tor or clerk, those sent by the office of the Mayor or by other city officials 
with the Mayor's sanction. 

Political interference with personnel in a service requiring so much tech- 
nical training, depending as it does upon carefully coordinated work of 
the bureaus and dealing with all the intimacies of disease detection and con- 
trol and the conditions of living of individuals, is certainly inimical to the 
best public interests. Just prior to elections and at other strategic moments 
the weight of political pressure by correspondence and personal notice is 
occasionally brought to bear upon the personnel of the division. This is an 
intolerable abuse of party politics. 

The Commissioner of Health is the executive officer of the division. His 
duties are to direct, control and supervise the work of the division. For this 
he receives a salary of $1,700. He is at the same time Medical Director of 
the Tuberculosis Sanitorium at Warrensville, for which he receives $3,300 a 
year. The latter position can be filled adequately by a part-time physician 
if he has the knowledge and experience possessed by the present commissioner. 
The position of Chief Executive of the Division of Health cannot possibly be 
filled by a part-time officer. Nothing less than full time, one might say over- 
time and all the time, can meet the needs of the situation with the insufficient 
staff and program as at present provided for the Health Division. 

Except on Sundays and holidays the office of the Division of Health is 
open from 8:3Q A. M. to 4:30 p. M. with its full clerical force. At noon the 
members of the office staff have one hour off for lunch. From 4:30 to 7:30 
p. M. on week days and from 9 A. M. to 12 noon on Sundays and holidays, a 
desk officer is present to receive calls for district physicians, reports of com- 
municable diseases, and to make out burial permits. In epidemic periods 
longer hours may be arranged. 

Supplies, maintenance, equipment and repairs needed by the Division of 
Health are secured by requisition and the system of checks and revisions 
appears adequate to protect the city in emergency, as well as in routine 
orders. The burden of the system falls upon the commissioner, who is really 
the bookkeeper of the Division. The divisional store room serves a useful 
purpose for the stock of standard supplies. An annual inventory, with state- 
ment of depreciation, is taken as of December 31st for the information and 
record of the Director of Public Welfare and the Commissioner of Health. 



112 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

There are, in addition to the Bureau of Administration, which consists of 
the commissioner and two clerical assistants, the following bureaus: 

Communicable Disease 

Tuberculosis, 

Child Hygiene, 

Sanitation, 

Food and Dairy Inspection, 

Laboratory, 

Vital Statistics. 

Under the previous Commissioner of Health a valuable publicity service 
by a monthly educational leaflet and a question and answer service in the 
newspapers, was provided by private funds. Budgetary requests for public 
health education have been struck out of the appropriation ordinances each 
year. 

The service of the Bureau of Communicable Diseases for venereal disease 
control is dependent upon outside support. 

The Bureau of Child Hygiene does not include prenatal and maternity 
services, or school medical inspection for parochial schools. 

There is no housing or institutional inspection service provided, although 
these functions might be served by an expansion of the bureaus of sanitation 
and of child hygiene. 

There is no service for industrial hygiene. 


APPOINTMENTS 

The Civil Service Commission states that the Commissioner of Health 
and all employes of the Division of Health are under the classified civil serv- 
ice and in the class known as competitors. (See Amendments to the Char- 
ter, Sec. 131). However, examinations for physicians and nurses have never 
been given, and the commission, after investigation, concludes that competi- 
tive examinations for these positions are not entirely practical. As a result 
of this decision the clerical positions in the Division of Health and those of 
sanitary officers are the only ones for which examinations have been given. 

When a vacancy exists, the list of applicants who have taken the examina- 
tion is consulted and an appointment is made from this list. Should there 
be no such list, a condition which often occurs, a vacancy may be filled 
temporarily, but such appointee must take the examination as soon as an 
opportunity offers. Should the applicant fail in the examination and there 
be still no list from which an appointment may be made, the applicant may be 
continued in the position. 

Applications for the position of field mirse must pass through the hands 
of the Central Committee on Public Health Nurses, a private organization, 
and be acted upon by this body. This committee consists of a lay and a pro- 



Ptiiur HI-.M.TII M i;\ i i> 113 

|V>- i..n;il n-pn-M-titative of the Visiting Nurse Association, school nurses from 
the Board of Education and field nurses of the Division of Health. This 
procedure is in no way provided for in the city charter or by ordinance. It 
tirdy extra-legal. The same end would be attained within the law if 
the Civil Service Commission designated the Central Nursing Committee as 
examiners of nurses applying for positions in the classified service. The 
recommendations of this committee are needed in the appointment of visit- 
ing and school nurses as well as the field nurses of the Division of Health. In 
this way an excellent type of nurse for these positions is secured. 

There is no probationary period for employes of the Division of Health 
and there are no formal reports on efficiency. There is no physical examina- 
tion given for physical fitness before employment and none are provided 
thereafter. Except for the sanitary police, who share in the rights of the 
police pension fund, no employes of the Division of Health have any rights 
in any city pension fund. All sanitary police receive a complete physical 
examination, including a Wassermann test. 

The appropriation for the Division of Health for 1920 is: 

BUREAUS 

General Administration $ 6,650 of which $ 5,990 is for salaries. 

Communicable Diseases... 57,010 " " 37,800 " " " 

Tuberculosis 79,368 " " 74,670 " " 

Child Hygiene.. .-. 80,304 " " 76,774 " " " 

Sanitation 60,170 " " 51,857 " " " 

Food and Dairy Inspection 49,994 " " 48,436 " " " 

Laboratories _ 34,468 " " 31,409 " " " 

Vital Statistics 7,029 " " 7,029 " " " 



$374,993 $333,965 

or a total appropriation of 47c per capita of the population of A Cleveland as 
of January, 1920 (796,836). 

The per capita cost of the Division of Health varied between 10 and 13.6 
cents per capita (usually about 12^ cents) from 1884 to 1898; from 1899 to 
1901, 30 to 37 cents; 1902 about 60 cents, the high years 1899-1902 being 
due to smallpox. The appropriations for smallpox in these years built a 
smallpox hospital on the City Hospital grounds, a frame building, which was 
later renovated for advanced cases of tuberculosis. From 1903 to 1910 the 
expenditures averaged somewhat more than 20 cents per capita. In 1909 
smallpox again threatened to become serious and the health office received 
an appropriation of $50,000. $12,000 of this was used to combat the disease 
and the remainder to complete the contagious disease building at the City 
Hospital. In 1913-1919 the per capita cost rose from 38 to 41 cents. 

The per capita cost in 1915 was 35.7 cents. When it is recalled that a dol- 
lar in 1920 will buy in terms of service and supplies little more than half 
what it would in 1915, the absolute increase to 47 cents per capita of the 



114 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

appropriation really means a decided reduction in public health service as 
compared with the appropriations before the war which were even then less 
than half the amount spent by some progressive communities. 

The city of Detroit has appropriated for the current year's health budget 
a total of $709,570, or 71.4 cents per capita. This appropriation includes 
the same services as are provided for in Cleveland's budget above specified 
with the exception that school medical inspection for all the schools is pro- 
vided for within the health department in Detroit. If this deduction is 
made the per capita allowance for functions essentially identical with those 
provided for in the Cleveland Division of Health will cost Detroit 60 cents 
per capita. 

There is a total of 250 employes provided for, of whom 
37 are physicians, 

45 are from other professions or are technicians, veterinarians, 

bacteriologists, chemists, etc. 
85 are nurses, 

31 are sanitary police officers, 

40 are clerical assistants, stenographers, typists, etc. 
12 are laborers, cleaners, messengers, etc. 

The eight-hour day is the rule, except for the part-time employes, and for 
the district physicians who are on call day and night. 

One day's vacation for each month of service up to a maximum of two 
weeks' vacation each year is allowed. Sick leave with pay up to two weeks 
in a year is provided for. Organized care, medical and nursing, for sick 
employes is not provided, but the district physicians visit sanitary officers 
for illness, and nurses visit nurses reporting ill. 

Keeping track of the payroll and absences from work is adequately pro- 
vided for in the commissioner's office. 

ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICTS 

There are districts for sanitary inspection, districts for the city (district) 
physicians, and so-called Health Center districts, none of which coincide 
with any unit for which complete population data are available. If it is 
found desirable to continue the use of the three sets of districts as at present, 
they should be so outlined as to include multiples of the census tracts or sani- 
tary areas for which population data can readily be made available. As it is 
at present neither the Commissioner of Health nor his officers know the 
population, the rates of births, deaths or morbidity for the areas of the dif- 
ferent districts, although a beginning has been made to collect and tabulate 
information according to Health Center districts. These are shown in Fig. 
III. 

It is recommended that the city government and private agencies operat- 
ing field services or serving community needs adopt as the basis for all ad- 
ministrative districts the so-called census tracts, or as they are called in 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 115 

rti.iin cities, sanitary areas. These sanitary areas, of which there are 131 
officially designated and used by the Census Bureau for the collection of 
population data, are sufficiently small to make it possible by assembling such 
areas to outline administrative districts suitable for all varieties of medical, 
social and public administration work (see map of city, giving these sanitary 
areas, Fig. II.). When it is appre .Mated that all the important data which are 
used to measure the results of health work, the distribution and shifting of 
population and the results of all varieties of social effort for the community, 
are collected and made available through the Federal Census for each of these 
small districts, the value of operating public and private medico-social utili- 
ties, according to districts for which all this important information will be 
easily available for comparison decade by decade, can readily be seen. 

The administration of the Division of Health is centralized, the main 
office and the laboratories being at the City Hall. The district physicians 
receive calls through the City Hall and through the police stations in their 
district and at night at their homes. The work of the Bureaus of Child 
Hygiene and Tuberculosis is done largely from and in district offices called 
Health Centers, which are really branch offices for the convenience of provid- 
ing diagnostic, educational, nursing and follow-up care, in locations easily 
accessible to the homes of the majority to be served. Detailed description of 
the functions and administraton of these centers will be found under the 
chapters and Dispensaries, Public Health Nursing and Child Hygiene (Parts 
X., IX. and III.) 

Although the use of these district centers for tuberculosis and infant wel- 
fare work was an innovation in the administration of the Cleveland Division 
of Health, neither the principle nor the methods constitute an important step 
in health administration except in the feature of having the nurses from the 
two bureaus serve all public health functions in their districts regardless of 
the bureau to which they are credited on the payroll. Concerning this im- 
portant and controversial type of public health nursing service, detailed 
discussion will be found in the appropriate chapter on public health nursing. 
(Part IX.). 

For the work of the Bureaus of Tuberculosis and Child Hygiene the city 
is divided into seven districts with "Health Centers." These are housed in 
dwellings, apartments or ground floor store rooms. Historically these were 
originally tuberculosis dispensaries, each with its staff of a doctor, a super- 
visor and a group of nurses. At present each has in addition a baby's 
prophylactic dispensary with its dispensary physician, five have offices for 
a district physician, and three have dental equipment. The nursing service 
is generalized. There are eight baby's prophylactic dispensaries, in addition 
to the seven in Health Centers, or a total of fifteen. 

A portion of District 1 is set off from the remainder as a teaching center 
for Public Health Nursing, under the direction and supervision of Western 
Reserve University. There is no district physician or tuberculosis dispensary 
assigned exclusively to this territory, a baby's dispensary is located in it, 
however. The nursing service for this territory, containing about 9% of the 



116 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

city's population, is given by the staff of instructors and pupils of the Uni- 
versity at no cost to the city. It is commonly referred to as "University 
District," or District 8. 

Fig. III. shows the location of the offices and dispensaries in each health 
district which provide for prevention of disease or for treatment of the sick. 
(The area omitted at the east end of District 6 does not contain any of the 
facilities considered.) 

Fig. IV. shows for each health district: 

1. The estimated number of expectant mothers under prenatal care 
per 1,000 births. 

2. The birth rate per 1,000 population. 

3. The rate of still-births per 1,000 registered births. 

4 and 5. The death rate of infants under one month and under one 
year per 1,000 registered births. 

6. The number of babies reported for the first time at the baby stations 
per 1,000 children under two years. 

All these figures are for a period of twelve months in 1919-20. 

Table I. in the appendix gives by health districts for the year 1919-20 
important information concerning births, by sex, nativity and character of 
professional attendance at the birth. 

Table II. gives for each health district for the year 1919-20 an analysis 
of all deaths by race, under one year, and for the diseases upon which the so- 
called sanitary index is calculated. 

CONFERENCES 

The Commissioner calls an advisory committee occasionally, usually in 
the presence of emergencies. The Commissioner has obtained valuable 
assistance from conference with a committee of druggists in determining 
policies and action in the control of sale of patent medicines. 

The Commissioner holds no regular conferences with the chiefs of the 
bureaus of his division. There have been a few conferences held by the 
Commissioner during the past year with the physicians on tuberculosis clinic 
duty, and with the directors and supervisors of field nurses engaged in this 
work. 

There are weekly meetings held by the Director of Public Health Nursing 
of the Division which all the nurses are expected to" attend. They discuss 
their work and occasionally have professional matters presented to them by 
speakers from outside the division. 

LIBRARY 

There is no library or collection of public health literature or reports or 
professional publications kept in the Division of Health. The Municipal 



III \!.l II Sl.K\ I. I > 



117 




118 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 




PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 119 

Reference Library, which is situated on the fourth floor of the City Hall, 
contains considerable public health literature, however, and is available for 
reference. 

LEGAL ACTION 

Each bureau of the -Division of Health from which prosecutions originate 
handles these prosecutions without any uniform method of reference to the 
Commissioner. The number of convictions or the failure to secure convic- 
tions is not indicated in the report of the bureau chief to the Commissioner. 
All legal action taken as a result of the activities of any bureau might well be 
handled by a single officer or through a centralized service in the Bureau of 
Administration rather than in the present way. 

SANITARY CODE 

In March, 1908, a sanitary code was adopted and published covering 
many of the important provisions of law necessary to permit control of nui- 
sances, of communicable diseases, of meats, milk, dairy and other food 
products and food stores, of housing, of disposal of the dead, ice, public 
conveyances, spitting, barber shops, etc. 

Recently a revised and modern sanitary code has been adopted which 
gives authority and defines sanitary standards in substantial agreement with 
modern practice. During the past several years (since 19/13) there has been 
an interval since the former code became inoperable under the law and until 
the recent enactment of the revised code there has been great and at times 
insuperable difficulty met by the Division of Health in enforcing the essential 
requirements for sanitation and disease control. As long as the rules and 
regulations under which the Division of Health must operate and which 
are the basis for its legal action to abate nuisances, require reports of births 
or registry of midwives, or to control the persons or premises where com- 
municable disease is found, are passed or enacted only by the council of the 
city, there will be much waste of time and effort in persuading these rela- 
tively uninformed and uninterested laymen of the essential needs for good 
public health administration. A charter change should be made which would 
permit of the writing by the Commissioner of Health, assisted by an advisory 
com mission of physicians and sanitarians, of rules and regulations dealing 
with protection of public health, such regulations to have the force and 
of city ordinances as do those now enacted by the council. 



FILING 

Each Bureau of the Division of Health maintains its own filing system; 
that of the Commissioner and those of communicable disease, tuberculosis 
and vital statistics being kept at the central office. Each health center has 
a record of all families for whom work has been done by the nurses and a 
medical history with nurse's notes of those patients who have visited the 
tuberculosis dispensary. 



120 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



1917 Death Rate per 1,000 Population. Figures based on population as estimated by the Bureau 

of Census for the year 1917. 



NEW ORLEANS 



DETROIT 



PITTSBURGH 



WASHINGTON 



TOLEDO 



PHILADELPHIA 



BOSTON 



CINCINNATI 



BUFFALO 



LOUISVILLE 



DAYTON 



ROCHESTER 



SAN FRANCISCO 



ST LOUIS 



CHICAGO 



JERSEY CITY 



COLUMBUS 



NEWARK 



NEW YORK 



LOS ANGELES 



DENVER 



MINNEAPOLIS 



I 19. 9 



19.0 



J 18.1 
f 17. 7 



17.1 
17.1 

| 16.6 
J 16.5 

16.1 

16.1 





FIG. V. 



Pi MI. ic HKALTH SERVICES 121 

MORALE 

In spite of the handicaps indicated in the brief description above there is 
evident, particularly among the physicians, nurses, inspectors and laboratory 
workers of the Division of Health a spirit of devotion and enthusiasm, a 
true morale which speaks well for the unselfishness in the leadership and direc- 
tion of the work. Although more could be done with improved organization 
and additional personnel there is being given to Cleveland by those consti- 
tuting the modest force of the Division of Health a quality of service out of 
proportion to the remuneration and public support accorded them. 

There is herewith presented in Fig. V. in graphic form the death rate for 
each of 25 cities in the United States for the year 1917 from the figures of 
the Bureau of the Census, the last available. 

Cleveland will doubtless wish and undertake to attain a higher relative 
position. No municipality wants to be merely in the middle of such a series. 
To be number thirteen when there are twelve better places to fill is a chal- 
lenge to the energy and capacity of the city's Division of Health. 



122 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The Bureau of Communicable Disease 

AUTHORITY AND SCOPE 

ORDINANCE No. 32846-B, passed by the council July 13, 1914, and 
amended chiefly with respect to influenza and influenza-pneumonia, 
September 5, 1919, provides: that .there be created in the Division of 
Health a Bureau of Communicable Disease. The function of the bureau 
shall be to prevent the transmission of communicable diseases, perform disin- 
fection, establish and maintain quarantine, and to perform such other duties 
as shall be deemed necessary for the prevention and control of epidemics. 

The Chief of the Bureau of Communicable Disease shall be a graduate of 
medicine, shall act as the medical consultant of the Division of Health, and 
shall direct the activities of the bureau. Under the direction of the Com- 
missioner of Health the work of the Bureau of Communicable Disease is 
carried on by the following: a chief physician (Chief of the Bureau), seven 
senior physicians (district physicians), with the assistance of a sergeant and 
five sanitary officers, nurses and typists. The Chief of the Bureau supervises 
the activities of the Division of Health in the control of communicable dis- 
ease, examines for diagnosis suspected cases and makes personal investiga- 
tion when difficulty arises in the establishment of quarantine. In the past 
smallpox has very frequently demanded a large part of the time of the Chief 
of the Bureau. In epidemic periods he has commonly investigated all cases 
of cerebro-spinal meningitis or infantile paralysis or assigned the same to 
others for investigation. 

The revised Sanitary Code gives adequate authority for the control of 
the acute communicable disease within the City of Cleveland and on vessels 
arriving in the harbor of the city. 

There is no subdivision for venereal diseases, but one is under considera- 
tion and provision is made for such a division in the budget prepared for next 
year. For details of the needs and suggested organization and functions of 
such a subdivision of venereal diseases see the report on venereal disease, 
Part V. 

The control of communicable diseases in animals is vested at present in 
the Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection, because there are veterinarians 
included only in the personnel of this bureau. It would be in the interest of 
good organization to have the veterinary work in connection with communi- 
cable diseases as well as the care and treatment of human rabies included 
within the Bureau of Communicable Diseases. 

It is probable that, with the expansion of the scope and usefulness of the 
Division of Health, preventable diseases of occupation or industry, prevent- 
able diseases of habit, such as narcotic addiction, and the control of pre- 
ventable mental diseases will all be included together with tuberculosis and 
venereal disease, under a Bureau of Preventable Diseases, each large sub- 
group being dealt with in a special subdivision. All the group diseases, the 
communicable in man and animals, as well as the non-communicable which 



PUBLIC Hi \ii ii SERVICES 1 '.'{ 

come under the term preventable, require the study of experts in epidemi- 
ology and the constant research of trained technicians in the laboratory 
sciences. The kind of high grade research and direction needed in this field 
can be obtained or justified only if there is a consolidation of the services 
coming under a bureau dealing with all preventable diseases. 

Of the list of diseases for which report is required impetigo contagiosa, 
pemphigus neonatorum, tinea and scabies, might be omitted without any 
loss of service to the public. It is believed that there should be enforcement, 
with penalties for failure to report, until there is something approaching com- 
plete reporting of the more important diseases. No additions to the list are 
suggested. To forbid those infested with scabies or afflicted with impetigo 
or tinea to mingle in any way with the public has about the same effect as 
good advice given in doctors' offices, but unless there is an attempt to enforce 
such regulations they are better omitted from the body of the law. 

The following provision of the Sanitary Code is extreme and its enforce- 
ment is not justified without liberal qualifications. It is often disregarded 
and should be modified. "No superintendent, principal or teacher of any 
public, parochial or private school or other institution, nor any parent, or 
other person shall permit any child having any communicable disease or any 
child living in a family where such a disease exists, or has recently existed, 
to attend school until the Division of Health shall certify in writing that 
danger from infection has been removed by recovery, removal or death of 
the patient, and disinfection has been made according to the requirements of 
the Division of Health." 

Control of undertakers by license and regulations governing their pro- 
cedure in the case of deaths resulting from certain communicable diseases 
would be better than requiring the presence of a sanitary officer at the burial. 
Such extreme precaution applied to bodies after death is out of proportion 
to the risk. "Every undertaker receiving notice or being called upon to 
prepare for burial the body of any person who has died from smallpox, scarlet 
fever, diphtheria, membranous croup, infantile paralysis, or cerebro-spinal 
meningitis, shall within twelve hours after receiving such notice or call, 
notify the Division of Health of the time of burial, and such burial shall not 
take place without the presence of a sanitary officer." It is not the corpse 
but the undetected, the early, the carrier case about on his feet, who spreads 
disease. 

The following requirement is superfluous if the casket is tight, as required 
in another section : "No undertaker shall use any vehicle other than a hearse 
for conveying the body of any j>erson who died from any of the following 
diseases: Acute Poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis), Cerebrospinal Menginitis, 
Asiatic Cholera, Diphtheria, Influenza or Influenza! Pneumonia, Dysentery 
(Amoebic or Bacillary), Plague, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Yellow Fever." 

The regulations for the isolation period for the various diseases are in 
process of revision to correspond with the standards recommended by the 
American Public Health Association. These regulations will make some 



124 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

changed in procedure, the most important of which are : placarding solely by 
the sanitary officers; instruction, the granting of permits and the lifting of 
quarantine solely by the nurses acting as quarantine officers. 

REPORTING OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 

Cleveland physicians have for many years been furnished stamped 
postal cards for reporting communicable diseases to the Division of Health, 
but under the Griswold Act they have recently received books of franked 
cards (with stub) for this purpose. By far the largest number of physicians' 
cases are reported by telephone. Before quarantine is instituted in reported 
cases of smallpox or of chickenpox in adults (over 13) the case is investigated 
for correctness of diagnosis by the physician of the Division of Health acting 
injthe capacity of diagnostician. 

The following cards are used at, or turned in at the Communicable Dis- 
ease jiesk: 

The "telephone ticket"is for immediate entry of all reported cases. It 
provides for the disease, the date reported, how reported, the address and 
name of patient, the physician and his address, the officer carding, the date 
carded and remarks. 

The "quarantine officer's report" provides for a report on all the data 
mentioned above with several additional items, as: date of onset, names of 
other members of the family if found sick, milk supply, library books, water 
supply, number of children and adults in family, number attending school, 
what schools, where carded, where adults are employed, the number of 
rooms in house, etc. 

The "street file" provides for the name of the disease, the case number, 
the address, name of patient, occupation of parents, name of attending 
physician, name of officer who imposes quarantine and who later releases 
from quarantine, number of school permits granted, removal to hospital. 
Dates: of report, of quarantine, of receipt of convalescent slip, of commencing 
convalescence, of death, of release from quarantine and of disinfection. 

The "nurse's card" provides for a report of essentially the same facts 
as those asked for on the quarantine officer's report card. All homes quaran- 
tined for diphtheria and scarlet fever are visited by public health nurses and 
this card is made out for each. 

The "convalescent ticket" is left in the home so that the attending 
physician may give the Division of Health the date of beginning convales- 
cence. 

The "convalescent card" is made out upon the receipt of the convalescent 
ticket and filed under the street address. 

The work and school permits are given to adults and children released 
from quarantined premises during quarantine and to the patient and others 
at the end of quarantine. 



Pi MMC HEALTH SERVICES 125 

The report of the sanitary officer of various types of work performed: 
Disinfection, attendance upon private funerals, spraying, enforcing quaran- 
tine, etc. 

The record of eye cases received. 

The cards described are used as follows in the quarantined diseases: 
all telephone tickets are taken by the sergeant in charge of sanitary officers 
assigned to the bureau and given out to the officers for placarding. The 
name of the officer having the assignment and the date the case was carded 
is entered upon the ticket. The officer cards the house, front and rear 
entrances, or if an apartment or hotel, the entrance of the apartment, tells 
the family the precautions to be used in keeping quarantine, grants or 
withholds work permits as circumstances require, and fills out the quarantine 
officers' report. The sanitary officers receive their work at 8 A. M. at the 
office. They call in from their districts at noon and again at 4 p. M. for work 
which comes in later in the day* 

In District No. 1 and in the University District the nurses act as quaran- 
tine officers, placard houses, give permits and make out officers' reports. In 
all districts the nurses visit all cases of diphtheria and scarlet fever to give 
instructions in the care of the patient in quarantine and for diphtheria to 
take cultures of all who may be released from quarantine. 

The quarantine officer's report having been returned to the desk is matched 
with the telephone ticket to verify the completeness of the work and from 
them the street file is made out. 

The telephone ticket is preserved; the quarantine officers' reports for 
each disease are numbered consecutively for each month, putting two or 
more numbers on a card, provided more than one case is found in the home; 
the street file cards are filed by address, a separate file being kept for diph- 
theria. The results of all cultures taken to release from quarantine in diph- 
theria are entered on the backs of these cards. 

The work and school permits need little explanation. They are given 
to adults and children who may be permitted to work or to go to school 
during the period of quarantine, and, school permits particularly, to the 
patient and others who have been kept under quarantine until its termina- 
tion. 

Convalescent tickets are not used in diphtheria, the patient being released 
on culture. When a physician reports a case of diphtheria he is asked if 
he desires to have nurses take the release cultures, and almost invariably 
replies in the affirmative. When his consent has been secured the health 
center in which this patient is located is notified and eight days from the 
reported onset of the disease culturing is begun. In measles the date of 
appearance of rash is noted by the officer and the ticket returned to the 
desk; in scarlet fever the ticket is not left in the home but is mailed to the 
physician; for other quarantined diseases it is left in the home for the signa- 
ture of the physician. 



126 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The public and parochial schools and the public library receive daily 
notice of the names and addresses of all cases of diphtheria, scarlet fever, 
smallpox, epidemic cerebro spinal meningitis and acute poliomyelitis. 

Any library books found in the homes in which one of the above diseases 
is quarantined are brought by the sanitary officer to the city laboratory, 
disinfected and returned to the library. 

The physician in charge of the contagious wards at City Hospital, having 
reported that many cases of diphtheria admitted to the hospital indicate by 
their history an entirely inadequate use of antitoxin, a slip giving suggestions 
for the administration of antitoxin in cases of diphtheria is inserted in all 
physicians' culture outfits. 

Within the past two years an attempt has been made to determine the 
susceptibility of children in institutions to diphtheria by the Schick test 
and to provide immunization of those found susceptible, by the use of toxin- 
antitoxin in three injections at intervals of one week. This has been done 
on several thousand children with satisfactory results. By preference the 
institution is "Schicked" when the disease is not present. However, if con- 
sent has not been secured before this, study of the children is made on the 
occurrence of cases. 

Plans for making this procedure available to all Cleveland children are 
under consideration. 

SMALLPOX 

Cleveland has a large unvaccinated population and as a consequence 
smallpox is a problem much of the time, as indicated by the number of cases 
handled in the past five years 1915, 45; 1916, 204; 1917, 661; 1918, 1,120; 
1919, 232. Fortunately the disease has been present in the very mild form 
and has caused no deaths. In a thoroughly vaccinated population there 
would be no smallpox problem, but the only time when Cleveland has had a 
practically vaccinated population was eighteen years ago, when the presence 
of the disease in a severe form led the Chamber of Commerce, the Board of 
Education and the other groups of laymen to get solidly behind the Commis- 
sioner of Health in this matter. 

Notwithstanding the provision of the communicable disease ordinance 
that no unvaccinated child may be in school, our children are not completely 
vaccinated. Out of 105,000 unvaccinated children in the public schools in 
the year 1917-18, 101,000 were vaccinated by school physicians; 3,600 were 
permitted to attend school on receipt of a sworn statement from the parents 
that they were opposed to vaccination, 400 on doctors' certificates and 14 
were excluded. 

The parochial schools, having no medical supervision, have presented 
greater difficulties than the public schools. Within the past year the bureau 
has vaccinated in about half the parochial schools, including most of the 
largest of these, and this work will be pushed the coming fall. 

The district physicians report 12,629 vaccinations in the yeaj 1919. 



Pi HUC HEALTH SERVICES 127 

On the occurrence of a case of smallpox all exposures in the household 
are vaccinated, all contacts in shops and factories, if the patient had been at 
work after the onset of his illness and all pupils and teachers in schools for 
either direct or indirect exposure. 

The influx of Southern Negroes accounts to a very considerable degree for 
the recent cases of smallpox in Cleveland. Arrangements have been made 
to reach certain of these who enter the city in groups and vaccinate them 
before they begin their work 

So much for the authority, the system, the method, and all based in the 
main upon sound medical opinion, except that so-called disinfection by 
gaseous fumigation is probably valueless and an unnecessary expense. In 
cases of smallpox, "and where deaths from tuberculosis have occurred in tene- 
ments, disinfection to precede thorough cleansing and renovation of walls 
and painted surfaces is probably a wise precaution. 

RESULTS 

What of the results? To what extent is reporting uniform and observed 
conscientiously? Are isolation and placards respected? What is the effect 
on the incidence of the reportable diseases? 

Table III. in the Appendix, studied in connection with the reports of 
deaths in the table of so-called endemic indices. Table IV., discloses the 
obvious and general incompleteness of morbidity reports. 

The results of administrative measures directed to the control of the 
communicable diseases should be shown in a reduction in the number of 
cases and in the percentage of deaths among the cases that do occur. The 
incompleteness of reporting of cases,the margin of error in diagnosis and in 
statements of cause of death make any conclusions as to the numerical in- 
crease or decrease in communicable diseases an<j deaths from tliem of doubt- 
ful value. However, in the absence of any particular change in the attitude 
of physicians with regard to reporting and of new or unusual efforts by the 
Division of Health to enforce reporting by physicians, we may assume that 
the fluctuations in numbers of cases reported represent bona fide variations 
in incidence, but not the total incidence. Similarly in the absence of any 
specific or new and accurate criteria for establishing diagnosis among these 
(liM-ascs, (he reports of deaths in this group of diseases in which the clinical 
picture is fairly typical, probably may be considered quite reliable. No at- 
tempt will he made here to calculate the case mortality percentage of com- 
municable diseases in Cleveland, as such studies would extend the report 
out of all relation to its particular object and immediate uses. Such infor- 
mation should be presented in the annual report of the Commissioner of 
Health. 

For those who are professionally trained to read and understand the 
significance of and the relative merit in the use of the so-called Sanitary Index 
and of the Endemic Index a chart and table are prepared from data obtained 
from the Chief of the Bureau of Cominnnieablc Disease. (Fig. VI. and 
Table IV.) 



128 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 




1 

i 



^ 



o J. "s 



a 
' 



I 

I 



O 
03 



^ 



K 



-S- 





CO 
rH 



n 




frt 
^ fi 



\ 



X 



\ 



<N O 



21 

H 



s ' 
2 = 
"S a 



- ^_S 

in a sf* 

CO ^ ^ S 

CO ..a 



Hi \i.i ii SI.K\ H i - 



1*9 



Dl ITHSIN4 1.1 \ ELAND FROM ALL ( VISKSAM) FUU Dlsr. \-l> n\ \\IIICII TIIK 
SANITARY INDIA HATK IS ( \I.< TLATK1). I'l'.H HUHM) POIM'LATION 
I; ttM rnmvt^l arruniiiiK td ixipiiliiliiiii estimates mat'*! on 1 9<0 cenUH returns) 



Year 1910 1911 1912 

Population 564.066 587,936 611,806 

Total Deaths 8,703 8,545 8,769 

Sanitary Index Deaths 3,414 3,204 3,032 

Year 1915 1916 1917 

Population 683,416 707,286 731,156 

Total Deaths 9,534 10,719 11,623 

Sanitary Index Deaths 3,280 3,425 3,956 



1913 1914 

635,676 659,546 

9,454 8,980 

3,503 3,193 

1918 1919 

755,026 778,896 

13,882 10,616 

3,496 3,105 



173 



143 



135.5 134.3 



139 



125 



129.5 



141 



148.5 



127.5 



Illllllll 



I 



Year 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1S19 Year 

FIG. VII. 

The proportion of total deaths iliif In the group of communicable disease* and causes of dmth nndtr 
mi, i/,'(ir iifHin irlu'rh the ,n-rnUeil xiuiiftiry hulfjc i.i calculated, ix represented by the shaded 
lower portion of the column for each year. 



130 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 







o 








^_ 


H 




8'Cn |fi 








i> 

rH 


9-91 


g 


. , 


2 ' 9 U ^ 








O> 


fi o i 


1 


t~ c- 


LJ <r Cd 




i 




H 


VOL 


J 


rH rH 


3 ' 31 ^ " 




3 










O> Oi 


CO 




10 




1 


s 


i 


rH rH 


< 




c 



















\x -. 


to 






| | 






u 


O rH 


OH 

O O> 






O O O 

o o w o ra 


CO 




MH 


O O) 
MI) 


O H 


CQ 


o o <D o a> 








3 




O 
O 1 

H 

to 

FH rH 


cT""' 

O co 
H <D 
H 


8-8| 

9'0l[ 


) 


o o +> o a 

O O r) O -P 
rH rH rH CO 
t" 


^6 8 fl 1 

_^J Cj. 

LJ g 




E 


<D O> 


O -H 


< 


1 
i 


Q) O> 0) <D <D <D 


< cu 




P 


ftrH 


PiO 






C^rH r>. j_j ^. f . 






PQ 


<D 


o d 






O O 

a> o -P <D -P 









P 'O 


-P 0) 






P *d -P m HJ t> 


o 






03 fj 

p"^ cd 
H 

^ O 


01 r4 

t! o 

4d ra 


fl 

9-6n 


a! C aJ iH 09 <rt 
K oS K t>0 Pd W) 
rH Q) <D 


o-i?fl i 




Q 


+3 > 


P^H 


A* Al 




-P t -P -P 


_ / ii *** 






a) 


08 CO 


Ol 


1 


OJ <D <C rH 08 rH 


S ull P 1 ] 




*73 


<D rH 


O 






OJ rH <D r-l <D H 


* s 




i 


OO 


OK 


* 


i 


O O O <! Q << 


^ 




t 


I 


, 






I i i 



















9 




Pi 


<J 


fl 






<! W O 


M 




6 

& 
5 






S'6T | 


j 




S*8lp] | 

9-03 & 










(0 


g-gg| < 


3-33 1<JK 









^^^ n 

o 


3 


*"3 




jg 


P 


^ 




n 
CO 


1 


o 

2 








/4*9T| o ti 


w 


^39lJ 


m 


A'I9T | PQ i_ o 


-g s-9*T 


<; 


y L | << w 




H 

9 









e 




EH 




I 




rf 




(0 




pf> ^^ 




1 


i-siC 


1 8>3T PI 
1 . *-"E|< 

<: rH 









CO 




S* 




>HCO 




* 




OH O 




<U 9 OfrT 


1 n 


A '0^1 1 pa 




8-93T| < 


9*091 | < 3^ 








Pi H") 




3 




EH 




"rt 
M 






4 




O frQT 1 " 

W ?yL| OK 


6'09I |_ 


CQ 


9-AAir 




A*f9t| < 


I-36II ^ g 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 



131 



For convenience in reference and to give in brief form the actual loss of 
life in Cleveland from the group of diseases included in the list upon which 
the sanitary index (Fig. VI.) is based for the past ten years, by years, and 
as ;t\t t ;i |. Table V. is prepared. To indicate the relative proportion of all 
deaths due to the communicable preventable diseases with which we are 
herejchiefly concerned, Fig. VII. is prepared. Fig. VIII. shows graphically 
the death rates per 100,000 population for eight important communicable 
diseases in Cleveland and in all cities included in the registration area for 




o 

IO 

* o 

rH O 

0> 



37164 




Tuberculosis cases 

reported in 1919-20 
per 10,000 population 



Cases of measles, 
whooping cough, 
diphtheria and 
soarlet fever re- 
ported 1919-20 per 
10.000 child population 
(0-10 inclusive) 



Fio. IX. 



Cases of venereal 

disease in 
attendance at Lake- 
side, Kt Sinai and 
Charity dispensaries 

during the year 
T919-20 per 
10,000 population. 



the quinquennium 1913-17, and the death rates per 100,000 population dur- 
ing 1917 for these same diseases in Cleveland, the cities and the states of 
the registration area. 

Fig. IX. illustrates the morbidity incidence of tuberculosis, of four com- 
mon acute communicable diseases of childhood and of venereal diseases as 
reported from the health districts, showing the relative rates for the districts. 
The same data are presented on Fig. X., a map of the city giving health dis- 
tricts.* 



The data for Figures IX. to XIII. were bated on population estimates before the 1020 census figures 
were available. 



132 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 




FIG. X. 

narrow eastern portion of District Six has been omitted. 



PUBLIC HI.M.IH MK VICES 



133 



Registered Births Deaths under one Deaths under one Reported stl 
per 1000 year per 1000 month per 1000 births per ] 
population registered births registered births registered bi 


EEZ323.8 
* 1 22.2 

01 f 21.8 
H 1 21.0 

^\ 17.9 
HE] 17-7 


00 S** 10 ) 120.0 


M | 105.0 


^ | QS.fi 


-* 1 92.2 


01 RS.fi 


03 (79.5 


05 1 67.6 




-* 150.4 


W | 43.2 


w 1 SQ.ft 


^ 1 37.5 


-, f.37. 


<^ I 34.5 


^ |31.8 




ooftro 1 41.1 


*- 1 40.6 


o> 1 36.0 


01 |32.2 


w 1 28.1 


-3 )27.0 


4 OM 
V 


1^ 1 23.8 FIG. XI. 



134 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



c'o sTo 

O 9 Me* 

C M 
MHO 
ja o to tj 




O 3 ^ 10 1143.4 


<i 1119. 


^ 1118.2 


01 1 101.8 


H- Oca CB 


1 92 . 5 


on pr 


01 83.7 


^^w 


* 83.6 


~ H 


p icj co *o *5 CD t) 

e* C* O O O o O 


To) J* ro R p 


P* o 9 *o *i c** P 


*. o & 


^'tf H H MO tT 
H-H-O BB Op M 
SD p c* c*-- o 


I H 5.2 
f S 4>i 


S *< Q O DJ*? 

o o> y OH. o 


I ^ 3.5 

* 2.6 


O O ^ CQ 9 ^T" 


CD f^ d) CD ^*^ 2 2 


M(R 1 SB H- 


D* co 1.3 
en -. o IL. L * i ' 


^^ a 


M 

H3 

% ^ o 

o o* co 

^^ (^ >^ Q3 


E3f 13.9 
H) 10.4 


^^ ^ C C^ 

o MET 


3" 10.1 


O C B i 


m ^f 


^ t-'Q 


'\ 8.5 


*d o P H) 

r* w cri I'-J 




p* oa"^ g 


y 7.2 


c* 






3 5.8 


P 




H 


5321.4 


<? o 5^ 


H |14.5 


^^ fO (D (O 




S 2 m 


M 12.6 


H3 W fj 




^ rt *^* tJ 


3 11.8 






P w Q 


jn 10.7 


P^ ^ M^ 


3 7.1 


e* M 




O 




? 


^T 9.2 


O (5 H h* B> 
^j ^j m ^^ 


3T 7.3 


* M ?3 W 


IP 1 4.4 


POOP* 
e* O Hh 


-a 4.4 


I^O<4 O 4 
O O <D O 


]]" 4 * 2 


OOP 8 
t-j 
m 


E* 2 * 6 FIG. XII. 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 



185 




Fio. XIII. 
*The narrow eastern portion of District Six hat been omitted. 



A Deaths from scarlet fever, whooping cough, measles and diphtheria per 100,000 population. 
B Deaths from pulmonary tuberculosis per 100,000 population. 
C Deaths from pneumonia (all forms) per 100,000 population. 
D Deaths from diarrhea under 2 yean per 100,000 population. 



136 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Fig. XI. illustrates the relative position of the health districts as measured 
by registered births and deaths. 

Fig. XII. shows an analysis of death rates from all causes and from vari- 
ous communicable diseases, by health districts. Most of the same data are 
presented on Fig. XIII., a map of the city divided into health districts. 

The reader is referred to parts IV. and V. for complete discussion of the 
incidence and sufficiency of methods for control, and the results of public 
health service in tuberculosis, syphilis and gonorrhea. 

The accompanying table, quoted from the annual report upon typhoid 
fever in the large cities of the United States, published in the Journal of the 
American Medical Association, Vol. 74, No. 10, page 673, shows Cleveland's 
enviable position resulting in all probability more from the chlorination 
after filtration of its water supply and the general pasteurization of its milk 
supply than from other causes. 

DEATH RATES FROM TYPHOID IN CITIES OF GROUP ONE 

(More than 500,000 Population) 
DEATHS FROM TYPHOID PER 100,000 POPULATION 

Average Average Average 

1919 1918 1916-1919 1911-1915 1906-1910 

Chicago 1.2 1.4 2.7 8.2 15.8 

New York 2.0 3.7 3.4 80 13.5 

Boston 2.2 2.5 2.8 8.0 16.0 

Cleveland 2.4 4.7 4.9 10.0 15.7 

Philadelphia 4.4 3.0 53 11.2 41.7 

Detroit 5.3 10.0 12.0 18.1 21.1 

St. Louis 5.8 7.2 7.5 12.1 14.7 

Pittsburgh 6.2 9.8 8.9 15.9 65.0 

Baltimore 8.9 12.2 13.6 23.7 35.1 

Cleveland's relatively high death rate from diphtheria (Fig. VIII.) as 
compared with other cities and states may in part be attributed to the lack 
of any services of a skilled intubator for patients coming to the care of the 
district physicians and the unusual indifference of the general practitioner 
to the importance of early and adequate use of diphtheria antitoxin for 
therapeutic purposes, on clinical diagnosis or on reasonable suspicion with- 
out awaiting positive laboratory confirmation. The experience of the City 
Hospital contagious service and of the consultants in pediatrics in the city are 
full of instances where lives were sacrificed by the inexcusable delay in the 
use of this specific therapy. It is recommended that a physician skilled in 
intubation be employed by the Division of Health to be available on call for 
emergencies in diphtheria, and that the Division of Health undertake, through 



I'l IH.K Hi \i.i ii SI.K\ i. i - 



tin- Ar.-xlrmy of Medicine and directly \\itli the practising physicians, edu- 
cation in tin- advantages of diphtheria antitoxin and the dangers commonly 
resulting from delay in its administration. 

With the exception of rabies none of the animal diseases require par- 
ticular mention here, since tuberculosis in eattle is guarded against by ade- 
quate meat inspection and by the compulsory pasteurization of milk. The 
situation of rabies control is bad, owing to the lack of an ordinance requiring 
nmy./ling. and the lack of enforcement of the state dog licensing law. The 
most valuable agency in controlling rabies in Cleveland is the Animal Pro- 
tective League which maintains an active collection service for the removal 
of stray dogs. 

The diagnosis of rabies in animals and man and the protective treatment 
of those bitten by rabid animals are provided according to good modern 
standards by the Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection. The cost of treat- 
ment is provided by the county commissioners. 

INADEQUATE SUPERVISION OF QUARANTINE 

In Cleveland as in many -municipalities there is frank criticism of the 
futility of official attempts at quarantine. Responsible physicians and nurses 
report that keeping of quarantine in Cleveland is so unusual that a family 
who does keep it is cause for much comment and no little surprise. Instances 
of inadequate supervision and a lack of firmness or conviction in enforcing 
regulations are quoted from case reports obtained by the Survey. 

E. G., Portland Avenue, was quarantined for diphtheria August 23, 1919. 
This report was telephoned to the Division of Health the same day, "Patient 
ill in room off kitchen. Comes into kitchen frequently. Family upstairs 
come and go through this kitchen whenever entering or leaving house. 
Patient's mother refuses to keep quarantine." Division of Health promised 
to force child into hospital, but did not. The first release culture was taken 
September 8th, and as the child was a diphtheria carrier, quarantine was 
continued for a long period of time; the sign finally being removed Septem- 
ber 23rd. During this j>eriod the woman tore down the sign and went out. 
This was reported to the Division of Health. The woman and child with 
positive culture went to market and were absent when the nurse went to 
culture. A report of this was made to the Division of Health and as far as 
results .were concerned, the nurse might just as well have saved the time 
she spent in telephoning. 

Mrs. P., Scovill Avenue, was quarantined for diphtheria September 17, 
1 !>!!), and family was cultured on same date. She herself had a positive 
culture which held so for some time. The sign was taken down October 
3rd. On the 2;>th of Septembe the nurse went to culture and found patient 
with positive culture at church. The nurse returned in the afternoon and 
was told by patient that as she was not sick there was "no need of such a 
fuss." This was reported to the Division of Health with the result that on 
the 29th, when the nurse returned for another culture, the house was closed 



138 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

and the door was padlocked on the outside. This, too, was reported to the 
Division of Health with such good effect that the woman was out again*on 
the 30th and neighbors said she was at the store and not expected back for 
some time. 

A diphtheria sign was put up September 19th on the house of Mrs. F., 
Scovill Avenue. The sign did not come down until October 8th, as the child 
here was a carrier also. The family made no pretense of keeping quarantine 
and the Division of Health was informed. The next time the nurse saw the 
woman she was selling fruit from a stand in front of the house and the child, 
with a positive culture, was with her. This was reported to the Division^of 
Health and the child remained in the home. 

The following notes from a nurse's record indicate some of the reasons 
for lack of confidence in quarantine. "These cases of diphtheria are typical 
of our present system. One and all of these families said nonchalantly, 
when found breaking isolation, 'Nobody does any different,' or 'Mrs. So 
and So had a sign on her house and she didn't do any different, so why 
should I?' And when one discovers that in a tiny section, with a popula- 
tion of 12,000, between the months of September and December there were 
twenty-seven families (under so-called quarantine for diphtheria) who ran 
wild with no more serious result than a visit from a sanitary officer, can one 
wonder either at the unconcern of the families or the prevalence of the 
disease this whiter?" 

And why must there be such a delay in getting orders to remove diph- 
theria signs when the cultures have proved satisfactory? In at least a' third 
of these cases the report of the culture comes to the nurse two or three days 
before it reaches the authority in the Division of Health whose business it^is 
to order the signs removed. 

Verified instances of failure to observe quarantine were obtained in a 
brief period in January, 1920, in the case of tie following diseases: 

Diphtheria 14 instances 

Whooping cough 15 " 

Mumps _. 5 " 

Chickenpox 1 " 

Scarlet fever 1 " 

The district physicians of the Division of Health find the situation very 
unsatisfactory, the warnings or threats of sanitary police and nurses failing 
to produce any substantial results. Firmness, tact and a consistent policy 
should remedy this. 

SERVICE OF DISTRICT PHYSICIANS 
ORGANIZATION 

There are seven full-time district physicians employed by the Cleveland 
Division of Health under the Bureau of Communicable Disease. One of 
them acts as Assistant Chief of the Bureau and one handles only cases 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 139 

of drug addiction, leaving five to cover the district work. These physi- 
cians receive $3,300.00 a year and are required to provide their own auto- 
mobiles, telephone service and physicians' bags. They are furnished with 
drugs and surgical dressings by the Division of Health. 

Each physician is assigned to one of the following five districts : District 
One is the entire West Side, exclusive of a small portion of the so-called 
South Side east of West 14th. District Two is the East Side, from the river 
to East 71st Street, north of Euclid Avenue; District Three extends from 
Euclid Avenue, on the north, to the city limits, and from East 55th Street 
to West 14th Street. This district includes the congested area of the city. 
District Four extends from East 71st Street, on the west, to the city limits in 
Collinwood (East 200th Street), to the south side of Euclid Avenue west to 
East 55th Street, from there to Quincy Avenue and east to the city limits. 
District Five extends from Quincy Avenue and East 55th Street south and 
east to the city limits. These districts have different boundaries from those 
of any other administrative districts used in public or private health work. 

DUTIES 

The duties of the district physicians are to care for the sick poor, investi- 
gate suspected cases of communicable disease and to make vaccinations, 
etc., under the direction of the chief of the bureau. They are not permitted 
to do any obstetrical work or any major surgery. They are, further, not 
expected to treat in their homes the more serious diseases, such as pneu- 
monia, typhoid fever, heart disease or nephritis, but to refer such cases to 
hospitals when possible. Many ambulatory cases are properly referred to 
the dispensaries of such hospitals as Lakeside, Mt. Sinai and Charity, -where 
the facilities for diagnosis and treatment are better than those at the command 
of the district physicians. 

METHOD OF RECEIVING CALLS 

Calls for the services of the district physicians come to them in a variety 
of ways; their names and addresses are known to the police of the city, 
and the number of calls which they receive from this source is considerable. 
This applies particularly to night calls. They are reached by people needing 
their services in exactly the same way that private physicians receive their 
calls, through the advice of friends and neighbors who give their names and 
addresses. They are also called by public health nurses, by the Visiting 
Nurse Association and by other agencies. The greatest single source of calls, 
however, is to be found in the call book kept for district physicians at the 
Division of Health. It is impossible to determine exactly the relative num- 
ber of calls from the different sources. As fair an estimate as can be made is 
that about one- third are received from other sources than the call book. 

OFFICES 

Each physician is provided with an office at the health center in his dis- 
trict, where he keeps supplies and where patients may go to see him. The 
office work of the district physician is, however, comparatively small. 



140 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

RECORDS 

The Division of Health has never required district physicians to keep 
histories of their cases. Monthly summaries are required and these are 
made up from records kept in a pocket note book. From these entries the 
physicians are expected to be able to tell their diagnoses and the disposition 
of the cases assigned to them. As a test of their ability to report such essen- 
tial facts they have been asked from time to time in their conferences to report 
upon cases selected at random from the call book, and the chief of the bureau 
has found them able to do so. 



SUPERVISION 

The work of the district physicians is under the general direction of the 
Chief of the Bureau of Communicable Disease, although in actual practice 
there is very little supervision of their work in the homes. Weekly staff 
meetings are held, except during the summer months, and at these meetings 
matters of seasonal interest are discussed, and the district physicians are 
free to bring up special cases for conference. 

VOLUME OF WORK 

A table showing the volume of the activities of the different district physi- 
cians for the year 1919 will be found in the Appendix (Table VI.) 

It is obvious that the amount of work of the different physicians varies 
greatly. This may be accounted for partially by the character of the dis- 
tricts themselves (for example, District Three, which shows the highest num- 
ber of calls, includes the most congested and poorest area in the city), par- 
tially by the distances necessary to cover in making calls, and partially, no 
doubt, by the diligence of the individual physicians. 

The average of calls per case varies from one in District Five to 3.8 in 
District One. If an average of two calls per patient be accepted as a stand- 
ard, two districts (Three and Five) fall below, two districts (Two and Four) 
are practically equal and one district (number One) is well above the stand- 
ard. 

The number of vaccinations varied greatly, District Five having reported 
over ten times as many as District Two. It is interesting to note that the 
highest number of vaccinations was recorded in the district where the aver- 
age number of calls per case was the lowest. 

According to the records the physicians vary greatly in referring cases to 
agencies. The physician in District Two reports no use of agencies other 
than hospitals and dispensaries. The physicians in Districts Three and Five 
show good cooperation with the nursing agencies. 



The variation in the amount of work reported raises the question of the 
desirability of redistricting the city. 



I't IU.K HI.M.I ii Smn I- i - 141 

SUMMARY OF COMPLAINTS OF SKRVICE 

Hi/ rarinnx MH-itil and cluirltdltlc tn/furies: 



1. There were M-VCII M>urces of complaints because service was not 
prompt. One agency stated that delays of two days or more occurred; 
another that calls were sometimes never answered. Five agencies stated 
that the service was prompt. The difference in localities could easily ac- 
count for this discrepancy. 

2. Six agencies complained of the lack of continuity of care, the general 
consensus of opinion being that calls were not repeated sufficiently often 
unless pressure was brought to bear on the physicians. 

3. There were two complaints of brutality; one of superficial work; 
three of difficulty in getting in touch with physicians; one of lack of physi- 
cian's understanding of foreign language; one of lack of sufficient home 
instruction being given. 

4. All agencies joined in saying that the district physicians were willing 
to give medical information to cooperating agencies, although one complained 
that the physicians' records were so inadequate that details of cases were 
not available. 

By district physicians themselves: 

The district physicians themselves seemed to feel a lack of thorough 
supervision of their work and a failure of cooperation by the Health Divi- 
sion. They expressed a need for standard instruction; for more systematic 
information as to changes in procedures or policies of the Division of Health, 
City Hospital and other agencies; and in general a lack of sympathetic rela- 
tionship with the chief of their bureau and the Commissioner of Health. 

Other needs brought out by the physicians themselves were: for a con- 
sultant on their cases; more adequate case histories; a more comprehensive 
drug formulary; provision of bottles for dispensing drugs; smaller districts 
or a redistricting of the city. 

One physician felt that his work was hampered by the fact that he had 
no command of foreign languages; another felt a great lack of appreciation 
among the foreign population. 

RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

It is recommended that: 

District physicians be appointed for a definite term of service, with a limit to the 
number of terms permitted on re-appointment. 

Appointments be made after examination, written and oral, by a special committee 
of physicians appointed for this purpose (from the Academy of Medicine if possible). 



142 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

There be a special night service rotating through the staff or assigned to the junior 
members for certain periods. 

Ambulatory cases be excluded from care, such cases to be referred to the appropriate 
dispensary, and not treated at the offices of the district physicians. 

The visiting nurses be used as a routine for all cases except those discharged at the 
first visit or referred to a hospital for care at once. 

Each district physician be assigned for part of his time to dispensary work and to sani- 
tary inspection work. The latter function should include reports upon the sanitary con- 
dition of the physician's district and special investigations on request of the Commissioner. 

Each district physician should be assigned to duty to a particular clinic for dispensary 
service for several months each year. 

There be added three more physicians to the staff to cover the special night service 
and the extra work that cannot now be done, or be done well. 

The city be redistricted on the basis of multiples of the sanitary areas as used by the 
Bureau of the Census. 

Staff meetings be held monthly for consideration of a definite program arranged by 
the Chief of the Bureau. Each physician should be expected in turn to present a report 
and take the leading part in one meeting each year. Time for discussion of administra- 
tive matters and technical medical questions should be arranged for at each staff meeting. 

The district physicians should report by simple forms to the central office by mail 
daily. These reports, which should be brief, should be tabulated and analyzed at the 
central office. 

BUREAU OF TUBERCULOSIS 

The Bureau of Tuberculosis has been discussed under Part IV. and hence 
a description of it has been omitted here. 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 143 

The Bureau of Child Hygiene 

THE Bureau of Child Hygiene deals with matters of such importance to 
the entire health and welfare programs, both public and private, that 
Part III. of the report is devoted exclusively to these subjects, including 
consideration of the organizations and functions of this bureau in the Division 
of Health. Furthermore, in the Survey of Nursing (Part IX.), the nursing 
service of the Division of Health is analyzed in detail, including a special 
study of the follow-up of infant welfare work from the health centers. In 
Part IX. in the chapter on Prenatal and Maternity Care, there is discussion 
of the relation of the Bureau of Child Hygiene to this activity. In Part X. 
there will be found consideration of the health centers which serve many 
purposes under the direct control of the Bureau of Child Hygiene. Treat- 
ment here of the official public health services for children would be a mere 
repetition of what is more appropriately dealt with in other chapters. 



144 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



The Bureau of Sanitation 

FOR several years this division has had no chief and the results are 
obvious. The scant attention which the commissioner, from the midst 
of his multifarious duties, can give as the acting chief is insufficient 
to develop the proper functions of the force at his disposal. The sergeant 
and the 16 patrolmen under him, with two clerks, no more than keep 
abreast of the citizens' complaints, which flood their office. Five more 
patrolmen are assigned to placarding and enforcement of quarantine, and 
another five are on duty with the Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection. 
Both of these services would be better done by other employes if such were 
available, than by men brought up with the ordinary police point of view. 
Nurses are being used more and more for carrying out isolation require- 
ments, and trained food inspectors would be more appropriate for the ed- 
ucational supervision of the food and dairy industries than police. When 
enforcement, summons or arrest are needed patrolmen can be easily obtained. 

Complaints come to the office by wire, mail, by word of mouth and re- 
ferred from the central complaint bureau of the City Hall. The records of 
complaints, of action taken and of disposition are simple and adequate. A 
series studied at the office and in the hands of inspectors showed that entries 
were made at the time of or on the day of inspection. 

The office is open from 8 A. M. to 7:30 p. M., and there are often times 
when the sergeant, in order to get out into the field, must assign a patrolman 
of the squad to desk duty. The squad is wholly used in satisfying complaints 
and enforcement of notices or orders issued. There is no constructive work 
going on in the office. They have no lists of premises, such as stables, offen- 
sive trade factories and other city nuisances, and they have no house files 
for various lots or premises in the city against which complaints have been 
lodged. They have no census of private water supplies and only a partial 
census of privies in the city. 

There is no supervision of the field force with the exception of what the 
sergeant can do in the few hours each day, two or three, when he is free 
from office duties. There are no meetings held at which instructions or ad- 
vice is given to the squad. Neither the sergeant nor those under him have 
had any technical education in sanitation. Various members of the squad 
find it a stepping stone to the practice of law, for which they study at night 
school while working for the city. 

The Sanitary Bureau cooperates with other city departments directly, in 
accomplishing abatement of nuisances, in such matters as engineering serv- 
ice, sewage, water supply and street cleaning problems. They cooperate 
with the Associated Charities and other private agencies, where the difficulty 
is economic and a poor family cannot comply with orders. There is no 
spirit or readiness to cooperate with departments of the Ohio state govern- 
ment, and as a result premises, such as licensed lodging houses, are wholly 
neglected by the Sanitary Bureau. 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 145 

Although many records were found showing prompt follow-up with action 
through the City Prosecutor, there were a considerable number in which 
action to abate serious housing nuisances and violations had been held for 
three years and more because of expected construction work which would 
obviate need of further attention, particularly in regard to premises in the 
"Hill" region. Plenty of cause for action was found in the much neglected 
region bounded by West 25th Street, Lorain, Trowbridge and Fulton to the 
river, where open and trough sewers and offensive privies were found and 
where housing conditions were very bad. 


No such thing as a sanitary survey has been attempted. There is no 
preventive work under way. Simply satisfying citizens' complaints appears 
to be the objective of the bureau at present, although a few years ago, 
under a chief, an aggressive and successful attack was made against 
violations of occupancy regulations. 

In studying the work in the field with two of the sanitary patrolmen, 
both a member of the squad who had been in the work for 12 years and a 
younger officer who had been on duty for but a few months, showed the best 
possible side of the bureau work. They were considerate, tactful, quiet, 
and evidently obtained excellent cooperation through persuasion. They 
have a good general understanding of their duties and powers and are looked 
upon as friends and advisers by the people. 

They have evidently never been taught what a sanitary privy is and they 
have no standards of enforcement. All privies were in a shockingly neglected 
condition, and although orders were placed, many months, and in some in- 
stances more than a year, had passed since the issuance of orders and nothing 
practical had been accomplished. Much harmless advice was given by the 
patrolmen on the basis of common sense, but their information as to con- 
tagious diseases was quite elementary and the calls they were observed to 
make for this purpose carried no intelligible advice or help to the families. 

The most offensive condition found was in the Collinwood region, where 
a veritable scandal results in the matter of removal of night soil from the 
privy vaults. The householder is forbidden to excavate or remove vault 
contents himself. The Park Department is responsible for this service. The 
householder is expected to pay beforehand at a charge arbitrarily set by the 
contractor. There are much discrimination and injustice in the charges. 
Deposits accumulate over six to eight months and service is denied the people 
except at extravagant rates. The householders being people of small means, 
chiefly of foreign birth and unorganized, have not made their complaints 
heard at City Hall. They should not need to, as this is distinctly a serv- 
ice the Division of Health owes them through pressure upon the Park 
Department. 

The tenement house code (March 8, 1915) or so much of it as it is the duty 
of the Sanitary Bureau to enforce, is very generally ignored in its essential 
requirements for health protection, and yet a large amount of work appears 
to have been accomplished. The entire force of twenty -six patrolmen 
should be assigned to sanitary work proper. The sixteen officers assigned to 



146 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

the work of the Bureau of Sanitation have each a definite district, consisting 
of from one to several of the twenty-six wards into which the city is divided. 

It is difficult to visualize the actual work of the Bureau on the basis of 
the annual report, but some idea of the work can be obtained from the fol- 
lowing statement: in 1919, 73,859 inspections were made, 7,073 on com- 
plaints. Of the latter 86 are noted as wrong addresses and 40 as no cause 
for complaint. 44,982 is the number of first inspections made by the men 
on their regular rounds. As a result of the 73,859 inspections, 13,969 notices 
were served, 11,456 directly by the officer on his rounds and 2,513 mailed 
from the office. The reinspections totaled 27,393 and the second (third, 
etc.) notices, 4,506. As a result of the notices sent out interviews were sought 
by those against whom orders had been issued, to the number of 4,344, of 
which 3,505 were personal interviews, chiefly with the officer on his rounds 
but in part interviews in the office. 839 were interviews by telephone. 

After two or more reinspections, when orders are not complied with, at 
the request of the bureau, the police prosecutor issues a letter calling upon 
the person against whom the order has been served to appear before him. 
In most instances, instead of the police prosecutor or his assistant seeing these 
people when they appear in his office they are interviewed by a sanitary officer 
detailed for this purpose. Ordinarily the party concerned is allowed a few 
days to comply with the order issued by the bureau. At the expiration of 
this time the officer again reinspects and re-reinspects. In some instances 
great delay occurs before the order is complied with, prosecutor's letters being 
sent at frequent intervals. In 1919 prosecutor's letters numbered 2,708, the 
party called appearing in all but 492 instances. 

Fifty-five warrants were requested during the year. So far as can be 
ascertained none were issued, no trials were undertaken or convictions secured. 
14,525 orders issued were complied with. In addition to such inspections as 
affected tenement houses and other dwellings we find lodging houses, laun- 
dries, picture shows and theaters, workshops, barber shops and taxicabs 

dealt with. 



Forty-five dwellings and tenements were vacated and 86 were razed as 
unfit for habitation. More than 3,000 interior and exterior repairs and altera- 
tions were secured. Lights and ventilation were secured for 322 public halls 
or rooms and 148 overcrowded rooms vacated. 1,696 rooms were cleaned 
by tenants. 

Twenty-four permits were issued for privies and cesspools, 265 were 
abandoned and 13 repaired; 139 sewer vaults and sewer crocks were aban- 
doned and 62 repaired. Hopper closets are permitted but not recommended; 
of these 105 were installed, 288 repaired and 51 removed. Sanitary closets, 
742 installed, 601 repaired. 

The following activities were also part of the bureau's work: orders for 
installation of city water, repairs of sinks, etc., 1,699; wells and cisterns con- 
demned, 6; vacant lots cleaned, drained, etc., 901; yards cleaned, drained 
and graded, 6,654; receptacles ordered for garbage or rubbish, 8,320; sheds 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 147 

and barns vacated, cleaned, water-tight flooring provided, sewer connections 
made, city water installed, etc., 1,481. 

It is said that the sanitary inspection of public baths, bathing beaches 
and summer camps is thorough and entirely creditable to the bureau. The 
field investigations of the Survey did not include the season of the year 
when these recreational activities were in operation. 



148 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection 

The work of the Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection is carried on by 
three graduates in veterinary medicine: one who is chief of the bureau, 
another who supervises meat inspection in city slaughter houses, and a third 
who inspects the carcasses of all animals killed in out-of-town slaughter houses 
and has charge of the work of the bureau with respect to rabies in animals. 
In addition to the veterinarians there are 25 lay inspectors, one of whom 
supervises dairy inspection, the others being assigned to the inspection of 
slaughter houses, cold storage plants, ice cream factories, stores where milk 
and dairy products are sold, meat markets, etc. The clerical work of the 
bureau is carried on by a clerk and a typist. 

The following is a summary of the work of the Food and Dairy Bureau for 
the year 1919: total number of dairies visited and scored, 3,986; total num- 
ber of visits, 4,633; number of dairies excluded, 407. Nearly three-fourths 
of these exclusions were for the following causes in the order mentioned: 
riot white-washing stable, unsanitary conditions, plank floor in stable. Milk 
houses not used, milk houses not in proper condition or farms without milk 
houses, constitute another important reason for exclusion. Of the 407 ex- 
cluded, 283 were re-admitted. The number of cows in this territory is 
43,703, an average of eleven cows per dairy. The dairies are scored by the 
inspectors annually. The maximum score given was 100, the minimum 52, 
the average 65. 

Special visits were made in 124 instances to investigate changes and altera- 
tions, and in 13 instances to investigate contagious diseases. 42 visits to 
country milk-collecting stations were made during the year and these led to 
34 notices to improve conditions. 

The work of the bureau which has to do with the milk depots of the city, 
those places where milk and milk products alone are handled, numbers 11,689 
visits. The number of milk depots is 269. In addition, 1,379 visits were 
made to the 3,000 stores handling milk. There is a total of 3,341 milk 
depots and stores to which permits were granted. 107 permits were refused. 
153 visits were made to investigate changes and alterations and 19 for con- 
tagious diseases. 

Two hundred and sixty visits were made to 17 milk platforms. Within 
the past year quite a change has taken place in the shipment of milk into the 
city. Formerly the greater part of it came in over interurban and steam 
railroads, and was discharged at loading platforms. During the past winter, 
trucks, which run straight to the distributor, have been more and more 
extensively used until now it is estimated that 80 per cent of all milk comes 
in on trucks. The chief work that is done at the platform is to note unwashed 
and untagged cans, the taking of the temperature of milk and the collection 
of samples for examination. Similar samples are taken of the milk on trucks 
at their entrance to the city or at least before they have discharged their load. 
2,205 milk temperatures were taken and 11,950 samples collected. These 
visits to the platforms and the trucks resulted in the rejection of 1,329 gal- 
lons of milk, the most common cause for rejection being the shipment from 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 149 

excluded dairies. Other causes were: untagged or dirty cans, shipment 
from known tuberculosis herds and selling without a license. 

There are in the city of Cleveland three wholesale ice cream plants, two 
of which, however, have been consolidated. To other plants which produce 
ice cream for their own retail trade, totaling about 60, 3,050 visits were made 
during the year. 

There are seven butter factories in the city. To these seven, forty visits 
of inspection were made. 

Four slaughter houses in the city of Cleveland are under inspection by 
this bureau, and eight are under federal inspection. 35 slaughter houses 
outside of the city slaughter on definite days and postmortem examinations 
of all carcasses are made before shipment. 

In inspection work before slaughter the following numbers of food ani- 
mals have come under the eye of the bureau: 135,317 cattle, 942,659 hogs, 
359,095 sheep, 115,377 calves. Of these there were rejected: 1,534 cattle 
(more than 50 per cent for tuberculosis, more than 25 per cent for actinomy- 
cosis), 471 hogs (nearly 60 per cent for cholera, none for tuberculosis), 359 
sheep (emaciation and crippling the most prominent causes, actual disease 
about 10 per cent), 308 calves (immaturity, emaciation and crippling the most 
common causes, actual disease less than 15 per cent 3 per cent for tuber- 
culosis). 

Meat animals inspected after slaughter: 27,881 cattle, 35,303 hogs, 
48,294 sheep, 54,465 calves. Rejections: 143 cattle (more than 67 per cent 
for tuberculosis), 249 hogs (83 per cent for cholera, 6 per cent for tubercu- 
losis), 203 sheep, 58 calves. In addition to the entire animals condemned 
before and after slaughter, parts of 2,029 cattle, 2,607 hogs, 1,603 sheep and 
142 calves were rejected at the slaughter houses. 

The market and commission house confiscation of meat totaled 63,822 
pounds. There are approximately 1,150 meat markets in Cleveland. 598 
complaints in regard to meat markets were investigated and a total of 7,308 
visits to markets made. There are 190 poultry dressing rooms, to which 
1,100 visits were made. 

At all slaughter houses and most meat markets sausage is made. There 
are eight, or fewer, factories making sausages exclusively. The visits "to 
sausage factories totaled 501. 

Arrests for violating the meat ordinance during the year were 8, arrests for 
violations of the milk and bottle ordinance 4, summons to prosecutor's office 
5. The number who were brought to trial and who were convicted is not 
stated. 

The control of rabies is handled jointly with the Bureau of Communicable 
Disease but chiefly by the Bureau of Milk and Dairy Inspection. Of 1,000 
dogs which were reported in 1919 to have bitten one or more human beings 
in Cleveland, 110 dogs were actually rabid, as shown by observation, or the 
finding of Negri bodies, or by both observation and examination. 196 per- 



150 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

sons were bitten by these dogs and received Pasteur treatment. 39 examina- 
tions were made in the laboratory and of these examinations 17, or 43.5 per 
cent of the total, were positive for rabies. The history of some of the re- 
maining 22 dogs was so suggestive of rabies that treatment was given to the 
persons bitten. 

Forty-three dogs not found, either dead or alive, were considered rabid on 
their history and the 74 persons bitten by them were treated. In addition 
to the dogs, four cats were found to be rabid on examination and one was 
considered to be so on the history. 14 persons were bitten by these cats, 
12 by those with known rabies. One rabid horse bit one person, and rats 
were reported as having bitten two people. 

If the animal is found alive it is placed under observation; if killed or 
found dead, its brain is examined for the presence of Negri bodies. Pasteur 
treatment is given on the positive diagnosis of rabies on either of the grounds. 
If the animal cannot be found or the presence of Negri bodies cannot be 
demonstrated, the circumstances surrounding the biting are considered and 
the person bitten is given the benefit of the doubt and Pasteur treatment is 
offered. 

The quality of supervision of the slaughtering and sale of meat appears 
to be excellent, the standards being those of the Federal Bureau of Animal 
Industry. All slaughter houses must be under federal or city license and 
inspection systems. The regulations as enforced cover all the usual precau- 
tions and requirements. 

Slaughter house and food factory inspection is made for the non-federal 
inspected houses in the city and the 28 outside of the city. About 25 per 
cent of the city killed meat is slaughtered in other than federal inspected 
houses. No uninspected meat is permitted for sale in the city. 

MILK CONTROL 

The handling of milk control in Cleveland, in spite of the up-to-date regula- 
tions, suffers from several radical defects in principle and method which are 
probably responsible for the high percentage of dangerously polluted milk 
samples found on the bacterial counts of samples examined at the request of 
the Survey by the Bureau of Laboratories in February and June, 1920. 

The ordinances do not cover the question of sterilization of containers. 
There is dangerous neglect of this important point in the technic of milk 
distribution by many dealers. Exclusion of milk supplies is based on the 
condition of the dairy, and the results of inspection of the premises where 
milk is handled and pasteurized. The routine use of bacterial counts is not 
a basis of milk control. 

The chief of the bureau agreed that reliance placed upon inspection of 
dairies, the amount of dirt by the clarifying test, and the standard method 
of pasteurizing and recording by temperature and duration of exposure, 
cannot be relied upon to guarantee a safe milk to the consumer as long as 
unsterilized containers are used, which m|ih|J]ii milk unreliable even after 




PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 151 

pasteurization. Little attention is paid to bacteriological counts for exclu- 
sion of milk. 

At present, with the apparently limited force, the division could with 
advantage gradually change its policy from field inspection to laboratory 
control of the delivered milk. Milk inspection is carried out in the country 
\\ it hin ;i nulins <.f -jiMi miles and at the pasteurizing plants outside and inside 
the city. Chemical tests are made by the inspectors themselves at the 
Division of Health laboratory. Bacteriological tests are made by the bac- 
teriological laboratory under the director of laboratories. 

The following is quoted from field notes made by the investigator for the 
Survey on accompanying a dairy inspector on his rounds in the country: 

"The inspector stated that he covered his old route once a year and that he tried to 
cover new territory more often. During the winter the inspectors do very little work in 
the country and in the summer are often called out to do other work. He had 900 dairies 
last year under his care and will have about 1,200 this year. When he is on the road he 
sees from 10 to 15 dairies a day. Dairies which make butter do not have to come up to 
the standard : in fact, he told of several very poor dairies to which he had suggested that 
they make butter instead of shipping milk. This is certainly a dangerous policy. 

There are no bacteriological tests to determine the cleanliness of utensils. No search 
is made for the cause of a high bacteriological count, where the milk is brought in, with a 
notice to the inspectors to follow up the high counts. 

The score card shows that more emphasis is put on technic than construction. The 
inspector observed really seemed interested in the cleanliness of the process, although he 
scored dairies without seeing the process of milking or handling of milk. The inspector 
was primarily interested in clean utensils and provisions for cooling. The emphasis is 
evidently correctly placed. The previous score card is not taken with him when he goes 
to make a second inspection. He carries the facts as to previous conditions in his head." 

Firmness and an entirely consistent policy of exclusion for specified defects does not 
prevail. "Many dairies were using milking machines, which are exceedingly dangerous 
unless cared for immaculately. Many of the machines seen were dirty. They cannot be 
sterilized. In one dairy an elaborate sterilizing plant was found with all utensils sterilized, 
but 12 dirty milking machines." 

Tables VII. and VIII. in the Appendix represent the official record of 
raw (certified) and pasteurized market milk in Cleveland during the past 
six years. 

The following reports were received by the Survey from the bacterio- 
logical laboratory of the Division of Health : 

March 19, 1920 

"Enclosed herewith are the results of the bacteriological examinations of the Cleve- 
land Milk Supply made recently for the Cleveland Hospital Survey. 

"From these we have made the following notations: There were 103 samples ex- 
amined. Of those containing 50,000 or less bacteria colonies per c. c. there were 43, or 
41.7' ;. From 51,000 to 100,000, inclusive, there were nine samples, or 8.7%. Of those 




152 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

from 100 and 1,000 to 500,000, inclusive, there were 21 samples, or 20.3%. 30 samples, 
or 29.1% contained over 500,000 colonies per c.c. 

"The presence of gas producers in lactose broth was found in 52 samples, or 50.5%. 
Six of these samples showed the presence of gas formers in all five dilutions and one of 
these showed the presence in all tests of all dilutions. Five samples showed the presence 
of gas formers in four of the five dilutions. 

"Of the 92 samples examined in triplicate for the presence of spore forming gas pro- 
ducers 36 samples (39%) gave positive results. 

Fermentations Spore Formers 

Positive Samples Positive Tests Positive Samples Positive Tests 

No. Per No. Per No. Per No. Per 

Colonies per c.c. Cent Cent Cent Cent 

Under 50,000_ 21 50. 75 11.6 12 23. 24 21.6 

51,000 to 100,000 4 44.4 8 6. 3 33.3 4 19.1 

100,000 to 500,000 12 57.1 44 14. 5 23.8 9 15.8 

Over 500,000 16 53.3 99 22. 12 40. 29 33.3 

"The methods pursued in the examination of Cleveland Market Milk for the Hospital 
Survey were as follows: 

COLLECTION OF SAMPLES 

"Samples were collected from the various milk plants, milk wagons and grocery stores 
by the writer and other laboratory employes. The milk was brought direct to the labora- 
tory in the original package and examined immediately. Owing to the low temperature 
of the weather the samples were not iced in transit. Although the temperature was not 
taken, it is safe to say that the milk did not reach a temperature of more than three or 
four degrees above, and in most cases was several degrees below the temperature at which 
it was received, by the time plating was begun. Both quart and pint bottles were collected. 

METHODS OF EXAMINATION 

"Agar plates were made, using plain standard agar in triplicate dilutions of 1:100 
and 1:1000. Fermentations were made in triplicate in lactose broth in quantities of 
10 c.c., 1 c.c., 0.1 c.c., 0.01 c.c. and 0.001 c.c. The plates were counted after 24 hours incuba- 
tion at 37 degrees C. and the average taken for record. Where the count was high it was 
recorded as an estimate; for example, 'Over 500,000.' If fermentation occurred, a trans- 
plant was made from the fermentation tube (showing gas) to eosin-methylen blue agar, 
the organism isolated in a pure culture for further study. Fermentations incubated for 
at least 72 hours. 

"Triplicate specimens of 10 c.c. of milk each were placed in test tubes with a few drops 
of azolitmin solution and heated in the water bath at 80 degrees C. for 30 minutes, and then 
incubated at 37 degrees C. for 72 hours or until gas production was indicated. It was then 
transplanted to lactose fermentation tubes and reincubated, as a control on the presence 
of gas production. These cultures were then plated on plain agar and incubated anaero- 
bically for isolation in pure culture for further examination. 

"This covers in general the methods of procedure with the Hospital Survey samples. 
Some other examinations were originally planned, but either the necessary material and 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 153 

equipment were not at hand, or other immediate facilities were lacking, so that the work 
could not be consistently carried out and was therefore discontinued." 

A series of samples examined in June were analyzed in a somewhat 
more detailed manner, as shown in the accompanying report from the same 
source. 

"July 8, 1920. 

"Enclosed herewith is a classified report of the bacteriological examination of Cleve- 
land market milk. 

"Bacteriological Examination Counts were made in duplicate on plain agar with 
dilutions of 1 :1000 in sterile tap water incubated at 37 degrees C. for 24 hours. The aver- 
age of the duplicates was recorded. Fermentation tests for the presence of gas producers 
was made in dilutions of 1:1000, 1:100, 1:10, 1 and 10 c.c., respectively, in triplicates, using 
1 % lactose broth Dunham tubes. The figures in the corresponding columns in the report 
indicate the number of triplicates showing the presence of gas. Triplicate tests for spore 
bearing gas formers were made by placing 10 c.c. of milk in a 6-inch test tube with a couple 
of drops of sterile azolitmin solution, and heating in the water bath at 80 degrees C. for at 
least 30 minutes. These were then incubated at 37 degrees C. for 72 hours or until gas 
formation was indicated, and then transferred to 1% lactose broth in Dunham tubes. 
The column "Ana," in the report indicates the number of these showing the presence of gas." 

CLASSIFICATION OF DEALERS AND RESULTS 

At'a conference with the four city dairy inspectors who are familiar with the dairy 
premises and personnel, the dealers were placed in three groups: 

Group 1 Dealers whose premises, equipment and methods are of the 
best, equipped with bottle sterilizers, coolers, automatic filler and capper, etc. 

Group 2 Those whose methods may be satisfactory but who are not 
equipped with the most "up-to-date" apparatus, such as sterilizers, auto- 
matic fillers, cappers, etc. 

Group 3 Those whose premises, equipment and methods are the cause 
of more or less dissatisfaction. 

Classes The groups are sub-divided into three classes, according to the bacterio- 
logical^results. 

Class A Contains those whose bacteria count does not exceed 50,000 
colonier p:r c.c. nor have gas formation in more than 50% of the fermenta- 
tion tests. 

Class B Includes all that do not belong to Class A, but which do not 
have a bacteria count of over 500,000 colonies per c.c. 

Class C Includes all with a bacteria count of over 500,000 colonies 
per c.c. 

A classification of the patrons is suggested by indicating the so-called better residence 
sections by "X," the medium sections by "Y," and the poorer sections, factory districts 
and congested portions of the city by "Z." 



154 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

In Table IX. will be found the detailed results of this study. 

It is easy to see from the reports that intelligent, consistent, economical 
and constructive work through bacterial counts of milk is needed to clean 
up the milk supply by tracing the dirty supplies to their source, by testing 
the pasteurized product as delivered to the consumer, and then following 
back to the production point to discover the place and cause of the con- 
tamination. 

Among the reasons to which the unsatisfactory condition of the milk 
must be attributed are the holding of pasteurized milk without prompt cool- 
ing, in the containers used in the process of pasteurizing before bottling; 
the use of unsterilized containers for distribution to the consumer; the ab- 
sence of any prosecution based on bacteriological tests; and the emphasis 
in prosecution of farmers solely upon the sediment test and butter fat con- 
tent. The system of milk control does not put any effective check by bac- 
teriological methods upon the cleanliness of the milk before pasteurization. 
The dealers are prosecuted for failure to meet the requirements in butter fat 
and sediment test, for use of bottles not their own, for the condition of their 
premises and for the processes used in pasteurizing and bottling. The milk 
bottle caps do not show the grade or date or anything except advertising 
and trade terms, to indicate the quality and age of the milk. An official 
and uniform text on caps would better protect the consumer. 

It is recommended that bacterial count control largely replace the present 
diffuse and unproductive system of milk and dairy inspection, and that auto- 
mobile transportation sufficient to save the time of field inspectors be pro- 
vided. 

In this bureau, as elsewhere in the Division of Health, we find workers 
with sufficient knowledge but hampered by lack of sound policies, and lack- 
ing in the educational facilities upon which good preventive health work is 
usually done. 

The staff meets for conference on Saturday mornings to discuss policies 
and the service. There would seem to be no good reason for keeping this 
bureau separate from the other food inspection service now carried on under 
the city chemist. 

The chemical laboratory should not have inspectional functions but should 
be used as- a source for facts, upon which records, prosecutions and exclusion 
of food should be determined. 

The personnel of the bureau, except the director, comes from the civil 
service eligible lists. Applicants have no medical examination, since they 
are not eligible for any pension fund. They are supposed to pass a mental 
examination on some of the technical information required in dairy and 
meat inspection. This eligible list has been eliminated for the past two 
years as there have been no examinations held by the Civil Service Com- 
mission. Inspectors are taken as they come, without examination. They 
receive for the first year $1,500 salary; for the second year $1,650, and for 
the third year $1,800; supervising lay inspector $2,000; the two assistants 
$2,400; and the chief $3,800. 



PUBLIC Hi \i.i H SI-.KVICES 155 

Bureau oi Laboratories 

Tl 1 1 . work of the Bureau of Laboratories is carried on under the super- 
vision of the Chief of the Bureau, known as the Director of Laboratories, 
.it present ;t part-time employe, also occupying the chair of bacteriology 
and hygiene at Western Reserve University Medical School. Two laborator- 
ies are maintained, one the bacteriological laboratory for the examination of 
cultures, smears, blood specimens and pathological specimens for the diag- 
nosis of disease, ami the examination of water, milk and other substances for 
their safety and purity as foods. The second laboratory is a chemical labora- 
tory and is charged with the analysis of food and drugs, the sanitary suj>er- 
vision of stores, restaurants, bake shops and the like. 

The ordinance authorizing the bureau provides that the function of the 
laboratory shall be to assist in the diagnosis of communicable disease, to fix 
the period of quarantine, to determine the quality of the milk, food and water 
supply of Cleveland, and to perform such chemical and bacteriological 
analyses as are related to public welfare. 

The functions of the laboratories are similar to those of other municipal 
health laboratories: i. e. t diagnosis, analysis, production, research. The out- 
fits supplied for diagnostic uses are assembled but not manufactured at the 
laboratory and there are no biological products produced as a routine by the 
city. 

The Chief of the Bureau of Laboratories, under the direction of the Com- 
missioner of Health, has charge of all employes of the bureau, assigns their 
duties and enforces the laws relating to the functions of the bureau. 

The bureau supplies outfits for the collection of material from suspected 
cases of diphtheria, typhoid fever, tuberculosis, rabies, and such other com- 
municable diseases as the Commissioner of Health and the Chief of the 
Bureau of Communicable Diseases may decide. 

No diagnostic services are provided for meningococcus or other organisms 
causing meningitis or for pathological changes in the spinal fluid. No type 
determinations are offered for pneumococcus or meningococcus. No tetanus 
antitoxin, antipneninococcus vaccine or antimeningococcus serum are avail- 
able through the laboratory or any bureau of the Division of Health. Viru- 
lence tests for persistent diphtheria carrier organisms are rarely made(in per- 
haps 10 to H eases a year) and then by the lethal test instead of by the more 
economical and quite as reliable intradermal test in guinea pigs. 

The bureau examines and reports on samples of milk and dairy products 
submitted by the Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection, and such samples 
from ot her sources as may be approved by the Commissioner and the Chief of 
the Bureau of Laboratories. 

The laboratory's activities in milk examinations were as follows: 

There were 12,245 milk samples examined; 10,016 shipper's samples and 
2,229 dealer's samples. Four per cent of all were below the lactometer 



156 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

standard; 5.5 per cent below the fat standard; 27.5 per cent below the total 
solid standard and 19.7 per cent below the standard of cleanliness by the sedi- 
ment test. 

When shipper's samples are found to fall below the legal standards, 
written notices are sent to the producer calling his attention to these facts. 
Later, averaging perhaps two months from the time the notice was first sent, 
an effort is made to secure samples of milk from the same producer to see 
whether or not the fault complained of has been corrected. This is poor 
follow-up and leaves too much to chance and the good will of the shipper. 

No bacterial counts were made, of the shipper's samples of milk, but it is 
stated that 50 per cent of the dealer's samples had more than 50,000 bac- 
teria to the c. c. (It should be remembered that the milk ordinance speci- 
fies 500,000 as the bacterial standard for milk which may be sold in the city 
of Cleveland.) 

The bureau makes chemical and bacteriological examinations of the 
municipal water supply (including samples from springs in parks) at approved 
intervals, as well as sanitary examinations of water used by citizens of Cleve- 
land at their homes in the city or country. It also examines from time to 
time such water as is offered 'for sale. The bureau makes such chemical, 
bacteriological and pathological examinations of samples of foods submitted 
by the Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection as may be necessary. It makes 
tests as to the bactericidal efficiency of disinfectants and germicides. 

The work of the bacteriological laboratory is carried on by a staff con- 
sisting of a director on part-time, and four other persons, two of whom are 
listed as bacteriologists, one as a physician, the other as serologist. One of 
the four named above has, under the director of the bureau, general super- 
vision of the laboratory. There are four laboratory assistants, one who 
cleans glassware, being classified as laborer, one messenger and two typists 
as clerical assistants. 

The following summary of the work of the bacteriological laboratory indi- 
cates the types of examinations made and their number in 1919. 45,711 
specimens were examined, an increase of more than 50 per cent over the num- 
ber examined in the previous year. Specimens of sputum, blood for Widal 
tests and the heads of animals for the diagnosis of rabies, showed a decrease 
in number. The decided increase in total specimens was due to an 83 per 
cent increase in throat cultures and the increase in the number of blood 
specimens sent in for Wassermann tests and of smears for gonococcus. Diph- 
theria having shown a low incidence in the three years previous to 1919, 
became more prevalent during that year, and this increased prevalence 
accounts largely for the increased number of 'cultures. It is not 'unlikely, 
however, that more exposure cultures were taken than has been usual in the 
past since this procedure was made very extensive whenever diphtheria oc- 
curred in schools or institutions. The probable truth of this inference is 
indicated by the fact that while diagnosis cultures increased 66 per cent, 
exposure cultures more than doubled in number. There was a diminution 
in sputum specimens from 3,216 in 1918 to 3,101 in 1919, and from 764 in 
which the tubercle bacillus was found in 1918, to 630 in 1919. 



l'i uuc HEALTH SI-.K VICES 157 

Increasing interest in venereal disease control may well explain the in- 
creased number of examinations for their diagnosis. Wassermann speci- 
mens presented for examination increased from 5,807 in 1918 to 8,070 in 
1919 and the positive findings from 1,498 to 2,658. 

An approximate estimate of the cost per specimen is 33 cents for all 
diagnostic tests. 

The chief criticisms of the laboratory which have been heard relate to the 
dependability of its reports in laboratory diagnoses and upon the maintenance 
at the distributing stations of a proper supply of outfits for the collection of 
material for diagnosis, and of diphtheria antitoxin for use in immunization 
and treatment of diphtheria patients and those exposed to diphtheria. 

In general, according to the judgment of physicians having experience in 
this matter, it appears that the Wassermann work of the city laboratory is 
of high character. A similar statement would undoubtedly be made of the 
morphological differentiation of the pseudo-forms from the true forms of the 
diphtheria bacillus. In diphtheria particularly it is probably true that a 
doubtful specimen is rarely passed as positive or negative on the judgment 
of any one person; it is the rule of the laboratory that such specimens shall 
always be seen and confirmed by more than one bacteriologist. 



COLLECTION OF SPECIMENS FOR DIAGNOSIS 

The main distributing stations for outfits of all kinds and for diphtheria 
antitoxin are the police stations of the city; a few of the larger drug stores as 
well, have these supplies for the convenience of physicians in the downtown 
office buildings. In each police station a small incubator heated by an elec- 
tric lamp is to be found, and the physician, after making a culture, is thus 
enabled to get it promptly under a suitable temperature, so that when taken 
to the laboratory it is usually ready for immediate examination. Last sum- 
mer a number of these incubators were out of order for some time through a 
difficulty experienced in getting the lamps. This difficulty was corrected 
before the cooler weather set in last fall. 

Frequent criticisms are received of the failure to find outfits or anti- 
toxin in these stations and of the bad condition of these outfits. Much, but 
not all, of this difficulty is avoided when the laboratory has a reliable mes- 
senger, but the man who can qualify as such usually soon finds a better 
paying job and leaves the city's employ. He collects daily from each sta- 
tion and is supposed to assure himself at each visit that an adequate supply 
of outfits in perfect condition and a sufficient supply of antitoxin are on hand 
and that the incubator is operating properly. 

One cause of the difficulties met in keeping the stations properly supplied 
is the fact that physicians at times take more outfits or more antitoxin than 
they need for immediate use, leaving nothing for those who may follow. 
Further, it is quite certainly known that Cleveland antitoxin is occasionally 
used for patients who are not residents of Cleveland but of the suburbs. 



158 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Twelve of the police precinct stations were visited by our investigator 
with the collector on one of his routine collecting trips. This collector had 
been in the service for six months. He has a good Ford car at his disposal 
and makes a daily trip covering all the police stations, beginning at 6 A. M. 
and finishing about 10 A M. Three times a week he also includes the health 
centers. On Sunday each police precinct is telephoned, and visits are made 
only where there is material to be collected. In the afternoon his work con- 
sists of answering telephone orders, getting supplies from bath houses, ice 
wagons, etc., and also doing odd jobs around the laboratory. He is supposed 
to keep the police stations supplied with the following: 4 to 8 diphtheria 
culture tubes, 6 to 10 sputum bottles, antitoxin in units of 1,000, 5,000 and 
10,000, about 4 or 5 each; 6 to 8 Wassermann outfits, Neisser outfits, where 
there is demand, and Widal outfits. 

Each precinct has an electric incubator. Diphtheria cultures are sup- 
posed to be kept in this; sputum and Wassermann outside. Sometimes 
mistakes are made, and occasionally the doors are left open. Supplies in 
some stations are kept in cupboards which are unlocked. No supplies are 
kept on ice. It is impossible to ascertain how long supplies are kept with- 
out replacement. The collector says that he has instructions to examine 
the diphtheria culture tubes at least every week and bring in all defective 
media. 

"Police Precinct No. 2 No material to be collected. Supplies kept in a locked 
closet. Material on hand: four diphtheria; ten Widal; three Wassermann; three sputum; 
four antitoxin, two each 1,000 and 5,000, no 10,000 units. 

"Police Precinct No. 3 Material collected: two Wassermann, one Neisser, one 
diphtheria. Material kept in locked closet. Material on hand: four diphtheria; one 
Wassermann; eleven sputum; seven Widal; antitoxin, noS.OOO, two 10,000, four 1,000 units. 

"Police Precinct No. 4 Material collected: one sputum, one Wassermann, three 
diphtheria. Material kept in closet without lock. Material on hand: one diphtheria; 
six antitoxin, two of which were 5,000, four 10,000 and no 1,000 units; three sputum; 
nine Widal. 

"Police Precinct No. S Material collected: one Wassermann, one diphtheria, one 
sputum. Supplies kept in closet without a lock. Material on hand: seven diphtheria; 
seven Wassermann; eight Widal; five sputum; antitoxin, three 5,000, two 1,000 and four 
10,000 units. 

"Police Precinct No. 6 Material collected: two Neisser, one Wassermann, five 
diphtheria. Material kept in cupboard without a lock. Material on hand: three diph- 
theria; six Wassermann; three sputum; antitoxin, three 5,000, one 10,000, five 1,000 units. 

"Police Precinct No. 7 Material collected: none. Supplies kept in safe. Material 
on hand: eight diphtheria; four Wassermann; five typhoid; antitoxin, five 1,000, no 5,000 
or 10,000 units. 

"Police Precinct No. 9 Material collected: three diphtheria, one sputum^ Sup- 
plies kept in a closet with no lock. Material on hand : nine diphtheria tubes, two of which 
were dry; nine antitoxin; nine sputum; eight Widal; twelve Wassermann outfits. 



Pi lu.ic HEALTH SERVICES 159 

"Police Precinct No. 10 Material collected: one sputum, two diphtheria. Sup- 
plies kept in locked cupboard. Material on hand: five diphtheria cultures, two of which 
were dry; thirteen antitoxin; eight Neisser; nine Widal; three Wassermann ; two sputum 
outfits. 

"Police Precinct No. 11 Material collected: three Wassermann, five diphtheria, 
three sputum. Supplies kept in closet without lock. Material on hand: one diphtheria; 
thirteen antitoxin, three 1,000, four 5,000, six 10,000; seven sputum ; six Wassermann ; five 
Widal outfits. 

"Police Precinct No. 12 Nothing to collect. Supplies kept in office in unlocked 
cupboard. Material on hand : seven diphtheria cultures, two of which were dry ; eleven 
antitoxin; three sputum; one dozen Widal; one dozen Wassermann. 

"Police Precinct No. 13 Material collected: three diphtheria, six Wassermann, one 
sputum. Material kept in closet with no lock. Material on hand: no diphtheria; two 
Wassermann; three sputum; two antitoxin, one each 1,000 and 10,000; three typhoid ; one 
Neisser outfit. 

"Police Precinct No. 14 Material collected: one sputum, one diphtheria. Sup- 
plies kept in a closet without a lock. Material on hand: three diphtheria; five Wassermann, 
ten antitoxin, three 1,000, three 5,000 and four 10,000; three sputum; two Widal outfits. 

"The police captains and lieutenants said that they had had a great many complaints 
because of lack of material and also because the diphtheria culture material was not in 
good shape. 

"There have been a great many recent complaints because the Wassermann outfits do 
not now include a needle. The collector explained the complaints about lack of material 
by saying that recently the department shipments of antitoxin and diphtheria culture 
material had been delayed by freight strikes, etc , and that for some time they had prac- 
tically no material on hand. 

"The collector appeared to be intelligent, alert and interested in his job and could im- 
prove the service if not hampered by lack of supplies at the central office." 

Ever since it began its work the laboratory has interested itself particu- 
larly in the water supply of the city. The amount of chlorine used from day 
to day is based mainly upon bacteriological examinations of the water and 
these are now made by the Division of Water under the Department of 
Public Service. The continuance of the examinations by the bacteriological 
laboratory constitute, however, a valuable check upon those of the division 
directly responsible. 

As a summary of the results of the examinations of the city water for the 
year 1919 in the bacteriological laboratory it may be said first, that the raw 
water shows great pollution; second, that the chlorinated water shows con- 
siderable variation, that it is apt to be fairly or entirely free from evidences 
of pollution in the summer and winter, while in the spring and fall, particu- 
larly the former, it shows traces of pollution varying from slight to decided 
in a month; third, that the blend of filtered chlorinated and unfiltered 
chlorinated water, as used on the East Side of the city, shows some improve- 
ment over the chlorinated water previously in use; fourth, occasional colon 
colonies are found in the filtered chlorinated water. 



160 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The work of the chemical laboratory under the director of the bureau is 
performed by a staff consisting of three chemists, one a chief chemist who 
supervises the work of the bureau and performs some slight services for the 
medical school in demonstrating points of sanitary interest in the city to 
medical students; six assistant chemists, six sanitary officers assigned to 
the laboratory, and two typists. The laboratory has charge of all food, 
drug and liquor analyses, miscellaneous chemical analyses, the inspection of 
drug stores and of stores, restaurants and other places where food, except 
milk or meat, are produced, sold or stored. One out of the seven chemists 
in this laboratory obtained his position as a result of competitive civil service 
examination. The last examination was held in 1917. 

The Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspecti6n is charged with the control of 
the milk and meat supply of the city of Cleveland and this responsibility 
extends from production to delivery to the ultimate consumer. The con- 
trol of all other food is lodged in the chemical laboratory of the Bureau of 
Laboratories. Here, again, the bureau is charged with the sanitary super- 
vision of the production, storage and sale of these products. All stores 
handling food, except those which limit themselves to the sale of milk or 
meat, and all bakeries, confectionery stores, groceries, restaurants, bottling 
works and the like are under their supervision. The state permits for res- 
taurants, etc., are issued only after inspection and approval by the city chemist 
as to methods and equipment. 

Much attention has been paid in the past to the sanitary condition of 
bakeries and by cooperation with the local organizations maintained by 
bakeries the conditions in the bake-shops have beconie quite satisfactory. 
Recently more attention has been paid to the proper distribution of the 
products of these shops to stores and the care with which they are handled 
at these places. 

The inspection work of the chemical laboratory is performed by sanitary 
patrolmen assigned to the laboratory. During the year 1918 five sanitary 
patrolmen and three inspectors were so assigned. The positions of inspec- 
tors were abolished in the year 1919 and six patrolmen were assigned to this 
duty. The total number of inspections are represented by the following 
figures: inspections, 7,552; reinspections, 7,801; warning letters, 340; sum- 
mons before the police prosecutor, 382; stores closed, 54; arrests, 15; con- 
victions, 13; and cases pending on appeal by the city, 2. 

No case is brought into court unless all other means have been exhausted. 
Food stores are inspected about six times a year, bakeries and restaurants 
three to four times a year; candy factories about three times a year; bottling 
establishments according to season. This laboratory also does work for the 
State Medical Board for violations of the medical practice act and for the 
State Board of Pharmacy and for the Engineers Board of the city (who 
provide one chemist and an assistant for the laboratory) and for the Depart- 
ment of Public Service. 

From an inspection of the small restaurants and food stores made by an 
investigator for the Survey, it is obvious that there are constant violations 
of ordinary sanitary decency in these places, which could be checked if more 



l'i BUG Hi \i.i ii M i;\ i< i - 161 

time \\ere spent on actual insj>ection, and less of the appropriation for this 
division were iiM-d in doing non-health work. The six insjH'ctors, of whom 
one works always at the railroad terminals, cover the entire city and spend a 
large part of their time in traveling from place to place in the city. Good 
administration would suggest that the sanitary inspection force be combined 
instead of being split into the three groups, so that each patrolman would 
have a small district within which he would fulfill the functions of sanitary 
inspector, food and drug inspector and quarantine officer. At present the 
minimum of actual service in the field for the maximum expense is accom- 
plished. 

The Bureau of Laboratories cooperates with other department* of the city 
government in inspection work of all descriptions, with reference to bacterio- 
logical and chemical standards. The bacteriological laboratory makes any 
examination of milk and meat that conies within its province, for the Bureau 
of Food and Dairy Inspections. The chemical laboratory does the same, 
and in addition examines chemically, food products other than milk and meat 
for their identity and sanitary condition. In the past many samples have 
been taken from retail stores, but recently much effort has been made to secure 
samples of food as it enters the city in carload lots or smaller shipments, and 
to determine its quality before it has left the jobber. The laboratory works 
in close cooperation with the Bureau of Chemistry of the United States 
Department of Agriculture in this matter. 

As a result of this work in 1919 four warning letters were sent; there 
were 26 summons to appear before the police prosecutor, 14 arrests, 9 con- 
victions, 4 cases discharged and one case pending on the appeal of the de- 
fendant. 

One hundred and twenty-nine car lot shipments and 355 less than car lot 
shipments were inspected. The confiscations cover such articles as baked 
goods, baking powder, cereals, candy, fruits, nuts, olives and pickles. A 
considerable number of fruits and vegetables were ordered sorted. 

The insj>ection of drug stores is a function of the chemical laboratory. 
A special duty has been placed upon the inspector of drug stores by the 
narcotic ordinance of the city. 

The Division of Health some years ago established close relations with the 
Druggists' Association of Cleveland and through the cooperation thus at- 
tained has been able to secure the voluntary removal of a considerable 
number of the more objectionable types of patent medicines from the shelves 
of Cleveland druggists. 

Aside from patent medicines and narcotics the laboratory has been 
especially interested in fraudulent or adulterated preparations and has suc- 
ceeded in keeping from sale a considerable number and variety of drugs of 
a type similar to aspirin and phenacetin which were misbranded or adulter- 
ated. 

THE "PATENT MEDICINE" IN CLEVELAND 

This is a subject that must be approached in a tactful manner because 
of the large amount of capital invested in the manufacture and sale of these 



162 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

substances, and likewise because many individuals of more than average 
intelligence believe in patent medicines and practise self-medication. 

It is not true that these remedies are used only by the foreigners and the 
ignorant. To pass over this subject without mentioning it would be to 
overlook a very important item affecting public health. 

The United States Government report shows about $90,000,000 to be 
invested in the production of proprietary remedies. It does not classify 
these remedies to show which ones are entirely non-secret in nature, stating 
their entire formula on the label, or in an otherwise public manner. It 
does not say which ones are based upon preparations whose formulas are 
incorporated in the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary. 
It does not say which ones are mainly alcoholic in nature. It does not say 
which ones are entirely secret in their composition, nor does it say how 
many may be entirely "rank fakes." A need for such a classification cer- 
tainly exists. In this enlightened age no one should be permitted to buy 
any combination of drugs upon the open market labeled merely as a "cure- 
all." 

The discussion of this subject is often avoided by those who should dis- 
cuss it, for fear of controversy with those interested in the business. 

These remedies are manufactured on their own account by large pharma- 
ceutical houses, and are put up under fancy proprietary names, but often 
carrying the full formula on the label or in accompanying literature. These 
same houses also have what they call their private formula department 
where they fill formulae submitted to them by physicians, by combinations 
of physicians and laity, and by druggists or by people who think they have 
a formula that is the only specific for a certain disease. These remedies are 
also made by small concerns who do only a "private formula" business. 
Again they are made in a small way by druggists or, indeed, contrary to the 
idea of the statutes, by persons whose knowledge of drugs and medicines is 
absolutely nil. They are likewise made and offered to the public under coined 
names that sound to the uninitated like the names of drugs or chemicals. 
Tn this way the public is advised to treat a certain malady by mixing this 
drug with something well known, such as glycerin, alcohol, etc., and then 
by using it in a specified manner. These are usually advertised as prescrip- 
tions or in answer to letters or supposed letters to the firm asking for medical 
advice. 

DISTRIBUTION AND SALE 

The non-secret proprietaries are sold by agents of pharmaceutical houses 
who call directly upon physicians and hospitals. Other non-secret remedies 
are found in the drug stores and purport to be the "Best Ever" line of reme- 
dies, or some similar line, and whose formulae are usually on the bottle or 
are given directly to the druggist. 

Among the secret and semi-secret remedies are those most often adver- 
tised. The demand is created entirely by newspaper advertising, or by maga- 



PUBLIC HKAI/TII SI-.KNK i.> 163 

zines, periodicals. -aleudars, almanacs and oilier literature placed directly 
in the hands of the public. They are then sold by the druggist or by the 
mail house. 

Others are made and sold by wagon vendors or by house-to-house can- 
vasMTs \\lio take orders and deliver or sell direct. One method of the house- 
to-house canvasser is in represent that the profit, or part of it, goes to a 
hospital for children, thus trying to sell the remedy on a sympathy basis. 
Many are sold in grocery stores, general stores, restaurants, barber shops and 
by anyone who can create a volume of sales satisfactory to the manufacturer. 
The drug store is supposed to sell the major portion of them because it is in 
a fixed place of business, although it is very doubtful if the drug store handles 
fifty per cent of the proprietary remedies sold. 

The newspaper advertising which creates the demand is the most potent 
factor in the distribution of these remedies. The manufacturer prefers the 
names "package remedies," "home remedies," "proprietary remedies," and, 
of course, abhors the epithets "fake" and "patents." 

One feature that must not be overlooked is the form of counter prescrib- 
ing in some drug stores, happily few of them, where the unsuspecting victim 
asks for a remedy and has a well known proprietary, such as "Mother's 
Friend," transferred to a plain bottle and sold for $10. 

The law does not limit the price to be charged, nor does it limit the sale 
to any set of responsible and trained hands. All the law says is that the 
label must not claim to cure, nor may it carry false and fraudulent claims 
nor may the medicine contain certain harmful drugs. The Pure Food and 
Drugs Act only applies to the above, when these remedies enter interstate 
commerce. 

SITUATION IN CLEVELAND 

Important steps have been taken to purify the traffic, hut these steps 
have only scratched the surface. 

Here the Northern Ohio Druggists' Association lias appointed an Ad- 
visory Board who, with certain members of the Medical and Pharmacy 
School faculties, meet from time to time w r ith the city chemist and pass upon 
the legitimacy of a proprietary remedy in so far as existing law ixrmits 
action to be taken. 

The druggists have also agreed that any new "proprietary" must pass 
the city chemist as to lul>el and claims before they will stock it. In this 
way a large number of new preparations have been excluded from the market, 
many on the market have been removed and many labels and much litera- 
ture have been revised. 

Some little cooperation has Keen had from newspaj>ers relative to the 
changing of form of advert iscnicnt. It is needless \ state that a newspaper 
always endeavors to protect its advertisers against steps that tend to injure 
distribution of their wares. 



164 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

During the past three years there have been about two dozen patent 
medicines excluded from sale in Cleveland and about three dozen the claims 
of which have been modified under pressure or threat from this division. 
Revision of labels is required in many cases. A misbranding order is held 
as a threat over those who resist demand for toning down their advertise- 
ments. 

On looking over the files and correspondence on fraudulent patent medi- 
cine claims, it was found that the standards of the Bureau of Chemistry at 
Washington are followed, but that an amazing patience and tolerance is 
displayed in dealing with mischievous and frankly misleading advertising 
claims. Correspondence in one flagrant case of misbranding continued for 
twelve months before any result was obtained. This brings discredit on 
public law and service. The city chemist has apparently found it necessary 
to abate his efforts when he finds the newspapers of the city objecting to the 
reduction of income which the withdrawal of false advertising claims of 
proprietary remedies incurs. 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 

That a committee of physicians, hospital men, druggists, the City Health Commissioner, 
the City Chemist, the Cleveland Advertising Club, and newspaper men, with a representa- 
tive from the Chamber of Commerce or other Civic body, study the question of newspaper 
advertising of medicines to determine if it is essential to the succesc of the newspaper adver- 
tising department ; if not, to recommend it be discontinued ; if it is, find some manner 
of furnishing the same space to the newspaper for the advertising of real commodities. 
It cannot be conceded that any drug should be advertised to the public. The opinion that 
anyone may select his own treatment of disease after reading an advertisement is only 
based upon monetary gain, either directly or indirectly, and this factor should be consid- 
ered secondary in dealing with the protection of public health. 

It is recommended that the same committee, or a similar one, take steps to draft 
such city or state legislation as will place the dispensing of all medicines in the hands of 
those qualified to do so, and with such safeguards that the unscrupulous ones may be 
reached; (as, for instance, Regulation 10 of the Sanitary Code of the Village of Athens, 
New York, which forbids the sale of medicines or medical appliances otherwise than by 
licensed pharmacists or by physicians, without the approval of the health officer;) or a re- 
quirement that all medicines not issued on physician's prescriptions be rgistered with the 
names and amounts of physiologically active ingredients, upon which claims of therapeutic 
results are based, and a copy of all text used in advertising. 

It is recommended that if any such ordinance or regulation is passed, it be made ap- 
plicable at first and enforced only within the city of Cleveland, and later that an attempt 
be made to have the matter adequately and similarly dealt with under state law. 



Pi ni. ic HI.M.I ii Si i<\ ECM 165 

Bureau of Vital Statistics 

Sl\( 'K the whole structure, plan, program, estimate of results and basis 
for current work, as well ;is the science of municipal demography de- 
pend upon the system and organization of vital statistics, this subject 
is treated in a special manner by an authority in this field, an executive, 
an author and a student of social problems. 

REPORT AND SUGGESTIONS ON CONDITION OF VITAL 

STATISTICS IN THE DIVISION OF HEALTH, CITY 

OF CLEVELAND 

BY Louis I. DUBLIN, PH. D. 

Vital statistics, that is, the essential facts, the rates and . percentages 
dealing with population, births, deaths and the incidence of disease, by 
which the result of work for health protection is measured, upon which 
plans for improvement as well as sanitary and administrative policies are 
based or determined, are to all intents and purposes non-existent in the 
Division of Health of the city of Cleveland. 

On April 8, 1920, there was not yet available for the use of the Health 
Commissioner of the city the crude or general death rate for the year 1919, 
nor even the record of the number of deaths from all causes w r hich occurred 
in Cleveland in 1919. 

The birth rate for 1919 was out of the question; for, if any figure was 
quoted, it would obviously be unreliable, since non-reporting of births is 
very frequent among the rank and file of physicians and midwives in Cleve- 
land. In other words, the health authorities of this city have not at hand 
the most vital facts as to their community. They do not know what effect 
their work has on the community; in what respects it is effective and in what 
respects it is not. Except through conjecture, they cannot know the dis- 
tricts and sections of the city in which their work is most necessary and 
those in which it is not quite so necessary. Nor can they estimate the per- 
sonnel required to do a specific amount of work nor the probable cost of such 
work. Cleveland is today conducting its health work in a manner typical 
of American cities twenty years ago. It has apparently not yet learned the 
very obvious lesson that both .economy and efficiency require a system of 
record keeping which will at once permit the development of a scientific 
health program and at the same time make possible such supervision and 
control of the service rendered as to indicate its effect and its value. 

Such, then, is the present status of this very important branch of the 
health work of the city of Cleveland. The picture does not well become a 
city of close to eight hundred thousand j>eople, ranking fifth among the 
municipalities of America; a city justly priding herself on her vast resources 
and her unquestioned prosperity; on the variety and extent of -her industries; 
on her favorable ami healthy location and on the right-mindedness of her 
officials and her people. Cleveland is rightfully a proud and progressive 
city. In few cities of America does one meet more forward-looking citizens. 



166 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

But, these citizens, it seems, have not heard of the necessity of applying 
arithmetic to the problems of their public health, or to those other aspects 
of municipal government which closely affect the general welfare. It is at 
this time almost impossible to present a demographic picture of this city. 

It must not be supposed from the above that the city of Cleveland is 
niggardly in providing the means for work so essential to its health activities 
and general welfare. About $7,000 is to be spent in 1920 in salaries alone 
to carry on the vital statistics of the Division of Health. In addition, 
there is the cost of the equipment of tabulating machinery, of records and 
files, of furniture and office space. But proper and necessary results are 
not obtained from this expenditure. There is a registrar at a salary of 
$1,750. He is a practising physician whose duties are, as far as could be 
determined, limited to countersigning birth and death certificates. These 
duties occupy about an hour a day. A young lady, designated statistician, 
at a salary of $1,520, is untrained, but is interested and conscientious. She does 
what she can undirected. She runs the little division that exists in the depart- 
ment, tabulates the records and has general supervision. But she is com- 
pletely out of touch with her superiors and has no experience of her own to 
fall back on. Several other clerks, varying in number from fou< to eight, 
prepare transcripts of birth and death certificates, file these and carry out 
the simple routine required by the law. 

Under such direction it is obvious that the $7,000 provided for the vital 
statistics work is almost completely wasted. Yet, it is important to recog- 
nize what is being done. Certificates of birth and death are received. 'These 
are copied for the local files and the originals sent to the State Department 
of Health. The copies that are kept locally are bound into permanent 
volumes. An alphabetical index is also made to facilitate finding certificates 
which are arranged numerically. Gross carelessness in the acceptance of 
illegal and incomplete birth and death certificates, and errors in names, 
addresses and dates of copies left in Cleveland files for reference are of fre- 
quent occurrence. Occasionally, as implied above, an attempt is made to 
count certificates and to report to the Health Officer the total number of 
births and deaths for certain periods; but such effort is always belated. 
At no point is there any evidence that those who work at this material have 
the training necessary to do so. The important item of cause of death is, 
for example, assigned by a clerk whose decisions with reference to joint 
causes or otherwise complicated statements have no value as to their authen- 
ticity or agreement with the rules of practice of the Census Bureau. 
No effort is made to check the most important fact, the completeness of 
registration. No list of physicians and midwives is used in this department, 
although one is available in the office of the Health Commissioner. No 
tabulations are made of the numbers of reports received from each physician 
and midwife. No correspondence is had with any one of these when no certifi- 
cates are received for long periods of time. No check of any kind is carried 
on to determine whether birth or death certification is complete. Checks 
that have been made by other agencies (voluntary and official) indicate that 
the birth registration may be from 60 to 80 per cent complete, the figures 
varying during recent years. 



I'l lll.H lh.\l.l II Sl.UN l< H 107 

The following check made by the Survey will serve to gauge to some de- 
gree the extent of incompleten< 

The records of 611 < hildren under two years of age who were born in 
Cleveland were obtained through the Division of Health nurses, and the 
Visiting Nurse Association. These records were checked at the Bureau of 
Vital Statistics and only 383 or 62% were found registered under the same 
date, spelling of name, etc. These same cases and 55 others, a total of 
669, were re-checked and a search made under every probable spelling and 
under the records for several months, and 522 or 78% were found registered. 

\o monthly records of births, deaths, or of cases of reportable disease 
are made available to the citizens of Cleveland. No bulletins are issued by 
the Division of Health and, as far as could be ascertained, no printed annual 
statement has been prepared for several years. The city of Cleveland 
presents a rare opportunity among the larger cities of the country to begin 
df noro in fashioning a system for its record keeping. 

A system of vital statistics can readily be instituted which shall reflect 
the tone of the reorganized health service. It must be part and parcel of such 
a health service; an integral part of a comprehensive effort to conserve tin- 
vital resources of the city to the utmost. 

Such a service will be embraced under three heads: 

1. Registration of births, deaths and cases of sickness. 

2. Tabulations and reports. 

3. Investigation, research and health information. 

1. The first subdivision is basic to all the rest, for without the primary 
registered facts, tabulations, reports or investigations cannot be made. The 
state law requires that every birth and death in the city shall be reported 
within ten days. It is the duty of the Registrar to see that this requirement 
of the law is enforced. The first step in such enforcement is to have a complete 
list of physicians and midwives available. At regular intervals reports of 
births should be credited to the certifying physicians and midwives. Those 
from whom there are no reports or only a very small number should be 
questioned to determine whether they are negligent in reporting. Reports 
of births should also be checked against lists of baptisms, newspaper notices 
and similar sources of information. Records of deaths of infants under one 
year of age should, as a matter of routine, go through the Registry Room 
to determine whether they had been previously registered as births. Records 
of stillbirths should figure equally among births and deaths. The names of 
those physicians and midwives who are particularly negligent in their duties 
of registration would soon l>e available. An effort could then be concentrated 
on them to mend their ways. It will be necessary in some cases to prosecute 
physicians and midwives according to law as a lesson to others that the 
authorities are determined to make birth registration complete. It will be 
necessary in this connection to obtain the cooperation of the State Registrar 
and of the State local prosecuting authorities who share in the responsibility 
for enforcing the vital statistics law. 



168 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Death registration in Cleveland is probably in a satisfactory condition, 
although no effort has as yet been made to determine the completeness of 
registration. Physicians uniformly take more seriously the requirements of 
death registration. It would, nevertheless, be useful at certain intervals if 
an effort were made to check the list in the registry office with lists of deaths 
obtained from independent sources, such as hospitals and institutions for 
the aged and dependent, newspaper lists of decedents, etc. It is conceiv- 
able that through these means physicians who neglect occasionally to report 
a death or who unduly delay their reports will be discovered. 

Once received, the certificates of births and deaths must be transcribed, 
the originals sent to the State Registrar, and the certified copies bound and 
made available for easy access and future reference. This necessitates the 
preparation of additional index volumes or card records of births and deaths, 
arranged alphabetically by name with a corresponding registry number of 
the original certificates. It goes without saying that such indices and the 
transcripts themselves should be legibly written and checked as to accuracy. 
The transcripts must be bound at regular intervals in consecutive order of 
the file number and placed where they can be easily accessible and safe from 
mishandling or destruction by fire. At the present time the file room of the 
Division of Health is in bad condition. It is a general storeroom as w r ell as file 
room and it is altogether too small and too dark to permit good work to 
be done. Batches of birth and death certificates are in constant danger of 
being misplaced under present conditions. 

In addition to the registration of births and deaths, the Bureau of Vital 
Statistics should serve the Bureau of Communicable Diseases of the Division 

the repository of the records of cases of communicable disease reported as 
rsd by law. While these records are primarily intended for the guidance 
of the Bureau of Communicable Diseases for administrative health work, it 
would be economical if the cases were communicated to the Registrar for 
tabulation to show from week to week, and at other longer intervals, the 
condition of the city with reference to infectious and other reportable diseases. 

It is also recommended that this division cooperate with the Cleveland 
Hospital Council with a view to recording the number and character of 
patients receiving care, together with a statement of the diagnosis, and the 
other basic facts for the sick in each of the several wards or preferably in the 
sanitary areas of the city. This phase of hospital statistics will be treated 
in another section of this report and will not, therefore, require further dis- 
cussion at this point. 

The present clerical force is quite adequate to insure the performance of 
the registration work of the Vital Statistics Bureau. All that is needed is intelli- 
gent supervision and leadership. If the registration of communicable disease 
and hospital cases is desired as an added activity of the division, an addi- 
tion of one or, at most, two clerks will be necessary. 

2. Once the certificates of birth and death are received and the number certi- 
fied as correct, it is the function of the Registrar to tabulate the result at re- 
gular intervals A weekly report of the number of births and deaths registered 
should be available. The health officer should receive on Moriday of each 



I'l HI. K III \1. I II M.K\ li I - 169 

week a statement from the Registrar covering the numl>er of births and 
deaths reported during the preceding week. Both births and deaths should 
be tabulated by sanitary areas and by Health Districts and the numbers 
compared with those for the corresponding week of the previous year. Deaths 
should be further subdivided as to broad age |x>riods and by the principal 
causes to show the current mortality among infants, and, especially from 
the infectious diseases. At the close of each month a more detailed monthly 
statement should be prepared and, at the close of the year, a full annual 
report should be prepared. A series of tables are given in the appendix 
which are designed to show the facts required for each year for a city of the 
size and importance of Cleveland. 

The Registrar should also tabulate and report on the cases of sickness in 
the community so far as records for such cases are available. Under this 
head two important activities may be distinguished: 

(A) THE STATISTICS OF INFECTIOUS AND NOTIFIABLE DISEASES. 

Under the first head the Registrar will cooperate with the Director of 
the Bureau of Communicable Diseases. It should be the duty of the Regis- 
trar to make pin maps for the cases indicating the incidence of disease by 
sanitary areas or by Health Districts of the city. He should weekly, monthly, 
quarterly and annually compile the figures showing the prevalence of the 
several diseases for the sanitary areas. He should make comparisons with 
the incidence of such diseases in previous years and keep the Health Com- 
missioner and the others of the Administrative Staff informed of impending 
epidemics and of the distribution of cases in the several areas of the city. 
Such work, it is true, is rarely done by registrars in American cities. It is 
carried on usually, when at all, by the Director of the Bureau of Communi- 
cable Diseases; but the work is essentially statistical and could be more 
economically performed by the Statistical Bureau. There is no statistical 
work that will produce greater dividends than the careful compilation of 
records of disease, intelligently interpreted with reference to distribution by 
health districts, sanitary areas or by wards, and by age, color and nativity 
of the population. When properly correlated with the registration of deaths 
from these same diseases, it should be possible to prepare tables showing, in 
addition to the attack or morbidity rate, the lethal or case-fatality rate, which 
would indicate the severity of the epidemic at any particular time. 

(B) HOSPITAL STATISTICS. 

Cleveland finds itself exactly in the same position as do all cities in the 
United States with reference to a knowledge of the work of its hospitals. 
In no American city of any size is it possible to give the total number of cases 
admitted to hospitals, both public and private, the diseases for which entrance 
was sought, the age and sex distribution of the patients, the duration of 
treatment and the result of the treatment. It is a blemish on the excellent 
work done by hospitals that this phase of their activities has l>een left un- 
developed almost without exception in the 'United States. For Cleveland 
this represents an opportunity. For, should this city organize an effective 
bureau in its health division under the direction of a competent vital s tat is- 



170 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

tician, it would be a relatively simple matter to put into operation a plan 
which will result in the compilation of just such data with reference to hos- 
pitalization in this city. The necessity of such records of hospital care is 
never questioned; but nowhere have the necessary steps been taken to 
assure the receipt of the facts. In the matter of organization, it would be 
necessary only to establish a central office, preferably in the Bureau of Vital 
Statistics of the city, where uniform reports would be received from each of 
the hospitals of the city for each case on its discharge. Such a standard form 
would include such basic items as age of the patient, sex, color, nativity, occu- 
pation, duration of residence in Cleveland, address, diagnosis on admission 
and at discharge, a brief summary of the treatment, duration of the treat- 
ment, the date of discharge and condition on discharge; a statement of the 
social service work done or contemplated would make a valuable addition. 
It would be necessary only for the hospitals of the city to agree upon a simple 
blank including such items as these, and to send them as completed to the 
central record office immediately upon the discharge of the patient. A nomen- 
clature and classification of diseases and of conditions or states of the patients 
on discharge should also be agreed upon. 

In the central office these records would be edited and otherwise prepared 
for transfer to perforated cards which would then be sorted and tabulated by 
mechanical devices. At comparatively low cost, it should be possible at 
the end of each quarter and at the end of the year to have available a series of 
tables showing for each hospital and for all hospitals combined, the essential 
facts for the cases discharged during the period. 

From the point of view of the city such information would be of the 
greatest value in indicating the adequacy of hospital care then available 
and the need for additional hospitals and their location. It is conceivable 
that hospitals are now improperly placed with reference to the outlying sec- 
tions of the city. A study of the wards in which patients are located as 
compared with the location of the hospitals in which they have been cared 
for, would indicate opportunities for greater service through more effective 
location of hospital structures. Causes for undue competition between hos- 
pitals could be removed through this means. But, more important, will be 
the effect upon the management of hospitals in the city in standardizing 
record keeping, in bringing them together for mutual conference to learn 
why certain types of cases are better cared for in one hospital than in another, 
why, at any rate, one hospital has a lower lethality rate for certain diseases 
or surgical conditions than another. Comparisons could also be made be- 
tween the duration of stay in certain hospitals in treating like cases. The 
opportunity for constructive criticism is unlimited. Such a plan as this 
could be operated tactfully with the cooperation of the hospital authorities. 
The cost for such an activity should very properly be met by the Hospital 
Council, but the maximum will not be more than a small item for each of 
the hospitals. The Division of Health would supply only the use of its 
machinery and the directing care of its statistician. For the city, however, 
and for the Health Division especially, this will mean that, for the first 
time, it will have a knowledge of morbidity in the population which is cared 
for through the agencies of the hospitals. This is certainly an important 
phase of the health problem of the city. The patients careS for by the 



I'l M.I' 111 \l.l II M 1<\ K l.> 171 

Visiting Nurse Association should on discharge \w reported in a similar man- 
ner to the Bureau of Vital Statistics through the central office of the Asso- 
ciation. The nursing service is practically a great extra-mural hospital. 

3. The above outline of the work of the Bureau of Vital Statistics is a con- 
servative statement of what such work may profitably include. It will prob- 
ably be all that an efficient registrar or statistician with a limited staff will 
l>c able to undertake during the first few years of his incumbency, It is 
conceivable, however, that if the Registrar is carefully chosen and is sup- 
ported by the Health Commissioner and by the private and other official 
agencies, his department will gradually absorb other work along the lines 
of investigation and research which it can efficiently perform. Such work 
should lie directly in the field of public health and social welfare. It should 
be the duty of the Registrar to conduct statistical investigations into the 
effectiveness of the various experiments undertaken by the Division of Health, 
be it in organizing the health service along district rather than central lines, or 
in determining the efficiency of generalized as against specialized visiting 
nursing of the sick, or the best method of caring for certain diseases, such as 
pneumonia and the communicable diseases of children whether in hospitals 
or at home under proper medical and nursing care. 

The Registrar may also well undertake to prepare, in cooperation with 
other official and semi-private agencies, annually or biennially, a Year-Book 
for the City of Cleveland in which the chief facts of the population should form 
the central items. This report would include data covering the city and its 
resources. The Registrar would, in this sense, be a compiler and editor of 
materials received from the several heads of divisions of the city administra- 
tion. From the Commissioner of Streets he will receive annually a statement 
covering miles of streets now paved and cleaned and otherwise; from the 
Commissioner of Engineering and Construction and from the Commissioner 
of Water, the essential facts concerning those departments; from 
the judges and District Attorney facts concerning crime; from the school 
commissioners, facts for the educational system; from the Commissioner of 
Internal Revenue, located in Cleveland, items related to incomes and the 
value of manufacturing products. The result would be a Year Book which 
would reflect the greatest credit upon the city because it would show in 
narrow compass the true greatness of the community. It would present 
briefly a summary of the major activities of the population, its resources in 
men, the value of its products, the source of its revenue. It should be a 
most valuable reference guide for the administration of the city toward new. 
projects and an expression of the progressive spirit of its citizens. 

Such a plan as this looks into the future, but it is not at all chimerical. 
All of it can be accomplished if only the first step be taken; namely, to obtain 
for the Division of Health a man properly qualified to do the immediate 
statistical work of that department but with sufficient wisdom and capacity 
to assure his assumption of larger responsibilities in the future. Every thing 
included above will ultimately reflect favorably upon the health of the people 
and justifies the inclusion of this scheme under the activities of the Division 
of Health. 



172 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



INTRODUCTION TO CLEVELAND TABLKS 

Tables X. -XXX VIII. (Appendix) present an outline of a complete system 
of vital statistics for the health department of a city of the size of Cleve- 
land. It will not be necessary to prepare all these tables each year. 
The first seven will be valuable, primarily, for census years when detailed 
and accurate data for the population are available. Other tables have 
special bearing on certain diseases and conditions and need appear only 
occasionally as it is desired 'to arouse interest in them. Much will depend on 
the facilities, both in funds and personnel, available to the registrar. With gen- 
erous support he may give a fairly complete presentation of the vital resources 
and activities of the population from year to year. But with limited support 
it will be necessary for him to use only those tables which give the more 
essential facts. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that: 

1. A competent statistician be put in charge of the Bureau of Vital Statistics with sufficient 
support to carry through a comprehensive program of record keeping for the Division 
of Health. 

2. Birth registration, which is now very defective, be made complete. This may be accom- 
plished through the following steps: 

(a) A complete list of physicians and midwives. 

(b) A check-back at regular intervals of all births reported to the physicians 
and midwives reporting them. 

(c) A follow-up of those physicians doing obstetrical work and of all mid- 
wives who do not make any or a small number of reports. 

(d) A check-back of all infant deaths to the birth registration list, and if no 
record of birth, the case to be followed up to determine the negligent 
physician or midwife. 

(e) The prosecution of persons persistently violating the law. 

3. The cooperation of the local and State Medical Society be obtained as a preliminary 
to subsequent enforcement of the law. 

4. Provision be made for the editing, tabulating and analyzing of certificates of death. 

5. More care be taken to file birth and death certificates to provide against their loss or 
misplacement. 

6. The Division of Health consider the problem of morbidity statistics and make pro- 
vision for the study of records of communicable disease, and of hospital and Visiting 
Nurse Association discharge certificates. 

7. Provision be made for such investigation and research work in the Division of Health 
as will keep the Commissioner informed as to the effectiveness of the various activities 
of the department and of such experimental work as is undertaken. 

8. The Registrar compile a year-book covering the health as well as the social and economic 
data of the city. 



I'l iti.K III \li II Si I ; VICES ITS 

New Activities Proposed for the Division of Health 

EACH of the existing bureaus of the Division of Health is called upon 
hy public demand, by appeal or pressure of private agencies or by the 
initiative- of its own officers and I he Commissioner of Health to add 
here and there a temporary or permanent function or service. This will go 
on and should go on to the end of time. At the moment there are a few 
functions which our study and the force of circumstances seem to impose 
upon the Division of Health. We refer to: 

1. Inspection and supervision of sanitation and medical services in 
institutions where public and private charges .are harbored temporarily or 
for life. 

2. Inspection, technical advice and protection, for the industries and 
commercial establishments of the city, to diminish th hazards to health, 
in occupations. 

3. Medical examination service for the city employes. 

4. Public health education. 

5. Supervision of and provision for the victims of habit-forming drugs 
and protection of the public against the illicit introduction of these drugs 
in trade. 

A brief statement on each of these needs follows: 

INSTITUTIONAL INSPECTION 

The Griswold Act of the last legislature recognizes the need for institu- 
tional inspection as a public health measure, and in Section 1261-31 author- 
izes frequent inspection of infirmaries, children's homes, workhouses, jails, 
or other charitable, benevolent or penal institutions, including physical ex- 
amination of the inmates whenever necessary by representatives of health 
department^ As a safeguard against communicable disease alone, such an 
activity is justified and sooner or later the Division of Health must deal with 
this important subject in an organized way. Owing to the nature of the 
problem most of this work must be done by physicians. By adding to the 
present number of district physicians a partial inspection of institutions can 
be begun in much the same way that the division has begun school inspec- 
tion in parochial schools, through the public health nurse. 

Since no information was available as to the sanitary conditions which 
prevail in institutions or as to medical service, a special study was made of 
these aspects of the institutional life of children, in cooperation with the 
invest lira tor of the Welfare Federation who studied the social, economic, 
educational, recreational and spiritual environment of the institutional chil- 
dren. The results of the combined study have been presented to the suj>erin- 
tendents and boards of managers of the various institutions studied, in much 
the same way in which the reports c.f the Survey on hospitals were made 
available directly to hospital trustees and administrators. 



174 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The study of the institutions fell under three headings: Child Caring 
Institutions proper, Boarding Homes for Children, Day Nurseries. Dr. 
Henry G. McAdam, the chief of the division of institutional inspection of 
the New York City Department of Health aided by inspectors of the Board 
of State Charities and physicians of Cleveland engaged to make medical 
examinations of children, did the field work. The following reports were 
prepared by Dr. McAdam. 

REPORT ON CHILD CARING INSTITUTIONS IN CLEVELAND 

Objects 

1. A complete physical examination of at least 15% of the inmates- of 
Child Caring Institutions. 

2. A Sanitary Survey of the building or buildings housing these inmates. 

So far as was possible the children examined were actually divided among 
those who had been in the institution only a short time, and those who had 
been resident for from six months to a number of years. The analysis of 
these findings is divided according to whether the child's length of stay in 
the institution was under or over six months. 

The children were examined for defects under eleven headings, viz.: 
(1) Vision, (2) Hearing, (3) Defective Teeth, (4) Defective Nasal Breathing, 
(5) Hypertrophied Tonsils, (6) Defective Nutrition, (7) Cardiac Disease, 
(8) Pulmonary Disease, (9) Orthopedic Defects, (10) Nervous Disease, (11) 
Miscellaneous. 

Under the heading, Miscellaneous, the following diseases, defects and 
conditions found during the examinations were noted: 

Enlarged cervical glands Enlarged Thyroid glands 

Enlarged axillary glands Adenoid facies 

Conjunctivitis Protruding abdomen 

Redundant foreskin Acne 

High arch palate Impetigo 

Enuresis Furunculosis 

No Uvula Scabies 

Ringworm Infection of legs 

Infection of back Infection of right heel 

Infection of buttocks General pallor 

Infection behind ear Pasty complexion 

Puffiness under eyes Chronic Otitis 

Representatives of the Board of State Charities, under direction, used 
the outline that is used in inspection of similar institutions in the City of 
New York, on which to base their reports. 



I'l m.i< Hi . M.TII SKI<\ i( 175 

\\< \\riv imprrxM-d l.y tin- MIHM|MT of Homes for Children that had in 
contemplation new buildings or new locations, or both. Among those where 
drfinitr plans have IKHMI |>erfected, are the following: 

1. Cleveland Protestant Orphan Atylum Land has been pur- 
chased and plans are ready for a new structure. 

2. Cleveland Christian Orphanage It is almost certain that this 
institution will be in a new building within a year. 

3. Jewish Infant Orphan Atylum Property has been purchased 
and plans completed for removing from the present location to the new 
quarters within a year. 

4. St. Vincent'* Orphan Asylum Plans have been perfected and 
this institution will move into new buildings inside of a year. 

5. Jewish Orphan Atylum Plans have been perfected for the new 
buildings, but it will probably be three years before a change is made. $25,000 
have been expended in necessary alterations of the present place, and con- 
tracts for $25,000 additional expenditures have been passed by the com- 
mittee in charge of the budget. 

The admission procedures followed and the physical condition of the in- 
mates and buildings, varied within very wide limits, and individual reports 
in detail have been prepared for each institution. 

Summaries of the examinations of the inmates, of medical service pro- 
vided for them, and of the results of the sanitary inspections of the nineteen 
institutions studied, are to be found in Tables XXXIX. -XLI. in the Ap- 
pendix. 

Summary of Medical Service 

1. Only three child-caring institutions out of the total of 19 investi- 
gated, provide an entrance physical examination. 

2. Only three institutions out of the total of 19 have an admission 
quarantine to prevent new inmates from bringing contagion into the institu- 
tion. 

3. Eleven institutions have ample isolation facilities, and eight do not. 

4. Thirteen institutions have adequate hospital facilities, while six 
have none, or inadequate facilities. 

5. Not a single institution of the 19 investigated conducts periodic 
physical re-examinations of the inmates. 

6. Thirteen of the Homes investigated have Hospital and Dispensary 
affiliations, while six maintain no relationship of this nature. 

7. Children are allowed as visitors in 1 7 of the institutions investigated. 
In only two is this prohibited. 



176 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

There was no way to determine what percentage of the children examined 
had had corrective work done during their stay in the institution, in as much 
as none of the institutions conduct re-examinations of the children. 

Without records, the value of the work cannot be determined. In some 
of the institutions visited, information on loose pieces of scrap paper were 
the only records kept. 

Only three Child Caring Institutions give a complete physical examination 
on admission and keep records of the findings. In one of these (The Deten- 
tion Home) a trained nurse conducts the examinations. The other two are 
the Cleveland Christian Orphanage and the Cleveland Protestant Orphan 
Asylum. 

Adequate admission quarantine is of great importance as an administra- 
tive feature in Child Caring Institutions. If every child on admission to 
an institution is placed in quarantine for the incubation periods of contagious 
diseases, before being allowed to mingle with the other children he or she 
cannot spread communicable diseases in that institution and the only source 
of contagion must be from the outside. Furthermore, if children (who are 
more prone to contract the ordinary contagious diseases than adults) are 
excluded as visitors to institutions, contagion will be reduced to a minimum. 

During our investigation no special effort was devoted to the subject of 
venereal diseases. We found, however, with reference to penal institutions 
particularly, that this subject received the attention it deserved. Theo- 
retically, Wassermann tests should be made on all new admission sand 
vaginal smears made of all females. For practical purposes it would prob- 
ably be sufficient to perform Wassermann tests where indicated by clinica 
signs or symptoms, and to make vaginal smears in the presence of vaginal 
discharges. 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 

1. No child-caring institution should be allowed to operate without a permit. 

2. Prior to the issuance of a permit the applicant should show: 

(a) The necessity for the institution. 

(b) That there is a proper plant in which to conduct the proposed 
institution. 

(c) The financial ability to maintain the institution for which the per- 
mit is asked properly in all respects. 

(d) Capability for efficient management. 

3. Permits should be issued only after compliance with certain equipment and serv- 
ice standards which should include the following: 

(a) Protection against fire hazards. 

(b) Protection against accidents due to unguarded machinery. 

(c) Type of building should be fire-proof if in excess of 20 feet in height. 

(d) No over-crowding. A minimum of 600 cubic feet of air space 
should be allowed to each child, except when very young infants only are 
housed, when 300 cubic feet should be allowed for each child. 



PUBLIC HEALTH M i; VICES 177 

(e) Proper heat, light, ventilation, refrigeration and screening of building. 

(f) Adequate toilet and bathing facilities. 

(g) Adequate laundry facilities. 

(h) Adequate isolation and quarantine facilities. 

(i) Provision for regular physical examinations and re-examinations 

of the children, either by: 
I 

1. The attending physician of the institution, or 



2. The clinics of the Division of Health, or 

3. A special corps of physicians employed by the city. 

4. Regular and adequate inspection and supervision by the municipal government. 

BOARDING HOMES FOR CHILDKKN 

No sanitary survey was made of the boarding homes for children under 
the care of the Humane Society, but 57 "boarded out" children received 
physical examinations. The results are given in the Appendix, Table XLII. 
A description of the present procedures for the medical supervision of these 
children follows:* 

"The medical care of children in boarding homes in general is provided by the Division 
of Health and the Babies' Dispensary as follows: Children under three years of age, 
when received by the Humane Society are examined at the Babies' Dispensary and are 
tested for venereal disease and tuberculosis; the children are brought back for reading of 
tests and re-examination at the time that the dispensary specifies. Medical care for the 
children is provided at the dispensary as long as the doctors advise. The diet for the 
children is prescribed at this dispensary as long as the children are brought there. Milk 
for babies under fifteen months of age is ordered and provided by the dispensary and is 
free for children whose parents are unable to pay. 

"After the children are discharged from the Babies' Dispensary they are taken by the 
boarding mother to the prophylactic dispensaries of the Division of Health in the district 
in which the boarding home is located. They are taken to these dispensaries once in two 
weeks and are cared for by the doctors and nurses in these dispensaries. All medical charts 
for children are kept at the Babies' Dispensary or at the prophylactic dispensary which 
the child attends. 

"Sick children who are too ill to go to the dispensary are attended by the district 
physicians. The boarding women are instructed to notify the district doctor of their dis- 
tricts in case of such illness. The doctor arranges for the child to go to the hospital if 
necessary. 

"Children over three years of age when received by the society have medical examina- 
tions made by the doctors at the prophylactic dispensaries, the examinations being made 
in the district in which the boarding home is located. Medical treatment for these chil- 
dren is provided at the dispensaries of the various hospitals. If the children are placed 
in boarding homes outside of the city limits the family physician of the boarding mother 

This description was prepared for the Survey by the Director of the Cleveland Humane Society. 



178 



is generally called. Dental work for these children is done at the Western Reserve Uni- 
versity Dental School, the society paying for the material used. 

"Supervision The nurses of the Division of Health supervise all boarding homes 
within the city limits. Each nurse visits weekly the children in boarding homes in her 
respective district and each week makes a report of her visits to the Division of Health. 
A copy of this report is sent to the society. The visitors of the society also supervise 
children in boarding homes. The matters pertaining to the health of the children, however, 
are left to the nurses and to the dispensaries. 

"Homes The children are placed in family homes which have been investigated by 
the society and licensed by the Division of Health. Applications for licenses are con- 
sidered by a committee consisting of representatives of the Division of Health and the 
Humane Society before a recommendation for license is made to the Board of State Chari- 
ties. It is the policy of the society not to place more than one child in a home unless the 
children are related. The society has five subsidized homes, having five beds in each home, 
where children are cared for temporarily while arrangements are being made to place them 
in other boarding homes. The society has no special homes for the care of convalescent 
children or diseased children." 

Suggested Procedure 

All activities relative to the placing out of children in foster homes should 
radiate from a central institution or place, which we will tentatively call a 
Children's Placement Bureau of the Division of Health. 

Before a child is listed in the Children's Placement Bureau an investiga- 
tion by the Humane Society should be made to see that the child is one 
requiring, and suitable for, placement. It having been decided that the 
child is to be placed out, he is taken to the Children's Placement Bureau, 
and the parent or legal guardian should sign, at that time, a release, permit- 
ting the Placement Bureau to relieve, by proper treatment, physical condi- 
tions from which the child may suffer, along the lines indicated below: 

Date 1920. 

I hereby agree and consent that if my child, , 

while under the control of the Children's Placement Bureau, shall be found 
to have: 

1 . Defective Vision, 

2. Defective Hearing, 

3. Defective Teeth, 

4. Defective Nasal Breathing, 

5. Hypertrophied Tonsils, 

6. Orthopedic Defects, 

these defects may be corrected under the direction of the authorities of said 
Children's Placement Bureau, without further action on my part. 

Name 

Address 

Relationship * 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 



179 



The child should Ix? kept under the control of the Placement Bureau 
either in its own building or buildings or in socially .Mibsidi/cd homes until 
these defects have been corrected, if it is probable that they can be corrected 
within a short period, say two to four weeks. If a defect is chronic in nature, 
the child having the chronic defect should be released to a specially graded 
foster home, and kept only in such specially graded home until the defect 
has been corrected. In making recommendation that a child be sent to a 
specially graded foster home, unsatisfactory condition of the teeth alone 
shouldjnot ordinarily be considered as a chronic defect. 



BOARD OF- STATE CHARITIES 



SOAPD 
[OF 



im STRICT 1 
IPHYSJCIAK 



[OFHOLTH 
PHr 
SPO 



'BABIES 



CHI 



:NT, 



riCVCLANt 
UMAS 
KIETY, 



/All OTHFI 
IHWPITALSJ 



nee 



HOMES 



HOME 



FIG. XIV. 

While in the Children's Placement Bureau, in addition to the regular 
physical examination which may be made at the Babies' Dispensary or other 
institution, as decided upon by the Children's Placement Bureau, the chil- 
dren should be Schick tested and a culture should be taken from both nose 
and throat. If the case is suitable, toxin antitoxin, for imiinini/.ation- 
should be given. They should be tested for tuberculosis and Wasserinann 



180 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVEY 



test should be made. In the case of females, vaginal smears should be taken. 
Vaccinations should be done where indicated. No child should be sent to 
a foster home while defects are being corrected, unless the defects are of a 
chronic nature. 

The foster homes should be graded "A" and "B." The "A" homes should 
be those conducted by women who have proved themselves to be specially 
qualified to care for children, und the grade "B" to include all other licensed 
homes. The foster mothers having grade "A" homes should receive the 
children with chronic defects, and should be paid a larger compensation 
than those having grade "B" licenses, in view of the fact that they have 
superior training, and that a child with a chronic defect is harder to manage, 
and so the grade "A" foster mother is entitled to a larger sum. 

By this method any child with a readily remediable defect would remain 
in the Placement Bureau until in good general health, and the children with 
chronic defects would receive special care until their defects, if correctable, 
are cured. The effect on foster mothers of having two grades of license would 
be to spur the grade "B" foster mothers on to do good work in order that 
they might get a grade "A" license, with its increased income, and those who 
already have a grade "A" license, to exert themselves in order that they may 
continue to hold that grade. 

After the children have been placed in foster homes the Division of Health 
should supervise the home, and pay particular attention to the sanitary con- 
dition of the home and the health of the foster mother and of the children; 
the Humane Society at the same time making stated visits to supervise the 
moral and financial conditions surrounding the child in the boarding home. 
/ 

It should be the aim of the Central Placement Bureau to have as few 
children as possible in each home. Whenever the number of children in a 
home exceeds three in number, whether subsidized or not, there should be, 
in addition to the preliminary investigations made by the Humane Society 
and the Division of Health, an investigation of the premises made by the 
Fire Department to determine whether the building is reasonably safe to 
house the number of children for which a permit is to be issued. 

While the children are under the care of the foster mothers, they should 
be taken from time to time to the Babies' Dispensary or the prophylactic 
dispensaries of the Division of Health for re-examination, observation, 
regulation of diet, etc., and when ill and unable to go to the dispensaries 
should be cared for by the district physician or be sent by him to the ap- 
propriate hospital. 

A diagram illustrating the contacts between the various services as sug- 
gested above follows: Fig. XIV. 

DAY NURSERIES IN CLEVELAND 

There are seven day nurseries in Cleveland, five of which, the Mather, 
Louise, Lend-a-Hand, Perkins and Wade, are branches of the Cleveland 
Day Nursey and Free Kindergarten Association; one, Merrick House, is 
conducted in connection with that Settlement House; and on, Joseph & 



PUBLIC HEALTH M u\i< i - 181 



is maintained by that industrial plant for the children of its employes. 
Three of these day nurseries, Louise, Perkins and Wade, are in the same 
building with kindergartens. Joseph & Feiss are thinking of conducting a 
kindergarten during the summer, l>ut no definite plans have been made. 

The Cleveland Day Nursery and Free Kindergarten Association, which 
maintains five nurseries, four kindergartens and a Kindergarten Training 
School, is a voluntary organization included in the Welfare Federation. The 
Association employs an executive secretary, who has charge of administra- 
tion and who also acts on authority delegated by the Division of Health as 
the official investigator of day nurseries in Cleveland. 

At the instigation of the Day Nursery and Free Kindergarten Association, 
City Ordinance No. 173!) 1 was passed in October, 1918, to regulate the day 
nurseries in Cleveland. This ordinance was based upon the ordinances in 
New York City and Chicago and its provisions for equipment and operation 
of day nurseries are excellent. 

This ordinance makes specifications as to medical service (including 
initial and periodic physical examinations); plant and equipment; ventila- 
tion; light; heat; air space (300 cubic feet per child) ; playground; cleanli- 
ness; methods of cleaning; provision of individual beds; care of children's 
clothing; provision of individual washcloths, towels, bed linen, combs, tooth 
brushes, hairbrushes and drinking cups; toilet facilities; isolation; food and 
care thereof, and sanitation, etc. 

All-day nurseries in Cleveland must be licensed and permits are issued 
by the Commissioner of Assessments and Licenses upon recommendation of 
the Commissioner of Health, after an investigation of the premises has been 
made by the Bureau of Child Hygiene. These permits are issued annually. 

The Division of Health having no adequate personnel for supervision of 
day nurseries, delegated the authority for such sui>ervision to the executive 
secretary of the Day Nursery and Free Kindergarten Association, who, be- 
cause of the pressure of other duties, has little time to spend in the sanitary 
supervision of nurseries. K\<ellent results have been accomplished, how- 
ever, by the f)ay Nursery Association in suppressing various "mushroom" 
nurseries that have sprung up from time to time and which did not meet the 
standards provided for in the ordinance. 

The aggregate attendance at the nurseries for 1919 was 47,085 child- 
days, and the average daily attendance of children was 184.75. The num- 
ber of rejections of applicants for nursery care from August, 1919, to Janu- 
ary, 1920, was 131, of which ten only were due to lack of room in the nur- 
series. 

The Day Nursery Association formerly had an investigator to pass on all 
admissions as to social or economic necessity of providing care for the child. 
Now admissions are made by the superintendents. 

Children who have only one parent, usually a widowed or deserted 
mother, are admitted to the day nurseries. In rare instances 'children with 
two parents are cared for if the father is ill or incapacitated. In some cases 



182 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

children are admitted when the mother goes to work as well as the father. 
The age of admission is from six months to fourteen years, nursing children 
being admitted only on special recommendation of the examining physician. 
At the time this investigation was made very few nursing children were regis- 
tered in the nurseries. 

If the economic status of the family warrants, a charge of fifty cents per 
day is made. The estimated cost per day for each child to the Day Nur- 
sery Association is about $1.00. 

A study of the admission procedure at the day nurseries and of the eco- 
nomic question involved in providing day nurseries for the care of children 
of women in industry, will be made by the Welfare Federation in connection 
with their study of children's institutions. 

Medical Service 

The Day Nursery and Free Kindergarten Association employs a physi- 
cian on part time to give medical service to the five day nurseries under its 
care. Before being admitted to the nursery, the children receive a physical 
examination either by the day nursery physician or at a nearby dispensary. 
The examination consists of the following: 

History of Chickenpox, measles, mumps, scarlet fever, whooping cough, 

vaccination. 

* 

Examination of Glands, skin, eyes, ears, nose, teeth, throat, tonsils, 
heart, lungs, abdomen and weight. The examiner gives special attention to 
the nutrition and development of the child, and looks for any evidences of 
anemia. 

This examination is made with the children's clothes loosened or removed. 

No laboratory tests are made at the day nurseries, but any such necessary 
work is referred to the various dispensaries or to the Division of Health. No 
diphtheria culture tubes are kept at the nurseries, the physician having a 
supply of these with him when calling at the nurseries. 

Each superintendent interviewed stated that there was a daily inspection 
of the children on admission, either by herself or by a nurse, for symptoms 
of contagious disease. 

The last sentence of regulation 21, "each child admitted to or cared for 
in any day nursery shall be examined at least once every three months," 
did not seem to be thoroughly understood or adequately carried out by the 
day nurseries. No superintendent interviewed stated that there was a 
periodical re-examination of children every three months, and a number of 
cards of children who had been in the nurseries four months and over, did 
not show any record of re-examinations. Children who have been absent 
from the nursery for a week or more are examined either by the nursery 
physician or at a nearby dispensary before readmission. 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 183 

The children in the nurseries are weighed either every two weeks or 
every month, the procedure varying in the different nurseries. Excellent 
weight charts are kept. Opposite each child's name a star is placed, a blue 
star indicating loss or stationary weight, and a red star a gain. These charts 
have proved of great educational value to both mothers and children. 

Two of the nurseries have trained nurses as superintendents. For nurs- 
ing service the other nurseries can avail themselves of the service of the 
nurses of the Division of Health or of the Visiting Nurse Association, but the 
superintendents do not seem to be taking advantage of these opportunities 
as fully as could be desired. 

The follow-up to correct defects is carried on under the direction of the 
superintendents. A study of the records of the five day nurseries under the 
control of the association gives the following results: of 197 children who 
had been under the care of the day nurseries over four months, there were 
four cases of defective vision, three of which had been corrected rfnd one of 
which was under parental care. There were eighty cases of defective teeth, 
on which fifty-two, or 65 per cent, of the corrections had been made. Be- 
sides these corrections one case was under parental care and three were over 
school age. Sixty-six cases of diseased or hypertrophied tonsils were noted, 
of which forty -one, or 62.1 per cent, had been corrected. Also there were 
three under parental care, one "unwilling" and one "improved." According 
to these figures which were furnished by the Day Nursery Association, the 
follow-up work of the nurseries seems to be adequate. 

Vaccinations are made by the nursery physician on all children who have 
not been vaccinated. 

Merrick House: 

The medical service at Merrick House is practically the sam as that 
furnished to the nurseries under the Day Nursery Association, with the ex- 
ception that the physician visits twice a week. 

Joseph & Feitt: 

The medical service is given by the physician in charge of the factory, 
who is on call at any time and who always responds quickly. According to 
the facts furnished by the superintendent, the service given comes up to the 
standards of the ordinance. The children are examined on admission, re- 
examined after absence, etc. The superintendent of the nursery is a trained 
nurse. 



184 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

SUMMARY OF CONDITIONS FOUND IN THE SEVEN NURSERIES BY THE 

INVESTIGATOR 

Number of 
Nurseries 

Sleeping room not provided with the minimum cubic air capacity required 

by the city ordinance ~ 2 

Children sleeping together 1 

Drinking cups used in common ^. 4 

Combs used in common or incompletely sterilized after use 5 

No ventilation in room in which children were playing 2 

Poor ventilation of toilets 2 

Dry dusting and sweeping done 4 

Clothing hung too closely to permit of clothing ventilation 2 

Wash cloths, towels and tooth brushes hung so closely that in some in- 
stances they touched 4 

Beds not identified 2 

Aprons not identified 1 

Bibs not identified and piled together after each use 1 

Rubber sheets not provided for all beds of infants 1 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

1. Supervision: 

That the responsibility for the enforcement of the requirements of the day nursery 
ordinance be assumed by the Division of Health, and inspection of the day nurseries be 
made by a trained inspector under the Bureau of Child Hygiene in the Division of Health. 

That monthly inspections of the day nurseries be made. 

That the provisions of the city ordinance in regard to individual beds, isolation rooms, 
adequate ventilation and air space and other necessities for satisfactory sanitation in the 
day nurseries, which are violated at the present time, be observed and enforced. 

2. Medical and Nursing Service: 



That the regulation which has produced good results in other cities and which requires 
a vaginal smear of all girls before admission, might be found of value in giving additional 
protection against infection. 

That there be an increase of the home nursing service given to the children attending 
the day nurseries and that, for this service, the day nurseries call upon the Division of 
Health or the Visiting Nurse Association nurses in the district. 

J. General: 

That a further study into the admission procedure and organization of day nurseries 
be made by the Welfare Federation in connection with their study of children's institu- 
tions. In this investigation special attention should be given to the economic question 
involved in providing day nursery care for the children of women in industry. 



PUBLIC HKAI.TII Si u\ i< i.> 185 

From the numerous defects of equipment and management and professional services 
discovered, among the institutions, homes and nurseries above described, and from the 
serious extent, to which physical defects prevail among the dependent children examined 
it would appear plain that all precautions for these otherwise helpless public wards are 
not being taken for their present and future health. 

It is recommended that institutional inspection be recognized as a legitimate activity 
of the Division of Health and that an organization adequate to look after the institutions 
and homes for children be created there. 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 

Although the complete argument for better protection of industrial 
workers, based on an extensive study of the existing conditions in industry 
in Cleveland, will be found in Part VII. of this report it is worth noting here 
that whatever may be done voluntarily and in response to the human and 
economic interests of individual employers and corporations, there will 
surely be industries and individual plants where only so much is done for 
the health and sanitary safety of the employes as labor organizations and 
officers of public departments force the employers to do. Even in the brief 
period of the Survey a number of instances of flagrant violation of human 
health rights in Cleveland industries came to notice, which could not have 
endured and should not have developed at all if it were known that capable 
inspection and swift action were ready for the protection of employes. 

Not only are the employes but the employers entitled to the kind of 
guidance which those trained in the science of industrial hygiene can give 
them, in the manner of using human labor so that undue risks and perma- 
nent health liability may not be incurred. 

It is recommended that a bureau or sub-division of an existing bureau 
be established to detect and correct health hazards in industry. If there 
were a trained sanitarian at the head of the bureau of sanitation, industrial 
hygiene might at first be included there, but it is believed that a separate 
bureau for this purpose should be created with a chief trained in the investi- 
gation and remedy of injurious processes and conditions affecting industrial 
employes. 

MEDICAL EXAMINATION FOR CITY EMPLOYES 

The city of Cleveland employs more people than any organization of 
industry or commerce within the city or near it. The city payroll varies 
from 6,500 in winter to 8,000 in summer. This varied personnel is entirely 
without any organized medical service. In a few departments physical ex- 
amination may or may not be offered or required at the time of employment, 
but most of the city employes enter public service without any medical 
observation as to fitness for their work. In a few departments medical care 
is available in case of sickness. In no department is there an annual medi- 
cal survey and examination of each employe. 

From records of many thousands of examinations throughout this coun- 
try we can prophesy that from 130 to 160 (i. e. t 2%) of th< city employes 



186 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



have active pulmonary tuberculosis and that most of them are unaware of it 
until too late; from 4,850 to 6,000 (i, e., 75%) are in need of medical or 
dental advice or treatment for serious or minor defects and diseases, most 
of which (64%) could be prevented or permanent damage avoided by early 
recognition. 

It is recommended that: 

The Division of Health be authorized to employ physicians and organize a service for 
the medical examination of all applicants or appointees to positions in the city service 
and for an annual re-examination of every one on the city payroll from the mayor down. 

Provision be made for the privacy of records. 

Treatment for defects be not undertaken at present as a charge upon the taxpayer. 

If there were to be one service established by the city in the interest of 
health protection it is believed that that should be free diagnostic service: 
that is, medical examination of the apparently healthy of all ages and con- 
ditions of the people. Prevention of disease depends on its recognition. 
Medical practice for treatment of diseases alone will never meet the needs. 
What we need in the interest of public welfare is a universal habit of applying 
once a year to a physician so that he may serve his most important function; 
namely, match his diagnostic skill against the insidious evidences of impaired 
structure and function in man. The administration and provision of medical 
services by the city, free to all who can be taught to apply, would be the best 
health investment the city could make and nothing would so stimulate 
physicians to the best they are capable of. 

Private patients should now establish the practice of calling in their 
family physician for a health examination annually, and should learn from 
him what they may expect or what they must do to preserve or attain health. 
For infants and school children such services are developing but are not yet 
complete. For industries such services are becoming the rule. The custom 
should become universal. 

PUBLIC HEALTH EDUCATION 

At the beginning of the chapter on Public Health Services reference is 
made to the unfortunate lack of such a necessary public service as was evi- 
dently conceived by the framers of the city charter when they provided for 
a Commissioner of Research and Publicity within the Department of Public 
Welfare. 

In order to picture more concretely the present assets of Cleveland in 
this field a brief report of existing health education resources in Cleveland 
has been prepared. 

It would be difficult, indeed, to make a comprehensive summary of 
public health education in Cleveland for, undoubtedly, all social agencies 
and agents strive whenever an opening is presented to inform their bene- 
ficiaries in regard to health rules and their observance. Only the principal 
channels through which this kind of education is directed will be* mentioned. 



PUBLIC HKALTH SERVICES 187 

The primary sources of health information are, of course, the practitioners 
of medicine and the nurses who see all classes of people and all types of 
disease. 

Of the private agencies those which offer nursing service probably have 
the best chance of bringing home, with telling effect, their lessons in health 
education. The contacts of the nurses from the Visiting Nurse Association 
and the University District are with families where there is sickness and their 
opportunities for instruction along health lines are only limited by the num- 
ber of cases under their care. Nurses of the prenatal stations of Maternity 
Hospital and the nurses of the Babies' Dispensary and Hospital carry the 
"word ".on special health topics, (hygiene of pregnancy and care of the sick 
child) to mothers and prosj>ective mothers. During the summer months 
the field of influence of the Babies' Dispensary and Hospital is considerably 
widened by the operation of the Babies' Special. This is an automobile 
clinic which tours the outlying districts and rural communities of the county. 
The doctor and nurse in attendance give demonstrations and advice upon 
the care of the babies. 

The social service workers at the hospitals (Charity, Lakeside and Mount 
Sinai) and the field agents of the Associated Charities are also important 
factors in the attempt to make the knowledge of health principles universal. 
Whenever the Associated Charities' visitors find a health problem in a home 
they make every effort to cooperate with the nurses of the Visiting Nurse 
A->nciation or of the Health Centers in promoting good health standards and 
in following up medical care. These agents also act as distributors of health 
literature when it is provided by the Division of Health. 

A private agency which is bringing the message of health to large num- 
bers of women and girls is the Red Cross. Through the Teaching Center, 
courses in prophylaxis, home care of the sick and first aid to the injured, 
are offered. Courses, consisting of 17 to 20 talks with demonstrations, are 
given by the nurses at the Center and in factories, schools, settlements, 
department stores and churches. 

The Anti-Tuberculosis League, in trying to increase the knowledge of 
anti-tuberculosis measures, assists by its literature and lectures in spread- 
ing the gospel of good health. 

The clubs at the settlement houses (Alta House, Council Educational 
Alliance and (ioodrich House) and at the Y. M. C. A. offer an opportunity 
for instructing young men and women in social hygiene and tuberculosis 
prevention. At the Y. M. C. A. it is estimated that l.OOQ men are reached 
in this way each month. At the Central Friendly Inn and the Y. W. C. A. 
health and home hygiene courses are arranged to supplement the dome-tic 
science courses. Hiram House last fall, in its Boys' Department, had a 
"Health Week" and carried on, through lectures, demonstrations and litera- 
ture, a health campaign. The Boy Scouts, the (Jirl Scouts and the Camp- 
fire Girls, by a system of awards, put a premium on good health. 

The public agencies interested in educating the masses along health lines 
are the Division <>f Health, the Board of Education and the Public Library. 



188 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

This work is done by the Division of Health through the doctors and nurses 
at the Health Centers and through the nurses in the homes. Instruction 
and advice are given on how to keep well babies well, on tuberculosis control 
and on care and prevention of contagious diseases. 

At the present time health education is carried on under the Board of 
Education in the following ways: 

1. Through occasional classroom talks on health topics given by 
nurses of the Department of School Medical Inspection. 

2. Through individual instruction of the children in the schools by 
physicians and nurses of the Department of School Medical Inspection. 

3. Through instruction by the nurses to girls in the seventh and eighth 
grades, on the subject of care of babies. 

4. Through two forty-minute periods a week in physiology and hygiene 
in the grfemmar grades. 

5. Through physical training in the high schools and elective courses in 
physiology, botany, cooking, chemistry and social problems. 

In practice little or no work in hygiene is carried out in the elementary 
schools. In the Junior High grades an outline has been provided but the 
teachers are not obliged to follow it. In the high schools the courses in health 
education are not standardized and it is difficult to tell how much overlap- 
ping of courses exists. There is need for a standardized syllabus. 

The Public Library, through its Information Bureau, suggests books to 
be consulted for light on health matters. 

From this resume it is evident that health education is carried on quite 
extensively in Cleveland, but there is need for an organized and intensive 
health program. The Survey is entirely in sympathy with the views of the 
International Red Cross, as expressed at the Cannes conference in 1919. 

"We are convinced of the prime importance of widely disseminating among the people 
a knowledge of the simple laws of healthful living and a conviction as to the need of apply- 
ing them. This is the most valuable means whereby we can promote their physical well- 
being; and, with a 'health conscience' formed, most public health problems become 
simplified and all public health administration is made more easy. 

"It may be said that the measure of the public health of any community is in no small 
degree the measure of self-help in health matters. Official and voluntary health agencies 
can effect much in .the direction of improving the environment of the individual and pre- 
venting communicable diseases; relatively they can effect little in the direction of securing 
hygienic observances in the intimate circumstances of living, and in the wider field of non- 
communicable but preventable disease. Ignorance and carelessness are here responsible 
for much sickness and premature death. 

"It is largely because child welfare work is essentially educational that so much sue* 
cess is obtained in it; and we consider that, profiting from this experience, public educa- 
tion should be made a prominent part of public health activities in every field of work. 



PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 189 

"Hygienic precepts and practice, and the training of the older girls in the essentials 
of infant care and home-making are of fundamental importance as a means of contribut- 
ing greatly to the health and happiness of a community. For those who have left school 
an active educational propaganda should be maintained. For popular propaganda pur- 
poses we would indicate the following as agencies of proved value : 

1 . The Public Press. 

2. Cinema Films. 

3. Posters. 

4. Exhibits. 

5. Popular Lectures. 

6. Educational campaigns on special health topics in which all these agen- 
cies are employed. 

"We consider that for most effective propaganda assistance is generally necessary 
from experts in publicity matters." 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

1. It is recommended that the Board of Education organize consistent education in 
health through the entire school course of the child. The board should accept the services 
of the Red Cross Teaching Center to carry on this work until such time as appropriations 
can be made for the purpose. 

2. It is recommended that there be a bureau of public health education in the Divi- 
sion of Health, with a full-time publicity expert in charge, to carry on the activities out- 
lined above and to coordinate all efforts of the various private agencies, or that a full-time 
publicity expert be employed by the proposed Public Health Association or by the Anti- 
Tuberculosis League. 

CONTROL OF DRUG ADDICTION 

Medical service and correctional interests are so involved in the control 
and care of drug addicts that there must be effective cooperation between 
the Division of Health and the Police Department in handling the matter. 

The city police must assist the federal revenue officers in blocking the 
illegal channels of distribution of the narcotic drugs and in confining the sup- 
ply and distribution of the drugs to the hands of licensed pharmacists, ph\ M- 
veterinarians and dentist- 



The Division of Health must take part in the supervision of the addicts 
until they are cured or are accommodated in institutions where they can be 
freed from their affliction and rehabilitated physically. 

Dispensary and ambulatory care for drug addicts are futile. These pa- 
tients must be put in institutions where their insane ingenuity cannot avail 
them in obtaining drugs for the continuance of their habit. 

To quote from a statement of the Commissioner of Health : 



190 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH'SURVEY 

"City ordinance No. 48247-B places the administration of narcotic drugs in Cleveland 
as well as the presenting, bartering, selling or giving of such drugs under the control of 
the Health Division. The enforcement of this ordinance in detail would require the fol- 
lowing organization: 

1 Chief Inspector, 

2 Inspectors, 
1 Clerk, 

1 Physician. 

"The work of the inspectors would require a continuous inspection of the records and 
stock of narcotic drugs in the possession of those authorized to deal in the same : namely, 
wholesale and retail drug houses, hospitals, physicians, dentists and veterinarians. A 
physician is required to deal with those drug addicts who continually infest the city. Since 
1918 the clinic in the City Hall has been maintained in charge of one of the district physi- 
cians assigned to the sub-division of Communicable Disease. This clinic is financially 
self-sustaining, as all addicts are required to pay for their treatment while in attendance 
upon the clinic. However, the necessity of assigning to this work one or more full-time 
employes of the Health Division has not yet been offset by increasing the number of em- 
ployes allowed the Division under the existing salary resolution. It should be stated that 
no request for additional employes to deal with the addict problem has heretofore been 
made. The city ordinance referred to above was only passed in April, 1919, and until 
then the handling of this problem by the Health Division had been considered as a tempo- 
rary matter, only to require the services of employes for a short period. The outlook is 
now entirely different, and a permanent organization to have charge of the enforcement 
of ordinance No. 48247-B should be set up." 

The recommendation of the Commissioner of Health in this matter is 
heartily endorsed. If all the additions and improvements of service recom- 
mended in the foregoing consideration of bureaus existing and proposed in 
the Division of Health were approved and appropriations made, Cleveland 
would not be spending more per capita per annum than many cities in the 
country now consider reasonable for public health services. 

HEALTH CENTERS 

Centralized control and distributed services permit of sound public health 
organization, and the principle of health centers upon which the bureaus of 
child hygiene and communicable diseases depend for their district work is 
good. The health centers, as at present operated, are little more than dis- 
trict offices. 

It is recommended that these centers be increased to sixteen, to permit 
of one for each 50,000 of the population and that as rapidly as is found 
practicable other functions be added to those now served at the centers. 
Until health centers serving as administrative branch offices of public depart- 
ments include as well all the services or representatives of them which are 
now contributed by private agencies in the interest of preventive medicine, 
and are operated in intimate organic, if not physical, connection with hos- 
pitals and dispensaries, they will not have met their obligations and possi- 
bilities of public usefulness. 



IVnur Hi \i.i ii Si lYIGH 191 

PUBLIC SCHOOL MEDICAL SKRVICE 

The Board of Education Administer! through school education and its 
medical services to children, public health services of inestimable value. \ 
coin])lete description of this division of public service will l>e found in Part III. 

THE CORONER SYSTEM 

The coroner system is in a way a kind of public health service, as in its 
conception it is created to protect life by determining accurately the causes 
and conditions which have brought about sudden, violent or unexplained 
deaths, especially when the deceased had not been under the recent care of 
a physician. 

As long as a coroner is elected or appointed in payment of party political 
debts, and as long as the coroner selects his medical examiner or assistant 
more with a view to political availability than as a recognition of his merit, 
skill and experience in pathology and forensic medicine, our cities, and among 
them Cleveland, will continue to be ill served in this respect. 

Opportunity for "graft" is always present, and offering powerful tempta- 
tions to avoid thorough search into causes of death. The coroner's physician 
is practically powerless to protect the public against crime. There is every 
opportunity under the present system to cover up crime and miss important 
causes of preventable deaths. 

There is nothing to be said in favor of the coroner, his office, his medical 
functions or the value of his mediaeval and hollow legal functions. 

Boston and New York have solved the difficulty in the only reasonable 
way, by abolishing the office and creating the civil service appointive office 
of medical examiner. The results have been a striking improvement in the 
interest of honesty, scientific accuracy and in the field of health protection. 
Cleveland could not do better than follow their example. 

It is so recommended. 



Private Health Agencies 

TIIK extent of private endeavor in the field of preventive medicine is 
hardly appreciated until the whole range of unofficial agem -ies is pre- 
sented. We shall not consider here the activities of the national volun- 
teer health agencies even though they may contribute a definite share to the 
work in their respective fields in Cleveland, but confine the following brief 
summary to local organizations: 

Tin: Avn-Ti UKurt i.n-i^ l.i u;i K 

For a description of the activities of 'the Cleveland Anti-Tuberculosis 
League the reader is referred to Part IV., where its accomplishments and 
recommendations for further extension of its admirable work are presented 
at some length. 

THE VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION 

For a consideration of the work of the Visiting Nurse Association, one of 
Cleveland's remarkable public health assets, the reader is referred to Part 
IX., where the extensive project of prenatal and maternity nursing care is 
proposed as a new undertaking for this association. 

THE DAY NURSERY AND FREE KINDERGARTEN ASSOCIATION 

A description of the functions of the Day Nurvry and Free Kindergarten 
Association will be found in the report on this and other child-caring organ- 
ization in this part of the report. 

THE ASSOCIATION FOR THE CRIPPLED AND DISABLED 

The affiliation of all the agencies dealing with the medical and social 
problems of the cripple, in the Association for the Crippled and Disabled 
has brought large benefits to these handicapped people, little and big, and 
this association is certain to play a part of increasing importance in the 
future program for preventive and curative orthopedics in Cleveland. This 
is dealt with in detail in the chapter devoted to the Care of Cripples in this 
part. 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

The Hospital Council, in which originated the idea of the present Survey, 
has a record of important contributions to local and national hospital stand- 
ards, economies and organization. It is descril>ed in Part X. 

THE CLEVELAND SOCIETY FOR THE BLIND 

The Cleveland Society for the Blind has been active for many years and 
carries on its books the records of 545 people not in institutions who are 
known to be either totally blind or to be suffering from such a loss of sight 
as to make them dependent on others for care or support. This list includes 
all ages and both sexes. 

Of the 545 blind people, the cause of blindness conies within the list of 
Preventable Diseases, Injuries or Infections in 30fi instances as follows: 



194 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



PREVENTABLE CAUSES 



Communicable: 

Syphilis... 40 

Gonorrheal ophthalmia. 32 

Trachoma 16 

Scarlet fever 13 

Measles . 12 

Meningitis 9 

Tuberculosis . 3 

Smallpox. 4 

Diphtheria. 2 

Poliomyelitis 2 

Ophthalmia (undetermined infection).... 6 

Communicable 139 

Injuries 67 

Miscellaneous 100 

Total.... ....306 



Injuries: 

Industrial 2 1 

Non-Industrial...- 46 

67 
Miscellaneous: 

Iridocyclitis 12 

Choroiditis 15 

Keratitis, interstitial. 4 

Corneal opacity 12 

Optic atrophy . 51 

Vitreous hemorrhage 1 

Irregular astigmatism 1 

Strabismus 1 

Diabetes ;.. 2 

Nephritis.. 1 N 

100 



The blindness of the other 239 instances was due to causes which are 
considered non-preventable, as follows: 



Curable: 

Cataract 

Congenital cataract 



111 

10 

121 
Miscellaneous: 

Detached retina 1 

Orbital tumor 1 

Sarcoma 2 

Ptosis 1 

Retinitis Pigmentosa 9 

Glaucoma 28 

High Myopia _ ll 

Optic atrophy (brain tumor) 3 



56 



Not Sufficient Diagnosis: 

Congenital J 55 

Sunstroke 2 

Insane _ 1 

Eye strain 1 

Nervous prostration .. 2 

Chorea _ 1 

62 

Curable 1 2 1 

Miscellaneous 56 

Not sufficient diagnosis 62 

Total.... -.239 



Diagnosis as to the cause of blindness was not obtained for 16 inmates at 
Warrens ville Infirmary and 10 inmates of a Home maintained by the Little 
Sisters of the Poor. 

According to the very careful survey recently made by the Massachusetts 
Commission for the Blind, there are probably in any general population in 
the eastern industrial communities one blind person for each 1,000 people. 
This would lead one to expect a total of a little less than 800 in Cleveland, 
including those in institutions. Cleveland shares the experience of Massa- 



PRIVATE HEALTH AGENCIES 195 

chusetts in that a constantly decreasing number of the blind are found in the 
age group under five years, as a result of intensive campaigns to prevent and 
cure babies' sore eyes. 

In a city drawing its population so widely from both native and foreign 
groups and tempting labor from parts of our Southern states where trachoma 
is prevalent, and recalling the fact that in Ohio in one county (Ross) at least 
1% of all school children were found recently to be affected with trachoma, 
adequate provision for control of this disease and prevention or correction 
of the damage done by it among children and adults, must be made by the 
Board of Education, the Division of Health and by the clinics and hospitals 
of the city. 

The field of prevention of diseases of the eye is not entirely filled by the 
activities or program of the Society for the Blind and it is recommended that 
they adopt a more aggressive policy so that the broad field of education and 
action and supervision proposed by the National Committee for the Preven- 
tion of Blindness may be well cultivated. 

It is suggested that the society enlist more active interest among the 
specialists in this field, in private practice and in industry. 

There has been prepared for the Survey, through the courtesy of the 
National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness a program covering all 
aspects of this subject suitable for adoption by the local society. This in- 
cludes a number of subjects: 

(a) A list of desirable laws to insure the saving of sight, most of the items of which 
are covered by laws in force in Cleveland. 

MODEL LEGISLATION FOR SAVING SIGHT 

1. Law, or Regulation of the Division of Health, requiring the use of 
a prophylactic in the eyes of the new born. 

2. Law, or Regulation of the Division of Health, making opthalmia 
neonatorum a reportable disease, giving definition of what may constitute 
this disease so that no loophole will be left for difference in diagnoses. 

3. Law, or Regulation of the Division of Health, covering the training, 
examination, licensing, regulation and supervision of midwives. 

4. Vital Statistics Law requiring notification of births within 48 hours. 

5. Law prohibiting the use of the roller or common towel in public 
places. 

6. Law making trachoma a reportable disease. 

7. Law regulating the sale and control of wood and denatured alcohol. 

8. Law making wood alcohol poisoning a reportable disease. 

9. Law making venereal diseases reportable and providing for the 
quarantine or compulsory treatment of those capable of spreading infection 
from these diseases. 



196 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



10. Law regulating the projection of moving pictures and the lighting 
and ventilation of moving picture theatres and prohibiting the use of "rainy" 
or worn-out films. 

11. Law appropriating a minimum of $250 a year for each child requir- 
ing the benefits of a conservation of vision class. 

12. Law providing for the examination by an eye expert of all inmates of 
penal and charitable institutions. 

(b) Suggestions for the better training of physicians, dentists and nurses in sight 
saving. 

(c) An extensive program for maternal and child care from prenatal to employment 
age. This does not differ materially from the recommendations given under Child Hygiene 
in Part III. 

(d) Proposed use of eye, general and venereal disease clinics for saving the sight of 
the adult population. This is dealt with in Part X. under the discussion of the dispensary 
needs of Cleveland. 

(e) A model plan for saving sight in industry which gives detailed recommendations 
under the following headings: 

1. Lighting conditions, natural and artificial. 

2. Protection against industrial poisons affecting the sight. 

3. Adoption of the safe methods for the handling of acids. 

4.- Routine examination of tools, especially of those likely to become 
"mushroomed" or "burred." 

5. Routine examination of machinery and safety devices. 

6. Examination of the eyes of workers before entering industrial occu- 
pations. 

7. Care in the placement of one-eyed workers. 

8. Arrangements for adequate first aid for removing foreign substances 
from the eye, and for treatment of eye injuries, especially of caustic and acid 
burns. 

9. Education of workers in the use of safety devices and methods and 
in preventing accidents to themselves and others. 

THE ASSOCIATED CHARITIES 

The Associated Charities is properly included among the health agencies, 
since social reconstruction, the holding together and supporting of family 
groups by tactful and timely aid and well considered advice, plays as great a 
part as medical services in relieving anxiety and reestablishing household 
morale. 

During the past year the Associated Charities, operating from ten sta- 
tions, aided 3,676 families (including 239 homeless) numbering 16,803 indi- 
viduals, toward normal family life. Through 56 trained field workers, 



PlMN VI I lll.ALTH A(.l \CIKS 



including Visiting Housekeepers and a Visiting Sewing Teacher, 57,516 
visits \\ere made in behalf of those needing assistance; relief in the form of 
food, fuel, shelter and clothing was provided to l,MiH families in their homes; 
its initial Nutrition Center for undernourished < -hildren was conducted; at 
the Sewing Center 8,(i40 old garments were salvaged and 11,81^ ne\\ ones 
made for free distribution; at Wayfarers' Lodge 15,411 meals and 4,834 
lodgings were furnished to convalescents and homeless (40 per cent women 
and children); eight classes in social work were conducted, training 114 
paid and volunteer workers for community service. Eighty people serve in 
this organization and the annual expenses were about $50,000 in the past 
I -' months. 

THE WELFARE FEDERATION 

A good description of the Welfare Federation will be found in the intro- 
ductory chapter, Part I., giving the history of its development and its present 
position as a coordinating agency for all the component groups engaged in 
some form of public welfare. Each of its associated organizations has been, 
to a greater or less degree, under observation in the present study and to all 
we owe thanks for their unremitting courtesy and helpfulness. 

A special study was requested at the beginning of the Survey period, to 
permit of recommendations in the field of orthopedics and the following 
chapter gives the result of the inquiries which were made. 

THE CARE OF CRIPPLES IN CLEVELAND* 

GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS 

The facts that strike one in a study of the provision for cripples in 
Cleveland are that less than 25 per cent of the 960 cripples enrolled in the 
regular classes of the public schools are under any orthopedic supervision or 
treatment, and that there has been neither recognition nor leadership pro- 
vided by the Western Reserve University Medical School for this specialty. 

Boston, with a metropolitan population of 1,500,000, has forty specialists 
in orthopedic surgery with teaching or hospital affiliations. They are 
well occupied and supported by the medical profession and the public. In 
Cleveland and its vicinity there are but seven physicians limiting their 
practice to orthopedics, and of these but four have j>ermanent hospital 
affiliations. 

The experiences and triumphs of orthopedic surgery during the war have 
opened the eyes of the laity and of the medical profession to the indefinite 
possibilities for human salvage, for prevention of deformity and dependency, 
and for the re-establishment of function in those disabled in the spinal col- 
umn r in the extremities, such possibilities having l>een in the past hardly 
conceived of outside of a few groups of leaders in the profession. 

It will l>e sufficient here to point out that the specialty of orthopedic 
surgery differs from most other specialties in that it is a specialty of prin- 

Coniultant in Orthopedic*. Dr. Robert B. Ogood. Premident of the American Orthopedic Asso- 
ciation. 



198 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

ciple and not of an anatomical region. This principle may be briefly defined 
as a principle of the return of function in lesions of the extremities and 
spinal column. If it can meet its obligations we believe orthopedic surgery 
should surely include acute as well as chronic lesions, joint infections, acute 
internal joint derangements, muscular and ligamentous strains, etc., but the 
majority of cases referred to it will comprise the more or less chronic lesions, 
in which the return of wage earning capacity in the shortest possible time, is 
the chief desideratum. The burden of the cripple will continue to be its 
burden, but the burden should be accepted while the crippling is acute and 
potential as well as when it is chronic and perhaps permanent. 

Already the Industrial Accident Insurance Commission of a great state 
(California) has become aware of the fact that the time of recovery of wage 
earning capacity, following certain types of bone and joint injuries, varied 
very greatly when the patients were cared for by different physicians whose 
general standing in the community was equally good. They have found it 
a matter of wisdom and economy to turn over these patients to a specially 
organized group connected with a State Medical Institution, which group 
have been especially devoting their attention not only to intelligent surgery 
but to methods of treatment which produced the quickest return of function. 
Orthopedic surgeons more than surgeons of any other specialty have been 
obliged to devote then* attention more completely to this class of cases.* 

There are, moreover, in every community large numbers of children and 
adults whose ordinary efficiency is impaired and whose recovery from any 
lesion is inhibited by the acquired bad mechanical use of the body, which 
under proper training is usually capable of correction. This class increases 
as the facts become known. The great undergraduate universities are 
recognizing this class and have taken well considered steps to increase the 
physical well-being of their students by educating them in principles of 
bodily mechanics. This obligation is not assumed by the Western Reserve 
University at Cleveland. The size of the class in any community needing 
this education can be readily gauged by the rejections in the army on this 
account and the breakdown under rigid training of large numbers of those 
who had been actually accepted. 

Let us briefly summarize the functions to be fulfilled in our opinion by 
any orthopedic organization: 

1. The efficient treatment, operative, mechanical and physiotherapeutic of 
crippling conditions of the extremities and spinal column, looking to the 
fullest and quickest return to wage earning capacity. 

2. The prevention of deformity in potentially crippling conditions in chil- 
dren and adults. 

3. The education of the community in bodily mechanics. 

To fulfill these functions it would seem to be necessary to arrange for: 

1. A Professor of Orthopedic Surgery in the local medical school, of recognized 
ability in the specialty and with a faculty of unselfish leadership. 

Valuable information aa to the extent of disabling injuries in the Cleveland district and the large 
field for the functional rehabilitation of in : ured wage earners by orthopedic surgery and physiotherapy 
will be found in the recent report of the State Industrial Commission. 



PRIVATE HEALTH AGENCIES 199 

2. Orthopedic Departments in all the acute, sub-acute and convalescent 
teaching hospitals organized under the Division of Surgery, but with 
their Chiefs of Service holding the same rank as the Chiefs of General 
Surgery and other specialties. 

3. Facilities for the administration of those form* of physiotherapy, which 
are recognized of proved value, this administration to be directed by a 
Medical Chief familiar with the mechanical details and capable of carrying 
out and supervising in a consultatory manner the treatment prescribed 
by the physicians and surgeons. 

4. Facilities for the manufacture of braces and appliances, and at least the 
simpler forms of prostheses. 

Departments of orthopedic surgery in general hospitals are desirable in 
out-patient and house service. 

Whether or not the acute fractures other than the joint fractures should 
be considered as orthopedic cases should, in our opinion, depend solely upon 
whether certain general surgeons of the community or certain orthopedic 
surgeons have had the larger experience in the treatment of these lesions 
and whether they retain their interest to continue to supervise the many 
necessary details of this treatment, looking to the fullest and most rapid 
return of function. At least we believe there should be constant orthopedic 
consultation in fracture cases in relation to mechanical treatment, preven- 
tion of deformity and early return of function. 

Social Service workers as an integral part of the orthopedic department 
have proved to be of great value. In the system now in operation at the 
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston a head social worker and several 
assistants are assigned to the Orthopedic Out-Patient Clinic and have an 
office in the clinic. All cases needing investigation of their home conditions, 
or help in obtaining apparatus, or more detailed explanation of their pro- 
posed treatment are referred to this office and the history card stamped 
"Social Service." All cases referred to the hospital for operation or bed 
treatment are automatically interviewed by the Social Service worker and 
the home situation which this emergency creates is ascertained. By means 
of a card system cases not reporting back to the clinic on the day set for their 
return are followed up, and when statistics were last taken a 85% loss was 
reduced to 4%. The cases in the ward are visited by the House and Out- 
Patient Social Service Worker and arrangements for transfer to their homes 
and immediate after care are made. The service has a peculiar value to an 
orthopedic department. 

A distinct Children's Service in General Hospitals for acute and sub- 
acute cases is needed unless a separate children's hospital is provided, and a 
ward or wards should be set apart for children orthopedic patients. 

There are many adult cases needing operation and bed treatment for 
chronic lesions of the bones and joints and spinal column, whose stay in a 
hospital for acute and sub-acute cases need be only two or three weeks, 
provided they could be recumbent one or two months longer in some con- 



200 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

valescent or sub-acute hospital which could be administered with less ex- 
pense than an acute hospital. The problem of convalescents has been shown 
to be an important one. A few weeks longer in recumbency or under physio- 
therapeutic treatment, perhaps directly following their surgical treatment, 
often saves many weeks of idleness and brings about a much more permanent 
and complete recovery of wage earning capacity. Beds are needed for con- 
valescent patients in hospitals where their treatment may continue to be 
directed by the same surgeons under whose care they were, in the acute 
hospitals. 

Simple physiotherapeutic plants would prove valuable in every sub- 
acute and convalescent hospital. By this we mean simple hydrotherapy 
apparatus, whirlpool bath and douches, electric apparatus for diagnosis, 
and the simpler forms of treatment by radiant light, baking, galvanism and 
Faradism (Bristow coil), one or two universal exercising machines of the 
pendulum type, and facilities for massage. 

If there were a main physiotherapy plant to serve all hospitals more 
elaborate and complete hydrotherapeutic, electrotherapeutic, and mechano- 
therapeutic apparatus could be installed and very properly simple curative 
workshops established. These workshops might very well be made more 
than self-supporting. Such a central facility for physiotherapy would 
benefit many types of patients other than purely orthopedic, and while per- 
haps the interest of orthopedic surgeons in these methods has been more 
intense than that of other medical men, few of them in our experience are 
at present sufficiently well trained to administer these measures. Experi- 
enced medical supervision of a consultatory character will be required if the 
results hoped for by physicians and patients are to be expected. Without 
this dual control there is danger that the treatment may be futile or the 
service become a fad only. Frequent and accurate records of progress are 
required in such work, in order that results may be measured. The interest 
of the patients is greatly stimulated by such records. This orthopedic cen- 
ter could with much advantage be incorporated in or be associated under 
the same management with the proposed down-town central dispensary 
serving especially pay industrial accident patients. The benefits of a 
group of medical and surgical diagnosticians available for consultation and 
reference at such a center would be of much importance to an orthopedic 
or physiotherapy center and vice versa. 

Brace and appliance shops operated in general hospitals are convenient, 
but rarely, we believe, successful from either a business point of view or from 
the point of view of furnishing the highest grade of. apparatus at least cost 
to the patients. If there were a central brace shop where a representative 
of the shop might measure the patients for apparatus ordered by the sur- 
geon, the surgeon being present when necessary and practicable, errors 
would be avoided and changes of apparatus would prove unnecessary which 
entail extra expense to the shop or patient and delay the delivery. In one 
hospital shop before this method was adopted it was estimated that one-half 
the labor of the shop was employedin making unnecessary alterations. 
The shop should include metal workrf^ttgir work, the fitting o*f corsets and 




I'im \ i i Hi \i.i ii A<. i \< ii - -,'01 

corset IK-|(>, the making <f pylons and j>erhap> even the provisional jointed 
prostheses. 

In general the problem of the care of the crippled in a given community 
involves consideration of its acute hospital an<l disj>ensary facilities; of the 
availability of the services of men especially trained in that branch of sur- 
gery known a> orthopedic surgery and of the teaching opportunities afforded 
in this specialty. It also involves consideration of the resources for con- 
valescent care; of the facilities for the practice of all such branches of physio- 
therapy as are known to be helpful in functional restoration; of the resources 
for the provision of braces and other special apparatus; and of the machinery 
at hand for both medical and social follow-up work with such additional 
resources as special schools for crippled children, funds for the provision of 
artificial limbs, facilities for transportation to and from dispensaries, place- 
ment agencies for handicapped j>ersons, etc. 

In studying the problem of the care of the crippled in Cleveland the Hos- 
pital Survey has endeavored to learn first the scope and character of existing 
resources; to discover thereupon the unsatisfied needs, and finally to formu- 
late a program adequately covering the entire field and involving the least 
change or expense which is compatible with thorough-going work. 

TEACHING OF ORTHOPEDICS 

Until this year the teaching of orthopedic surgery in the Western Reserve 
University Medical School has been carried on as a subdivision of the De- 
partment of General Surgery. There have been a few lectures with clinical 
demonstrations and there has been a short course of clinical instruction in 
the dispensary and in the wards of Lakeside Hospital. 

By recent vote of the Medical Faculty the Department of Orthopedic 
Surgery is now separate from that of General Surgery, and the professor of 
this department will have a service in the university hospital under his own 
direction. Every effort is now being made to obtain for the head of this 
department an outstanding leader in the profession. Much for the future of 
orthopedics in Cleveland depends upon the personality and professional at- 
tainments of the head of the department in the medical school. 

The dispensary equipment as proposed for the new Lakeside and Babies' 
Hospitals will give every facility for teaching not only diagnosis but the modern 
resources for rehabilitation of orthopedic defects by occupational therapy 
and by the use of muscle training, and hydro- and mechano-therapeutic 
appliances, etc. While it may continue to be impracticable to offer the 
undergraduate medical student more than a brief introduction to the principles 
and practice of orthopedic surgery, the facilities available and the clinical 
material which will always be at hand in a city of the si/e of Cleveland, and 
particularly the type of patient found in abundance wherever there U >uch a 
range of industries and employment of men and w.unen among machines, offer 
a tempting opportunity to develop^special courses for graduates or even to 
the fourth year student who wi-jktisfo .^>eciali/e at once. The coordination 




202 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

of the city's clinical resources with the agencies for the social follow-up and 
convalescent care and schooling of cripples offers an unusual range of experi- 
ence in study of the preventive and family problems of orthopedics. 

HOSPITAL SERVICE 

At Lakeside, Mt. Sinai, St. John's and St. Alexis Hospitals there are 
specialists in orthopedic surgery in charge of such patients as are generally 
admitted under this classification. It is not usual in Cleveland to include 
fractures among orthopedic patients, and at no hospital in Cleveland is there 
organized what is sometimes spoken of as a fracture team, consisting of a gen- 
eral surgeon, an orthopedic surgeon and a neurologist. It is not customary 
and it may be said it is not suitable with the present shortage of hospital beds 
in Cleveland to set aside a definite number of beds for the exclusive use of 
orthopedic patients. There are usually to be found at Lakeside Hospital 
about ten orthopedic patients receiving bed care, from three to fifteen being 
the range noted during the survey. There are a few orthopedic patients at 
Mt. Sinai Hospital, rarely more than six to ten, in wards and in semi-private 
rooms. At St. John's Hospital there are usually two or three and sometimes 
as many as five orthopedic bed patients. At St. Luke's Hospital, where 
orthopedic patients are not under the care of orthopedic specialists, there 
are commonly a few (three to six) cases. 

The service at St. Alexis Hospital has only recently been organized under 
a specialist in orthopedics, and the use of beds is irregular, but certain to 
increase, especially among industrial accident patients. 

DISPENSARY SERVICES 

Dispensary facilities,* more or less complete, are offered at six hospitals. 
The physiotherapy facilities in Cleveland are extremely limited. 

Lakeside has three orthopedic clinics a week with an average attendance 
of 10 to 12. No physiotherapy staff. 

Mt. Sinai has an orthopedic clinic open every day from 9 to 10:30 and 
2:30 to 5:30. During 11 months of 1919, 5,818 physiotherapeutic treatments 
were given. The clinic is equipped with two Zander machines, quarter circle 
pulleys, hanging apparatus, dumb bells, and has facilities for general massage, 
and four well trained masseuses. 

St. John's has no dispensary, but treatments are given every day to out- 
patients at all hours by two trained physiotherapists. Emphasis is placed 
on hydrotherapy. This hospital also has an electric light cabinet, steam 
cabinet and facilities for general massage. Patients will be accepted from 
other hospitals or dispensaries for treatment. 

St. Vincent's has no orthopedic staff. Cases discharged from the wards 
are followed up. There is an attendant trained in physiotherapy. General 
massage is given and electrical and steam cabinet treatments are provided. 

For special report on all dispensary services in Cleveland, see Part X. 



PRIVATE HEALTH AGENCIES 203 

The Babies' Dispensary and Hospital has an attendant trained in physio- 
therapy and has equipment for massage and simple electrical treatment. 
Clinic open three days a week from 9 to 11. Children up to the age of 14 
are admitted. The average attendance is 1 ,' children a month. An ortho- 
pedist visits the clinic once a month for supervision. 

St. Alexis has three orthopedic clinics a week. There are no facilities for 
physiotherapy. 

CONVALESCENT SERVICES 

Convalescent care* for crippled children to the age of 14 is provided by 
Rainbow Hospital up to 75 beds. The Fresh Air Camp receives ambulatory 
crippled children to the same age to a capacity of 50 beds. The Warrens- 
ville Tubercular Sanitarium and Children's Cottage give convalescent care 
to crippled children and adults who are suffering with a pulmonary compli- 
cation. The Warrensville Infirmary is the last resort for convalescent care 
for crippled adults and for children who are beyond the age limits set by Rain- 
bow Hospital and the Fresh Air Camp, but at this city institution no ortho- 
pedic treatment is provided. 

BRACE-MAKER 

Lakeside Hospital gives space in the basement of the hospital to a brace- 
maker. The bracemaker gives special rates to all hospitals in the city. 
This service is used by all the hospitals and by the orthopedists. No com- 
plaint is made as to quality of service rendered, but the facilities are entirely 
inadequate. Often it is necessary to wait weeks or months for a brace. 

SOCIAL SERVICE 

The social service facilities for orthopedic patients as provided at several 
of the hospitals, Lakeside, Mt. Sinai and Rainbow, lack completeness, and 
even with the central assistance of the Association for Crippled and Dis- 
abled, fail in their full possibilities both in doing most for the patients and 
in providing for optimum use of hospital and dispensary services. 

Lakeside has an insufficient social service staff for adequate follow-up 
work. The children's worker devotes most of her time to the orthopedic 
cases. She admits all the children during dispensary hours, but does noth- 
ing further in the children's clinic. She assists in the orthopedic clinic and 
arranges for hospital admission. She spends most of her mornings visiting 
in the homes of orthopedic children. She arranges convalescent care for 
the orthopedic cases and occasionally for other children's cases from the 
hospital. 

Mt. Sinai has an insufficient social service staff but has a fine spirit of 
cooperation. One graduate nurse does the follow-up work for orthopedic 
cases, giving about one afternoon a week. Financial investigations are 
made by the head of the clinic. If the patient fails to attend clinic a follow- 
up visit is made to the home to discover the reason for non-attendance. 

For special consideration of the problem of convalescent care of all kind*, tee Chapter on Con- 
valescent*. Part X. 



204 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Rainbow Hospital has endeavored to keep in touch with the children dis- 
charged from Rainbow as long as anything medically or surgically could be 
done for them. The Social Service Department of the Association for the 
Crippled and Disabled has done medical and social follow-up work with all 
persons referred to its attention. 

One-fourth of the income from the Benjamin Rose Institute is available 
to provide funds for the hospital and dispensary care of crippled children. 

THE ASSOCIATION FOR THE CRIPPLED AND DISABLED 

The Association for the Crippled and Disabled, a very valuable co- 
ordinating agency, has a board of trustees elected to be representative of all 
groups especially interested in the crippled problem. At the present time 
the board members include representative members of Rainbow Hospital, 
Holy Cross House, the Hospital Council, Babies' Dispensary and the Public 
Schools. The Board members also include a large representation of what 
was formerly the Sunbeam Association for Cripples, which organization and 
its activities were merged in the Association for the Crippled and Disabled. 
The Association for the Crippled and Disabled has also recently asked for 
representation from the Rotary Club* which is now interested in crippled 
work. An orthopedic council has recently been formed at the request of this 
association for the purpose of providing for the expression of opinion and 
forming professional policies for the Association, by joint action of the 
specialists in orthopedic surgery in Cleveland. 

The Association functions through the following committees and depart- 
ments : 

The Committee on Orthopedic Resources works to organize and co- 
ordinate the orthopedic resources of the city to the end that all orthopedic 
needs may be adequately met in the most efficient manner possible. 

The Social Service Department embraces the following activities: 

The securing of expert medical diagnosis and making possible any treat- 
ment indicated. 

The furnishing of transportation and accompanying patients to hospitals, 
dispensaries, etc. 

The furnishing and having repaired braces, special shoes, artificial limbs, 
etc. 

Arranging for vocational training and special schooling as well as provid- 
ing recreation and offering vacation opportunities and arranging for friendly 
visitors. 

Providing equipment necessary for employment, supplying home teachers 
to home-bound crippled children of school age and arranging for a supply 
of magazines, delicacies, toys, etc., for them. 

Providing outings and festivities for the children in the School for Crip- 
pled Children. 



1'im \i 1 Hi. M.TII A<. i \' ii - 



Through its Social Service Department the Association aims to insure 
to every crippled person in Cleveland, whether /-hild or adult, the best 
physical condition he is capable of attaining; the lie>t education he is able 
to assimilate; the best job he is competent to undertake. 

The Employment Bureau of the Association is now organized in connec- 
tion with the United States Employment Service and finds suitable employ- 
ment for crippled and disabled men. The department is experiencing no 
difficulty with organized labor, because in placing the handicapped there is 
no effort made to market their labor at a lower price than that offered for 
similar service of physically sound men. Besides this, the labor unions 
reali/.e that under certain circumstances men may work for less than the 
scheduled union wage, as, for example, elderly painters are permitted to 
work for less than the standard union wages when their physical condition 
is such as to forbid their working at the same pace as younger men. 

The Bureau is able to place approximately fifty cases a month. In the 
nine months from April to December, 1919, there were 1,327 applications 
and 527 placements. It was not learned what j>ercentage of these place- 
ments were relatively permanent. 

The Sunbeam Shop offers employment to crippled and disabled girls 
and women in various kinds of needle work, and gives a training course in 
sewing to crippled and disabled girls and women desiring to enter this trade. 
The shop has an average of 10 workers. 

The Home Industries Committee provides work for home-bound crip- 
pled and disabled persons, and furnishes both diversion and income to those 
whose lives are, of necessity, greatly restricted. It is instrumental in mar- 
keting the articles produced. During the month of April, 1920, 34 ]>eople 
were carried by the committee. Practically all of the women do sewing. 
The efforts of the men cover a wider range; i. e., toy-making, book-binding, 
finishing work for tailors, etc. 

The Committee on the Welfare of Cripples in Institutions makes a study 
of the welfare of cripples in public institutions, endeavors to improve these 
conditions by the furnishing of recreation and employment and by the pro- 
vision of ordinary comforts where these are lacking. 

This committee has organized a vocational therapy shop at Warrensville 
Infirmary, where the men work every day. One full-time instructor and one 
half-time instructor are at work in the wards. The ward work is an experi- 
ment on the part of the Association. 

The Committee on Cooperation with the Public Schools has the follow- 
ing objectives: 

The appointment of a Supervisor of Cripple Work in the Medical Depart- 
ment of the Public Schools, the erection of a new and adequate special school 
for crippled children, the employment by the school of home teachers for 
house-bound children of school age, the perfecting of the method of trans- 
porting crippled children to and from school. 



206 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The Association has recently appointed a staff member, skilled in physio- 
therapy and muscle trainjng. Through this worker an attenpt will be made 
to give physiotherapeutic care in patients' homes and in settlements, to crip- 
ples not cared for in other ways and for whom no other provision can be made. 

EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES FOR CRIPPLES IN THE CLEVELAND PUBLIC SCHOOLS 

Regular Schools: In June, 1919, there were 960 crippled children en- 
rolled in the Cleveland regular public schools. 65 of the 960 were discharged 
from the Crippled School. 48% of the 960 were disabled by infantile par- 
alysis, 15% by congenital deformities, 10% by tubercular bone disease, 
5% by amputations, 6% by fractures and 5% by spastic conditions. Less 
than 25% of the crippled children in the regular schools of the public school 
system were under any orthopedic treatment. 

Special School: The Board of Education at present is conducting a 
special school for crippled children who cannot take care of themselves in 
the regular schools, and is providing them with transportation to and from 
their homes. 

In January, 1920, there were 120 pupils in the Cripple School. On the 
waiting list there were 8 who were out of school, 11 who were in other schools, 
and 30 who were barred from kindergarten and first grade on account of 
lack of room. A very small number of crippled children in the regular 
schools are candidates for the special cripple school. Children are now being 
sent from the special cripple school into the regular classes, who would benefit 
by a longer attendance in the special school. Their premature discharge 
seems the less of two evils. By their transfer, room is made for others usually 
so handicapped that without a created school vacancy they must remain at 
home. 

At the present time there is one worker who investigates candidates for 
the school. 

In the Cripple School 68% of the children were disabled by infantile 
paralysis, and 12% by tubercular bone disease. The remaining 20% were 
disabled by spastic conditions, amputations, progressive muscular paralysis, 
congenital deformities, osteo-myelitis, etc. About 95% of the children in 
the Cripple School are under orthopedic surgical supervision. 

A lot has been purchased on the Fresh Air Camp site and another special 
school for cripples will be built there. This school will accommodate about 
250. The architect of the Board of Education, after making a special study 
of schools for cripples in many other cities, has drawn plans incorporating 
what appear to be the best features of each. There remains simply the 
question of financing the undertaking. 

The Board of Education expects to make provision next year for the 
giving of special exercises in the regular schools to children with slight ortho- 
pedic defects. The present worker will be used for this purpose and one, or 
possibly two, assistants will be provided for her. 



PRIVATE HEALTH AGENCIES 207 

PRESENT NEEDS 

Briefly, to state the unsatisfied needs in the present situation, the city 
needs to have orthopedic dispensary facilities developed on the west side of 
the river. 

All dispensaries and hospitals accepting for care orthopedic cases should 
have at their command trained orthopedists, and Hot trust such cases to the 
general practitioner, pediatrist, or general surgeon. 

The present facilities for physiotherapy are inadequate and such as 
there are, because of location, are wasteful of the time of patients. 

Rainbow Hospital, which has been and is one of the largest factors in 
crippled work in Cleveland, has been very much limited in its field of action 
by fact of the contract affiliating it particularly with Lakeside Hospital. 
Although Rainbow has offered to receive patients from other hospitals and 
dispensaries it is not strange that surgeons have been loath to send patients 
when by so doing they have necessarily lost supervision over them. 

Hardship is wrought by the fact that there is no place at present for 
convalescent care of crippled children beyond 14 years of age. When excep- 
tions have been made by institutions whose age limits have been set at 14 
the results have been almost universally unfortunate. It happens, there- 
fore, that no place is open to the adolescent crippled child, save the wards 
of the Warrensville Infirmary, and it goes without saying that these wards 
are not the proper setting for the life of any boy or girl. 

The adult cripple frequently suffers now along with many medical cases 
because of the lack of opportunity for convalescent care. A general con- 
valescent hospital for all adult cases would, of course, greatly relieve the 
situation. (See chapter on "Convalescent Care," Part X.) 

The follow-up work with orthopedic cases has been erratic and has suf- 
fered for lack of organization. Neither Mt. Sinai nor Lakeside has had a 
social service staff sufficient to insure the proper following up of cases that 
were receiving medical attention in the dispensaries. There has been con- 
fusion in the follow-up work done by Rainbow Hospital due to the lack of 
careful delimitation of work with Lakeside Hospital. The follow-up work 
of the Association for the Crippled and Disabled has been difficult, because 
in attempting to supplement the work of the dispensaries there is the con- 
stant danger of duplication. 

The Board of Education has not sufficiently recognized the complexity 
of the problem offered by the crippled school child and has never had a clearly 
defined program of its functions in this connection. It has not realized the 
opportunity as a preventive agency in the matter of orthopedic deformities 
nor has it realized its obligation to the crippled children in the regular schools. 

There are practising in Cleveland a number of surgeons who are devoting 
practically their entire time to the practice or teaching of orthopedic sur- 
gery, or both. General surgeons and some of the practitioners of medicine 
who have much practice among children take orthopedic patients in their 



208 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

practice and operate or prescribe or apply corrective measures. Those 
limiting their practice to orthopedic surgery in Cleveland are in entire agree- 
ment as regards the deficiencies in the educational facilities of the Western 
Reserve University Medical School and in the matter of hospital and dispen- 
sary provision for patients. 

PROGRAM AND RECOMMENDATIONS 

The program which follows is offered to the citizens of Cleveland for their 
consideration and support, with the conviction that it represents the best 
thought of the specialists of their city and is in substantial agreement with 
the accepted ideas of the leaders in orthopedic surgery among the profession 
elsewhere. 

St. John's Hospital, because of its location, and because of the small 
beginnings already made in hydrotherapy and in orthopedic work in the 
wards, might well develop an orthopedic department in connection with its 
future dispensary service. Provision should also be made for the inclusion 
of an orthopedic department in the extension of the work at the City Hos- 
pital. With such additions the orthopedic needs of the West Side should 
be fairly met. 

The Hospital Survey approves of the recently organized Advisory Ortho- 
pedic Council having as personnel the heads of the orthopedic departments in 
the various hospitals and such other orthopedists as these men may choose 
to associate with them. This group could meet upon call of the secretary of 
the Association for the Crippled and Disabled to advise upon any question 
of a professional or administrative nature submitted by any one of the groups 
responsible for any phase of the crippled problem. 

There should be a central office which would take ultimate responsibility 
for all medical and social follow-up work with orthopedic cases. The exist- 
ence of adequate medical and institutional facilities or, indeed, of adequate 
resources of any nature does not necessarily signify real accomplishment. 
If lapses in treatment are allowed, if braces can be neglected, if home condi- 
tions are destructive of gains previously made, etc., the accomplishment of 
surgery or medical treatment may be nullified. The Survey would recom- 
mend that the Association for the Crippled and Disabled, which has already 
made considerable headway with social service follow-up work with the 
crippled in Cleveland, should take upon itself the ultimate responsibility 
for insuring that adequate follow-up work is done in every individual ortho- 
pedic case. However much or little of the actual case work be done by the 
Association for the Crippled and Disabled the responsibility for insuring that 
the work is adequately done by some one and that records are properly 
kept should reside with the Association for the Crippled and Disabled Social 
Service Department. 

There should be established a center of physiotherapy which should have 
a staff of trained physiotherapists and where equipment for physiotherapy 
would be available. Such a center should be under the direct supervision of 
a group of people who would be interested in making it possible" to attain a 



PRIVATE HEALTH AGENCIES 



high standard of treatment. They would benefit by the advice and sugges- 
tion of the Orthopedic Council. The services of the center should be avail- 
able to all surgeons of the Orthopedic Council. A careful plan of cooperation 
with the surgeons should be worked out so that all work done would be upon 
the prescription and under the advice and supervision of the surgeon in 
charge of the case, and such treatment records should be kept as might be 
acceptable to and standardized by the Orthopedic Council. 

The Hospital and Health Survey recommends that: 

1. The Orthopedic Council, formed at the invitation of the Association for Crippled and 
Disabled and now organized, include in its membership a representative of the lay 
management of each hospital which has a dispensary or bed service for orthopedic 
patients under the direction of an orthopedic surgeon. 

2. The Association for the Crippled and Disabled enlarge its activity to include the 
operation of an orthopedic center where, in addition to fulfilling several of its estab- 
lished social and welfare functions, the Association should administer a physiothera- 
peutic service under the direction of an orthopedic surgeon or surgeons nominated by 
the Orthopedic Council. This service should be, so far as possible, self-supporting 
and should serve the needs for all manner of muscle training, massage and mechanical 
treatment of functional and structural disabilities of joints, bones and muscles, and 
their nerve control, referred by hospitals, dispensaries, private practitioners, shops, 
industries and schools. 

3. The proposed Orthopedic Center include the central Brace Shop now located at Lake- 
side Hospital, and the 

Information Center, 
Social Service Center, 
Vocational Training Service, 
Transportation Service, 
Home Industries Activities, 
Artificial Limbs Fund Service 

at present being operated by the Association for Crippled and Disabled, and that this 
center serve as the point of contact and coordination of all the institutions dealing 
with cripples, in particular the acute hospitals with orthopedic services, the convales- 
cent hospitals for orthopedic patients, the services for cripples of school age, and the 
other social agencies, such as the Holy Cross Home, Employment for Handicapped, etc. 

4. (a) Not less than 50 beds be provided for acute orthopedic patients at the new Lake- 

side Hospital 30 for children and 20 for adults. 

(b) Not less than 60 beds be provided in the extension of Mt. Sinai Hospital 40 for 
children and 20 for adults. 

(c) Not less than 50 beds be provided at the new St. Luke's 30 for adults and 20 for 
children, and that this service be put in charge of an orthopedic specialist. 

(d) Twenty beds be provided at St. John's Hospital 10 for adults and 10 for children, 
and that an orthopedic dispensary be established at this hospital. 



210 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(e) Sixty beds be provided at City Hospital 30 for adults and 30 for children, this 
latter to include beds to be made available for isolation for orthopedic patients 
affected with acute communicable diseases and with venereal diseases in the com- 
municable stage. That an orthopedic dispensary be established at this hospital. 
That ward and dispensary service be put under the direction of an orthopedic 
specialist. 

(f) Thirty beds for adults be provided at St. Alexis Hospital when this hospital under- 
takes its program of reconstruction and reorganization, and that an orthopedic 
dispensary be established at this hospital. 

(g) Holy Cross Home increase its capacity to provide for orphan cripples of older age 
groups (adolescents). That a nurse especially trained in the care of orthopedic 
patients be employed constantly at this institution. 

5. The admitting and assigning authorities of all hospitals with orthopedic services 
either for bed or dispensary patients authorize and require the assignment as patients 
for the care of the orthopedic surgeon, those suffering from the conditions and dis- 
eases listed below: 

Foot Strain (Flat Foot) Hallux Valgus, 

Scoliosis, 

Deformities of Rachitis 

Congenital Deformities, 

Contraction of fascia or tendons (resulting in deformities of joints), 

Affections of Bursae, 

Tuberculosis of Joints, 

Mon-articular Disease 

Gonorrhea, 

Syphilis, 

Infections, 

Deformities of Chronic Polyarthritis, 
Chronic Joint Strain, 

Acute Muscular and Ligamentous Strain Involving Joints, 
Infantile Paralysis (after acute state), 

Requiring: Prevention of Deformity, 
Muscle Training, 
Apparatus, etc., 

Spastic Paralysis (requiring correction of deformity and muscle training), 
Traumatic derangement of Joints (cartilage), 
Bone Disease of Unknown Origin, such as Chondrodystrophy, Osteogenesis Im- 

perfecta, Adolescent Rickets. 

Deformities Following Old Fractures into Joints, 
Deformities Following Dislocations. 

6. A fracture team to consist of a general surgeon, an orthopedic surgeon and a neurolo- 
gist be organized for the treatment of fractures in any general hospital where an ortho- 
pedic*specialist and neurologist are available on the medical staff. 



I'UIVATK HEALTH AOKNCIES 211 



7. The Department of Orthopedic Surgery in the Medical School and at the University 
Hospital group be included under the general group of surgery but be allowed full 
autonomy in the development of the specialty in the diagnosis and treatment of all 
patients falling within above list (see 5.) and that special facilities be provided for 
intimate coordination of ward and dispensary services with the social service depart- 
ment and for development of special clinics in poliomyelitis, scoliosis, and posture 
defects. 

8. Rainbow Hospital be enlarged to accommodate 300 orthopedic or other patients for 
convalescent care; that the service at Rainbow Hospital be restricted for the present 
to the convalescent care of adolescents and children; that Rainbow Hospital accept 
patients from all the hospitals in the city; that patients in the communicable stages of 
gonorrhea and syphilis and those with open pulmonary tuberculosis be excluded; 
and that the medical staff consist of the heads of orthopedic services in hospitals pro- 
viding such services, and such other orthopedic specialists as may be considered quali- 
fied by the Orthopedic Council the resident orthopedic surgeon to be nominated by 
the Orthopedic Council. While Rainbow Hospital is, as now organized and equipped, 
prepared to serve only the needs of children, it may well be that, in the absence of any 
new undertaking for convalescent care under other auspices, the Board of Managers 
of Rainbow Hospital will find themselves under much pressure and almost a moral 
obligation to extend their activities to provide for adults, convalescent from general 
medical and surgical conditions. 

9. The Fresh Air Camp discontinue its service for cripples as soon as Rainbow is prepared 
to accept all the cases offered for convalescent care. 

10. A nurse trained in the care of orthopedic patients be available at all times for service 
at Warrensville Tuberculosis Sanatorium. (One of the regular nurses always on duty 
could be trained to meet this requirement.) 

11. A visiting orthopedic surgeon be appointed at Warrensville Infirmary to care for 
convalescent adults, and that a nurse trained to care for orthopedic patients be pro- 
vided at this institution. 

12. When an orthopedic service is established at City Hospital the chief of this service 
be responsible for the professional care of the orthopedic cases requiring treatment at 
Warrensville Tuberculosis Sanitorium and the Warrensville Infirmary. 

13. To the responsibilities already assumed by the Board of Education in the care of 
crippled children should be added the following: 

The prevention, as far as may be, of orthopedic deformities through attention to 
posture, seating, etc. 

The recording of every crippled child in the school system. 

Provision of supervision by an orthopedic surgeon for every crippled child of school 
age needing such attention. The orthopedic surgeon may be privately employed or 
his services secured at a dispensary. 

Provision that each child report at proper intervals to the orthopedic surgeon in charge 
of his case. 



212 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The furnishing of transportation to dispensaries when such transportation is a 
necessity. 

The giving of simple massage and special physical exercises, not requiring elaborate 
equipment, in school buildings, under the close supervision of the orthopedist in charge 
of each child. 

The keeping of such records of these treatments as may be suggested by the Ortho- 
pedic Council. 

The creation in the public schools within the Department of Medical Inspection 
of a Department of Orthopedic Supervision; that the supervision be by a trained 
physiotherapist whose qualifications are such as to be acceptable to the Orthopedic 
Council, that such other trained physiotherapists be employed as are necessary to 
carry out the plan as outlined, for work under the supervisor, who could be employed 
for work in the different schools as needed. 

14. The governors of Rainbow Hospital request all nurses training schools in Cleveland 
hospitals where there is no organized training care of orthopedic patients to send their 
nurses for a period of not less than two months each to Rainbow for special training, 
before or after graduation, in the care of convalescent, brace, plaster, paralytic and 
chronic tubercular joint cases, etc. 

15. The support of the Rotary Club be enlisted to add either an acute or convalescent 
orthopedic service to existing institutions rather than attempt to create a new ortho- 
pedic hospital. It is apparent that the need for acute hospital beds for orthopedic 
cases would be much relieved if there were adequate facilities for convalescent care, 
and we think that the money and interest of the Rotary Club would be more effective 
if brought to the support of Rainbow Hospital than if a new undertaking, with all the 
necessary overhead expense to be met by the community, were established by*the 
Rotary Club independently. 

16. Efforts be made by the Faculty of the Medical School, by the Academy of Medicine 
and by the Orthopedic Council to attract to Cleveland well trained young orthopedists 
and to provide for their development through dispensary and hospital services in 
this specialty. 



Additional Private Health Agencies Proposed 

There are, in spite of the generous array of private agencies above listed, 
several activities which are still needed to give a completely rounded service 
to the community in the field of preventive medicine applied through social 
organization. 

Cleveland has no organization in the following fields of preventive and 
social medicine: 

The Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease. 
The Prevention and Cure of Cancer. 
The Prevention and Treatment of Mental Disease. 
The Prevention and Control of Venereal Diseases. 



UKALTH AGENCIES 213 

Cleveland further lacks a central representative popular Public Health 
Association, to which reference is made in the introduction to Part I. 

THE PREVENTION AND RELIEF OF HEART DISEASE 

Through the courtesy of the Association for the Prevention and Relief 
of Heart Disease of New York the following text has been prepared. It 
represents the opinions of a group of physicians and others interested in these 
objects. The arguments and the projects proposed have been in large 
measure applied to conditions as they exist in New York City, and are equally 
applicable to Cleveland. 

Reference to the list of the chief causes of death in Ohio will disclose 
the fact that deaths from heart disease are more numerous than those from 
any other cause, pneumonia and tuberculosis following heart disease 
(in that order), with small differences. Deaths in Ohio per thousand 
population in 1917, as reported by the Bureau of Census, were: heart 
disease, 1.66; pneumonia, 1.48; tuberculosis, 1.42. The figures for 
these diseases for the city of Cleveland are not sufficiently reliable to be 
used, for the reason that there is no established policy or standard practice 
followed by the employe of the Division of Health concerned with the classi- 
fication of deaths according to the International List which is used by 
statisticians throughout the country. The report from the Division of 
Health that there were 855 deaths in the city of Cleveland attributed to heart 
disease, in 1919, represents considerable margin of error, but indicates the 
size of the problem with which preventive medicine is faced. At present, 
there are no facilities especially provided for the diagnosis, treatment, pre- 
vention or study of the problem of heart disease, with the single exception 
of the one electrocardiographic station provided for clinical use at the City 
Hospital. If heart disease can be, to any degree, prevented, and there is 
good evidence to believe that this is the case, it is time that the facilities and 
devices which are used elsewhere should be put into operation in Cleveland. 

But it is not in the actual loss of life that we see the greatest drain upon 
the community; it is in the mass of children and elders who lead handi- 
capped, stunted, painful lives because of their chronic disease of the heart. 
Until recently, there has been but scant attention paid to prevention of 
heart disease, but now, thanks to active organization among physicians 
to accomplish sane measures of control and abatement of heart disease, the 
outlines of the problem, the objects aimed at through the prevention and 
relief, the agencies which can be availed of, the methods in use and found 
reliable in attacking this great drain upon the public's health, can be given 
with some precision. Through the cooperation of the Association for the 
Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease, the following program has been 
prepared and is proposed for Cleveland, following the experience and accom- 
plishments along these lines in New York City since 1916. 

THE AMOUNT OF HEART DISEASE IN CLEVELAND 

One of every 15 deaths in Cleveland last year was reported as due to 
heart disease. 



214 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Two per cent of the persons examined by insurance companies are re- 
jected because of serious heart defects. 

Two per cent of industrial workers are found on careful examination to 
be the subjects of definite heart disease. 

Two per cent of the men coming before the draft boards, and to the 
camps, were rejected by army medical examiners on account of heart 
defects. 

One and one-half to two per cent of the children examined in the schools 
show serious heart defects. 

From the above facts we may conservatively estimate that two per 
cent of the population, or in the United States over 2,000,000 persons, and 
in Cleveland 16,000 persons, suffer from serious HEART DISEASE. 

The objects to be attained in prevention and relief of heart disease are : 

1. Removal of the causes of heart disease. 

2. Early detection of potential cases of heart disease. 

3. Early detection of those having organic disease of the heart. 

4. Suitable care of the above, including convalescent care, education, and 
selection of suitable occupations for those handicapped by heart disease. 

5. Institutional care for those hopelessly incapacitated by heart disease for 
self-support. 

6. Economic saving to the community. 

7. Humanitarian prevention of suffering and incapacity. 

AGENCIES NEEDED 

To attain these objectives it would be of advantage to enlist the interest 
of those who should see and appreciate the need, preferably by organizing 
a voluntary committee. Such a committee devoted to the problem and willing 
to take the initiative in this field might well have representatives of the 
Academy of Medicine, the Division of Health, the Board of Education, the 
Hospital Council, the Visiting Nurse Association, the social service workers, 
employers in various trades and interested citizens, both men and women. 

The function of such a community committee would be to develop in- 
terest in the preventive side of heart disease, to- coordinate existing facilities 
for prevention and relief, to develop new ones where necessary, and to act as 
an educational force. Sub-committees on prevention, on relief and on educa- 
tional publicity, would be found necessary. 

The agencies needed to provide adequate means for prevention, diagnosis, 
treatment, etc., are 

Clinical Laboratories, Serological, Chemical, X-Ray, such as are found in 
a number of the hospitals of Cleveland. 

, Electrocardiographic stations, such as are found only at the City Hospital 
at present in Cleveland. 



PRIVATK HKALTH AGENCIES 



Consultations in specialties at the central dispensary at suggested in the 
chapter on dispensaries. 

Follow-up system through visiting nurse and social worker services. 

. Special Cardiac Clinics. (New York has 37 such in operation in 17 hospitals, situ- 
ated so as to be of easy access to different portions of the community, with sessions which 
do not conflict with school hours, and in the evening for workers.) The professional 
and associated institutional facilities which are to be provided through these special 
clinics are: 

(a) Medical supervision and instruction of patients, instruction of parents, 
and instruction of school teachers. 

(b) Special cardiac social service (social service workers are employed in 
31 classes in New York City), which will provide assistance in class, 
education of patients and parents, study of home conditions, study of 
school conditions, study of employment conditions. 

It is desirable to arrange for close affiliation with the nose, throat 
and dental departments of the clinic, and to arrange for admission and 
investigation of patients by hospitals and for convalescent or chronic care 
where necessary. 

Convalescent homes for cardiac patients (similar in service to the pre- 
ventoria and sanatoria for tuberculosis) are needed for potential cardiacs 
and for those with organic heart disease in whom improvement is to be 
expected, with facilities for fifty or sixty beds (350 beds available in New 
York), where medical supervision, educational, (mental and vocational) 
exercise and recreational facilities will be provided. This is a function which 
Rainbow Hospital could well perform. 

Homes for the incurable cases of heart disease, such as the Warrensville 
Infirmary will be when it is adequately developed and staffed, are a necessity 
to avoid the present neglect of the permanent cardiac invalid for whom 
there is now in Cleveland no accommodation. 

An occupational bureau which might be established in connection with 
the employment bureau at the City Hall, or as an addition to the employ- 
ment function of the Association for the Crippled and Disabled, would 
provide supervision of and aid in vocational education in selected cases 
(each of the cardiac clinics in New York has such a service), would provide 
for selection of suitable occupations for cardiacs referred by hospitals, special 
clinics, convalescent homes and private physicians, and would provide means 
for maintaining close cooperation with employers. 

PREVENTION 

In its broadest aspect the prevention of heart disease presents distinctly 
medical, social and economic problems. 

From a medical standpoint \ve have to consider: first, the prevention of 
disease in healthy hearts, and second, the prevention of disease in hearts 
which have already been damaged. 



216 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The causes of primary injury to the heart muscle may be grouped under 
those arising from infectious diseases, those resulting from intoxications, and 
those following improper modes of life. The infectious diseases most fre- 
quently affecting the heart are rheumatism and syphilis. The destructive 
effects of syphilis are found most frequently in people in early adult or 
later life, and this group involves the consideration of the whole problem 
of social hygiene, as described in the chapter devoted to that subject. (See 
Part V.) 

The prevention of heart disease in young people is of the greatest impor- 
tance, because of their age and the cost of their care to the community. 

The chief cause of heart disease in early life is acute rheumatism. 
Although we do not know definitely the causes of acute rhuematism, enough 
work has been done to make us quite certain that we are dealing with a 
germ disease, an infection which probably enters through diseased tonsils, 
adenoids or decayed teeth. 

Therefore, we consider it a most important duty of parents to have the 
mouths and throats of their children examined once yearly by a physician. 
The removal of diseased tonsils and adenoids, and the proper care of the 
teeth, are the most effective preventive measures against rheumatism at 
present known to us. Neglect to provide the diet which will permit of unin- 
terrupted and steady development in weight and height in proportion to 
age, may also be considered a major cause of cardiac disease in childhood, 
owing to the lowered bodily resistance to infection and diminished capacity 
for recuperation from infection. 

Statistics of 3,134 cases of acute and sub-acute rheumatism, gathered 
from the records of four New York City Hospitals, show that the greatest 
number of cases occur during February, March, April and May. 

That people become "run down" or "below par" physically during the 
late winter and early spring months, is a fact based upon common experi- 
ence. We do not know that this physical condition makes people more 
susceptible to rheumatic infection, but because of the greater frequency of 
rheumatism at this time of the year, it would seem wise to promote in every 
way possible the maintenance of good health during the winter months. 
The value of out-of-door exercise and sufficient sleep in well- ventilated rooms, 
as means to this end, cannot be overestimated. 

People who have had one attack of rheumatism are especially liable to 
other attacks, and therefore it is of the utmost importance that they observe 
the preventive measures, outlined above, in reference to the tonsils, the care 
of teeth and keeping in good physical condition. 

A person suffering from an acute attack of rheumatism should be placed 
under medical care at once, and should be kept in bed for some days after the 
temperature is normal, even though no signs of heart disease can be found. The 
necessity for a prolonged rest in bed is based upon the knowledge that an 
acute inflammatory process, which we are unable to detect, may exist in 
the heart and subsequently develop into severe heart disease. 



PIUVATE HEALTH AGENCIES 217 

Adults leading sedentary lives, whose activities are chiefly mental, who 
get but little out-of-door exercise, who eat too much and sleep too little, 
frequently suffer from circulatory changes. The exact effect on the heart 
of poisons derived from this mode of life, as well as from the habitual use 
of alcohol, tobacco, tea and coffee in intemperate amounts cannot be defi- 
nitely and precisely stated, but it is certainly the part of wisdom to change 
one's mode of life, if it is of the type described, and equally advisable to 
restrict the use of these poisons. 

The social problems of the prevention of heart disease require the fullest 
cooperation of the family, school authorities, and employers in caring for 
those whose heart's efficiency has been impaired by disease. 

The economic problem involved in the prevention of heart disease is of 
increasing importance because in childhood this disease may cripple pros- 
pective wage-earners, while in adult life, the earning capacity of the patient 
may be permanently limited or even destroyed, and he and his dependents 
become a charge on the community. Statistics show that the number of 
people incapacitated by heart disease is already large and rapidly increasing, 
but the preventive measures outlined, if widely known and applied, would 
reducejthe number to be cared for by the state and therefore, diminish the 
drain on the public treasury. 

Prevention may be summarized to include 

Control of infectious diseases, particularly rheumatism and syphilis. 
Care of teeth, tonsils and adenoids. 

Lengthening of the period of hospital stay and convalescent care after 
acute infections, particularly after rheumatism and tonsillitis. Hospitals in 
Cleveland are not doing their part and cannot until the shortage of beds 
is relieved. 

Supervision of home after-care, preferably from a special cardiac class 
in a dispensary. 

More regard for "growing pains" in children, commonly found to be 
of infectious or inflammatory origin, and their importance often overlooked. 

Supervision of nutritional defects. 

Avoidance of mid-age over-exertion, habits, intoxications, etc. 

Prevention of decompensation may well come under this heading. It is 
really the prevention of serious heart breakdown and is important. Pre- 
vention of heart overstrain in those with a recognized heart defect is an im- 
portant service of special cardiac clinic classes for adults. 

Detection of patients with early or unrecognized cardiac disease is the 
first step of proper preventive management. Physical examination of all 
children admitted to schools, public and private, is advised. Re-examina- 
tions should be made once a year where practicable, and always after an 
acute illness. 



218 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Educational publicity is required to 

Encourage the use of physical examinations once a year by all employes 
in industry, in civil service, and for all children particularly. (Physical exam- 
ination should be made with clothing removed, and should include a search 
for foci of infection, such as defective' teeth, diseased tonsils, etc.) 

Encourage life insurance companies to refer applicants rejected for 
cardiac abnormalities to their family physicians or to cardiac clinics for 
further observation and advice. 

Force upon public attention the essentially preventable aspects of 
heart disease. 

Disposition of patients discovered. 

Every child having rheumatism, defective teeth, tonsils, growing pains, 
and signs or symptoms which suggest or definitely indicate heart disease, 
should be referred to the family physician, or if not available, to a special 
cardiac clinic. This applies as well to the great majority of adult wage- 
earners. 

The schools might well cooperate through regulations promulgated by 
the Board of Education directing teachers 

1 . To refer to physicians for examination pupils showing symptoms suggestive 
of cardiac disease. 

2. To issue passes to permit pupils with heart disease to use special entrances 
and exits. 

3. To permit these children to enter or leave school directly before or after 
the regular time schedule for normal children^ 

4. To excuse cardiacs from physical training, fire drills, etc., where the 
physician in charge thinks this necessary. 

5. To lengthen the lunch hour for these children in order to avoid hurry 
and haste in eating. 

6. To revise the ordinary school regime upon the receipt of a report from 
the home physician that there must be an exception made for the sake 
of the child's health. 

Social Service workers will need to give unusually painstaking follow- 
up to 

1. Cardiac patients discharged from hospitals. 

2. Cardiac patients attending Cardiac Clinics, thus providing instruction 
and advice for parents, teachers, patients and employers, as well as 
investigation of conditions of homes, school and work. 

When cardiac classes or special clinics are developed, it will be advisable 
to assign districts to clinics as is found practicable in the tuberculosis, pre- 
natal and child-welfare services. 



PRIVATK HKALTH AGENCIES 219 

Rcmrds will lx> needed in hospitals and clinics, and they should include 
follow-up notes from home visits and notes on convalescent care, whether 
in institutions or at home. If there is a central record office, such as is 
proposed for orthopedic patients, a brief duplicate record should be filed 
there. Transfer cards should be provided for use of patients between hos- 
pitals, clinics and convalescent homes. 

Unifonn classification of patients with heart defects for clinics, at least, 
is very desirable, viz. : 

Class I. Patients with organic heart disease who have never had symptoms 
of cardiac insufficiency under ordinary conditions of activity. 

Class II. Patients with organic heart disease who have had such symptoms 
previously, but who do not have them at present under ordinary 
conditions of activity. 

Class III. Patients with organic heart disease who at the time of observation 
have symptoms of cardiac insufficiency following ordinary 
exertion. 

Class IV. Patients with possible heart disease. Patients who have abnormal 
physical signs in the heart, but. in whom the general picture and 
the character of the physical signs lead us to believe that they do 
not originate from cardiac disease. 

Class V. Patients with potential heart disease. Patients who do not have 
any suggestion of cardiac disease, but who are suffering from an 
infectious condition which may be accompanied by such disease; 
or who have suffered from such diseases as rheumatic fever, ton- 
silitis, chorea, syphilis, etc. 

Cooperation and frequent communications between school teachers, pri- 
vate physicians, social workers, cardiac clinics, and employers who have 
joint supervision over a particular cardiac. This should be provided for 
through the medium of the special committee already suggested. 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 

It is recommended that 

(a) The teaching of medicine and pediatrics at the Western Reserve Univer- 
sity Medical School include the principles of prevention of heart disease. 

(b) Special classes for the diagnosis and management of heart disease be 
organized at least at City Hospital Dispensary, Lakeside Dispensary, 
Mount Sinai Dispensary, and at the Central Downtown Dispensary, 
as proposed. 

(c) Rainbow Hospital provide for convalescent cardiac patients from the 
children's services of the Cleveland hospitals. 

(d) Warrensville Infirmary provide the necessary medical, nursing, occupa- 
tional and recreational services for the proper care of permanently 
incapacitated cardiac adults. 



220 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(e) The general hospitals of Cleveland do not discharge patients suffering 
from cardiac defect without arranging either for adequate convalescent 
care or for dispensary and home supervision. 

(f) Physicians having children in their care examine each year the condition 
of the tonsils, adenoids and teeth of such patients, with a view of de- 
tecting foci of infection, by the removal. of which cardiac disease may 
in some measure be reduced. 

(g) The Board of Education provide for special medical supervision and 
administrative concessions for cardiac children. 

(h) A committee be formed for the purpose of studying the resources for 
prevention and relief of heart disease and for developing knowledge of 
and interest in the use of all means, including education, which may be 
relied upon to prevent the development of heart disease or postpone 
its disabling results. 

PUBLICITY 

Suitable material for distribution to teachers, nurses, and friends or 
families of patients will be found among the publications of the Association 
for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease, in New York (327 East 
57th Street). 

BIBLIOGRAPHY 

For those especially interested in this, the most recent field of organized 
preventive medicine, the following references will be found to contain the 
best information: 

Reports of the Massachusetts General Hospital Social Service Department, 
Boston. 1911, 1918. 

Reports of the Children's Heart Hospital of Boston, Mass. Annual since 
1912. 

The Trade School for Cardiac Convalescents Reports. 1913-1914, 1914-1916. 
Reports of the Bellevue Hospital Social Service Department, New York, 
N. Y. 1914. 

Reports of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, Mass. 1915, 1919. 
Reports of the Burke Foundation, White Plains, New York. 1915, 1916, 
1917-1918. 

"Heart Disease and Its Industrial Relations." Warren Coleman, M. D., 
American Journal of Public Health, 1915, VI, No. 5, 452. 

"The Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease." Weekly Bulletin of the 
Department of Health of the City of New York, 1916, V, No. 37. 

"Heart Disease in Infancy and Childhood." A. L. Goodman, M. D., 
Archives of Pediatrics, 1916, XXXIII, No. 12. 



PRIVATE HEALTH AGENCIES 221 

"Suggestions for Municipal Control of Carditis." Thomas B. Hegeman, 
M. D., Monthly Bulletin of the Department of Health of the City of 
New York, 1917, VII, No. 2. 

"Recent Statistics of Heart Disease with Special Reference to its Increased 
Incidence." Frederick L. Hoffman, Journal American Medical Asso- 
ciation, 1920, LXXIV, No. 20, 1364. 

"The Organized Care of Cardiac Children." William P. St. Lawrence, M. D. 
Hospital Social Service Quarterly, 1920, 11, 151. 

"Heart Disease as a Public Health Problem." Lewis A. Conner, M. D. 
Journal American Medical Association, 1920, Vol. 74, No. 23, page 1567. 

"Effect of Tonsillectomy upon the Recurrence of Acute Rheumatic Fever 
and Chorea." William P. St. Lawrence, M. D. (Read before the 
American Medical Association at New Orleans, April 30, 1920 to be 
published). 

THE PREVENTION AND CURE OF CANCER 

If it is true, as it seems to be, that one in ten of the deaths of persons 
beyond the age of forty is due to cancer, and if the apparently verified^in- 
crease in the death rate from cancer amounts to as much as 2.5% per annum, 
there is good reason for both public and private health agencies to start upon 
their studies and their education of others, so that at least the resources for 
early accurate diagnosis and cure may be put at the disposal of all who need it. 

The American Society for the Control of Cancer which has led the coun- 
try in this subject has been instrumental in organizing state and local socie- 
ties with the same purpose. No such society independently or as a branch 
of the national society has been formed in Cleveland, although during the 
spring of 1920 a number of Cleveland's public spirited surgeons devoted them- 
selves for the better part of a week to lecturing before lay audiences on^ths 
subject of early diagnosis, cure and prevention of cancer. 

The National Society has contributed to the Survey by preparing a pro- 
gram suitable for adoption by Cleveland. Such an undertaking will need 
the support of the Division of Health, and especially of any publicity or edu- 
cational service the city can supply, and of private agencies, particularly of 
any special society which this statement of the case may tempt into existence. 

Some of the activities proposed have been adopted by many health 
departments. In no place have all the possibilities of an organized attack 
upon public and private indifference been employed. 

Suggested activities of a local Cancer Prevention Society are as "follows: 
PROGRAM OF ACTIVITIES 

As the purpose of the National Society as well as the State and Local Committee is 
to bring essential cancer control facts to as nearly as possible 100' , of the adult popula- 
tion, this subject of activities should logically be considered in connection with the appoint- 
ment of certain sub-committees. 



222 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(If the committee as a whole prefers to carry on the various phases of 
the program instead of appointing sub-committees, it would doubtless tend 
to greater efficiency in most cases if the main activities were apportioned 
among the committee members. In this way individual members should 
be made responsible for the prosecution of definite parts of the program.) 

/. Activities of a sub-committee for work with professional or quasi-professional 
groups. 

(a) Division of Health. 

First ascertain through the central office what, if anything, the Division 
has done. 

Assist in securing the Division's cooperation in printing and distribut- 
ing pamphlets suggested by the society. 

Encourage the Division to provide free examination of specimens of 
suspected cancerous tissue for diagnostic purposes. 

If a regular health bulletin is issued persuade the editor to devote cer- 
tain numbers or parts of numbers to cancer control. 

The Division should be encouraged and assisted in the preparation of 
popular articles on cancer for newspapers. 

If the Division has a health exhibit it should devote a portion of it to 
material for education regarding cancer. 

Where health centers are established they should be provided with 
exhibits, placards and literature for general public distribution. 

The Division should be urged to prepare circulars on danger signals of 
cancer for distribution to all midwives. 

(b) Medical Associations, Academies and Societies. 

As above, find out first of all by writing to the National Society Office 
what has been done by these organizations. 

Assist the Central Office in securing the appointment of a permanent 
Cancer Committee in the Academy of Medicine. 

Encourage all such organizations to cooperate with the society and other 
organized groups in educating both the medical profession and the public. 

Endeavor to have each medical organization devote at least one meeting 
each year for its own members to a discussion of cancer, and hold at least one 
public meeting on the same subject each year (perhaps in cooperation with 
other groups or with the Division of Health.) 

Present to all organized medical groups their responsibility for the 
education of the medical profession and attempt to have them publish, 
either alone or in cooperation with the Health Division, the society's hand- 
book for this purpose. 



Tim \ii UKALTII AGENCIES 



Encourage the publication of good articles on cancer in state and local 
medical journals. 

(c) Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

Prepare posters and placards on cancer for bulletin board display. 

Encourage the distribution of appropriate literature on the subject to 
patients. 

(d) Nursing Organizations and Schools. 

Every training school for nurses should be urged, through the appropriate 
surgeon of the hospital, to include cancer control in the lecture course. 

All such schools should be supplied with the special literature prepared 
for nurses by the society. 

Efforts should be made to provide speakers for meetings of state nurses' 
associations and before local nurses' organizations and clubs. 

All public health nurses should be provided with the society's special 
nurses' literature. 

A special effort should be made to acquaint all industrial nurses with the 
facts necessary for their use in advising employes on the subject of cancer. 

(e) Medical Schools and Colleges. 

A special effort should be made through the dean or head of the Depart- 
ment of Pathology to give due attention to instruction of students in the 
recognition of pre-cancerous conditions. This will require considerable tact in 
all cases and an excellent beginning would be made by securing their consent to 
procure and distribute Dr. Greenough's handbook to the students of each 
senior class. 

Those conducting courses in Public Health should have the literature 
of the society brought to their attention for use with their students. 

(f) Public Health Association when formed. 

These excellent non-official public health agencies are already doing 
some most effective work. Where such associations exist they should 
always be asked to cooperate in any campaign started in their states or coun- 
ties. Made up as they are of representatives of all health and civic organiza- 
tions, together with prominent members of Chambers of Commerce, Rotary 
Clubs, manufacturers' associations, labor groups and representatives of the 
press, the cancer campaign could be conducted by them (with guidance) in 
its entirety. 

(g) Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons when formed. 

Such associations, together with all other organized groups, are circular- 
ized from time to time from the office of the National Committee. Much 
local assistance can be rendered by following up these letters and applying the 
suggestions in individual plants. 



224 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

2. Activities of sub-committee for work with lay or non-professional groups. 

(a) Social Workers. 

Contacts should be formed with the heads of all charitable organiza- 
tions doing home visiting or nursing with the idea of instructing these social 
workers in regard to early cancer, in order that they may be in a position to 
advise properly those with whom they come in contact. 

Associated Charities, and similar groups, may be willing to cooperate 
in arranging for public meetings. 

(b) Women's Clubs. 

The organized women's clubs should be specially urged to provide for 
a discussion of cancer at their annual meetings. 

The local clubs should prove of the greatest assistance in arranging 
public meetings of women to be addressed by qualified physicians. 

Many clubs maintain a Public Health Committee and through this 
much valuable cooperation can be secured by public meetings, holding ex- 
hibits, distributing literature, participating in special "health days," etc. 

(c) Chambers of Commerce. 

The Public Health Committee of the Chamber of Commerce should be 
stimulated to give the cancer control program attention in their public dis- 
cussions and press bulletins. 

Literature on the subject should be provided for distribution to their 
members and to be picked up by visitors to their rooms. The same applies 
to the Men's City Club and to the Rotary Club. 

(d) Trades Councils and Unions. 

These industrial groups should be encouraged, through their officers, to 
allow the subject to be discussed at some of their meetings and be provided 
with literature for distribution. 

(e) Ministerial and other clerical groups. 

These influential organizations should arrange for a full presentation 
of the subject before their whole membership. 

Opportunity should be sought to have the cancer control progress out- 
lined to church clubs, men's and women's. 

Churches will often cooperate in the conduct of public meetings. 

(f) All other organized groups should be made acquainted with the purposes of the society 
and the intormation which it is prepared to disseminate. Some of the other organiza- 
tions which readily come to mind are: 

Fraternal Orders Young Men's and Young Women's Christian Asso- 
ciations and Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations. 



PRIVATE HKALTII AGENCIES 



J. Activities of Sub-Committee on Publicity. 

This is one of the most important functions of a local committee and much of the 
success of the campaign will depend entirely upon the efficiency of this sub-committee. 
While all possible avenues of publicity cannot be covered, some of the obvious methods to 
follow are: 

(a) First of all cultivate a personal acquaintance with editors of the 
principal newspapers. 

(b) Offer assistance to any of the above groups planning to hold meet- 
ings of any kind on cancer by: helping to prepare material for announcement 
cards, "throw-aways," window posters, newspaper advertising, etc.; preparing 
and sending out notices to be read in churches, lodges, clubs and similar places, 
and by assistance in every way in calling the attention of the public to the 
coming meeting. 

(c) Follow up every meeting held by sending a digest of it, carefully 
prepared, to the newspapers. The editor, if already a friend of the move- 
ment, will usually send a competent reporter to cover an important meeting. 
No chance should be lost to get into the good graces of the best reporters, for 
they will often prepare the copy themselves if they feel it is appreciated. 

(d) Material should be prepared either from the monthly bulletin of the 
society or other sources, or be written by a qualified practitioner connected 
with the society, for special news articles or editorial comment in papers. 

(e) Where "Health Columns" are run by papers, encourage the editor 
to devote the space (or part of it) to the cancer control movement from 
time to time. If it is run in the nature of "Questions and Answers" it can 
be used to great advantage by asking the editor leading questions on the 
subject, which will often elicit a rather thorough, popular discussion. 

In addition to this description of what may be called the mechanics of 
educational publicity there is an opportunity for research in the local inci- 
dence, the occupational distribution and whatever special etiological factors 
may be discovered in the trades and industries of Cleveland. 

That much can be done to reduce the high incidence of inoperable cancer, 
no one doubts. We know enough about the subject to have no excuse, for 
our silence. Ignorance of the resources of preventive surgery and early 
diagnosis is a direct challenge to our energy, and this ignorance is wide- 
spread among all classes of the population. 

THE PREVENTION AND RELIEF OF MENTAL DISEASE 

The need for a local society to promote the interests of the mental hygiene 
movement is well described in Part VI., together with suggestions for suit- 
able activities. The AVomen's Protective League is the only private agency 
dealing with any phase of this problem, and its activities are confined closely 
to relations with court cases and delinquency. 

THE PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF VENEREAL DISEASE 

The work to be done by a local society along lines so successfully followed 
by the American and various state Social Hygiene Associations is described 
in Part V. A nucleus for such an organization was formed in Cleveland and 
did active work during and just after the war. It should be revived and 
resume its work. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 
Public Health Service*: 

Any repetition of the numerous suggestions or specific recommendations concerning 
the personnel, organization, authority, functions or performance of the public services 
which have been analyzed in the previous pages would be superfluous for those whose 
interest has been aroused by the text. 

A few main features will be mentioned to call attention to the relative importance of 
the recommendations as they appear to the members of the Survey staff. 

General Administration 

Under general administration it is considered to be of chief importance that a Com- 
missioner of Health be appointed whose entire time may be devoted to his duties in the 
Division of Health, and that the salary be adequate to demand the undivided interest of 
a trained sanitarian (not less than $7,500). 

Civil service appointments for the entire division are thought to be essential to the 
best service, in the case of nurses, the Central Nursing Committee to be the agent of the 
Civil Service Commission in determining fitness of applicants. Medical examination 
and a probation period of three months for all employes before definite acceptance are 
advised. 

Sanitary areas as defined for Cleveland by the Bureau of the Census should be used 
as the basis of all administrative districts for health work. The commissioner should 
hold regular conferences on policies, programs and results, with his chiefs of bureaus. The 
power to make sanitary rules and regulations should be vested in an advisory board of 
which the Commissioner of Health is a member, the regulations to have the force of city 
ordinances. 

An assistant or deputy commissioner should have in charge all legal actions taken at 
the instance of any of the bureaus of the division 

Bureau of Communicable Disease 

The control of the communicable diseases of animals (other than those used for slaugh- 
ter) should be vested in this bureau. 

A skilled intubator in the employ of the Division of Health is considered a necessity 
for emergency work in diphtheria. 

The service of the district physicians would be greatly improved if the ten recom- 
mendations presented are met. 

Bureau of Child Hygiene 

The thorough consideration of the Bureau of Child Hygiene in Part III. makes un- 
necessary any statement of recommendations here. 

Bureau of Sanitation 

The needs of the Bureau of Sanitation are: a full-time trained chief of the bureau, 
sufficient sergeants to maintain field supervision of the work, and the assigning of all 



SUMMARY OF RKCOMMKNIMTIONH 



sanitary patrolmen from other bureaus to work under the direction of this bureau, in small 
districts where they may cover all types of field inspection, functions now served by them 
for any bureau. The work that should be vigorously prosecuted by this bureau includes 
enforcement of housing regulations, the making of a sanitary survey of the city especially 
to locate all privies, private water supplies and stables. 

Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection 

The Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection should modify its methods for milk control 
to make use of the bacterial counts of milk as a basis of exclusion of supplies. There should 
be required the sterilization of containers, discontinuance of holding milk after pasteuriza- 
tion before bottling, and a standard bottle cap to indicate the place and date of production 
or pasteurization of the milk and the grade. No milk showing counts of over 500,000 
bacteria per cubic centimeter in the pasteurized product should be allowed on sale or for 
distribution. 

Bureau of Laboratories 

The Bureau of Laboratories requires the undivided attention of a full-time chief. 
This bureau should be relieved of its inspectorial functions. Determination of meningo- 
coccus in spinal fluids for type, and of pneumococcus in sputum for type should be offered 
by the laboratory. Specific antisera and vaccines of proved value should be available 
through this laboratory. Additional activities suitable for this bureau to initiate are 
proposed in the special chapter on "Patent Medicines." 

Bureau of Vital Statistic* 

The Bureau of Vital Statistics needs a full-time trained statistician as chief to inaugu- 
rate and direct to completion the plan of work presented in the special chapter on this 
subject. 

New Activities 

New activities are considered essential through : the appointment of a Commissioner 
of Publicity and Research within the Department of Public Welfare to inaugurate and 
coordinate facilities for health education in Cleveland; the organization of a bureau of 
institutional inspection or a subdivision of an existing bureau in the Division of Health, 
to insure adequate sanitation of environment and medical care of inmates of institutions; 
the organization of a bureau of industrial hygiene to protect employes against the hazards 
of their occupations; the provision of a corps of physicians to make initial medical exami- 
nations of all city employes on admission to the city service and periodic re-examinations 
annually thereafter; the organization of an inspection and treatment service for the con- 
trol of narcotic drug habitues as required by city ordinance; assumption by the Division 
of Health of the responsibilities assigned to it by city ordinance in the supervision over 
day nurseries; provision for sufficient physicians and nurses to permit of inspection of 
children in the parochial schools in a manner comparable with the service of medical pro- 
tection given to the children of the public schools. 

The Health Centers should be increased in number to sixteen, with appropriate in- 
crease in personnel end the functions served in these district offices increased to cover all 



228 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

field services of the Division of Health and to provide for opportunities for including the 
private agencies dealing with health protection and for affiliation with hospitals and dis- 
pensaries. 

The coroner system should be abolished and the system of medical examiners as in 
existence in Boston and New York adopted. 

Private Health Agencies 

It is believed to be of great importance that a Cleveland or Cuyahoga County Public 
Health Association be formed to give direction and more effectiveness to the efforts of all 
the public and private agencies in this field. 

A secretary for health to act as advisor in health problems to the Director of the 
Welfare Federation is advised. 

For detailed recommendations dealing with the activities of the Anti-Tuberculosis 
League, the Visiting Nurse Association, the Association for Crippled and Disabled, the 
Hospitals and Dispensaries the reader is referred to the special parts and chapters devoted 
to these subjects. 

New private committees or agencies are urged, so that public interest and action may 
be developed in the subjects of Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease, Prevention and 
Control of Cancer, Prevention and Treatment of Mental Disease and for the Prevention 
and Control of Venereal Diseases, for all of which projects detailed plans are presented in 
the appropriate chapters. 



Appendix 




APPENDIX 



231 



* 


M 
Tf 


T 


^ 


Ol 


en 


4k 


CO 


10 





Health 

i ),.(,,, i , 




1 


T 


C 




1 






: 












3 eT 


1 






















5- o 






: 






: 




: 








i 


2. 














: 










5 























: 








co 


IO 


CO 


IO 






































j 


Ol 


Oi 


IO 


to 


Oi 


co 


o 


vl 


Total 




CO 


CO 00 

00 -J 


en 

to 










en 

IO 


to 


8 


CO 


Birth* 




en 
Oi 


10 

M CO 


00 


00 
en 




s 

00 


en 

IO 

IO 


00 
IO 


to 

CO 


en 

8 


to 
to 


Male* 


,9 


CO 

en 


CO 

OP 

CO 2 


2 




en 


8 




> 
en 


00 


IO 
CO 


en 

o 

10 


oo 

s 


Female* 


g 


s 


4k O 


IO 


IO 


- 


- 


10 


CO 


o 





Undetermined 





M 
00 
10 


- 4k 


to 


5 


IO 

Oi 


CO 

Co 


10 


s 


Ol 


00 


Twin* 


f 


10 


O O 


- 


o 


o 


o 


o 


- 


o 


o 


Triplet* 


i. 
























~ j 


I 


k- O 
Co en 


4k 


00 


IO 


to 


10 


00 


en 


- 


Illegitimate* 


2 > 
S 


b* 




_ 


_ 


Co 


IO 


CO 


IO 


^ 


^ 




? w 


CO 


10 en 


OJ 




8 


IO 


00 


en 

10 


Co 

o 


2 


s 


White 


s- 


to 


O Co 


o 




** 


** 


4k 


en 


Oi 


Oi 




t 


en 

2 


10 00 


CO 


IO 


en 


CO 
CO 


10 
10 


en 


- 


Oi 


Colored 


1 


frd 


*- KO 

Ol Ol 


Ol 


00 


00 


Oi 


Oi 


to 


en 


- 


Other 


1 





- it 





IO 

Co 


Oi 


en 

to 


t 





00 


IO 

o 


Stillborn 


S 


en 










N* 


*- 










s 


" 




Jk 


CO 


CO 


N* 


Ol 


en 




Oi 




3 


o 






Oi 




M* 


en 


Co 




Co 


Midwife 




C- 






en 


00 




o 


en 










i 


4k ^! 


' 


10 

2 


00 
vj 


s 

IO 


s 

a 


00 


CO 




IO 


Phyiician* 




10 


*- 


CO 


- 


- 


- 


en 


co 


en 


4k 


Other 




10 


IO 

** O 


en 
en 


00 
10 
Co 


i 


to 

en 
IO 


s 


CO 
IO 

00 





en 


Native 




^ 




_ 




H- 


10 


IO 






^ 






to 





_ 


^ 


Ol 


O 


4k 


to 


00 


IO 


Foreign 




en 


^ 


s 


to 


to 


o 





2 


B 


2 






Oi 


IO 
O Oi 


10 


^ 


^ 


00 


Co 


^ 


Oi 


00 


Unknown 





HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 





BIUJSDUd 


m 


^ 


m 


CO 'J' 


<N 


** cs 


CO 





cs 






JBJsdjand 


















CO 






sjesA ; japun 


VO 


S3 


m 
m 


s s 


VO 


o o 
* m 


CO 


m 


o\ 






BaqjjBiQ 








1-H 










m 






SUJJQJ UV 
Biuouinauj 


^i- 


m 


vo 
in 


VO 
O C7i 


m 

01 


oo es 

VO 00 


m 


rH 
rH 


cs 






oqouojg 
Biuoumaud 


VO 


CO 


VO 
co 


i-H 


$ 


O rH 

m t^ 


VO 


VO 


00 

m 






oiuojqo PUB ajnoy 


m 


es 


CS 


f- 00 


co 


^h O^ 


H 


O 


rH 






snitpucug 







** 


co 


1-1 


"* 






rH 






Auioi o 


m 


1-1 


es 


iH CO 


_, 


es o 





o 


in 






!*!! m0!I d 










1-1 








es 






sniauiu^iM 


o 


o 


^ 


o es 


^ 


o o 


es 


o 


Oi 


M 




oiuiapidg 




















1 
























u 




Baqjjouoo 


iH 


CO 


o 


iH i ' 


rH 


o es 


cs 


o 


rH 
rH 


2 


^ 


sqiqdAg 


^. 


VO 


fH 


^ es 


CS 


O) O 


in 


VO 


0^ 


o 


s 




















rH 


P 

i 


of 


S3STU3O 


t^ 


VO 


es 


co o 


es 


rH VO 


t^ 


cs 


VO 


J5 


o 

u 


jaq^O 'Si 


















rH 


CO 


I 


ax 


VO 
00 


VO 


VO 




CTi VO 
i-H rH 


S 


a\ o\ 


m 
cs 


s 


w 


J 

1 

1 


43 


sBpdisA-jg 


1-H 


1-1 


,H 


O * 


rH 


O rH 


o 





01 


1 


^J 


I . . 




















o 


. ft 






















1 


M V 

a a 


MomVBi 


m 



t i 


m 
m 


2 




O VO 
O\ CO 


m 

1-H 


00 O 
Oi O 

rH 


m 

i- 


5 


s 


A 


&J ^* 






















9 


? 


n 

BuaqiqdiQ $ 





* 


o 

CS 


CO CO 


rH 


es o 

CS CO 


CO 


es 


o 

Ol 
rH 


1 


H S 


H 




















"o 


a 


auidooiiM HH 


co 


** 


CO 


Tj- VO 


* 


co o 


es 





CS 

CO 


I 





"| g 


es 





1-1 





-H 


es o 








t- 


i 




O 




















c 


_ 


M 


t^ 


CS 


m 


rH CS 


rH 


m co 


o 


cs 


00 


s 


s 


O 








*^ 




rH 






* 


1 


fa 


xodiiBtug fa 


o 


o 








O 


O O 


o 


o 


o 


,2 





2 




















1 


? 


J3A3J 


_ 





o 


^ ^t" 


vo 


co o 


rH 


cs 


rH 


.g 


Q 


pioqdXx 



















CO 


D 




jBaA i japun 


iH 

00 


in 


00 


i- in 


rH 
CS 


o co 
m t^ 


00 


CO 


CO 


E 




SqlBSCI 


IH 




iH 


CO CS 


CS 


i-H rH 






*i 


I 




MM 


co 


o 


- 





rH 


O O 


O 


o 


in 


03 




via 


CO 

es 


es 


1-H 


?! 


VO 
CO 


VO 00 
rH VO 


cs 


CO 


CO 


1 












**< 




co 






vo 


"8 




nM 


S 


Oi 

m 


1-1 
00 

o 


00 01 
co es 


a\ 
m 


Tf CS 

O VO 


vo 
cs 


VO 

cs 


CO 

es 


| 






















01 


B 






rH 


^ 


1 1 


VO 00 


^_ 


rH CO 


es 


^ 


es Jf 


> C o 




q^a^iSx 


0) 


S 


o\ 

o 


t^ oo 
co co 


CO 

VO 


oo 01 

O O) 


S 


rH 

es 


co 
c 


1 fr" 1 






















W rC 


I 'S g 2 






















3 3 


! , H 




"353} 


*H 


01 


CO 


^- m 


VO 


C* 00 


? 




* 


H '$ 


3 C 

iPP 



APPENDIX. 



Communicable 

Disease 
Actinomycosis 


TABLE 
Disease 

1919 



III. 

Morbidity 

1918 
1 


Reports 

1917 

o 


1916 

o 


1915 


Anthrax 


o 


o 


o 






Cerebro-spinal Meningitis 


73 





158 


46 


45 


Chancroids 





2 


o 


o 




Chickenpox 


864 


577 


1,218 


989 


1 265 


Diphtheria 


2,017 


1,371 


1,856 


1 909 


2 030 


Erysipelas 


113 


172 


308 


285 


2fifi 


Favus 
Gonorrhea _ 



242 



89 



53 



105 


1 
26 


Impetigo 


95 


113 


110 


106 




Infantile Paralysis 


10 


23 


35 


38 


143 


Influenza 


4,558 


26,998 


10 


97 


118 


Malaria Fever - .. 





2 


4 


6 


15 


Measles 


2,135 


1,234 


2,656 


4 027 . 


4 294 


Mumps 


251 


316 


809 


600 


452 


Ophthalmia Neonatorum 


1,140 


1,004 


1,294 


692 


601 


Pellagra , 





1 


1 


1 


o 


Pneumonia 


1,274 


2,440 


1,453 


1,375 


1 606 


Puerperal Fever 





1 


2 


4 


7 


Rabies 


2 











3 


Scabies 


30 


19 


24 


17 


35 


Scarlet Fever 


580 


408 


618 


866 


927 


Smallpox 


232 


1,120 


661 


204 


45 


Syphilis . . . 


512 


305 


232 


257 


56 


Tetanus 


9 


11 


9 


3 


5 


Tinea 


4 


8 


3 


4 


6 


Tonsilitis 


72 


51 


71 


74 


102 


Trachoma , _ 


30 


50 


58 


47 


57 


Trichinosis 








1 


1 





Tuberculosis - 
Typhoid Fever 


1,464 
80 


1,606 
143 


1,761 
206 


1,964 
209 


1,619 
313 


Tvchus Fever . 














1 


Whooping Cough 


634 


1,379 


2,140 


697 


1,201 














Total l 


6,421 


39.444 


15,751 


14.623 


15.413 



234 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 








S 

13 

I 

! 

i 
s 


O 


S 

1 

1 


o 
es PO 

-H 

PO 
TJ- Ti- 
es 
co m 

O 

O Tj- 


es o> 

PO 

m T^ o 
cs 

o 

00 <O 
PO 


to 

u, jg tO 

PO 

^ r . -r 
^ VO 

PO 

es PO PO 
-H m 

t^ -H 

PO 

to 

m PO * 
es 


CO to es 
CO 

t^OO -H 

es 

in 

t^ I-H es 
PO 

co 
O es T}- 

00 00 t^ 




r^- CO T}- o> 
m in i-H 
cs 

oo to 

Tl- tO Tf 

t^ I-H es 

CO 

to TI- 
CS oo TJ- o 
t^ -H es 

CO 

CO -H 

PO PO CS CS 

I-H 

tO IO r* t* 

es 1-1 
H 


to 
1-1 in 



-H CO 

m 
i-i es 

o 

O -H 
T}- 

O O 


to to 

VO t^ 

PO PO 

cs r*. 
es o> 




wK 


g 


X 





o 


es 


es 




00 O\ 


* 









ift 


a 


i-t co 
es 


* m es 

cso 


to t^ es 
es 


m o to 
es I-H 




es t*. r-> t*. 
es o> 





Tl- 00 




t 


= 




^ 


cs 


cs 


m 




CO t>. 








j- 




C 






















^ 


H 


es es 


e^ (s, t** 


es es PO 


-H Tl- 




Tt CS l-H t^ 


O-H' 


CM O 




fl 


C8 


^ 




*** co 


i i m 






es o 








O 


J9 






CO 








* 










9 






















^s 


O. 


^ 


PO 


es 


to 


CS 




m I-H 


PO tO 






1^ 


O 


Iw 




















o 

-i 




S 


-HCO 


PO 1-1 t^- 

** o 
^H in 


intg 


^ -H Ti- 
es o 




co PO cs ^H 
cs es -! 


O CO 


ss 




9) 


ofl 




















> 


9) 

* 


2 





00 


m 





m 




r^ vo 


PO 









4) 


I 




^H ^- m 


i- m * 


-H i-i TI- 




r^vo CS-H 


1-1 m 


0^ 


J 

M 


i 

8 


| 


fe 


00 


PO 


_, 


CS o\ 




es -H i-i 
to to 


m 




P^ 


4rf 


"S 


CO 


PO i-i 


es T*- 


t^ r*o Ti" 


f^ Tl" T^ 




to oo cs >-i 


es - 


O> cs 




o 


J3 


pj 






H t^ 


i- r^ 




PO m i-i 




- 00 




O. 


"u 






PO 








"* 








V 

a: 


C 



. 


PO 


es 


o 


o 




PO 


TI- 












qj 


es es 


Tj- VO CO 


r-t T|- m 


to m Ti- 




m o> PO PO 


CS o> 


PO cs 




S 





(l| 


i-H 


PO PO 


es oo 


-H tO 




Tl- f. rH 




H in 




03 








"^ 


















^^ 
























Jj 




00 


00 


Tfr 


*^- 




to 


TI- 






e 


04 

so 


g 


Tl- CS 


00 Tj- + 

<N <N 


Ov 00 to 

i 00 


CJl N <N 
Tl- 




es t^ PO to 

* CO -H 


CS ^ 


C7i 00 
PO 






E 














^ 








V 


S 






















f 
























o 
















































I 






1 


it E 


d 

11 


!l 




ll 




1 




1 1 




vS 






M 


S.a| 


RS.| 


S,S,| 




s.S.jd| 


M 


RS. 









. 


si 

t r. 


III 


5|I 


"1 "8 "21 

3 A M 

O ** u u 




a T) w 9 
8 fi P 8 


|I 


n 
tt 




1 




1 


ali 

t* CO 


|ak| 

u u en 41 


||& 


BO u Si at 


2 


U U W y 


u co 


ii 

U 1- 




U 

| 




*M 


-C 


ill 


CO <fl fi "*1 

v v -y . 

co eo TO *j 
CJ U 13 "j; 


CO CO W 
CJ CJ TJ 


{ 88| 

I ss-s 


4) 

< 


$ u^^ r 

(0 w CO CO K 

CO CO W 4J 4) 

u u "O T) 3 


cases 
death 


CO CO 

1 CO <0 

P* CO CO 
C 











U t) V 

?? S 


t) t) U O 

60 Ul M U 


CD O O 
M M 00 

co co co 


< 4) t) 4> 
. 00 00 M 
S CO CO CO 


.0. 

Q 


M 00 M (50 C 

co co cO co h*. 


tu ^> 

00 CXI 

co co 


3 4> l> 

a tf i 

i^ CD CO 










n 


b b b 


D 4) D 


b b b 




4) t) 4) 4) 


U > 


b b 

^4 ^*- 



APPENDIX 



8 



-' - 



to *^ 

<M C4 O 



~ in o 



CO + O 

-* /> ~+ 



T *? 

n m 01 



00 vo f^ r^ 00 

ro co <O ~* 

t>. 



! *? 

CO -" ** 



PO s r> O 



! 

; 

> 



o o> <o o2 

CS 00 'H pr> VO ^00 



^- PO 00 r^ t^ O* - C 00 <O 

CN O PO >n ^00 -< 



o o r 91 PO et O 

m ro oo r* <O 



ffl 
< 



10 tN CM O 




236 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVE 



OOOOOe<t\OO-it-iOCO 



Oi-<es>-ii-ieO^HOc I co 



oesHOoooooo I co 



I 
I 

3 

1 
> 

s 

3 



UBUI ^H 



sBT3dis.KT 
a 



vOt-Hoooooiooo I cs 



G 

i 



&* 

OB 





S3ISB3TAT 

** 



eso>HOOooe>ioo 



H t*. 

VO 
10 



A P p E N D i \ 287 

TABLE VI. 
Report of District Physicians 1919 

Districts 



Total Patients _ 


1 
673 


2 
1,007 


3 
1,855 


4 
597 


5 
1,697 


Old 


135 


14 


201 


34 


114 


New 


538 


993 


1,654 


563 


1,583 


Total Call* (On the above) .._ _ 


2,559 


1,979 


2,948 


1,173 


1,737 


Home _ _. . .. 


2,035 


1,628 


2,403 


1,157 


1,307 


Office /. . 


524 


351 


545 


16 


430 


Number of calls per case._ _ 


3.8 


1.96 


1.58 


1.96 


1.02 


Miscellaneous, not included in the above 
Wrong address 


26 


7 


91 


41 


26 


Not found _ 


25 


12 


77 


40 


15 


Not ill 








59 


11 


20 


Death Certificates _ 


55 


51 


66 


118 


62 


Contagious Investigation 


245 


83 


169 


370 


155 


Board of Education, etc...: _ 


169 








181 


76 


Vaccinations 


4,523 


474 


949 


1,554 


5,129 


Disposal of Cases 

Continued _.. 


37 


11 


103 


39 


79 


Discharged 


247 


846 


1,564 


392 


1,059 


Died 


13 


10 


32 


5 


5 


To nurse 


79 





358 


16 


191 


To hospitals 


146 


122 


152 


83 


188 


To dispensaries 


129 


31 


127 


42 


60 


To dentists 


38 





12 


1 


17 


To private physicians 
To correctional agencies 



8 










21 

4 


13 
5 


To relief agencies 


7 





6 


6 


37 


Percent of total cases referred to hospitals 
disoensaries. orivate ohvsicians.... 


40.8 


15.2 


15.04 


24.5 


15.4 



Note 

Calls out of district 

(Included in home calls above.) 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



M 

. 

> z 

&, 






Tf- op m o op t^ 

o o co ^" -' co 

1-1 o oo es o co 

*"" m 1-1 10 m o t- 

1^ ^ es co co <N i-i 



UB3J3 XjJlB "J *? *t ** * 

S co co vo * o oo 

oo ^ m m ^ t- 

UB3JO O Tf O) CM O 00 

H ^f cs m oo o 

6^&^ 

D -D Jadfooo'OS JSAO t^ 00 

junoD iBU3;oeq Xg 

5 5 

^ pjj laj spips JBJOI Xg CO 00 O t. ^t \O 

ffl<! CO-ICM^CM^ 

Q T}- Tj- Tf CO * CM 

li 

e* co "H O 

Xg in m m o oo 

^1" CM CO ^^ CO 

isai spijos JBIOI Xg <-| "- 1 op op O CM 

es CM -H 1-1 CM CM 

1 

< ^^^^5^6? 

[jj, is3i IBJ Xg 10 in ^ m m m 

P co co co co co co 

< 

o o o o o ^ 

CO CO CO CO CO CO 

I 1 ** 00 C^l O ^ t-H 

fidlduiBs jo *o|4 IS^OJL 10 co cs ^H c* o 

O O CO 00 C^ O 

Ot 9i O^ Ot Ot O^ 



APPENDIX 



o o o o o -. 



z 1 



M 




a. 

2 

1 

2 



10 n o n X 

- - 00 * (ft * I 

~ 2 

1 

fcS&S&S&S&SfcS " 

o u-> * oo ui J: 

oo oo vo m o r* 

UB3|3 * 00 00 WD 00 

- s x s 

8 

3 -3 J3d OOO'OS J3AO t C4 Ot O 

lunoo |Bua;3Bq Xg 

| 

J Q ^^ w** w^* w** S^ s * P ) 

OH o "3 

y c/3 >s9 KX K9 KV KV JsQ Q 2 ~ 

M }3jJjBj Xg c< >O * Ot H O 

0, .... "} 10 "O 

j a 

p O X 

ill" 

^" o "3 

-- * ^- ^- *^ ^ C 

**J *H eo O in O CO O a ni * 2 'S 

K fOOrOCOe>fO *H W C?TJ 

> i 1 -S T 3 

< '0"8'S 

c * -S . 

o^^o ^w >: Seo'e 

O . ra E 

.3 3 t5 

ON i-ox S ? I S 2 ! S C ^ 
-- |l 

TJ 

O^ 9^ O^ Ot Ot O^ 



240 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE IX. 

Synopsis of Classified Report of Bacteriological Examination of Cleveland 

Market Milk 



"The age of the milk after pasteurization is indicated as nearly as possible by "Fresh" 
if less than 24 hours after pasteurization, and by "24 hours" if bottled for that period or 
longer. 



Group I. 12 samples: 

Class A 3 samples 
Class B 8 samples 
Class C 1 sample 



Group II. 54 samples: 

Class A 6 samples 
Class B 28 samples 
Class C 20 samples 



Group III. 34 samples: 

Class A 1 sample 
Class B 18 samples 
Class C 15 samples 



Patron 
Class 



Y. 

X.Y. 

X. 



X.Y.Z. 

X. 

X. 

X.Y.Z. 

X.Y.Z. 

Y.Z. 

X.Y.Z. 

X. 



Y. 



Milk 
Age 

Group I. 
Class A 

Fresh 
24 hrs. 
Fresh 

Class B 



Bacteria 
Count 



Patron 
Class 



Class C 
24 hrs. 



20,500 


Y. 


20,000 


X. 


10,000 


X. 




Y. 




Y. 




Y.Z. 


114,000 




116,000 




97,000 




109,000 


Z. 


223,000 


Y. 


70,000 


Y. 


58,000 


X. 


214,000 


Z. 




Y. 




Z. 




Z. 


500,000 


Y. 



Milk 
Age 

Group II. 
Class A 

Fresh 
Fresh 
Fresh 
Fresh 
Fresh 
Fresh 

Class B 



Bacteria 
Count 



35,000 
32,000 
16,000 
2 spreaders 
20,000 
19,000 



224,000 

65,000 

72,000 

115,000 

320,000 

65,000 

120,000 

130,000 

225.000 



APPENDIX 



Group II. (Continued) 
Z. 24 hrs. 490,000 


Group III. 
Class A 


X.Y. 


Fresh 


256,000 








Y. 


Fresh 


107,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


26,000 


Z. 


24 hrs. 


15,000 








Y. 


24 hrs. 


117,000 




Class B 




Y. 


Fresh 


35,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


150,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


95,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


300,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


234 , 000 


Z. 


Fresh 


91,000 


Y.Z. 


Fresh 


56,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


1,000 


Y.Z, 


Fresh 


261,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


210,000 


Y.Z. 


Fresh 


108,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


97,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


55,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


143,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


95,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


7,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


74,000 


Y.Z. 


Fresh 


71,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


420,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


55,000 


Y.Z. 


24 hrs. 


400,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


140,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


60,000 


Z. 


24 hrs. 


135,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


104,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


434,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


115,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


156,000 








Y. 


Fresh 


95,000 




Class C 




Y. 


Fresh 


180,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


109,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


X. 


Fresh 


136.000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500, 000 








Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500 , 000 




Class C 




Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 








X. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


X. 


Fresh 


Over 500, 000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500, 000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500, 000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500 , 000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500 . 000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500.000 


Z.Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


24 hrs. 


Over 1,000,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y.Z. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Z.Y. 


Fresh 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500.000 


X. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500,000 


Y. 


24 hrs. 


Over 500,000 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Reference Tables on the Movements of the Population 

of Cleveland * 

TABLE X. 

Rank and growth of the population of Cleveland, in comparison with twenty 

other cities, 1900 to 1920 





1920 




1910 




1900 




City 


Population 


Rank' 


Population 


Rank 


Population 


Rank 


Cleveland 














New York 














Chicago 














Philadelphia 














Etc 















This table is intended for census years primarily but may be used for intercensal 
years on the basis of Census Bureau estimates. 



TABLE XI. 

Principal color, nativity and parentage classes of the population. Percentage 
of total, and rate of growth of each class, 1900 to 1920 







1920 







1910 




Class of Population 


Popula- 
tion 


Per Cent 
of Total 


Per Cent 
Increase 
Since 1900 


Popula- 
tion 


Per Cent 
of Total 


Per Cent 
Increase 
Since 1900 


Total 














White- 














Native-born 














Of native parentage.... 














Of for. or mxd. ptge 
Foreign-born . . 














Negro 














Other Colored 
Chinese 














Japanese 














Others of this class 















This table is intended for census years primarily but may be used occasionally for 
intercensal years for the calculation of differential birth rates and death rates for each 
class of the population. 

* In such of the following tables as subdivisions of the city are used for 
the tabulation of population, morbidity, mortality, etc., it is recommended 
that the sanitary areas (131), as established by the Bureau of the Census for 
Cleveland, be used in preference to wards or other political or administrative 
districts of the city's area. This will affect Tables XV., XVII., XX,, XXI., 
XXII., XXVII., XXXIII., XXXV.. XXXVI. 



APPENDIX 



TABLE XII. 
Number and percentage of population in each age period, by sex, 1910 and 1920 



Total 



Under 5. 
Under 1. 

1 

2...... 

3 

4.... 



5 to 9._ 

Etc., to 95 and over... 



1920 


1910 


Male* 


Female* 


Male. 


Female* 


No. 


Per Cent 


No. 


I'n Out 


No. 


IVi OUT 


No. 


Per Cent 



































For census years primarily, but should be used also intercensally to show the basis for 
age, death rates and also for fecundity rates; i. e., births per 1,000 women at the child- 
bearing ages, 15 to 45 years. 



TABLE XIII.| 

Number and percentage of population in specified marital condition classes, 

by sex and age, 1920 



Age Period and Sex 


Total 


Single 


Married 


Widowed 


T^; a 
L/IVOTCCO 


No. 


PerCent 


No. 


PerCent 


No. 


PerCent 


No. 


Per Cent 


No. 


PerCent 


15 years and over 
Male 
Female...- 
15 to 24 years 
Male ._ 




100.0 
100.0 


















100.0 
100.0 

100.0 
100.0 

100.0 
100.0 

100.0 
100.0 










- 








Female 
25 to 44 years 
Male 
Female 


45 to 64 years 
Male 
Female 


65 years and over 
Male 


Female 



This is for the census years only and the figures may be made the basis of the calcula- 
tion of death rates by sex and marital condition at each age period. 



244 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XIV. 

Country of origin of the foreign white stock in the population of Cleveland 



Country of Origin 


Total Foreign 
White Stock 


Foreign 
Born 
White 


Native White of Foreign 
or Mixed Parentage 


Total 


Both 
Parents 


One Parent 


Number 


Per Cent 


Born in 
Specified 
Country 


Native, Other 
Born in Speci- 
fied Country* 


All foreign countries 




100.0 











(List countries here) 
Foreign or mixed Parentage* 



*For native whites whose parents were born in different foreign countries included in last line. 
This table is intended for census years only and may be made the basis of computa- 
tion of death rates in 1920 of the various foreign born stocks in the city. 

TABLE XV. 

Ward or "sanitary district" population of the city of Cleveland, 1920 



Item 


Total City 


Ward or Sanitary District 


1 


2 


3 


4 


Etc. 


Total population - 
Male 














Female 


White- 
Native-born 
Of native parentage 
Offer, or mxd. ptge. 
Foreign-born 














Negro 


Chinese and Japanese 
Foreign-born white 


Born in 
(List countries here) 

Land area (acres) 


Persons per acre 


Dwellings (number) . ... 


Families (number) 


Persons per family 



This table is for census years only and may be used as a basis for educational and 
Americanization work, especially in those wards where the foreign-born liye. Transit 
and park facilities may also be gauged therefrom. 



APPENDIX 



TABLE XVI. 

Number of persons 10 years of age and over gainfully employed in specified 

occupations. By sox and age. 







Male* 


Female. 


Occupation 


Total 






















Total 


10 to 16 


16 to 19 


Etc. 


Total 


10 to 16 


16 to 19 


Etc 


All occupations ... 




















(Abbreviated list 




















of occupations 




















and industries 




















about 50 titles) 












I 







This table is for census years only. It is planned also to tabulate the occupations 
of the deceased of 1920 in a similar manner to permit the computation of death rates for 
the more important occupations of the city. 

TABLE XVII. 

Estimated population of the city of Cleveland and of its subdivisions, 1920 to 192 



Ward or Sanitary Area 


1925 


1924 


1923 


1922 


1921 


1920 


1910 


Total 
















Ward 1 
















Ward 2 
















Ward 3 
















Etc. 

















This table is required each year and is based on arithmetic increase of population 
during the last decade. If this can be proved reliable, it becomes the denominator of 
all important measures of the movement of population in each ward of the city, including 
marriage rates, birth rates, death rates, sickness rates, etc. 

TABLE XVIII. 

Number of livebirths and birth rates (a) per 1,000 of total population, and 
(b) per 1,000 women of childbearing age 



(1) 

Year 


(2) 
Births 


(3) 

Birth Rate 
per 1.000 


(4) 
Birth Rate 
per 1.000 
Women 15-44 


(5) 
Number of 
Stillbirths 


(6) 
Per Cent Stillbirth* 
of Total Live and 
Stillbirths 


1925 












1924 












1923 












1922 








. 




1921 












1920 













This is a permanent table and may be used to advantage to detect the trend of the 
birth rate and to control the waste of stillbirths which may be looked upon as an impor- 
tant element in infant mortality. 



240 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XIX. 

Number of livebirths, by sex of child, color and nativity of parents, each 

month in 192 





Month 
(1) 


Total 
(2) 


Sex of Child 


Parent Nativity and Color 


White 


Col- 
ored 

(8) 


Color 
Unknown 

(9) 


For- 
eign 
(5) 


Both 
Parents 
Native 
(6) 


One Parent 
Native, Other 
Foreign 
(7) 


Male 
(3) 


Female 
(4) 


Total year.... 




















January-- 




















February.. 




















March 




















April 
May 




















Etc 



This table is permanent and should be the basis of infant welfare work by depart- 
mental agencies, such as clinics, visiting nurses, etc. 



TABLE XX. 

Number of livebirths by nativity of white mothers in specified wards, 192 



Country of Birth of Mother 
of Child 


Total City 


Ward 1 


Ward 2 


Ward3 


Etc. 


All mothers 












United States 












Great Britain 












Etc. 

























This table supplements the following one and is especially useful to determine the 
educational work required to obtain the cooperation of mothers for bettor obstetrical 
service, clinic attendance, etc. 



APPENDIX 





H 






5 Jf 
fi . 

r^ h^ 
" 2! 


^. ^ o 

P * t ? * 

a a a Q. 

M M k 

i i 


If 


| 

1 

o- 


|ll 




r 


1 

2, 


a,; 5 


i i i ! i 




s 






fll 




H 





n 5 




H 


> 









JJ 


|f 






g* 






r? 






* 


g PT p. 




1} 






I 


o S- rt 










s 




p 


1 ^ 21 




23- 






1 






M 








^T* Q 




-? 








' 8 H 




II 






1 


X - V 






j: 




r+ 


[., is useful as an 
nd the character ( 
' the obstetrical se 






8 


Nativity and Color 


1 

2, 

3 H 

2 > 
1 w 


V 


9? 

?? 

yl 
H 


3 SB- 




3' 




8, 


PJ 


o' ? - 
< n o' 

< "S | 








S 


I B 










O 


2$ 


a J- 1 


| ?" 2, 




1 




i 


" ? 




8- 







o 2" 








** 


<! 




G 




| 


| 2.S" 




|| 




* 






| 




I 


lit 








B 


# 








1 
* 


lb 






1 




d (* rv 

o o o* 




r 


1 


J 


ft 






1 


a 


|-f | 




* 


i 


! 


o 









2* 


1 i 




* 




B 


S? f? 





K 


f 



48 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XXII. 

Number of livebirths in specified districts by calendar months 



Ward or Sanitary Area 


Total Year 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr. 


Etc. 


Total 














Ward 1 














Ward 2_ 














Ward 3 














Etc. 





























This table will prove a useful check on the attendance of mothers at maternity and 
infant welfare stations in the various sections of the city during the course of the year. 

TABLE XXIII. 

Illegitimate births by color and nativity of parents, 192 



Ward or Sanitary Area 


Total 


WHITE 


Colored 


Color 
Unknown 


Foreign 
Born 


Native 


Both 
Parents 
Native 


One Parent 
Native, 
Other Foreign 


Total 















Ward 1 


Ward 2 


Ward 3 


Etc. 





This table may be tried out for one or two years for the city as a whole. If returns 
are fairly complete, the fuller tabulation by wards may be given. This may prove to be 
a very useful instrument for the social service agencies of the city in indicating where 
illegitimacy prevails and the peoples who contribute most to this problem. The figures 
will serve also to compute the infant mortality rate of illegitimate children. 

TABLE XXIV. 

Deaths of infants under one year of age. Principal causes of infant 
mortality, by wards, 192 



Cause of Death 


Total 


Ward 1 


Ward 2 


Ward3 


All causes , 










Abridged list of causes 











This table is permanent and is the keystone of the whole plan of infant welfare work 
of the department. It determines where the chief infant mortality occurs and the causes 
of such mortality, whether from diarrhea!, respiratory, or other infections, a preventable 
disease, or particularly from congenital causes indicating poor obstetrical or prenatal service. 



A P PEN I 


) i \ 







This table 
The heavy infant n 
the newly registere< 


*i* ^ 

Ijli a 

*' 2. ' 2 

id t 


Caute of Death 


[ 

* 


1! 

3 : 




2 


a 

5* 


o 3 
- f 
t 

5f H 




iff 


I 

9 

8 


rt 
3> 2 

E 2 




i- 


e 


JT X 
* X 




? 







a < 
< 






I- 


! 


2, a 

IT X 
rt X 




i* 


a 



^ < 

i^ 

i & 




I- 


? H 


i! 

f* S 

- 




I* 


9 ^ 
n m 

M k ' 


1 1 
ii 




s- 


9 r^ 


1} 

2 

3 




r- 


^ 

1 


5 ? 

n n 

1 J" 




?" 


1 


2. 1 
fl 




$* 


? 


1 1 

2. 2. 




f- 


1 


ll 

S 1 




P" 


c 


2 

s 1 




f* 


\ 

o 


31 S 

a 7 

3 3 




F" 


r 


* Q 
5' I 

? 2 




K 


er 


;i 

s 1 S- 




? 




2,? 




s- 





250 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XXVI. 

Deaths of infants under one year of age, by calendar months and by causes of 

infant mortality, 192 



Cause of Death 


Total Year 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr. 


Etc. 


All causes 














(Ten abridged list of 














causes) 





- 











This table supplements table XXIV. and locates the departmental service to be ren- 
dered in time of year. 

TABLE XXVII. 

Deaths of infants under one year of age, per 1,000 livebirths (infant mortality 
rates). For principal causes of death. By specified districts. 



Cause of Death 


Total City 


District 1 


District 2 


District 3 


Etc. 


All causes 












(Then abridged list) 













This table is a composite of tables XX. and XXIV. above. The rates are more 
definite than the absolute numbers of table XXIV. in indicating where conditions are 
most serious although the figures of the previous tables must be used as well to show 
the size of the problem in each area. 



TABLE XXVIII. 

Deaths and death rates per 100,000 from principal diseases in Cleveland 



Cause of Death 


No. of Deaths 


Death Rate per 
100,000 Population 


19 


1915-1919 


All causes of death. 








(Then give detailed list of causes of death) 









This is a permanent table and fundamental to the work of the health department. 
It indicates what diseases and conditions are especially serious in the mortality experience 
of the city. The comparison between the year in question and the previqus five-year 
period, 1915 to 1919, indicates the trend of the death rate for the several causes. 



APPENDIX 



TABLE XXIX. 

Number of deaths from principal causes of death, by age period 



Cause of Death 


All 


Under 1 


1 


2 


3 


4 


Total 


5 to9 


Etc. 




Age. 












Under 5 






All cause* total 




















(Detailed list of causes of 




















death) 


' 



















This table supplements table XXVIII. and indicates the age periods wherein most of the 
deaths occur from each of the causes. These two tables will serve to formulate the gen- 
eral policy of the department in its attack on the more important diseases and conditions. 
They both cover the city as a whole. 



TABLE XXX. 

Number of deaths from principal diseases in wards during 192 



Cause of Death 


Total City 


Ward 1 


Ward 2 


Etc. 


All causes of death t 










(Then abridged list of causes of death) 












This table shows the wards in which the problems outlined in the previous two table 
may be more profitably attacked. 



TABLE XXXI. 

Number of deaths from principal diseases, by calendar months 



Cause of Death 


Total Year 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr. 


May 


Etc. 


All causes total 
















(Then abridged list of causes 
















of death) 

















This table will direct the attention of the health officer to the months of the year in 
which more of the preventable diseases cause death. Campaigns of control may thus be 
prepared and instituted prior to the period of highest incidence. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XXXII. 
Deaths and death rates per 100,000, by sex and by age, 1920 







MALES 






FEMALES 




AGE 


Population 


Deaths 


D. R. Per 

100,000 


Population 


Deaths 


D. R. Per 
100,000 


All ages _ 














Under 1 . ... 














1 to 4 














5 to 9 














10 to 14 














15 to 19 














20 to 24 














25 to 34 














35 to 44 














45 to 54 














55 to 64 














65 to 74 














75 and over 


















" 











This table is intended for use only in census years and points out the conditions of 
mortality in each sex in the various age periods of life. Its greatest use will consist in 
giving the basis for the construction of decennial life tables. 



TABLE XXXIII.-A, B, C, Etc. 

Deaths and death rates per 100,000, from certain diseases, * by wards or sanitary 
districts, for years 1915 to 1919 



Ward 


192 


1915-1919 


Deaths 


Death Rate 


Deaths 


Death Rate 


Total city 










Ward 1 










Ward 2 


Etc. 





Typhoid, tuberculosis, measles, scarlet fever, whooping cough or other diseases. 

Table XXXIII. is one of a series, each one relating to a cause of death, such as typhoid 
fever, tuberculosis, whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever, diarrhea and enteritis, automobile 
accidents and, in fact, any other condition which is subject to the control of the health 
authorities. The figures indicate the number of deaths annually and the death rate in 
each one of the several wards of the city. Comparison with the five-year period, 1915 
to 1919, makes it possible to determine the effectiveness of the control against the diseases 
in each of the several wards. 



A 1' I' K \ D I X 



TABLE XXXIV. 

Number of deaths of persons in specified color, nativity and parentage 
classes, by sex and age 



Color, Nativity. Parentage 


All 
Ages 


Under 
1 


1 


2 


3 


4 


Under 
5 


5 to 


Etc. 




Total- 
Male 










/ 










Female .! 


White total 
Male 


Female 


Native-born 
Male 


Female 




parentage 
Male . 


Female 




and mixed par- 
entage 
Male 


Female 


Foreign-born- 
Male 


Female 


Colored total 
Male 


Female 


Negroes 
Male 


Female 


Other Colored 
Male 


Female 


t 



This table will be most useful for census years, although it should be available for 
intercensal years as well as a reference table. Coupled with the data available in the 
census publications, it will make possible the construction of life tables for each one of 
the chief classes of population. 



254 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XXXV. 

Cases and deaths from notifiable diseases, by wards or sanitary areas, 192 



Disease 


Total City 


Ward 1 


Ward 2 


Etc. 


Cases 


Deaths 


Cases 


Deaths 


Cases 


Deaths 


Typhoid fever 
















Etc. 





This table should be available not only annually but for shorter periods, perhaps 
monthly, and certainly quarterly. It indicates where the notifiable diseases are prevalent 
and shows also from the relation of cases to deaths how serious the cases. An additional 
column may be added to show the lethal rate for each one of the diseases. 

TABLE XXXVI.-A, B, C,* Etc. 

Cases of notifiable disease in each ward or sanitary area, by calendar month, 192 * 



Year 


Total Year 


Jan. 


Feb. 


Mar. 


Apr. 


May 


Etc. 


Total 














- 


Ward 1 
















Ward 2 
















Etc. . .. 

































*One table for each disease 

Table XXXVI. supplements table XXXV. and indicates the seasonal distribution of 
the several notifiable diseases in each ward. This is an annual table. 

TABLE XXXVII. 

Number of marriages and divorces and rate per 1,000 of population by month 



Month 


Marriages 


Divorces 


Number 


Rate per 1,000 
of Population 


Number 


Rate per 1,000 
of Population 


Year 
January 
















1 




February 


March 


April 


May 


June 


July 


August 


September 


October 


November . 


December 





A r i> EN D I x 



TABLE XXXVIII. 
Number of marriages by age of groom and bride 



Age of Bride 



Age of 

Cil. - ::i 



All 
age* 



Under 
20 



H 

to 

H 



M 



U 



M 



II 

IB 
M 



H 
to 
M 



H 
to 
M 



80 
to 



All ages 

Under 20.... 

20 to 24 

25 to 29 

30 to 34 

35 to 39 

40 to 44 

45 to 49 

50 to 54 

55 to 59 

60 to 64 

65 to 69 

70 to 74 

75 to 79 

80 and over 



TABLE XXXIX. 
Results of Medical Examinations of Children in Institutions 



Capacity 

Cleveland P. O. Asylum ................... :.. .............. 68 

St. Joseph's Orphan Asylum .............................. 236 

Cleveland Christian Orphanage _________________ 46 

House of the Holy Family .................................. 37 

Detention Home .................................................. 104 

Jewish Infant Orphan Asylum .......................... 72 

Jewish Orphan Asylum ................... _ ................... 473 

Mount St. Mary's ................................................ 152 

St. Ann's Infant Asylum .................................... 100 

St. John's Orphanage .......................................... 20 

Jones Home .................................................. 75 

St. Vincent's Orphan Asylum.. ___ ..................... 236 

House of the Good Shepherd _____________ .......... 185 

Salvation Army Rescue Home ________ 17 

Children's Aid Society ............. . 103 

Holy Ghost Orphanage ________ ....... 14 

Girl's Farm ............ 42 

Training School for Friendless Girls ................ 30 

Catherine Horstmann Home ..... 22 



2,032 



Children 
Examined 

22' 

41 

9 
10 
16 
12 
74 
25 
15 

6 
12 
38 
34 

4 
24 

4 
10 

9 

6 

371 



Found 
Normal 

1 

1 
1 



3 
1 
1 
3 
1 



2 





14 



Found 

to have 

one or more 

defects 

21 
40 

8 
10 
16 
12 
71 
24 
'14 

3 
11 
38 
34 

4 
22 

4 
10 

9 

6 

357 



Total Institutions 19. 





punoj s}39jap 

JO 'CM ]B}OX 


i 

LO 


Tj- 

co co 

i-H 


OJ rH 

co VO 





r*i 

10 


S3 


(f 


rH 

CO 
rH 


S2 


1C 


00 t> 

01 


OI 


rt 


m 

:- 




Bno3uBii3Dsiw - 


O 


rH CO 


Ol OI 





00 


Ol VO 


O rH 





Ol O 


rN 


O cr 


VO 


CM 


s 




^ "* 


* 


VO rH 


rH 


o 


ro 


Oi VO 


O M 





rH 


* 


CM cr 


rH 


rH 


X 




1 SnOAMtf <* 


O 




O 


o 


O 


O 








O 


O 


C 








CM 




1 


o 


O rH 


o o 


o 


CM 


O O 





o 


rH O 


O 


C 


O 


O 


Tj- 




10 


t-. 


CO CO 


r*. 01 


r^ 


_ 


in co 


CM 


VO 


rH O 


t^ 


rH ^ 


CO 


rH 


CO 




aipadoqijo 










1-1 






* 


" H 










Ol 




rH 


LC 


Oi rj- 


rH O 


T)- 


ro 


m * 


rH CS 


01 


co O 


ro 


rH C* 


o 


rH 


r" 




O 










CO 






"H 


rH 














s 


rH 


rH O 


CM O 


-H 


CM 


rH 


rH 


OI 





e 


C 





O 







g sSuni ^ 


O 


rH 


O rH 


OJ 


^ 


O rH 


C 


CO 


O 





o c 


o 


^ 


cr, 




Q *. 
































N *"* 


o 


VO rH 


O O 


O 


ro 


rH CO 


r. 


rH 


o o 


* 


C 


rH 





2 




a| --- 


^ 


01 O 


1-H 





CM 


rH rH 


rH rH 


O 


rH 


CS 


C 








CO 




M 




























rH 




E 


et 


OI OI 


rH rH 


CM 


CM 


m CM 


o es 


CO 


Ol O 


10 


C 


CM 


rH 


rH 




W * uouuinM 




11 






11 






















H fc - 


ro 


VO 


VO 


rH 


10 


vo m 


O cr 


r~ 


rH rH 


1O 


O r- 


rH 


Ol 


CO 




O -o 




1-H 






rH 


















r^ 




U c 


m 


rH O 


VO 01 


uo 


f^ 


r-* CM 


o es 


i-H 


VO O 


VO 


O r- 


esi 


,_, 


*t 




M 




























m 




W c sjisuox 


00 


CO CO 


rH 00 


CM 


-< 


VO CM 


rH CT 


^. 


CM 


00 


O r- 


01 


^ 


VO 




."2 ^ 










e< 


















oo 




S tN 


m 


l^ 01 


CO O 


UO 


00 


r^ vo 


O cr 


t^. 


O 


n 


rH r- 


rH 










"^VN - 


10 


VO OJ 


O t^ 


^. 


10 


OI VO 


rH CT 


Oi 


O CM 


to 


rH C 


O 


i i 







2 




r-1 
























Oi 




ic M 


ro 


co o 


t^ Ol 


uo 


rH 


VO O 


rH CT 


Ol 


VO O 


* 


O 0. 





o 


^ 














r^ 






















r< rH 


CO 


* co 


rH 00 





-)- 


m rH 


O es 


rH 


O CO 


r-~ 


csf cr 


O 





s 




B 




rH 






ro 






rH 


1-1 










2 




B 






























j 


Q 3UIJB9H ** 

U rH 


e 





O O 

O rH 


O 
O 


CM 


rH O 

O 


o c 

C 


rH 




O 
O 


O 

e 


C 
C 


O 
O 




o 


VO 

Tj- 


K 




CO 


00 rH 


rH CM 


e 


CN 


CO O 


rH ^ 


rH 
rH 


o o 


1C 


Tt 


rH 








b^ 


uoisiyy 






























^ 


rH 


rH 


CO O 


O t^ 





LO 


* o 


C 


rH 


r^ Oi 


CN 


O r- 


Ol 


Ol 


^~ 


- 












rt 


















IO 


$ 


SOUI 9 J9AO S)U9p 

-IS9J ui sioajap IB^OX 


CO 


Tj- VO 
Tj- rH 


Ol r- 1 


UO 
(N 


<0 


m CM 

rj- OJ 


CO Of. 


^f- 
^ 


rH 

VO 


VO 

oo 


0> If 

r 


VO 

rH 


m 


S 




soui 9 J9pun siuap 


00 


O Tj- 


CO O 


n 





oo vo 


Tj- t> 




CO rH 


Oi 


vo o 


VO 


Oi 


Tf 




-isgj ui sjaajap JB^OX 




Ol -H 


m 






CO OJ 


*^ 


m 


"*" " 


ro 








S 




.lAU.I.JJ-lp 


,^ 


O 00 


O vo 


CN 


^ 


<J- TJ- 


CO rH 


00 


rj- Tl- 


e 


^f- C 


Oi 


VO 


r^ 




punoj aaquinu JB^OX 


* 


* 


rH rH 


rH 


^ 


CM rH 


rH 


CO 


CO 


M 













IBUIJOU punoj 


_ 


rH rH 


O 





ro 


rH rH 


CO rH 





O 


e 


O C 


O 





2 




jsqiunu JB^OX 
































P9UIUIBX9 U9JpIiqD 


d 


rH Ol 


O VO 


CN 


^. 


in m 


VO CN 


00 


<* Tt- 


^- 


i- c 


Oi 


VO 


rH 




jo'jgquinu IB^OX 


c< 




-rH rH 


* H 


*" 


eSI rH 


1-H 


CO 


co 


CM 


r- 






f- 

co 




SOUI 9 J3AO )U9pIS9J 


Ol 


Ol Tf 


Ol CO 


00 


00 


CO 00 


01 VO 


"01 


t^ o 


i-H 


CM ir 


VO 


CO 


in 




U9jpliqo 9AI}D9J9Q 




rH 






CM 


"* 




Ol 


"^ 


** 








^ 




soui 9 J9pun )U9p 


OJ 


S* 


rH CO 


* 


ro 


rH VO 


rH IT 


VO 


t^ Tj- 


1 1 


01 \r 


CO 


CO 


es 
oc 




SOUI 9 J9AO )U9p 


,_ 


rH 1-H 





o 


ro 





Ol rH 


o 


O 


,H 


C 


o 





o 




-JS3J uajpiiqs JBUIJO^J 




























rH 




soui 9 J9pun 4U3p 


e 


O O 


O 


o 


O 


rH rH 


rH O 


o 


o o 


rH 


C 


o 





T 








4) 

































61 














j 






"u 








z, 




= 1 




fj 








e 

r*. 


o 









JJ 






NAME OF INSTITUTIO 


veland P. O. Asylum 


Joseph's Orphan Asylu 
veland Christian Orphs 


use of Holy Family 
tention Home 




DC 

e- 


fish Orphan Asylum 


jj 

|| 


John's Orphanage 
ies' Home 


Vincent's Orphan Asyli 


use of Good Shepherd 
vation Army Rescue H 


>> 

^ 
OJ 

12 
vi 



ly Ghost Orphanage 
I's Farm 


lining School Friendless 


therine Horstmann Ho 


"5 
o 
H 






U 


. V 
OT 


O <U 

5C Q 


OJ 





i % 


OT r2 


> OT 


a S 

MH OT 


u 


O .5 

53 C 


B 

H 








A P P K N D I X 



TABLE XLI. 

Sanitary Summary 



No. of 
Institutions 

Overcrowding ...;. 6 

Building not screened 3 

Sexes not separated . 2 

No play ground . 1 

Children, two in a bed .. 7 

Improperly placed beds . 4 

Improper bed springs 3 

Wooden beds . 2 

Unclean bed linen. ... .. 1 

Clothing used in common __ 2 

Donated clothing used without first 
washing it ..1 

Soap used in common 18 

Common roller towel 9 

Individual towels and wash cloths not 

provided 8 

Individual combs and hair brushes not 

provided 8 

Inadequate lavatory and toilet facili- 
ties J 7 

Unsanitary toilets 4 

Inadequate bathing facilities 4 

Several children bathed simultaneously 

in same tub 3 

Common toilets for both sexes 2 

Dirty wash basins . 2 

No drinking fountains 9 

Common drinking cups 8 



Inadequate fire protection ....12 

No fire drills 9 

Improper fire escapes 8 

No regular fire drills 8 

Fire extinguishers unfit 4 

Obstructed fire escapes 2 

No fire extinguishers 1 



Leaky plumbing 

Enclosed plumbing. 



Inadequate light in classrooms 8 

Inadequate light in toilets 3 

Inadequate light in playrooms 2 

Poor ventilation in toilets 11 

Poor ventilation in other rooms 8 

Unventilated closets 2 

Poor ventilation in schoolroom 1 

Poor ventilation in playroom .. 1 

Improper refrigeration of food 7 

Worn oilcloth on dining room tables 4 
Kitchen tables not zinc covered 4 

Unguarded laundry and other machin- 
ery 9 

Dry sweeping 6 

Defective plastering . 4 

Defective flooring . 4 

Backless benches used in classroom 5 
Unsanitary school desks 2 



258 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

TABLE XLII. 

SUMMARY OF PHYSICAL EXAMINATION OF BOARDED-OUT CHILDREN 

Total number examined 57. Normal 4. Defective 53. 



c * *1 i 3 I 8 * 

I 1 I ll I 1 I 

7 28 29 24 26 3 3 20 29 

Miscellaneous Defects 

Cervical Glands 23 

Conjunctivitis 1 

Ringworm.- 1 

Enlarged Thyroid 2 

Adenoids 1 

Epitrochlear Glands 1 

29 
The sanitary conditions in these boarding homes were not included in this study. 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 

The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 

THE PBKUIBB PRM* 
Cleveland. O. 



.<> 



'CO 



Industrial Medical 
Service 

Women and Industry 
Children and Industry 



PART SEVEN 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Industrial Medical Service 

Women and Industry 
Children and Industry 



PART SEVEN 



I I I. I; 



Cleveland Hospital a n'd 
Health Survey 




Copyright. 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 

308 Aiiisfield Bldg. 
Cleveland - Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBuiDE, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUGHLJN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L..ROCKWOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 

and the following collaborators : 
GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D., Director of Tuberculosis Survey: 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

I. Industrial Medical Service Page 

Introduction 525 

The Industries of Cleveland 525 

Medical Service in Industry 

Industrial Physicians 526 

Industrial Nursing _ 529 

Visiting Nursing 531 

Clerical Personnel 532 

Dispensary Equipment _ 533 

Cost of Service. _ _ 533 

Administrative Relations 534 

Medical Service in Non-industrial Establishments 535 

Medical Service Beyond the Plant _ 536 

Industrial Medical Records 537 

Absenteeism Due to Sickness 541 

Physical Examinations 542 

Special Services 

Industrial Psychiatry. 544 

Industrial Dental Service _ 545 

Industrial Ocular Service 545 

Tuberculosis 546 

Venereal Diseases 547 

Rehabilitation of Industrial Cripples 547 

The Small Establishment 550 

Industrial Hospitals 552 

The Training of Industrial Physicians and Nurses 552 

Public Health Authorities and Industrial Hygiene 553 

Recommendations 554 

II. Women and Industry 

Introduction ; 557 

Conditions in Various Occupations Employing Women 
Industrial Establishments 

The Metal Trades 559 

Textile and Knitting Mills 561 

The Garment Trades 561 

Candy Factories 562 

Miscellaneous Industrial Establishments. 562 

General Observations 

Hours of Work 563 

Earnings 564 



TABLE OF CONTENTS Continued Page 

Additional Benefits 564 

Recreation 564 

Vacations 565 

Supervision 565 

Physical Conditions of Work 567 

Mercantile Establishments 568 

Public Service Organizations 

Laundries 569 

Hotels 570 

Restaurants 571 

Public Utilities 571 

General Discussion 

Night Work : 571 

HomeWork 573 

Day Nurseries 574 

Mothers' Pensions 575 

Recommendations 575 

Community Interest 576 

III. Children and Industry 

Introductory 579 

Legal Provisions for Children 15-18 Going to Work 581 

Statistics for Children in Industry in Cleveland, 1919 583 
Where Children Work 

Occupations Employing Children 588 

Manufacture of Confectionery 590 

Manufacture of Hosiery and Knit Goods 590 

The Metal Trades 591 

Printing and Publishing 592 

Retail and Wholesale Trade 592 

Telephone and Telegraph Work 593 

Street Trades 597 

1 Agricultural Work and Domestic Service 602 

Health of Children at Work 

Medical Examinations of Children for Work Permits 603 

Suggested Content of Ohio Law re Health Certificate 607 

Subnormal Children in Industry 608 

Summary of Standards of Physical Fitness for Children Enter- 
ing Employment 610 

Education's Responsibility T 613 

Junior Vocation Departments 615 

Suggested Plan of Organization for a Vocational Guidance Bureau.... 617 

Summary of Recommendations 619 

Appendix 

Tables 622 



REPORT OF THE INDUSTRIAL DIVISION 
PREFACE 

In an industrial city such as Cleveland it is not possible to make a com- 
prehensive study of the health of the community without consideration of 
the relations of health and industry. Certain of these relations are the 
matter of this report. 

The Industrial Division of the Hospital and Health Survey has been 
concerned with three fields of industrial activity: medical, surgical and 
nursing service in industry; the employment of women and the employ- 
ment of children. These three subjects are discussed separately. 

All recommendations and for the most part the discussion of various 
topics relate specifically to conditions as observed in Cleveland, though it 
is true that many other industrial cities present similar problems. 

The Survey is indebted to the Committee for the Study of Public Health 
Nursing Education for designating Mrs. Anna M. Staebler to aid in the 
study of industrial nursing and to the Consumers' League of Ohio which 
contributed the services of Miss Florence V. Ball who has conducted the 
study of children and industry. 

The Survey wishes also to acknowledge its appreciation of the coopera- 
tion and assistance offered by the industrial organizations of Cleveland and 
by numerous individuals and agencies in the city and state which have 
freely aided in these studies. 



Health and Industry 

Industrial Medical Service 
lly WADE WRIGHT, M. D. 

INTRODUCTION 

IN undertaking to study existing measures for the safeguarding of the 
health of industrial workers it was fully realized that detailed consideration 
of working conditions, of sanitation, of accident hazards and of industrial 
health, was not possible in the course of a brief survey. It has been the 
purpose of those conducting this inquiry to obtain certain essential data 
regarding the medical organization which various industrial and mercantile 
establishments have developed for the care of the health of their employes, 
to estimate as accurately as might be, the probable efficacy of such organiza- 
tion and to present in this report the findings of such an inquiry together with 
an expression of opinion regarding the merits of certain features observed, 
and ways and means for the remedying of the more outstanding defects. 

It is to be remembered that the Survey was without legal authority to 
enter and inspect industrial or other establishments and that this study has 
been made possible only through the courtesy and cooperation of the em- 
ployers of the city. 

The information here presented was obtained by questionnaire, by visit 
and by conference. It was not practicable to visit all of the large industrial 
establishments, but the great majority of plants employing over five hun- 
dred persons in which medical service is rendered, were visited by one of 
the four members of the staff of the Industrial Division. 

In all, about one hundred organizations of various sizes were carefully 
studied and information secured in some detail regarding many more. 

For the purpose of this report certain observations relating to industry 
will be separated from those concerning mercantile establishments, the con- 
struction trades and the public utilities. 

THE INDUSTRIES OF CLEVELAND 

The statistical studies of the number and size of industrial plants were 
based upon the "Directory of Ohio Manufacturers" issued by the Indus- 
trial Commission of Ohio in 1918. The information there published has been 
corrected by data more recently obtained, and though the resulting figures 
are not accurate they are probably a fair approximation of the facts. 

In Table I., published in the appendix, is shown the division of 1,521 
industrial organizations into several size-groups, together with the group- 
total number of employes, the average number of employes per establish- 
ment and the percentages of establishments and employes in each group. 

Approximately 74 per cent of the city's industrial workers are engaged in 
establishments employing 200 or more, organizations of this size constituting 



526 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

only 12 per cent of the total number of industrial organizations. 57 per cent of 
the employes are engaged in establishments employing 500 or more, 5.3 per 
cent of the organizations; and 43 per cent of the employes work in establish- 
ments employing 1,000 or more, 2.6 per cent of all organizations. 

It is evident, with so great a portion of all industrial operatives employed 
in a relatively small number of large establishments, that medical service 
would reach a very considerable number of Avorkers if it were rendered in 
the larger plants. 

MEDICAL SERVICE IN INDUSTRY 

Table II. presents the findings relating to medical service in industrial 
establishments of various sizes. It was perhaps inevitable that in certain 
instances the information obtained from organizations was inexact. This 
was true of some statements regarding the place of the medical department 
in the scheme of administration and its relation to the rest of the industrial 
organism and regarding the status of physicians employed part time and on 
call. It has been necessary in consequence that the staff rather freely in- 
terpret some of these statements. 

In estimating the number of firms furnishing medical service a rough 
standard of adequacy has been accepted. The presence in a plant of a 
first-aid cabinet which might be supplemented in the event of a serious 
emergency by the attention of a neighborhood physician has not been reck- 
oned as "medical service." Those plants employing trained nurses for dis- 
pensary work have been rated as furnishing medical service even though 
physicians were seldom called in. 

The quality of medical service rendered in the establishments which 
have been considered as furnishing ' service undoubtedly ranges between 
widely separated extremes. In comparatively few instances has it been 
found to be of a high order, judged by the best standards of industrial medi- 
cine and surgery as practiced in this country. 

It is noteworthy and most creditable, however, that about one-half of 
the industrial workers of the city are upon occasion receiving some sort of 
medical attention in industrial plants. 

The dressing of industrial injuries of course demands immediate atten- 
tion and it is true and to be expected that there is a concentration of person- 
nel and service to meet this first need. A relatively small amount of time 
and service is devoted to other than surgical work. No effort has been made 
by the Survey to appraise the quality of surgical work done by industrial 
surgeons in the city, but there is much evidence that Cleveland is fortunate 
in having a group of interested, conscientious and able surgeons giving their 
time especially to industrial cases. 

INDUSTRIAL PHYSICIANS 

In Table III: are tabulated data concerning the medical department 
personnel of establishments rendering medical service. 



H K A L T H AND I N D U S T 1< ^ 



The Survey 1ms knowledge of but seven physicians employed upon a full- 
time basis in the industries of Cleveland. There is a much larger group, 
numbering over twenty, who are identified almost exclusively with indus- 
trial practice, including a number of surgeons who are each engaged on a 
part-time or visit basis by several firm. 

There has been an interesting and important development of medical 
partnerships which purpose to render comprehensive service to their clients, 
including dispensary administration and health supervision as well as indus- 
trial medicine and surgery. There is much to be hoped of this type of organ- 
ization, especially in connection with small establishments, with contracting 
and construction work and those firms not in a position to command the full 
service of an industrial physician as the administrative officer of a medical 
department. 

Industrial medical service as at present conceived is comparatively new, 
crudely developed and far from being standardized. Industries have drawn 
into their medical departments a variety of types of physicians. 

In Cleveland there are a few highly skilled industrial physicians, trained 
to consider the intricate inter-relations of medicine and industry, possessed 
of wide technical knowledge of their special field. 

There is another group of physicians doing little but casualty surgery, 
some of them eminently capable and many of them less so. As a rule these 
men are frankly interested in nothing but surgical conditions, but many will 
consent nevertheless to submit opinions upon any matters relating to health 
and sanitation, including obscure poisonings or involved questions of indus- 
trial hygiene. 

A third class includes men who have been drawn into industry from gen- 
eral practice, not infrequently in a sense, against their desire. Often the 
basis of selection of such physicians was curious. They were in many in- 
stances the attending family physician of plant executives. They are apply- 
ing in industry methods very similar to those which they formerly employed 
in private practice, with probably the same degree of conscientiousness and 
scientific honesty which characterized their work previously. Many of 
them become capable executives and well qualified industrial physicians. 
They are, however, strikingly indicative of the lack of comprehension among 
those directing industrial establishments of the importance of selecting for 
plant physicians, men technically equipped to render a technical service and 
who are posseted of pn>|>cr personality and ability to develop with and be- 
yond assigned tasks. 

Another group, happily diminishing, is made up of incapahlcs, men who 
have not succeeded in general practice, who have drifted near financial rocks 
and who eagerly welcome even the small salaries or fees which they may 
secure in establishments administered by those who still are of the impression 
that any doctor is a good doctor, and if secured cheaply, a better one for 
their pnrpn- 

Thcre was a time, not long ago, when industry diligently sought for the 
struggling young physician and. finding him. offered him employment. 



528 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Usually the salary was very small, but the collateral inducements glowing. 
The young man was informed that despite the low salary he would be able 
to secure a splendid income by the simple means of developing a private 
practice among the company's employes. 

The glowing prophecy has been fulfilled and the physician, perhaps no 
longer young and struggling, has a splendid income, practising among the 
employes. 

The public views with alarm and suspicion and reads editorials about 
public officials who personally benefit through their positions, but industry 
has sought and welcomed the physician who comes to advise and remains 
to operate. Industry does not aim to employ superintendents or treasurers 
upon such a basis of remuneration, why physicians? 

Cleveland is not without numerous industrial physicians whose incomes 
are very appreciably augmented from the personal practice worked up in 
industrial dispensaries. The cough which takes a laborer to his plant dis- 
pensary may carry him rather unexpectedly still farther to the company 
doctor's down-town office and a tonsillectomy operation, and beyond that 
into a dazed state of financial stringency. Or by a particularly fortuitous 
arrangement, one involving many thousands of operatives in Cleveland, the 
company physician or surgeon may collect within the company dispensary 
his personal fee for professional services rendered. 

It is not dishonest or unethical practice, any more than is that of the 
concessionaire who sells pie by the plant gate, and there are honorable and 
able men engaged in it. But it is of questionable value to any employer 
with whom the health of his employes is a matter of real concern. Indus- 
trial physicians should be employed to render specific services. If it is the 
feeling of the management of an industrial establishment that they do not 
wish to undertake the care of disabilities other than those arising out of 
industrial injuries, the services of physicians in their employ should be 
restricted to such cases. Under no circumstances should physicians be 
permitted to recruit private patients under the guise of their official posi- 
tions as company servants. Such employes as need care beyond that fur- 
nished by the company should be referred to competent practitioners not 
on the company's medical staff. The situation of an industrial physician in 
an industrial dispensary is quite analogous to that of a physician on the 
visiting staff of one of the many reputable hospitals which forbid staff,physi- 
cians to receive dispensary or hospital cases as private patients except under 
very special circumstances. 

^ 

The temptation to enlarge a personal practice in this manner is compli- 
cated by other obvious evils, such as unnecessary treatment or operations, 
intrusions upon the practices of fellow physicians and inevitable exploitation 
of workers. 



II I A LT II \ N I) 1 N D I si H > 



The Survey recommends that industrial physicians be selected with regard 
for their professional and executive abilities and that only the well qualified 
be chosen; that they be remunerated upon a basis commensurate with the 
amount and character of services expected of them; that they be not permitted 
to combine with their official duties personal practice among the company 
personnel. 

INDUSTRIAL NURSING 

Industrial nursing is perhaps less standardized than industrial medicine, 
for the duties assigned to plant nurses vary with plant physicians, types of 
industries and of employes and the purposes and fancies of plant executives. 
Of these several factors the last is probably the most potent. Rarely is a 
capable nurse selected and encouraged to develop and extend her field of 
usefulness. She is frequently added to the payroll in much the same spirit 
with which such employes as doorkeepers or telephone operators are added. 

The great majority of industrial nurses in Cleveland are registered trained 
nurses. Most of them have entered industry after a period of private duty 
nursing, others directly from hospital training schools. It is of course to 
be expected, as in the case of physicians, that the degree of excellence of 
training varies. Again, as with physicians, some are well qualified to do 
industrial work and are intensely interested in the progress of the new pro- 
fession; some have sought the short hours and freedom of the industrial 
world, rather than the strain and uncertainty of private duty nursing; and 
others among the least capable of the nursing profession have drifted in. 

A small portion of industrial nurses in the city are not registered nurses 
and are not graduates of hospital training schools. A number have had 
short courses in first-aid, others gained their knowledge of emergency surgery 
as dressing assistants. Some of them are very able and others obviously 
masquerading in nurses' uniforms and are probably more of a liability than 
an asset to the firms employing them. One may safely venture the assertion 
that in certain instances executives employing untrained nurses are not aware 
of their real professional status. 

There is undoubtedly a place in industrial medical service for practical 
nurses or nurses' assistants, serving with and under the direction of compe- 
tent medical or nursing authority. At present practical nurses are found in 
almost every instance in charge of their own departments. 

In establishments where there is no organized medical service certain 
duties ordinarily assigned to a nurse are assumed by matrons or by members 
of the clerical forces. Such an arrangement is warranted only in a small 
organization. 

The progress of industrial hygiene has been due in large measure to the 
contributions of industrial nurses. The truth of this may be readily evi- 
denced if one endeavors to withdraw from the fabric of industrial organiza- 
tions the threads representative of the services, the influence and the person- 
alities of able industrial nurses. It is the industrial nurse in many instances 



530 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVEY 

who stands in the minds of employes as the most kindly, most wholesome 
human element in a big industrial machine. Her achievement, however, 
must depend in great degree upon the intelligent support and guidance of 
the plant administration. 

It is to be expected that the personality, abilities and ambitions of indus- 
trial nurses should in general be in keeping with the types of industrial 
organizations which employ them and the purposes for which they are em- 
ployed. It is as idle to criticize many an industrial nurse for failure to real- 
ize fully her opportunities for constructive health work as it is to condemn 
the surviving old type contract surgeon who is competent simply to bask on 
the sunny side of the payroll as "a doctor," quite as content as his employ- 
ers are to have him there. 

Not infrequently the nurse gives far more service than is expected of her, 
little though that service may be. She finds slight stimulus to better effort. 
If she writes a poor report, it serves as well as a good one, for it doubtless 
receives but a casual glance from an uninterested front office executive. 
Perhaps, as in one plant, she finds no official who considers it his duty to 
review that report, so she submits none. She may attempt to extend her 
usefulness, as in another Cleveland establishment, but the employes make 
such increased use of her department that she is retired to her own reserva- 
tion, instructed to remain there. If the professional advice she offers is 
unsound, there is no one the wiser, certainly not the recipient of the advice. 

If she has had fairly good training, is reasonably decorative, has a ready 
suggestion for the relief of the general manager's indigestion and the em- 
ployes like her, she may be an eminent success as an industrial nurse in almost 
any one of the large group of plants where physicians are employed part 
time or on call. 

The employment of nurses with little or no medical supervision has led 
in Cleveland to a lowering of accepted standards of nursing and medical 
practice regarding medication. With the exception of instances so rare as 
to be practicably negligible the industrial nurses of the city are freely ad- 
ministering drugs for the relief of minor ailments without individual or 
standing orders of physicians. There is constant and free use made of 
various sedatives for the relief of headaches, coughs and divers pains and of 
cocaine for the removal of foreign bodies in the eye. Though it is not to be 
questioned that many or most nurses are qualified to use these drugs with 
discretion, the fact remains that indiscriminate medication of this kind is 
not in accordance with modern standards of medical treatment and unauthor- 
ized, as in these instances, it is in direct violation of the medical practice 

act of the state. 



Isolated, as most industrial nurses are, from professional associations, 
confined to their duties for the entire weekly working period, they naturally 
tend to become somewhat limited in conception of their duties and their 
opportunities. They are pioneers in their respective establishments often, 



Hl.ALTH AND I N D U 8 T It V 



each one endeavoring to work out her own problems, a difficult task when 
no precedents are at hand and no competent advice readily available. 

There is urgent necessity in Cleveland, as in other cities, for some means 
of carrying to industrial nurses the counsel and technical assistance which 
most need and many desire. The present Industrial Nurses' Club is presum- 
ably of real value in this connection but its services are quite inadequate. It 
would be much to the advantage of organizations employing industrial 
nurses to contribute to a common fund devoted to the maintenance of a 
center for gatherings of industrial nurses; of a good library on industrial 
hygiene, including related periodicals; of a series of conferences and of one 
or more well salaried counseling industrial nurses. Such a counsellor, wisely 
chosen, rendering an expert technical consultation service, could be of unques- 
tioned assistance to industrial nurses and plant executives and would in no 
sense conflict with established relations of authority and responsibility. 



VISITING Nu RHINO 

It has been difficult to determine with any exactness the number of 
firms whose nurses make visits to the homes of employes. In a small num- 
ber of establishments visiting nursing is an accepted part of the medical 
department routine, in others, visits to the homes of sick workers are made 
infrequently. A total of 22 firms are recorded as providing at least occa- 
sional visiting nursing services; .13 of these firms employing 1,000 or more; 
7 firms employing 500 to 1,000, and 2 firms from 200 to 500 employes. In 
no instance does a visiting industrial nurse do bedside nursing, at its best 
the purpose of her visit being rather to determine whether or not the sick 
or injured worker is receiving proper care. 

I 
Industry has made occasional use of nurses furnished by the Visiting 

Nursing Association. A more extended utilization of such an established 
service might be advantageous. 

In Cleveland a considerable numl>er of nurses employed in industry for 
visiting do not report to the medical department but are responsible to 
employment officials. Their task is to visit the homes of absentees to de- 
termine the cause of absence and to exert such influence as they may to 
induce the delinquent to return to work. 

Such service, valuable though it may be, is not visiting nursing, is not a 
part of medical care or supervision and the employment of nurses for this 
work is frequently a transparent subterfuge of employment departments 
used to mask the real purpose of such visiting. It rarely fails to discredit 
the organization responsible for the activity and to lower the respect of 
employes for the plant nurses. With good reason employes resent the com- 
ing to their homes unasked of women who wear the uniform of nurses but 
who in purpose and in fact belong to the company espionage service and 
not to its health department. 



582 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

It is obvious that absence follow-up can best be done by visitors who are 
qualified to discern illness when it exists, but nurses are so few and absentee- 
ism so prevalent that it is of doubtful wisdom to assign nurses to routine 
absence follow-up instead of to visiting of the known or suspected sick. In 
any event, visiting nurses should be considered as medical department per- 
sonnel and their, reports should be part of the medical department records. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

The survey recommends that: 

Industrial nurses be graduate, registered nurses. That they be employed 
in the practice of nursing or in the maintenance of the physical welfare of 
establishment personnel. 

That industrial nurses be carefully chosen for professional fitness and 
for such qualities of personality and character as will enable them to fulfill their 
many responsibilities. 

That practical, untrained nurses be employed only under competent 
medical or nursing supervision. 

That industrial nurses in establishments where they are directly and 
wholly responsible to executive officers rather than to industrial physicians be 
granted such authority and receive such support as may be necessary for 
the development of their fullest usefulness. That industrial physicians re- 
member that the industrial nurse must be more than a handmaiden of the 
medical profession. 

That medication without the individual or standing orders of a physi- 
cian should be prohibited in industrial establishments as it is in law. 

That encouragement and assistance be offered by industry to industrial 
nurses in their efforts to maintain contact with progressive movements in 
their rapidly developing profession. 

That visiting nursing be considered as a normal function of industrial 
medical service to be exercised as required or desirable. 

That industrial visiting nurses be rated as medical department personnel. 
That they visit the known or suspected sick and be not employed for routine 
absence follow-up from employment departments. 

CLERICAL PERSONNEL 

Clerical personnel of medical departments in Cleveland is limited. It is 
about as rare and found in about the same places as adequate dispensary 
records. Seven firms employ a total of fourteen clerks in connection with 
industrial dispensaries. Efficient health administration is as dependent 
upon proper dispensary records as efficient production and sajes methods 
upon proper cost accounting. 

In all industrial dispensaries there is need of some clerical work. Nurses 
and physicians are trained for medical service. If clerical work is excessive 
it should be performed by clerks and not by the medical or nursing staff. 



II K A I, I II A X 1> l\ I) I S T K ^ .").'{.'{ 

I)|s|'l-.\s.\HY Eqrii'MKNT 

\" <lct;nlc<l consideration of the equipment of industrial dispensaries is 
included in this report. Excellent work can be done with meager equip- 
ment and worthless work in the midst of much white enamel. 

It has been a matter of some interest that with a few exceptions the 
medical departments rendering the best service in the city are in poor quar- 
ters and possessed of inferior dispensary fittings. The equipment of many 
of the most elaborately furnished suites has apparently exhausted the inter- 
est and thought of those responsible for medical administration. 

It is certain that an efficient staff will be aided by adequate and convenient 
equipment as well as by quarters which are accessible and sufficiently lajge 
for the number of cases to be handled. 

Most of the industrial X-Ray work in the city is done by hospitals or 
firms specializing in this service. A small number of firms have installed 
apparatus for such purposes as radiographing teeth or minor injuries. Sev- 
eral establishments have apparatus enabling them to do practically all grades 
of X-Ray work. 

Few dispensaries have even limited clinical laboratory facilities. There 
are probably not more than five such laboratories in use. 

One private ambulance has been ordered by a large industrial organiza- 
tion. The inadequacy of ambulance service in the city is not infrequently a 
source of annoyance and even danger in the transfer of injured workmen to 
hospitals. Especially apparent is the need of trained ambulance attendants. 
There is much reason for believing that the industries of Cleveland could be 
served much more satisfactorily than at present by a centralized ambulance 
all system, the cars of such a system to be operated by a single agency or 
controlled jointly by the hospitals of the city. 

COST OF SERVICE 

Though many of the results of industrial medical service must be reck- 
oned as intangible, there are ways in which the quality of service which is 
rendered may be checked, as well as certain effects upon employment and 
insurance costs to be noted. Through these means may be obtained an 
approximate 1 estimate of what the service is worth. 

It is more simple to secure accurate figures regarding the cost of 
>crvice. There are several plants in Cleveland efficiently applying cost 
accounting to medical departments and it is in these few plants alone that 
there is definite knowledge of the total outlay for medical work. Other 
firms may roughly calculate the cost l>y guessing at the value of medical 
supplies purchased or on hand and adding to that amount the salaries of 
personnel. In most establishments there is the greatest vagueness regard- 
ing costs of service, occasionally combined with a fanciful exactness regard- 
ing the benefits derived. 



534 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

A number of firms stated the cost to be in the neighborhood of five dol- 
lars a year per employe, but this amount, it is interesting to note, is rela- 
tively constant, independent of the size of the plants, nature of products, 
types of workers or the extent and quality of service rendered. In one 
large establishment the cost is $10.92 a year per employe and in another 
$11.23. Such amounts are probably not excessive at the present time if 
the service secured is comprehensive and of a high order. 

ADMINISTRATIVE RELATIONS 

The ultimate utility of a medical department is certainly to some extent 
determined by the place which the department occupies in the industrial 
organization, though it must be recognized that all plants are not conducted 
along the lines prescribed in the schematic plan of administration. If a 
medical department is to develop and render more than relatively insignifi- 
cant service it must have at its head a responsible executive in whom is 
vested suitable authority. 

As it is the function of this executive to conduct operations relating to 
the maintenance of a healthy staff of employes, it would seem reasonable to 
select for the office a properly qualified physician. Not infrequently medical 
departments are administered by laymen who direct the activities of subordi- 
nate physicians, a practice which may be compared to the employment of 
a good foundryman to superintend a draughting room or of a capable pipe 
fitter to direct the tuning of a piano. 

If it is not feasible in any particular industrial organization to make 
the medical head of a medical department directly responsible to a general 
executive, he should at least have authority to control the policies and 
methods within his own field. 

In Table IV. are shown the administrative relations of a number of 
industrial medical departments in Cleveland. Reasonably accurate infor- 
mation regarding fifty-six organizations has been tabulated. In certain 
establishments the duties of executives are not well defined and it has been 
necessary to determine rather arbitrarily the classification of the adminis- 
trative relations of a few medical departments. 

Under "Administration" are included medical departments responsible 
to general administrative bodies as executive boards and to general managers. 
"Production" is inclusive of factory managers and superintendents. "Em- 
ployment" includes welfare departments, service departments, employment 
and industrial relations managers. "Claims" includes pension and acci- 
dent departments. 

Almost half of the medical departments classified are responsible to some 
form of employment service, 78 per cent are responsible to either such em- 
ployment service or to general administrative officers, while only 17 per cent 
are responsible to production. In an extensive study of industrial medical 
service by C. D. Selby in 1919, 41 per cent of a group of medical departments 



H B A L T H AND INDUSTRY 535 

were found to be responsible to production, 16 f>er cent to labor relations 
and 18 per cent to administration. 

Though conditions within individual organizations must in great measure 
determine the relation of medical departments to various executives, it has 
appeared that the best developed medical services have been in departments 
headed by full-time physicians directly responsible to general administrative 
officers. It is to be accepted that such departments must cooperate closely 
and harmoniously with related plant activities. If no full-time physician 
is employee! the medical department may well come under the supervision 
of the company officer or executive charged with labor relations. 

The heads of two medical departments are also in charge of the 
service departments of their respective establishments. Such an arrange- 
ment may be successful, as in these instances, under favorable circumstances 
and when the chief surgeon and service head is an able executive, but it is 
not one to be commended as generally applicable or desirable. 



MEDICAL SERVICE IN NON-INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS 

Certain mercantile establishments of the city and a number of public 
utilities have developed medical services which are so similar to those found 
in industry that they may be considered as within the scope of this survey. 

In Table V. of the appendix is set forth a summary of the statistical find- 
ings covering these groups. Contrary to the condition prevalent in manu- 
facturing establishments, mercantile medical service is concerned more with 
the health of employes than with accidents. It affords an excellent oppor- 
tunity for a demonstration of the value and possibilities of medical service 
as distinguished from that essentially surgical. 

Medical departments have not to this time been developed in the con- 
struction trades though the health and accident hazards are notable. A 
beginning has been made in Cleveland, though not, however, by a Cleveland 
construction firm. 

There are in Cleveland about twenty thousand workers in the construc- 
tion trades. For many of these the work is arduous and hazardous and 
demands continued exposure to inclement weather. Both health and safety 
<>f construction labor are frequently imperiled. Small injuries are numerous 
and serious accidents common. Extensive construction enterprises involve 
the housing of workmen and necess.-irily >|>ecial problems of sanitation. 

Wages in the construction trades are high and the time lost by injured 
workers is a costly factor. The loss incident to the absence of men from 
their jobs, sent away for the dressing of small injuries is alone great. To 
this must be added the cost of turnover from more serious accidents and from 
ill health, and the burden of numerous fatalities. 



536 



There could be developed on construction jobs medical service somewhat 
similar to that of the army in the field. Portable dispensaries could be in- 
stalled where needed, suitable light equipment provided and medical and 
surgical care thus made available for sick or injured workmen. It is a matter 
of great concern to individual workers, to construction firms and to public 
health authorities. 



MEDICAL SERVICE BEYOND THE PLANT 

Industrial medical departments are in most instances established and 
manned to furnish surgical care for industrial injuries. As previously indi- 
cated, there has been relatively slight development of service purposed to 
care for the health of operatives. There has been in Cleveland almost no 
consideration of the health of employes beyond the confines of plant prop- 
erty except through the ministrations of a few visiting nurses. 

It is of course difficult to determine the limits of the social orbit of an 
employe, an orbit touching many interests, work, home, church and recrea- 
tion. 

In this connection it is of interest to consider the curious philosophy of 
many employers who rather belligerently assert that they have not con- 
cerned themselves with the health of their employes because that is a private 
affair; that if the men received good working conditions and good wages 
they receive enough; and that besides there are in the city men who have 
secured training for the medical profession, implying that in consequence 
the community is in. duty bound to support these physicians regardless of 
their merits. Yet the same employers turn to show proudly their company 
cooperative stores where food and clothing are sold at cost, or at a trifling 
profit, food for the worker and for his family. The implications in this case 
are probably that food and clothing are not to be regarded as private affairs 
and that the community does not owe storekeepers a living. 

The employer who has joined with his employes to enhance the purchas- 
ing value of wages by sharing in the operation of a cooperative store has but 
few mental steps to tread till he faces an opportunity to secure for his em- 
ployes that which is as necessary in their lives as socks and canned tomatoes 
a fair chance for health and for competent medical care at a reasonable 
cost. 

It should be possible for employers and employes together to arrange for 
the establishment of industrial dispensaries, for the securing of medical and 
nursing personnel and for the conduct of such dispensaries upon a mutually 
satisfactory basis. A dispensary of this nature might be limited to the 
full medical care of employes or might increase its resources to include the 
care of employes' families. The extent of medical and nursing service 
and the apportionment of cost are details which any representative fair- 
minded body could readily determine. 

There are in Cleveland at least two mutual benefit associations which 
participate in the administration of plant medical service. One is. in its 



1 1 K A L T II AND I N D U 8 T 1< V 537 

plan, but little above the level of the old-time lodge practice, the other is the 
most promising industrial medical service in the city. One of these mutual 
l>enefit associations employs a physician whose office is provided by the com- 
pany and who for a small annual sum contributed by each member renders 
service to members of the association, services necessarily limited. Em- 
ployes who are not members of the mutual benefit association may consult 
this physician, but upon a fee basis. 

In the other organization cited, the plan is to render comprehensive 
medical service of the highest type, employing physicians and nurses in such 
numbers as may be required to insure adequate and prompt treatment of 
employes. It is contemplated that later, service shall be available for the 
members of employes' families. 

INDUSTRIAL MEDICAL RECORDS 

There is such a thing as accumulating useless statistical material, of 
multiplying indices and cross indices, just as there is the considering of prob- 
lems by guess work when they are considered at all. There is also such a 
thing as keeping an accurate record of important facts and of summarizing 
the data so made available in such a manner as to render them possible of 
fntelligent interpretation. It is a safe assumption that the industries of 
Cleveland have not attained their present eminent position by the universal 
application of the sort of administrative methods which are generally found 
in their medical departments. 

There are several establishments in Cleveland in which essential data 
regarding injuries and illness incurred by employes are recorded and the 
findings so tabulated as to be of significance and great value. There are 
numerous establishments with thousands of records so inadequate, confused 
and inaccessible that they are practically worthless; and there are others which 
keep no records worthy of mention, yet expend a total of many thousands of 
dollars for the purpose of safeguarding the physical welfare of employes. 

The conditions in various plants, such as the type of industry, of organ- 
ization, of personnel and of medical service, all enter into the consideration 
of dispensary records and forms for records. It is probably futile and not 
desirable to hope for general adoption of any uniform record system, but 
there are a few minimum standards for good industrial medical practice 
just as there are for good hospital practice. Industrial medical records 
should indicate the recognition of such standards. 

It is not within the province of this report to set forth dogmatically a list 
of standards for industrial medical records, but several suggestions may, 
however. In- submitted. 

Records concerning individuals should be so filed as to be readily acces- 
sible. This may entail a cross index by name if records are filed by case 
number or shop number. Individual* may well be identified by name, 
number, department, nationality and address. It is very desirable to state 
the actual process upon which an employe is engaged. 



538 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Dates of injury, illness, treatment and discharge should be set down. 

Adequate, though possibly brief statements should be made regarding 
treatment, such as dressings OF medication. Progress notes are valuable. 

Accurate diagnosis, by standard nomenclature, should be required. 
"Deferred" and "provisional" diagnoses should be supplemented by more 
accurate opinions. Condition of the case at discharge should be stated. 

Whether the record form be a card filed separately or in a folder or a 
sheet bound loose-leaf fashion or filed folded or flat is a matter for each 
organization to consider. Good records are kept in any one of these ways. 

There is much to be gained by filing all of the data relating to an indi- 
vidual in one place. A fairly preva'ent custom is to make out a new form 
for each new accident or illness without reference to the previous history of 
the individual concerned. In many instances the custom can be well justi- 
fied but in general it is not good practice, especially in regard to medical 
cases, to ignore an available case history. 

Ample evidence warrants a gentle caution against indiscriminate "elimi- 
nation of paper work." A certain amount of paper work is a good thing; 
it saves other kinds of more arduous work. 

Industrial medical department forms are of practically unlimited variety 
as to shape, filing system, purpose, content and degree of usefulness. The 
forms collected in Cleveland in connection with this survey may be roughly 
classified into several groups. 

(a) Forms used to get injured or ill workers from the plant to the dis- 
pensary. They include passes from timekeepers and foremen, with or with- 
out provision for record of time elapsed in transit. Some include space 
for description of the accident incurred. In large plants it may be found 
very desirable to have some sort of a check on the time consumed by employes 
in coming to the dispensary and in returning to work. An ingenious shirker 
can occupy several hours in negotiating the short distance between his de- 
partment and the plant dispensary. It is to be remembered, however, that 
as little difficulty as possible should be thrown in the way of patients which 
might deter them from making free and prompt use of the dispensary. In- 
fections and prolonged disabilities are the penalties. Official statements re- 
garding the percentage of industrial injuries in Ohio which have become 
infected and regarding the influence of infection on the production of perma- 
nent disability offer matter for serious and thoughtful attention. A bulletin 
of the Industrial Commission of Ohio published March 1, 1917, stated that 
of 73,525 industrial accidents for which awards were made by the Com- 
mission for the year ending June 30, 1915, infection was reported in connec- 
tion with 7,073 cases, approximately one-tenth of all accidents. Of these 
7,073 cases 39 resulted fatally, 161 in permanent partial disability and 
6,873 in prolonged temporary disability. . 



HKALTH AND INDUSTRY 589 

(b) Forms used for follow-up to insure the return of cases needing 
continued dressings or treatment. These include hospital passes and cards 
patterned after the conventional time card, used in racks, one for a case, 
and "pulled" by the dispensary nurse when a patient has received his ap- 
pointed treatment. 

(c) Forms for case records, medical, surgical, dental, ocular or for spe- 
cial studies. They range from simple cards to elaborate forms upon which 
positive findings may be indicated by signs. 

(d) Forms for physical examinations. Such forms vary with the pur- 
pose for which physical examinations are performed. They also vary with 
the training and the professional hobbies of their medical authors. 

(e) Forms for preliminary and final reports on cases. Usually for the 
purpose of informing compensation departments regarding the nature of 
injuries and the progress or termination of cases. Occasionally include a 
statement of professional fees. 

(f) Forms for periodic reports to executive departments. They, for the 
most part, present a somewhat curious selection of data and, as with the 
case of many other forms, are of unknown executive origin. 

Industrial accidents and disease, as well as non-industrial accidents and 
illness, are important and costly matters concerning employes and their 
employers, affecting as they do not only the well being and income of indi- 
viduals but also operating costs through lowered morale, absenteeism, in- 
creased turnover, lowered production, faulty goods, medical care and insur- 
ance rates. It would appear to l>e a subject of genuine interest to progres- 
sive employers, but the supposition is not borne out in the records of many 
industrial medical establishments. Even though ample material may be at 
hand in the files of the medical departments it is seldom summarized and 
tabulated in monthly or other periodic reports in such fashion as to furnish 
responsible executives with sound bases for comparative judgments. 

For example, there is rarely careful discrimination between numbers of 
individuals, numbers of cases and numbers of dressings, treatments and 
visits. There is rarely a comparative statement of accident and illness inci- 
dence based upon some common factor, such as a hundred or a thousand 
full-time workers. A relatively small department of a plant showing ap- 
parently a low accident incidence may in fact have a very high accident rate. 
There is rarely in periodic reports a differentiation l>etween trifling and seri- 
ous accidents, yet more important than the frequency rate is the severity 
rate indicating the time lost. This may he illustrated by the machine trades 
in which the number of accidents causing an immediate loss of time of less 
than one day is much greater than the number of serious accidents, perhaps 
ninety to ninety-five per cent of the total. Though an important group of 
injuries, these trivial C.-IM-S ;ir e not reportable to the Industrial Commission 
and do not figure in an estimation of the severity rate. Thus the machine 
trades, having a fairly high accident severity rate, have a still higher accident 
frequency rate because of numerous accident-,, each causing disability for a 
short period. 



540 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

These more accurate reports of medical department data do not demand 
the attention of skilled statisticians. They can be very satisfactorily com- 
piled by industrial nurses or clinic clerks with possibly occasional supervision 
or assistance. 

There is much to be gained from the general adoption of some uniform 
basis of reckoning for accident and sickness statistics, and at the present time 
there appear no more authoritative standards than those employed by the 
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor. These 
include the standards of the Committee on Statistics of the International 
Association of Industrial Accident Boards and Commissions regarding 
tabulable accidents, diseases and injuries; what shall constitute a full-time 
worker; the computation of the number of man-hours worked in an establish- 
ment and a scale of time losses for weighting various industrial accidents. 

According to these standards the accident frequency rate expresses the 
number of tabulable accidents incurred per 1,000 full-time workers, a full- 
time worker being one who works ^ten hours a day, three hundred days a 
year. The accident severity rate expresses the number of days lost through 
tabulable accidents for each full-time worker per year. 

The utilization of this method of tabulating accidents and illness would 
enable executives to estimate accurately the losses from these sources by 
departments, by processes, by various time periods, by day and night shifts, 
by nationalities, or in other ways; would enable them to compare their losses 
Avith other similar establishments or with other industries. 

Complete and recent reports of accidents in Cleveland have not been 
available, but a bulletin published by the Industrial Commission of Ohio in 
1915 presents an analysis of reportable industrial accidents occurring in 
Cuyahoga County from July to December, 1914. Computations based 
upon the figures of this report indicate an accident frequency rate of 93.7 
accidents per 1,000 workers per year, and an accident severity rate of 4.53 
days lost per worker per year. (Table VI., Appendix.) 

Through the courtesy of the Industrial Commission advance figures 
have been received indicating the number of reportable accidents occurring 
in several groups of plants located within selected important industrial 
areas of the city during the period of June 1, 1919, to November 30, 1919. 
The industries represented were quite diversified, though for the most part 
they were engaged in the manufacture of metal products. These figures, 
which are presented in Table VII. of the appendix, indicate for a total of 
54,091 employes, an accident frequency rate of 201.7 accidents per thousand 
workers per year, and an accident severity rate of 2.6 days losjt per worker 
per year. 

Detailed information regarding the computation of/accident and illness 
frequency rates and severity rates may be obtained from^the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics in Washington. 



II 1 V L I II A N 1) I \ I) I >T K "> 541 

ABSENTEEISM DUE TO SICKNESS 

Then 1 is little question in the minds of those deeply concerned with 
problems of industrial health that the greatest present need in this field is 
for the accumulation of accurate and extensive data regarding absenteeism 
due to sickness and non-industrial accidents. It is not always easy to obtain. 
In one Cleveland plant unusually satisfactory reports of illness are obtained 
by conditioning a portion of an attendance bonus upon the prompt report- 
ing of cause of absence, with a penalty for false reporting. In another 
establishment all absentees are questioned by the employment department 
upon their return to work regarding illness or other cause of absence. 

In another organization all employes absent over a certain period return 
through the medical department. Numerous plants obtain much valuable 
information regarding absenteeism due to sickness through follow-up person- 
nel, either nurses or visitors working from the employment offices. It is 
necessary that there be close coordination of the medical and employment 
departments, and of importance that all facts secured be recorded and in- 
corporated with the records of individuals in the medical department. 

The subject is one which has been rather studiously neglected by employ- 
ers who customarily state that non-industrial sickness is not of their concern 
and, like the medical care of such illness, is wholly a private affair of employes. 
This is questionable. 

In recent .years there have been numerous careful investigations into the 
incidence and duration of absence due to non-industrial accidents and illness 
of industrial workers. These studies have shown that there is an average 
time loss per worker usually ranging upward from six days per year. Seven 
days of lost time a year is probably a conservative estimate for all industries. 
One set of authoritative figures, based upon consideration of over half a 
million workers, places the time loss at nearly nine days per year per worker. 

These are averages. In certain trades and among certain nationalities 
the loss may be less or greater. 

If to a time loss of seven days for non-industrial accidents and illness 
there be added an estimated loss of four days for industrial accidents, there 
is a total loss among the industries of Cleveland of approximately two and 
a fifth million days a year. 'When to the two hundred thousand industrial 
workers are added the many thousands employed in the public utilities, in 
mercantile and commercial establishments, in the construction trades and 
in transportation, there is a most impressive total of time loss, with its 
attendant economic loss to employes, employers and the community as a 
whole. This loss is not of wages and production alone for to it must be added 
the burden of medical and social care placed upon numerous individuals, 
physicians, nurses, hospitals and other institutions. 

Estimates of actual time lost must be supplemented by consideration of 
the intangible Imt noteworthy losses due to non-disabling poor health and 



542 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

physical and mental defects. The findings of the examiners of draft regis- 
trants in 1917 and 1918, indicating 468 men per thousand with important 
physical or mental defects, are significant. 

It is reasonable to believe that these evidences of sickness and accidents 
could be materially reduced by applying intelligent and simple preventive 
measures and by providing a better mechanism than now exists for the care 
of ill health. Even were the burden so evenly distributed that the ardent 
champion of the rights of the individual might justly argue that each citizen 
bore only his proper share and so should be responsible as an individual, 
there would still be ample reason for developing health and safety education 
and better means of providing medical and nursing care. 

The burden is not evenly distributed. An illustration may be found 
in Table VIII. of the appendix where are compared the accident incidence 
of the construction trades and that of the metal trades in Cuyahoga County, 
as published by the Industrial Commission. This comparison indicates an 
accident frequency rate in the construction trades over twice that of the 
metal trades, and a severity rate four to eight times as great, the variation 
being dependent upon various assumptions as to the length of the working 
day for workers in the construction trades. 

It may be pointed out that industry presents an unparalleled opportunity 
for the detection and remedy of defects, for the observation of disease in 
its earliest recognizable stages and for the institution of measures for the 
treatment of such disease. In no other way than at work are so many 
persons brought frequently together in groups, each group constituted of 
individuals living much the same sort of life under similar conditions. 

It is recommended by the Survey that industrial, mercantile and other 
establishments proceed to collect data regarding the incidence and nature 
of sickness and accidents among employes causing absence from work. This 
information may later be analyzed with great profit by individual organiza- 
tions, and the findings of individual establishments may be available for 
consolidation and study by such groups as associations of employment man- 
agers, industrial physicians and other interested agencies. 

PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS 

It is essential for efficient public health control that there be knowledge 
of the community's physical constitution, of its defects, of menaces to the 
public health. So does efficient control of the health of the individual rest 
upon knowledge of the physical condition of the individual. It is of course 
possible without this knowledge to maintain certain general safeguards, but 
they are of necessity inadequate and probably frequently misdirected. 

If men and women, and especially children, are to labor under conditions 
which do not work undue detriment to their health it is of the greatest im- 
portance tha*t there be such continued observation of their physical state as 
will lead to the prompt institution of corrective measures following detection 



II K A L T II A N D I N D i; H T R Y 548 

of ill effects. This can no more be done without initial physical examina- 
tions than can the running time for a race be recorded when the moment of 
starting is not noted. 

There has been much opposition to compulsory physical examinations 
exerted by organized labor, usually the expression of feeling that the exami- 
nations might be made an instrument for discriminative action against indi- 
viduals considered by employers to be undesirable. Without doubt physical 
examinations have been at times the occasion of injustices, but there are now 
thoughtful men in the labor group who have affirmed their belief in the value 
of physical examinations when fairly conducted and not instituted for the 
elimination of defectives. 

Ohio manufacturers are unusually strengthened in their position of being 
able to accept practically all labor applicants, by the operation of the Work- 
men 's Compensation Act which does not penalize the employer of a defec- 
tive workman who incurs by accident a loss to a single remaining paired 
member, by charging against that employer's compensation account a 
claim for the total, double loss. 

The findings of the Survey are that eleven industrial organizations in 
( 'leveland conduct compulsory physical examinations. A small additional 
number offer optional examinations. It is of importance that in practically 
every instance the only bases of rejection were of the following nature: 

(a) Communicable disease. 

(b) Conditions which would render the applicant, if employed, liable to per- 
sonal injury or harm. 

(c) Conditions which would render the applicant, if employed, a menace to 
the health or safety of fellow workmen. 

(d) Unreasonable lack of personal cleanliness. 

The second and third reasons for rejection have not l>een frequently 
oi>erative, partly because of the labor shortage and partly because in large 
establishments there can be found suitable work for almost any defective. 

Tin-re are in the files of the Survey the names of scores of firms employing 
cripples and persons handicapped by orthopedic conditions, deaf and dumb, 
partially and totally blind and even pronounced and recognized mental defec- 
tives. Selective placement is nol always made with desirable precision, but 
it is in a general way the purpose of numerous large establishments. 

Ohio law requires that "no person suffering from or afflicted with tuber- 
culosis, a venereal or a contagious disease, shall be employed in or about 
any part of a restaurant or its kitchen or handle foodstuffs or products used 

therein. " 

In the course of this study hut one establishment among the leading 
hotels and restaurants of the city has heen found in which physical examina- 



544 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVKV 

tions are conducted, and that a department store restaurant. Various 
managers evinced genuine interest in examinations, but found their labor 
so highly mobile and scarce as to deter them from pursuing the matter. 

There are, however, many deaths reported from tuberculosis among 
cooks, bakers, stewards and waiters, a sufficient number to suggest that 
existing active cases are widely distributed among the members of these 
occupational groups. One large group of food handlers, apparently recog- 
nizing that many of its members were suffering from or afflicted with com- 
municable disease, appealed for the cooperation of the Survey in an effort 
"looking to a clearing up of the situation." 

It would appear to be a wide field of endeavor for the department of the 
State Fire Marshal, to which department the Legislature in its wisdom has 
committed the administration of these matters pertaining to the public 
health. It is recommended that the responsibility for the maintenance of 
health among food handlers in restaurants be transferred to the State De- 
partment of Health. 

Many persons are daily imperiled because of defective vision or other 
disability, physical or mental, in those who operate taxicabs or other motor 
cars, trucks, cranes and elevators. Few of such operators are examined. 
The safety of that portion of the public which boards street cars and rides 
therein or has occasion to cross tracks is daily entrusted to a large corps of 
men, none of whom are examined to determine their freedom from infirma- 
ties which might disqualify them for certain types of work. 

The municipal government of Cleveland is the largest single employer of 
labor in the city, having on its payroll approximately 10,000 men and women. 
As such its responsibility in connection with the maintenance of health among 
working people is not only a great one but very immediate. It is also grossly 
neglected. It is a responsibility shared by each tax -paying citizen. 

The Survey recommends that the City, through its Division of Health, 
provide for its employes an initial and subsequent periodic physical examina- 
tion with such medical and surgical care from time to time as may be deemed 
necessary and advisable. 

It is wholly reasonable to expect of the city government a service for its 
workers comparable with the best medical services provided by large indus- 
trial organizations. 



SPECIAL SERVICES 

INDUSTRIAL PSYCHIATRY 

* 

As one of the outgrowths of careful study of the causes of industrial unrest 
there has come new knowledge of psychology as applied to industry and even 
more recently the beginnings of industrial psychiatry. Psychology and 
psychiatry are terms often used somewhat carelessly and it is of importance 
that they be differentiated. Psychology may be defined as the study of 



II . \ I.T I! V \ I) I \ I) I ST l< -i 54ft 

states of consciousness, but is ordinarily limited to consideration of normal 
processes. Most psychologists are not physicians. Psychiatry is the 
study of abnormal, pathological mental processes and conditions. Most 
psychiatrist* have been trained as physicians. 

Military surgeons during the war found that men whose mental equip- 
ment was not such as to permit them to withstand military discipline and 
routine had not infrequently checkered industrial histories, having held many 
jobs and no job for a long while. Carefully studied, in many instances these 
individuals proved to be of psychopathic type. In industry they had prob- 
ably been called unruly, inefficient or lazy. 

When upon deficient mentality are thrown the burdens of fatigue, of 
iinhcalt liful working conditions, of real or fancied injustices and of economic 
uncertainties, it is rather to be expected that unrest results. 

In a realm of science so beset with difficulties as is psychiatry, complicated 
in an industrial environment by many different factors, progress will likely 
be slow, but the development of this field warrants earnest consideration by 
industry. It is not a subject to be approached by the inadequately trained 
or by the casual enthusiast. 

There have been in Cleveland at least two employers who have made 
extended use of psychometric tests and over such a period of time as to 
justify, apparently, the continued use of these aids to employment and place- 
ment. In neither organization have the tests been considered as other than 

one of several gauges of the fitness of applicants. 



INDUSTRIAL DENTAL SERVICE 

The public in recent years has come to realize in some degree the iinjior- 
tance to health and self-respect of good teeth and high standards of mouth 
hygiene. This interest has been reflected in the development in industry of 
dental clinics and in the importance which is attached in many establish- 
ments to the care of the teeth of employes. While a casual inspection of the 
teeth is a part of every reasonably thorough physical examination, several 
firms have installed dental chairs and employ capable dental surgeons to 
ins]>ect the teeth of all recent employes. Four manufacturing and one mer- 
cantile establishment in the city maintain dental service. The amount and 
kinds of work j>erfonned vary with the establishment but are in every in- 
stance limited to nothing more costly than amalgam fillings. The cost i- 
borne either entirely by the employing company or shared by the employes 
who pay a moderate sum for materials used. 

It is a service which is generally enthusiastically endorsed by the organiza- 
tions which have installed it and it is one which merits wide adoption. 

INDUSTRIAL On I.AU SI.K\ i K 

Several industries in which fine work demands good vision have found it 
sound practice to secure for their employes the services of competent oculists. 
not only to determine the grade of vision at the time of employment, but also 



546 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

to re-examine workers from time to time to secure by glasses proper correc- 
tion of refractive errors. Five firms maintain oculists for work of this 
nature, but many more make use of oculists as consultants or refer to them 
serious eye injuries. In far too few instances are these serious eye cases 
promptly referred. Inquiry recently made indicates that a large portion of 
industrial eye injuries referred to ophthalmologists had been previously 
mishandled. Industrial Commission figures for the state at large have 
shown that eye injuries made up 22 per cent of the cases of permanent total 
disability, 8.9 per cent of cases of permanent partial disability and 10.9 per 
cent of the cases of temporary partial disability. In a study of the influence 
of infection upon disability, it was found that 18 per cent of the cases of total 
or partial loss of vision were due to infection. 

The neglect of vision begins early in many industrial plants. The Snellen 
chart as generally used is one of a number of false gods before which a suc- 
cession of company officials reverently bow. If the chart is veiled in dim 
obscurity, the almost superstitious regard for its subtle values is the greater. 
Snellen charts hang in sunny offices or in half-lighted basements; some 
illuminated at the top, some at the side; some by glaring light, some by 
moribund filaments. 

There are in Cleveland a number of able oculists who are greatly interested 
in industrial eye injuries and a number in the safeguarding of the vision of 
industrial workers. More use should be made of them. 

There is no hosj>ital in the city devoting a special service to the care of 
eye cases, though such cases are occasionally received in seven general hos- 
pitals. One hospital only regards certain beds as belonging to the eye serv- 
ice, holding four beds in a surgical ward for this purpose. Five hospitals 
have magnets for the removal of metallic foreign bodies. 

Cleveland is greatly in need of an eye hospital and the almost unanimous 
and generally emphatic statements of the oculists of the city regarding the 
desirability of such an institution warrant a favorable response from the 
community. 

TUBERCULOSIS 

In an industrial population as large as that of Cleveland it is certain that 
there are a considerable number of cases of tuberculosis, yet in the establish- 
ments conducting physical examinations the number of cases observed is 
almost negligible. They have presumably been overlooked either because 
the examinations have been made too casually and hastily or because they 
have been made by physicians ill qualified to examine for pulmonary disease. 

Reports of the municipal Division of Health offer evidence that large 
numbers of industrial workers are dying of tuberculosis. As no data are 
available regarding the numbers of reported cases for occupational groups or 
detailed information concerning the numbers of various types of workers in 
the city, no fatality or mortality rates can be given. 



II K A I, T II AM) I N D U H T K Y 547 

It is to the interest of those afflicted as well as their companions at work 
that reasonable measures be taken to identify persons with this disease and 
to assist them in securing proper care. The incipient cases must be sought 
with special diligence, for in such cases there may be slight evidence of ill- 
ness to attract the attention of foremen or fellow workers. 

The physician who conducts examinations must have sound knowledge 
of chest conditions or the examinations will be more or less futile. Not all 
physicians have this knowledge and while it is in a sense unfair to general- 
ize, it is safe to say that a very large portion of the surgical group of the pro- 
fession and a somewhat smaller portion of the medical group know little 
about the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis, except possibly in its well 
advanced stages. 

It should be wholly practicable, however, for industry to make frequent 
use of expert consultants who might review groups of doubtful cases selected 
by plant physicians. 

The opportunity of industrial medical services to cooperate in the reduc- 
tion of tuberculosis is a very valuable one. In Cleveland little utilization 
has been made of it. There is awakening doubt of the blissfulness of igno- 
rance in regard to this preventable disease which is alone the cause of a 
fifth to a quarter of all the deaths occurring in the working-age groups. 

YKNKKKAL DISKASK 

The activity during the war, of the United States Public Health Service, 
in connection with its extensive program for the combating of venereal dis- 
ease unfortunately did not stimulate a sustained interest in the subject 
among employers. There are probably not more than two or three establish- 
ments in Cleveland in which venereal disease is of more than trifling concern. 
Yet Cleveland is not a community distinguished for its freedom from venereal 
disease and from the conditions which foster it. Nor is venereal disease 
without influence upon the efficiency of working people and upon absentee- 
ism. Like defective vision, and tuberculous lungs, venereal disease has been 
considered a personal affair of the worker, another inviolable right of the 
individual. 

Though much of the traditional prejudice against frank and honest care 
of venereal disease has fortunately passed, it is still in practice difficult 
either to secure reporting or to conduct the treatment of cases in industrial 
dispe&HMft. There are, however, no insurmountable difficulties in the way 
of tactful and straightforward educational work with advice regarding the 
accessibility of centers for diagnosis and treatment This is a reasonable 
function of industrial medical service. 

Tin: Kin \IULITATION UK l\m STUI \i. Cuii-ri 

The analogy of industrial casualties to those of war has frequently been 
jMiinted out. Though this has long been a matter of comment and there 




It 

"SB C 



II 

~ > 




. 






.= 5 



S5 5 






550 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

has been a lively interest in the care of military cripples, govermental agen- 
cies have been slow to evince any realization of the economic and social 
folly of scrapping the cripples produced in industry. 

There has been scant development in Cleveland of methods for the treat- 
ment of industrial injuries calculated to restore the injured to the fullest 
possible function in the shortest period of time compatible with good surgical 
practice. There has been limited application of the knowledge gained else- 
where in recent years of rehabilitative methods and devices. There has been 
in the community and in its leading medical centers an unfortunate neglect 
of orthopedic surgery with consequent loss to the community of services of 
a special nature which the community has reason to expect. Medical cen- 
ters, teaching and others, hold a public trust. 

THE SMALL ESTABLISHMENT 

The employer of less than two or three hundred workers seldom feels justi- 
fied in making the expenditures necessary for a plant dispensary installation 
and for the maintenance of the needed personnel, even though he realizes 
that his employes are exposed to certain hazards, and when ill or injured do 
not receive proper care. Considerations of economy may lead him to aban- 
don his desire to have physical examinations of applicants for employment, 
suitable placement of the less fit, prompt and efficient medical and surgical 
attention, visiting nursing service and health supervision in his plant. 

Ninety-four per cent of the industrial organizations in the city employ 
less than five hundred workers each, a total of 83,711. (Table I., Appendix.) 

Eighty-eight per cent employ less than 200 each, a total of 51,682. 
Eighty percent employ less than 100 each, a total of 41,000. 

The need of great numbers of these smaller organizations for medical 
service of a high order could be met by the establishment of industrial dis- 
pensaries at various points in industrial districts, carefully selected with 
regard for accessibility from the plants which each dispensary would serve. 

The greatest agglomeration of small industrial establishments in Cleve- 
land is in the heart of the city. Within a radius of a mile of the Public Square 
there are 536 establishments of various sizes, employing a total of 34,131 
workers. Of these plants, 459 employ less than 100 each; 505 shops employ 
less than 200 each, 94.2 per cent of all establishments in the area, 53 per cent 
of the employes, an average of 36 workers per establishment. 

Basing an estimate upon Industrial Commission figures for accidents 
occurring in plants of this group, there is an annual time loss for industrial 
operatives from reportable industrial accidents of approximately* 16,000 days, 
an annual total of 22,400 accidents of all grades; and a time loss from all 
accidents and illness of over 250,000 days. Plant medical service now 
reaches less than 8,000 of the operatives in this area through eight dispen- 
saries employing a total of ten industrJ^j^J^ges, two full-time and four 
part-time physicians. 




1 1 I.ALT ii AND INDUSTRY ..",! 

Quite comparable for density of industrial population with this central 
area of the city is the region about Forty-fifth Street and St. Clair Avenue. 
Within a radius of half a mile of this point are employed a total of 21,100 
operatives in*114 establishments. Of these plants, 71 employ less than 100 
workers; H!) employ ION than 200, being 77 per cent of all the shops in the 
zone, employing 22 per cent of the employes, an average of .53 in each plant. 

The estimated annual time loss for industrial operatives from reportable 
industrial accidents occurring in this area is 38,345 days. There is an esti- 
mated annual total of accidents of all grades of 53,340, with a time loss from 
all accidents and illness of 186,000 days. Plant medical service now reaches 
a little over 7,000 employes in this region, through eight plant dispensaries 
and the services of four industrial nurses and eight part-time physicians. 

The area of density of industrial population extends southward from this 
region about Forty-fifth Street for a depth of three or four miles from the 
lake front. Statistics similar to those presented might be furnished for other 
circumscribed areas within this belt. 

Though there are many physicians practising, within this large zone and 
in other parts of the city which are thickly set with industrial plants, there 
is at present no industrial dispensary conducted upon an essentially coopera- 
tive basis. 

It would be the recommendation of the Survey that the general adminis- 
tration of such a cooperative dispensary as has been suggested, or of such 
dispensaries, be in the hands of a commercially disinterested body associated 
with a controlling board representing employers, employes, physicians and 
the administrative organization. The administration might be the respon- 
sibility of a general hospital or of any one of several recognized and trusted 
public agencies of which the local chapter of the American Red Cross may 
be considered an example. 



a dispensary should be self-supporting, and though paying salaries 
and fees sufficient to command the services of able personnel, should not be 
conducted for profit in the customary sense. It should have such profes- 
sional sujMTvision as would assure the rendering of efficient service. 

The first requirement of the dispensary would be the care of industrial 
injuries, with surgeons and nurses in attendance in such numbers and at 
such times as might be needed. It would be wholly feasible, however, to 
extend the service to include, if desired, physical examination of applicants 
for employment or of employes, mental examinations, medical care of indus- 
trial and non-industrial sickness, dental service, ocular service and visiting 
nursing. 

The cost of installation and maintenance should be guaranteed by the 
industrial establishment! participating, but it w6uld in part be returned by 
the Industrial Commission in payments for service rendered under the Work- 
men's Compensation Act. 

' . 



552 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

If established for a group of two thousand employes the cost of main- 
tenance would be approximately that of medical service in a single plant 
employing a similar number of workers, between five and ten dollars a year 
per employe, though of course the amount would vary with the range of 
services offered. 

INDUSTRIAL HOSPITALS 

Cleveland is at present greatly in need of additional hospital beds. With 
the consequent demand, it is wholly to be expected that serious industrial 
accident cases are frequently peddled about the hospitals until a vacancy is 
found. As the larger part of such cases come within the provisions of the 
Workmen's Compensation Act, enabling the Industrial Commission to pay 
for certain surgical and hospital services, and as the amount customarily paid 
by the Commission approximates, in most instances, hah* or less than hah* 
of the actual cost of maintenance in hospital, it naturally follows that a 
financially pressed institution offers the injured workman its minimum 
services which may or may not be adequate. 

Not all industrial surgeons hold staff positions in the hospitals of the city 
and some who do not have experienced difficulties in performing the services 
for which they are employed because of the necessity of relinquishing their 
responsibilities to the hospitals with which their patients are placed. 

Inquiry made by the Survey has confirmed an impression that there is a 
field in Cleveland for one or more hospitals to be established and maintained 
for the care of industrial cases exclusively. It is suggested that such a hos- 
pital could best be administered either by some present existing hospital 
organization in which there is general confidence or by a board of control 
of representative character. It is of importance that the professional stand- 
ards of such an institution be high for the medical, nursing and laboratory 
services, and that the hospital be open to all qualified industrial physicians 
who are willing and able to practise according to the established standards. 

Conducted for industrial cases, staffed and visited by skilled industrial 
physicians and surgeons, such an institution should make available a type of 
service needed but not at present found in the city. The opportunities 
which would be presented for attention to such matters as ambulance service, 
the use of interpreters, the treatment of industrial eye injuries, of severe 
burns, the development of physiotherapy and other rehabilitative measures, 
would alone commend the project to many persons who have had occasion 
to follow the progress of cases of industrial injury under existing hospital 
conditions. 

THE TRAINING OF INDUSTRIAL PHYSICIANS AN*) NURSES 

It has been evident, perhaps, that industry makes certain special demands 
upon the physicians and nurses who serve therein, demands with which most 
physicians and nurses not in industry are unfamiliar and which they are not 
trained to meet. 



I I I A L T H AND I N D T > T IM 553 

There is a rapidly growing need for the services of industrial hygienists, 
mm who have studied the toxic effects of various poisonous substances such 
as are now used in many industries; men who are competent to consider such 
problems as those of the effects of dusts and fumes, of ventilation, of illumi- 
nation, of fatigue and of factory sanitation. These are matters which most 
industrial physicians are not qualified to handle intelligently and thoroughly 
though they may from experience be able to express a valuable common sense 
opinion. 

While the nurses who are graduates of good hospital training schools 
may quickly become proficient as dispensary nurses they are by no means 
prepared to assume readily the duties and to comprehend the many respon- 
sibilities which are now properly those of a well equipped industrial nurse. 

Special instruction is required for the rapid training of industrial physi- 
cians, hygienists and nurses, and it is to be hoped that the existing facilities 
of the Western Reserve Medical School may be expanded and supplemented 
to permit of such instruct ion to graduate physicians and nurses within the 
coming year. Certain portions of the instruction offered to physicians might 
be made available to nurses in addition to courses arranged to meet their 
requirements. 



The industries of the Cleveland district would unquestionably profit 
greatly by the establishment of such a school of industrial hygiene, not only 
through the services of the skilled physicians and nurses which it would pre- 
pare for their employ, but through the development of research facilities 
which would be at their ready disposal. It is an undertaking deserving of 
their deej>est interest and of their support and cooperation. 

As a part of the reorganized hospital and dispensary service of the city 
there is contemplated a clinic centrally located to receive emergency cases 
and to offer facilities for consultation. In connection with such a consulta- 
tion clinic it is the belief of the Survey that there should be established an 
industrial -linic where ailments of industrial origin might be thoroughly 
studied, to which plant dispensaries might refer doubtful cases for diagnosis 
and to which workers in the various industries and trades might go for 
authoritative medical advice. 

It would be of advantage to associate this clinic closely with the prospec- 
tive school of industrial hygiene in order that each might profit by the re- 
sources of the other. 



PUBLIC HEALTH AITHORITIES AND INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 

The Industrial Commission of Ohio is vested with broad powers to safe- 
guard the health and safety of working men and women. It possesses con- 
siderable police authority. The Division of Industrial Hygiene of the State 
Department of Health is endowed with certain powers of inquiry but is unable 
to institute obligatory corrective measures. The activities of this division 
are unfortunately not closely correlated with those of the Industrial Commis- 



554 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

sion whose inspectors are especially concerned with questions of safety* and 
conditions of employment other than those relating to the health of opera- 
tives. 

Adequate as are the powers of state authorities to make inquiriesjand 
issue orders regarding matters pertaining to the safety and health of indus- 
trial workers, there would be much gained to the industries and to the work- 
ingmen and women of Cleveland through the establishment of a Bureau of 
Industrial Hygiene within the municipal Division of Health. It could 
serve in an advisory and consultant capacity, aiding in the planning of fac- 
tories and work rooms and in the solution of problems concerning industrial 
hygiene. Such a division might well be charged with the conduct of medical 
service for the municipal employes such as was recommended in the section 
of this report relating to physical examinations. It in no sense need conflict 
w r ith or duplicate with the activities of the state authorities. 

Cleveland is an industrial community; the greatest common interest of 
her people is in her industries and those of her people who labor therein^are 
the life of the city. 

The future of Cleveland depends upon the well being and the happiness 
of her industrial workers and to secure and safeguard their health is the^vital 
task of industrial medical service. 



SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 

It is the recommendation of the Survey 

That industrial physicians be selected with regard for their professional and execu- 
tive abilities; that they be remunerated upon a basis commensurate with the amount 
and character of service expected of them; that they be not permitted to combine^with 
their official duties a private practice among the company personnel. 

That industrial nurses be chosen for professional fitness and such qualities of person- 
ality and character as will enable them to fulfill their many responsibilities. 

That untrained nurses be employed only under competent medical or nursing super- 
vision. 

That industrial nurses be granted such authority and receive such support as may 
be necessary for the development of their fullest usefulness. That medication by nurses 
without the individual or standing orders of a physician be prohibited. That encourage- 
ment and assistance be offered industrial nurses in their efforts to maintain contact with 
progressive movements in industrial medicine. That visiting nursing be considered a 
normal function of industrial nurses. That industrial nurses be rated as medical person- 
nel. That they visit sick or suspected sick and be not employed for routine absence 
follow-up from employment departments. 

That sufficient clerical personnel be employed in industrial medical departments to 
free physicians and nurses for professional service. 

That industrial dispensaries be furnished with adequate and convenient equipment 
which need not be elaborate. 



II i \ i, T ii \ \ i) IN i) i sr i{ ^ 555 



That aome municipal or cooperative industrial service be undertaken providing 
efficient ambulance transportation of sick and injured to the hospital from industrial 
establishments. 

That there be applied to industrial medical departments efficient cost-accounting 
systems. 

That administrative relations of industrial physicians permit of free and direct ac- 
cess to general executives; that wherever possible physicians and not laymen direct the 
activities of the health service in industrial plants. 

That employers and employes together arrange for the establishment and maintenance 
of cooperative industrial dispensaries. 

That industrial medical records conform to recognized standards of adequacy and that 
they be filed in such manner and so summarized as to make possible their intelligent in- 
terpretation. That there be a general adoption of some uniform system of reckoning for 
accident and sickness statistics. 

That there be study of absenteeism due to sickness and non-industrial accidents, 
among the employes of industry. 

That physical examinations be generally adopted as prerequisite to employment, not 
for the purpose of the elimination of those not physically fit, but for guidance in the proper 
placement of labor applicants; that the conditions found in such examinations be followed 
up by subsequent periodic examinations. 

That responsibility for the maintenance of health among food-handlers in restaurants 
be transferred from the department of the State Fire Marshal to the State Department of 
Health, or preferably, if possible, to the Division of Health of the City of Cleveland. 

That there be compulsory physical examination of all applicants for positions as oper- 
ators of public conveyances. 

That the municipal government maintain within the Division of Health, for the serv- 
ice of all its employes, an adequate health service or bureau which shall be charged with 
the conduct of physical examinations of applicants for civil service positions, with annual 
periodic medical examination of all city employes, and such further medical service as 
may be deemed necessary. 

That there be a study of the problem of abnormal mentality among industrial workers, 
particularly in its relations to vocational guidance and unemployment. 

That there be an extension and development of industrial dental service. 

That there be more extended use made of the services of skilled oculists, both in the 
care of industrial injuries and in the conservation of the sight of industrial workers. 

That there be more extended use made of able consultant diagnosticians in connec- 
tion with suspected cases of tuberculosis. 

That there be a revival of interest in educational work directed against venereal 

disease. 



556 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



That there be proper consideration devoted to cases of permanent disability resulting 
from industrial injuries with particular regard to the development of methods for functional 
rehabilitation. 

That there be developed among groups of small industrial establishments some form 
of cooperative dispensary to operate under the joint direction of employers and employes 
and some commercially disinterested organization. That there be established one or more 
industrial hospitals exclusively for the care of industrial cases, such a hospital to permit 
to practice any industrial physician able and willing to meet the requirements, which should 
be of high standard. 

That there be developed within the Western Reserve University Medical School fac- 
ilities for the training of industrial physicians and nurses. That there be established in 
connection with some central dispensary a consultation diagnostic industrial clinic. 

That there be established within the municipal division of health a bureau of 
industrial hygiene. 



Hi. \ i. TII AND INDUSTRY 557 

Women and Industry 
By MARIE WRIGHT 

INDUSTRY has become interested in the health of employes. The con- 
crete expression of this interest takes different form in almost every 
establishment. One executive enthuses over rest periods, another shows 
every visitor the immaculate new dispensary, still another expatiates upon 
the t>enefits to be derived from hot food at noon. Any or all of these features 
may contribute to the well-being of the working force. They are represen- 
tative of various activities which are reasonably those of industry, not to 
be considered mildly extravagant novelties, but essential equipment and 
services giving to the workers the opportunity to lead a healthful life at work 
as well as away from it. 

There is a tendency to attribute much of the ill-health of working people 
to conditions under which they live when not at work. Important as is the 
relation of the home life of workers to their health, it must be remembered 
that tin- character of the home life is largely the result of influences growing 
out of their work. Home life and working life are closely inter-related. The 
hours of work determine the amount of leisure for improvement and appre- 
ciation of the home. Wages determine to a large extent the choice of neigh- 
borhood, of building, and often of furnishings and food. Visitors to the 
homes of working people are at times dismayed by their clutter and apparent 
lack of cleanliness, but these conditions are not necessarily productive of 
disease. No matter what the home of an employe may be, his employer 
has the responsibility of providing a work place reasonably clean, well venti- 
lated, and with suitable conveniences. The work should, if possible, be 
without sj>ecial hazard, but where there is danger of accident or illness as 
a result of any process, the employe should be informed of the risk and 
encouraged to guard against it in every way. 

The relative susceptibility of men and women to fatigue and special 
lia/ards is a matter of opinion at present only partially substantiated by fact, 
but the employment of women should l>e safeguarded at least as well as 
that of men. Because of the important relation of women to present and 
future generations, it is generally considered that they should have especially 
favorable surroundings where possible. Another reason that the working 
environment of women should be wholesome and their occupations health- 
ful is that they are less likely than men to spend their margin of leisure time 
in healthful recreation. Many girls do their washing and ironing and make 
or mend their clothes in the evenings. Married women and widows often 
work harder at housework than they do during the day. 

Since in so far as employers endeavor to promote the health of employes 
they are promoting the public health, and since work under adverse circum- 
stances is one of flic greatest detriments to health, especially for women, a 
study of the work which \\omcn are doing in Cleveland and its probable 
relation to their health has been included in the general survey of the health 
situation of the city. 



558 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



In order to learn the nature of the various occupations in which women 
are engaged, visits were made to most of the firms known to employ women 
in considerable numbers. Realizing that, in general, conditions in small 
shops are not as good as in large ones, it was nevertheless considered advis- 
able to study conditions affecting the major part of the working women. 
As has been pointed out, in Cleveland seventy-nine per cent of all industrial 
operatives are in establishments each employing over one hundred persons. 
The remaining twenty-one per cent are distributed throughout a large 
number of small shops averaging about thirty-three employes each. 
(Table I, APPENDIX.) This condition is even more apparent among mer- 
cantile establishments. 

During February, March, and April, 1920, visits were made to seventy- 
nine establishments employing a total of 22,906 women. While the study 
was primarily concerned with the industrial field, other types of organiza- 
tions employing women were found to have problems so similar that a 
number of them were included. Of the employes in the establishments 
visited, 12,613 were in industrial plants, 6,730 in mercantile establishments, 
1,458 in organizations of public service and 2,105 in public utilities. 

There are no recent figures available as to the number of women gain- 
fully employed in Cleveland except those in the Directory of Ohio Manu- 
facturers (Industrial Commission of Ohio, 1918), and as the employment 
of women has fluctuated since this report was issued, its figures were not 
found accurate in all cases. Consequently no totals can be given for the 
numbers of women in various occupations for comparison with the figures 
from the establishments visited in the course of the Survey. 

Information was obtained by means of interviews with managers, super- 
intendents, or other executives in touch with personnel problems, and was 
usually supplemented by a visit of inspection through the plants. While 
information so obtained is general and often not exact, the collection of 
repeated impressions by an impartial observer is so far almost the only 
means of judging the subtle factors which enter into the making of a good 
place to work. While the attitude of executives varied, there was in general 
a manifest' interest in the well-being of employes and an appreciation of 
the fact that knowledge of methods for maintaining and improving the 
health of workers should, by the interchange of ideas and experiences, be 
made available for all industry. The value of health is appreciated at a 
time when labor is scarce. 

INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS 

It is not a new thing for women to be in industry. The war focussed so 
much attention upon women who were doing the work of men. in factories 
that it is frequently forgotten that women have had a place in Cleveland's 
nut and bolt shops and other plants making small metal products since 
those concerns were first established a matter of thirty to forty years. In 
the textile and knitting, garment and candy trades, women have always 
been a predominant labor element. 



1 1 i v L T ii AND INDUSTRY 559 

During the war more women went into factories than had ever done so 
before. Increased demand for the regular products of essential industries 
enabled manufacturers in those branches to hold and increase their forces, 
while women for the making of munitions were usually recruited from the 
"non-evsential industries" or from that large body of women who had not 
worked before but whose patriotism enabled them to undertake successfully 
the new and often heavy work. Most of these women left the factories upon 
the completion of government orders and have not returned. The "non- 
essential industries" have reclaimed many of their former employes, and 
by now readjustment is about complete. 

There are a few r factories which, as a result of their war experience, have 
continued to employ women although they had not done so before. In the 
si\ factories where it was learned that this was the case, six hundred 
women are employed. Two of these factories have continued to 
employ the women who started to work there during the war, but as they 
drop out men are hired in their places, and consequently the number of 
women is dwindling. In another plant there are very few women com- 
pared with the number employed during the war, and the women are giving 
up machine work for bench work of a light tyj>e. 

Within the past two years there have been established four new factories, 
employing a total of 698 women. Neither the retention of women in plants 
which had not formerly employed them, nor their employment in new fac- 
tories, is sufficient to account for the present shortage of female labor. The 
checking of immigration and the return of many foreign workers to Europe, 
is a partial cause of a general shortage of both men and women. The fact 
that wages for men are higher than ever before means that many women 
do not have to work now as they did formerly, and in many cases this new 
independence lias apparently resulted in an unfortunate attitude toward 
work, with a greater absenteeism and a tendency to float from job to job. 

In the face of this labor shortage the cry for increased production has 
amused feverish efforts on the part of employers to get help in one way or 
another. The alluring advertisements of ''Help Wanted" contribute to the 
prevailing unrest, and the readiness to try a new job upon the slightest <lis- 
satisfaction with the old. Applicants from such sources do not prove satis- 
factory. Instead of advertising, several firms are now paying a bonus to 
employes who bring in friends who will continue to work for a certain 
pcri<xl of time, recognizing the principle that a satisfied employe is the 
advertisement in the labor market. 



Tn i: M KTAL TRADES 

The largest group of industrial establishments studied was in the so- 
called metal trades, where the product varies from a small piece of machined 
steel to an assembled oil stove or an electric lamp. 3,691 women were 
employed in the twenty-three plants visited. The operations included bench 
work and ass-ml>ly. as \\ell as operating such machines as drill presses, punch 
presses, screw machines, lathes, and a variety of machines adapted for special 
processes. 



560 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Most of the work is not heavy, and the girls are instructed to lift not 
over ten to fifteen pounds, although they not infrequently disobey this 
rule. Where girls are on machines requiring gear shifts, special efforts have 
been made to favor ease of operation. However, there is considerable effort 
in the running of any screw machine or lathe, and in general it has seemed 
better practice for men to do that work. 

Punch presses and drills are usually guarded, and relatively few acci- 
dents to women have been reported. Although no data are available as to 
the carefulness of women in operating machines compared with men, there is a 
prevalent impression that they are more careful than male operatives and 
that, freely accepting risks of operation, they make little complaint when 
injured. Nineteen of these twenty -three establishments provide medical 
service. 

Bloomer uniforms are required in five plants and are optional in several 
others. The uniform has fallen into disfavor since the war, and effort is needed 
to enforce its use at machine work and to maintain any degree of uniformity 
and safety by the avoidance of jewelry, fluffy collars and ties. High-heeled 
shoes for standing work should also be opposed where possible by making it 
easy for the women to get sensible working shoes reasonably priced. Individual 
steel lockers are provided in twelve plants and hooks in dressing rooms in 
most of the others. The increased feeling of well-being and self-respect of 
the worker who changes from street clothes to working clothes and back 
again is worth emphasizing by employment or service departments. 

Although several of the plants have physical examination for men, only 
one organization was found to give to girls anything which might properly 
be called a physical examination. There seems to be little realization of the 
impossibility of judging by appearance as to a girl's fitness for fatiguing work. 
With a high degree of conscientiousness, several employment departments 
have taken a timid attitude in this matter. The fear that girls will object 
to physical examinations properly conducted is with slight foundation, as 
they are in general use in similar establishments elsewhere, and where used 
in Cleveland meet with little or no opposition. If physical examinations 
are conducted on a reasonable basis of rejection and if their purpose is 
frankly explained, it is, as a rule, only the undesirable worker who will raise 
any objection. 

The dirt and grease of machine shops, which in the minds of many people 
render them unsuitable places for the employment of women, are in fact 
not objectionable if there are provided proper washing facilities and oppor- 
tunity to use them. Such facilities must include hot water. 

The noise and vibration from different kinds of machinery^ are of rela- 
tively greater importance. 

There is about many machine shops a wholesome attitude toward work 
which is very appealing to the sturdy, independent type of girl, frequently 
encountered in this industry. Many girls who worked in munitions factories 
testified that they had never been so happy before. 



Ill \LTII AND I N D U 8 T 10 561 

Tables XI and XII of the appendix present the findings regarding hours 
and starting rates for the various industries studied. The usual working day 
for women in the metal trades is from seven to half past four. Although 
piece-work is prevalent, a certain minimum daily wage is guaranteed in 
fifteen plants, while three others pay a guaranteed minimum wage for the 
learning period. There is little or no seasonal variation, but the supply of 
work frequently varies with orders. 

Some factories employ American girls almost exclusively, others only 
foreign born or those of foreign parentage. Usually all nationalities are 
represented, but for heavy, dirty work the foreign women of peasant type 
are in greatest demand. Colored women are employed in two plants in con- 
siderable numbers. 



TEXTILE AND KNITTING MILLS 

The female operatives of the textile and knitting trades constitute an 
important group of working women, numbering 4,642 in the eleven estab- 
lishments visited. The knitting mills seem in almost every case to be work- 
ing beyond normal capacity. In a number of instances mills were working 
under great pressure upon goods for delivery a year hence. Supposedly/as 
a result of the increased activity, work-rooms were cluttered with piles^of 
unfinished work, and there were evidences of poor factory housekeeping. 

The numerous exposed overhead belts furnishing power to circular 
knitting machines seem to be an unnecessary accident hazard for the opera- 
tives who are constantly obliged to move about under them. 

The brightly colored fluff from the yarn is everywhere on the machines, 
and at times adheres noticeably to the faces, arms, and hair of the girls. 
Occasionally they develop sore hands or arms, said to be caused by the 
dyes. In one plant mention was made of the numerous sore throats, but they 
wen- attributed to "late hours and dances." As only four plants in this 
group have medical service, and only one employs a physician, there has 
been little definite study of health problems within this industry. 

The working hours are forty-nine and one-half or fifty in all but two 
establishments, as may be seen in Table XI. The working day is usually 
n-tliirty to five or five-fifteen. Most of the women employed are either 
foreign-born or are of Hungarian, (ierman. Austrian, or Polish parentage. 
Although most of them are between twenty and thirty years of age, they 'are 
of a mature ty|e. appearing much older. 

Tin; (i.vuMKNT TRADES 

In the seven garment factories visited. ,'.7<HI women are employed. 
Much of the work U power-machine operating, with the usual varieties^of 
finishing work. The great problem of the garment trades is the regulariza- 
tion of employment, or elimination of seasonal variations in production. 
A- .1 roiilt of the attention which has been given to this problem, three 



562 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

firms reported that they had work steadily throughout the year. One re- 
ported work for at least forty -eight weeks. Two large establishments operate 
through a fifty-week year, and of the remaining two weeks, one week is 
"layoff" and one may be vacation with pay. Another firm has a fifty-one-week 
year, and the whole factory closes for one week of vacation. As is shown in 
Table XI, weekly hours are forty-four or forty-three and three-quarters, in 
all but two shops, where they are forty-seven. One plant uses an allotment 
system workers going home when the day's task is completed, and seldom 
working even the possible forty-four hours. Two firms work an eight and 
three-quarter-hour day five days a week, with a full holiday Saturday. 
Another firm, after trying the same plan, is strongly in favor of the eight- 
hour day and a half-holiday on Saturday. 

In the ladies' garment trade the wages are usually set by the union wage 
scale agreement, under which the minimum is $14 per week. Comparative 
starting rates may be found in Table XII. 

Bohemians, Italians and Hungarians are the leading nationalities in each 
of several factories visited, with various Slav peoples also represented. In 
several factories there are more than one-third or one-half American born. 
Two factories will hire no one who does not speak English. 

The use of routing systems and time study has made the modern garment 
factory a very different place from the old-style tailor shop. 


CANDY FACTORIES. 

Candy factories are as a rule relatively small establishments. The six 
visited had a total of 371 women employes. The demand for candy is 
seasonal, and there seems to be no way to regularize its manufacture, since 
it should be sold within a short time after it is made, unless stored under 
most favorable conditions. Two firms reported that they never laid off 
any help, as their forces automatically decreased in slack seasons when workers 
who left were not replaced. Most of the girls were American born, and 
as a group were young, although older women are used for sorting and other 
work since girls have become scarce. As little skill is required, except that 
natural to young fingers, there are many floaters who find in the busy seasons 
of the candy trade the brief employment which satisfies them. Such workers 
are apt to be careless about their work, and their persons, and require care- 
ful supervision, especially in the making of a food product. This super- 
vision was generally found, but several establishments could well improve 
their standards of cleanliness as well as their equipment for the comfort of 
employes. 

MISCELLANEOUS INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS 

Of those establishments listed as miscellaneous, some of the paper-box 
factories are small but quite progressive in policy. 

Two tobacco factories revealed an interesting general situation. The 
tobacco industry of Cleveland finds itself on the decline largely because of 



II I \ I.T 11 AND I N D t > T H V 



scarcity of skilled labor. In Cleveland no American girls and very few young 
foreign girls will work on cigars. As a result the workers arc practically 
all foreign horn and mostly foreign-s|>eakiiig, and with the realization of 
their dwindling numbers have become very independent. One executive 
said that his plant is kept OJMMI fifty hours a week for the convenience of his 
employes, but none of them work so long, as they come and go at their 
pleasure. Several firms which began business in Cleveland have found it 
necessary t<> take most of their work elsewhere, and now have large tobacco 
factories in New York, Pennsylvania and Texas. These are said to be 
model factories as the workers speak English and appreciate the good work- 
ing conditions provided. The firms apparently realize that the Cleveland 
factories could be made both more attractive and more healthful. Learning 
to make cigars requires several weeks, during which time most of the material 
handled is waste and cannot be reclaimed. The cost of teaching a new maker 
i- -aid to l>e $350, even at the starting rate of $12 a week. When $15 and 
$16 a week is offered to an unskilled girl in other industries, there is little 
incentive for her to learn a difficult trade, even with the promise of high 
piece-work earnings later. 



GENERAL OBSERVATIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS. 
Hours of Work 

Reference has already been made to the weekly hours in several trades. 
Table XI.) In the course of the Survey, little overtime work was reported. 
Only ten firms admitted that they had any overtime for women, and that 
was said to be only occasional or optional. It seems probable that over- 
time is more frequent in clerical work than in industry. 

While, to the knowledge of the Survey, regular rest periods are arranged 
for in only one factory, there are four establishments in which women are 
allowed fifteen minutes about nine o'clock in the morning for the purpose 
of eating part of their lunch. This is an interesting acceptance of the custom 
of many women who go to work with little or no breakfast, and consequently 
feel the need of food before the regular lunch hour. Another establishment 
has two live-minute rest periods which are optional, and consequently not 
extensively used. One firm had discontinued rest periods during? the day 
but dismissed all employes twenty minutes before the accustomed closing 
hour, granting pay for the full day. Rest periods may be of additional value 
a-> a means of improving ventilation by open windows. Many workers 
object fo fresh air if it must be admitted near them. Few j>eople fail to 
appreciate a room full of fresh air replacing what has been vitiated, especially 
when there are present fumes or odors incident to an industrial process. 
It is probable that in many factories where the work is monotonous and 
t ing, much might be gained by instituting rest periods. Both before and 
after the introduction of such a measure, it is important that careful obser- 
vation be made of the physical condition of workers as well as of production 
rates. 



564 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Earnings 

It was hoped at first that figures might be received from payrolls show- 
ing actual earnings of a group of workers over a suitable period in order to 
obtain a fair conception of the relation of earnings to the cost of living and 
the opportunity for health. This was not found practicable, however. Wage 
rates are misleading, and as some are by the day and others by the hour or 
piece, comparison is difficult and often unfair. The starting rates reported 
have been tabulated in Table XII. Some establishments raise the rate at 
the end of the first week, some after two weeks or a month, and in many 
cases the rate stands until the piece-work earnings are higher, which may 
be in a few days or a matter of months. Estimated averages for the various 
establishments and their maximums are obviously so inaccurate in most 
cases that they have not been presented in this report. In several cases 
where averages of actual earnings have been made and analyzed, the results 
have been at variance with previous estimates additional evidence of the 
futility of accepting approximate figures regarding actual earnings even from 
persons familiar with establishment pay-rolls. 

Additional Benefits Cafeteria 

Practically all industrial establishments provide either a cafeteria or a 
lunch-room. The cafeteria may serve a full meal approximately at cost or 
may provide food to supplement the lunch brought by workers. Most 
plants arrange that coffee or other hot drinks may be secured free or at slight 
expense. In six plants the employes eat in work-rooms, in certain instances 
the company providing coffee. Several of these establishments have rooms 
which are called lunch-rooms, probably in the hope that they may thus 
fulfill the requirements of the law. The benefit of a change of environment 
together with good food at meal-time, is generally recognized, and many 
factories are planning better equipment in new buildings which they have 
in prospect. 

Cooperative buying is another way of increasing the purchasing power 
of wages, which has been undertaken in several Cleveland factories with 
much success. Group life insurance carried by the company is an advantage 
offered by many firms. Only eight industrial establishments reported benefit 
associations or some form of sickness insurance for women employes. 
Several other firms have benefit associations but women are excluded from 
membership, the reasons not always being clear. 

Recreation 

In twenty-one establishments there was found some sort of .group recrea- 
tion instituted and supported by the employes, with or without the co- 
operation of employers. In certain establishments this is merely an informal 
banding into social clubs. In others there are carefully managed parties 
and entertainments for the employes and their families. A number of 
organizations have bowling clubs, baseball or basket-ball teams. Some 
firms have employed recreation leaders who direct setting-up exercises and 



lliALTH AND INDUSTRY 565 

names at noon. Where this is done, at the request or with the sympathy of 
the work< M-. excellent results have been obtained, but no person wishes to 
l.c < -O<T< -ed into play. The field of recreation offers an excellent opportunity 
for the development of employes' organizations upon a sound basis. The 
experience gained in deciding upon the form and direction of such activities 
is excellent preparation for consideration of more serious issues which may 
confront employes in their industrial relations. 

The value of group meetings is realized by many establishments as a 
result of their liberty loan rallies. Feelings of comradeship and friendship 
among employes are incentives to contentment in labor, and so become 
the modern equivalent of the spirit of craftsmanship. Group activities 
which foMer these friendly relations and promote the feeling of solidarity 
among employes are to be encouraged. 



Vacations 

Many firms have a definite vacation policy. Four factories in the metal 
trades closed last year for two WCCKS during July or August. In one instance 
wages were paid for one week; in another plant, during a shut-down of four 
weeks, payment was made of two weeks' wages. Another firm offers one 
week of vacation with pay as a bonus to any employe who has not been 
absent during the year, except with a physician's certificate of illness. Several 
establishments reward old employes with vacations. One knitting mill has 
adopted the policy of one week of vacation with pay after one year of service. 
Another closes ten days during the year without pay. The garment fac- 
tories generally give one week with pay after one year, although in one 
days of paid vacation are reckoned by periods of service completed. 
Of the candy factories, two give one week with pay after one year, one gives 
ten days and another two weeks with pay. Other establishments recog- 
nize the desirability of vacations and permit leave of absence for the purpose. 

Only two establishments were found in which Saturday was not at least 
a half holiday; two garment factories have no regular work on Saturday. 

Supervision 

There is no uniformity as to methods of employment in the various plants, 
luit in many places the modern principle of having all applicants pass through 
one office has been adopted. This office is responsible for definitely hiring 
workers for all departments, and with the advice of foremen usually decides 
<|iicstions of adjustment, discipline and discharge. 

For the purpose of the Survey an establishment has heen considered as 
having centrali/ed employment when the authority to hire or reject all 
applicants U vested in one person or office. (Table XIV.) In eighteen of 
the plants \ i-ited \\onien were in charge of hiring women employes, and 
in some eases men also. The plants of Cleveland are recogni/.mi: more 
and more the value of having women in a sujM-rvisory capacity where 
women are employed. 



566 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The number and size of plants having supervisory women appear in 
Table XV which under this term includes: employment managers, welfare 
directors, and those who are in some measure responsible for conditions 
affecting the work of women in factories. Nurses have not been included 
unless when concerned primarily with such responsibilities rather than 
nursing. Foreladies have been omitted as their sphere is usually limited to 
direction of the performance of manufacturing operations. When there is 
no other woman in supervision, a forelady often successfully handles social 
problems and acts as intermediary between the girls and the management. 
As the duties of supervisory women are often not clearly defined, it has been 
necessary to make rather arbitrary classifications in some instances for the 
purpose of tabulation. In each of three establishments work of this nature 
is so extensive that there is a well-organized department staffed by a number 
of women, each with well-recognized duties. There is clearly an important 
place in industry for the woman who has by training adapted her common 
sense and personality to seeing fairly the problems of human relations and 
interpreting them in the everyday adjustments of factory life. 

The question of health supervision for women includes a special problem 
discussed here rather than in connection with general health supervision. 
In almost every case where plant nurse, employment manager or other 
executive was asked about the policy in regard to the employment of preg- 
nant women, the reply was that each case was decided upon its individual 
merits. There is need, however, of a certain well-defined standard of pro- 
cedure, for if left to themselves, many women work longer than they should, 
and in their eagerness to conceal their condition may do themselves harm. 
Usually the executive in charge of personnel is eager to have any woman who 
is pregnant leave work as soon as or before her condition becomes notice- 
able. This is often desirable where numbers of girls and men are employed 
in the same departments, for comment cannot be avoided and is frequently 
unwholesome. Several cases were noted where special effort had been made 
to place favorably, pregnant women who were badly in need of money so 
that they might continue to work until about the seventh or eighth month 
under supervision of the factory nurse. It was generally believed that ordi- 
narily a woman should not continue factory work after the sixth month. 
None of the executives interviewed wished women to return to work within 
six months or a year after childbirth, and except with foreign women it is 
seldom that any worker endeavors to return so soon. In plants where foreign 
women are employed without careful questioning or an effort to learn of 
home conditions, it may not infrequently happen that mothers of small 
children will be at work when they should be at home. Although it is not 
feasible to generalize for all processes and industries regarding the limita- 
tions which should be placed upon the employment of pregnant women, 
because of variations in the hazard of continued employment, thoughtful 
consideration should be given to the problems presented in individual cases, 
and in no event should pregnant women knowingly be permitted to work 
within two weeks before, or four weeks after childbirth. 



Ill \ i, r ii AND INDUSTRY 567 

PHYSICAL CONDITIONS OF WORK 

Light, air, and to some extent sanitation vary largely with the age of 
the plant equipment. Many Cleveland firms are planning to build new 
factories with model installations and feel that they should not be judged 
on present facilities meanwhile. Cleanliness is more difficult to maintain 
in an old plant than in a new one, but it can always be achieved by dint of 
sjx-cial application to the problem and is important for its moral effect as 
well as for physical comfort. Toilet facilities were usually found to be ade- 
quate and in compliance with the legal requirements, but in several cases 
were not entirely partitioned off from the main work-room, which is a very 
undesirable arrangement. Washing facilities varied greatly, but on the 
whole were adequate except for a somewhat too limited supply of hot water. 
Drinking water was usually provided by bubble fountains, or water coolers. 
Several common drinking cups were seen, as will always be the case when the 
workers must provide their own. 

Facilities for the seating of workers were found to be of great 
variety, ranging from a barrel top or a box to the most modern steel chairs, 
adjustable for height of seat and back. The law requires that individual 
establishments "shall provide a suitable seat for the use of each female em- 
ploye and shall )>ermit the use of such seat when such female employes 
are not necessarily engaged in the active duties for which they are employed, 
and when the use thereof will not actually and necessarily interfere with 
thr projKT discharge of the duties of such employes, constructed where 
practicable with an automatic back support." In practice, while chairs are 
generally provided for at least occasional use, the phrase "interfere with the 
proper discharge of their duties" may be broadly interpreted to prevent 
the use of chairs at any operation, and has not resulted in the general reali/a- 
tion that chairs can now be designed for use in connection with almost any 
type of work. 

The law also provides that, "\o female under the age of twenty-one 
years shall be engaged or |>ermitted to work at an employment which com- 
pels her t<> remain standing constantly while on duty." Knitting, weaving 
and spinning are not considered standing work because the o|>erator walks 
about her machine. As it is difficult to judge the ages of girls eighteen to 
twenty-one, this law is all but impossible of enforcement. A campaign for 
education concerning l>etter seating and its use is needed for both employers 
and employes. It is true 'hat employes often will not choose to sit at their 
work, and old employes frequently object to new tyjx's of chairs with backs. 
Operative can usually be won over to acceptance of an appliance which 
is really to their advantage by a patient and persistent demonstration of 
its merits. 

Lockers ,m- another institution which often cause the employer to \\eary 
of well-doing, for keys ; ,re lost and many \\orkers will not use locks when they 
are l'nrni>hed. T\\cnly -live establishments reported thai they had lockers, 
usually of steel, one for cadi person. Other firms use racks m a dressing- 
room. Only t\\o cases \\cre found \\herc clothing was hanging in the work- 
room. 



568 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Couches were provided for women employes in thirty-two establishments. 
This might mean a single couch in a room crowded with wraps, or a com- 
fortable bed in a silence-room or dispensary. Many plants have, in addi- 
tion to a dispensary bed, a room with several couches to be used for rest when 
needed. The plant which has no cot available for an emergency is not properly 
equipped to care for women employes. 



MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENTS 

In the seven mercantile establishments visited, 6,730 women are em- 
ployed. 

Department stores have uniform closing hours, giving them forty-eight 
hours per week, except a few that remain open an extra half-hour on Satur- 
day. During July and August a number of the stores are closed all day 
either Saturday or Monday. The vacation policy varies slightly, but all 
stores grant a week with pay after a certain period of service, which may be 
three, six, nine, or twelve months, and usually two weeks with pay is given 
after a longer service. 

Department stores have developed a special service for employes in 
their educational departments. It is helpful to a new employe to have 
the necessary information as to store policy and department relations pre- 
sented in definite fashion. Through careful observation, the ability of the 
individual may be directed into the most fruitful channels. There is in 
many mercantile establishments opportunity for advancement, and effort 
is encouraged by the knowledge that many buyers and executives have 
worked their way up through the store. Classes in salesmanship give added 
zest to selling as well as increased earning in commissions. 

Efficient employment is an important preliminary to the work of the 
educational department, and the health of employes as well should be 
carefully considered. Several of the stores are now giving attention to the 
development of adequate health departments. 

Starting rates vary with the age and ability of the worker. For the stock, 
cashier and inspection departments, two stores have a minimum of $10 per 
week, while others do not give less than $12 or $13. For selling on a com- 
mission basis, the usual minimum is $15 per week. 

Several stores have women elevator operators who are said to be more 
satisfactory than the men who are obtainable. Where doors are arranged 
to open easily, little physical effort is required, but adequate .opportunity 
for rest should be provided to relieve the nervous strain of constant atten- 
tion to an important duty, while at the same time treating passengers with 
courtesy and answering questions. Rest periods are provided in practically 
all establishments by the use of a relief operator. Except in one-way ele- 
vators standing is usually constant in busy hours, but suitable seats should 
be available for use upon occasion. 



II I \ I. T II AND INDUSTRY 569 

Women also operate elevators in several hotels and public buildings. 
This is another kind of work on which colored women are frequently employed. 
$14 per week is the lowest of the wage rates reported for elevator operators. 

PUBLIC-SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS 
LAUNDRIES 

It is unfortunate that conditions for workers in laundries at present 
seem to be in some ways poorer than in the past. The services of a woman 
supervisor have been given up in one place, use of lockers, cafeteria and 
recreation in another. Labor cost is fifty per cent of the cost of laundering, 
and as the public resents increased prices, it is difficult for laundries to raise 
their wage rates to a point of competition with factories. Consequently 
the scarcity of female labor is severely felt in laundries. Some plants were 
so short-handed that managers and executives had to take the places of 
absent workers. Porter service was most inadequate and often the laundry 
housekeeping was poorly done. 

The attitude of laundry men toward their workers varied greatly. Some 
were indifferent to the objectionable features of the work. Others maintained 
that standing was not harmful, that high humidity was beneficial, and that 
marking soiled clothes was a particularly healthful occupation. In one 
laundry there was an effort made to seat all employes so far as possible. New 
machines, often designed so that the worker could be seated, were being 
installed beside old ones, showing the advances in this direction and suggest- 
ing further improvements that should follow if the comfort of workers is 
to receive the same consideration in laundries that it does in most factories. 
Ventilating devices were generally used, although often they were ineffec- 
tive. It would seem that much of the steam could be kept from the general 
work-room by partitioning off the section used for washing, and mangles 
could also be installed in separate rooms, although there is no excuse for a 
noticeable escape of steam from mangles when excellent exhausts are avail- 
able. 

The nature of laundry work makes it particularly desirable that em- 
ployes' wraps should not l>e left in the work-room, that separate lunch- 
rooms should be provided, that toilet and washing facilities should be ade- 
quate, but this was not always the case. 

It i> micro! in;,' that even the less progressive laundry men speak of the 
laundry as a type of public service, and feel a responsibility to serve their 
customers faithfully, especially when there is much general sickness as was 
the case this winter. One manager considered that the importance of getting 
the work done outweighed the importance of good working conditions for 
laundry workers so long as there was no violation of the law. Often the 
law's minimum is considered the only reasonable maximum. 

The x-arcity of labor has resulted in the UM- of colored girls in three of 
the commercial laundries visited, and three of the hotel laundries. Separate 
coat rooms, toilets and eatinir facilities \\erc usually provided. The colored 



570 . HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

workers were generally considered less efficient, and much slower to learn 
the work which was given as the reason for their lower wage. Colored 
girls started at $10 where white beginners received $13. In two laundries 
white girls received $14 for a starting rate, in another, $12. The average 
for laundry workers seemed to be about $17. 

The variation of busy and slack days has been largely eliminated from 
laundries by daily collections of clothes from patrons. There is said to be 
no overtime for women. Two plants work fifty hoifrs, one forty -nine, and 
two, forty-seven hours. 



HOTELS 

In spite of the inclusion of the word "hotel" in the Industrial Com- 
mission's definition of "shops and factories," there seems to be doubt as 
to whether hotels do come under the supervision of the Industrial Com- 
mission, especially since enforcement of "Laws Providing for Inspection and 
Licensing of Hotels and Restaurants" has recently been entrusted to the 
department of the State Fire Marshal, although with no mention of kinds 
of work or hours for employes. The hotel department heads were of the 
impression that some restrictions existed but were vague as to their nature. 

Hotel and restaurant workers are said to be confirmed floaters. Some of 
the women live in hotel dormitories, with board in addition to their monthly 
wage; some live outside, receiving two meals daily besides a weekly wage; 
and others live outside and carry their own meals. Earnings depend in 
part upon tips and cannot be accurately estimated. They are often larger 
potentially than in reality, especially for chamber-maids. The stated 
sum paid for similar work in different places varied, and in general there 
seemecLto be little opportunity for increases based on efficiency or length 
of service, although one hotel has group insurance and a bonus as incentives 
to continued employment. 

The decentralization of responsibility in hotels rather surprises the 
inquirer who must go from department to department to learn of the various 
types of workers and the conditions of their employment. The hotel manager 
has two problems serving the public and maintaining a staff of employes 
to render that service. As catering to the public is the fundamental pur- 
pose of a hotel, it receives most of the manager's attention, and the demands 
of the public are so varied that a great amount of detail is involved. The 
problems incident to maintaining a staff of employes are left to those in 
charge of the several departments, which are conducted quite independently 
of each other. The effectiveness of such an arrangement depends, of course, 
upon the efficiency of department heads. As stewards ano^ hotel house- 
keepers are somewhat temperamental, and invariably complain of the un- 
reasonableness of their employes who stay only a short time, it seems pos- 
sible that the present method of hiring and dealing with employes in hotels 
might be replaced to advantage by an organized central employment service 
similar to that used in industries, in many of which the requirements for 
different types of employes are as varied as in hotels. 



Hi ALT H AND INDUSTRY 571 

RESTAURANTS 

Waitresses are one of the few groups of women strongly unionized in 
Cleveland. Their wage scale of $12 to $18 per week in addition to meals 
and tips, prevails in the city. They work eight hours for six days per week, 
but often the day is broken in two parts with the afternoon hours free. These 
cannot be well utilized, and the union is about to campaign for all straight 
watches of eight continuous hours. By using the shift system some managers 
have practically all of their waitresses working continuous hours. 

While restaurants and cafeterias in many cases seem slow to provide 
facilities for the comfort of employes, some progressive managers have 
taken these matters into consideration, and are also planning centralized 
employment, employes' organizations, and medical service for workers. 



PUBLIC UTILITIES 

The difficulties of poor telephone service are well known to the public, 
but the reasons back of it require special study. Operators are scarce, 
special urging is often needed to induce girls to enter this field, and many 
of them stay for but a short time. The low wages paid have been one very 
evident reason. Changes have recently been effected in Cleveland, but 
comparison with most industrial work is still unfavorable. The nervous 
tension under which the work must be performed is trying to many tem- 
peraments. This has been recognized to a degree by the provision of a 
fifteen-minute rest period in each three and one-half or four hour period of 
duty. Whether this is sufficient for relaxation from such work is something 
that should be carefully studied and every effort made to preserve the routine 
so that no matter what the pressure of traffic may l>e, the rests need never 
be omitted. Rather than deny the nervous strain of telephone work, it 
would seem that companies might well devote themselves to special study 
of methods for lessening the strain on operators. The public should be 
better informed as to the conditions under which operators work, in order that 
they may cooperate with telephone companies to improve service by properly 
signalling operators, carefully giving numbers, and displaying a reasonable 
patience. 

The telegraph companies employ several hundred girls as telegraph 
operators. Others are in the telephone department. All of this work 
requires a keen mind and a combination of speed and exactness in opera- 
tion that would seem to deserve better pay than is generally given. 

GENERAL DISCUSSION 

NIGHT WORK 

The difficulty of securing an adequate supply of female labor has already 
been di^< -u^ed. One of the roults of this labor scarcity has been to cause 
several manufacturers, under pressure of unfilled orders, to see in night 
work the simplest solution of their problem. There are women eager to 



572 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

work at night, and many firms report that women are turned away from 
the night shift though they cannot be secured for work by day. These women 
have families of small children for which they must care during the day. 
At night their husbands come home and assume the responsibility of family 
care so that the mothers may go to the factory. Here they may work from 
five o'clock to ten, or more likely from three to eleven, five to twelve, or 
six to two, and in one plant from six to hah* past four in the morning. 

It is hard to believe that after a day's housework and the care of small 
children a woman is in any condition to be a good factory operative, but 
many employers seem to feel that night work is very satisfactory. As most 
of the night shifts have begun in the past six months, the effect of a woman's 
holding two jobs has not become apparent in the quality of her work. The 
result will be sooner evident in her home, for even a sturdy woman of the 
European peasant type cannot long stand such double duty without impair- 
ing her physical condition, the first effect of which will be upon her children. 
A hard-working mother with insufficient sleep is apt to be irritable, and 
even if she is conscientious enough to feed and clothe her children properly, 
their tempers are apt to reflect her own. Of real home life there can be none 
when father and mother scarcely see each other, and the inculcation of 
American ideals under such circumstances is a barren hope. 

The Survey has a record of 980 women who were working on night shifts 
in fifteen Cleveland factories on April 15th. Of these 652 were employed 
in the textile and knitting mills and 328 in the metal trades. 

Aside from the effect upon home life, and the street dangers at night, the 
night work in the factory itself is not so pleasant as it is by day. Factory 
illumination generally is none too good. At night with only artificial light- 
ing it is usually worse. Other parts of the building are dark, and there is, 
a sense of the uncanny about being at work when naturally one should be 
asleep. In factories where there are cafeterias and dispensaries for the use 
of the day force, these facilities are seldom available at night. Often there 
is no definite pause for eating, even in a seven or eight-hour shift. There is 
almost never the same supervision at night that there is during the day, 
and where both men and women are employed there is even more reason 
for it. 

Night work is possibly but a temporary measure. The experience of 
England during the war and, before that, the feeling that led six European 
countries to agree to prohibit night work for women, should make our people 
consider the institution carefully before we sanction its use even in an emer- 
gency threatening the life of the nation and such an emergency does not 
now exist. So long as there is no hindrance to the establishment of night 
shifts for women, there will be temptation to meet orders b^y this means 
rather than by improved management, routing and planning of work. It 
would be well for Ohio to record on its statute books its opposition to the 
employment of women at night. At present there is not even an avenue for 
learning the full extent of night work, as there is no requirement for reporting 
night shifts to the Industrial Commission and no method for its control except 
through chance visits of state inspectors. 



III. \LTII AND INDUSTHY 



The telephone and telegraph companies employ a few women at night, 
and there is an occasional small restaurant with night waitresses. Girl 
ushers are used in several of the theatres and moving-picture houses, but 
in small numbers. Aside from factories the largest number of women who 
work at night are those who clean office buildings. They usually work 
eight hours, and it may be at any time of the night or early morning, although 
the shift from five to twelve o'clock is most popular, leaving, as it does, a 
little of the night for sleeping. The women are usually hired by the fore- 
lady in charge, and are in large proportion foreign. They frequently bring 
neighbors to work with them to avoid the journey home alone. These 
women speak their native languages, and enjoy the informality of the work, 
though there is no question about the fatigue in connection with scrubbing 
and carrying heavy pails of water, frequently with no elevator service. In 
April a night cleaning woman was killed while on the way to her home in'a 
Cleveland suburb and robbed of her pay. 



HOME WORK 

A means of adding to the day's output utilized by a number of factories 
is home work. Parts of sweaters are frequently joined by a stitch done by 
hand, and use of factory space for this work is avoided in many cases by 
sending the work to the homes of women who have spent a few days in the 
factory learning the work. It is estimated that at least 225 women work 
on sweaters and other knit goods in their homes. Except for the delivery 
and collection of material by some of the firms, there is no overhead expense 
in connection with home work, so that it is difficult to understand why rates 
for this work should be so low. 

A number of factories have established small branch factories, occasion- 
ally located in connection with a dwelling, but under the law considered work- 
shops only when they are the assembly place for workers other than those 
living in such a dwelling. Between this type of workshop and the service 
rendered by women sewing by hand in their own homes, there is another 
type of industrial service performed by the women in whose homes a com- 
pany has installed a power machine. While the Industrial Commission 
inspects the main factories and the smaller branch shops, it is not practicable 
for inspectors to maintain adequate supervision of the conditions under 
which work is performed in the homes of individual workers. 

There is a variety of home work. An occasional garment factory sends 
out cuffs to be turned. The carding of snaps and fasteners employs about 
one hundred women. This work is done entirely in the homes, and the 
worker> must earry supplies back and forth to the factory. The earnings 
seem very little for the time required, but the work is light and many women 
have probably been able to earn in this way who would otherwise not have 
been able to do so. Stringing of sales t.-i^ is another type of home work 
done mostly by children. >ome of whom olijeet to the low rates of pay. In 
season there is also the home trimming of tailored hats, which are delivered 
li the ease. A few women work on brushes at home. 



574 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

While the advantages of home work for crippled or convalescent patients 
has given interest to its possibilities in special cases, the general increase of 
home work, due to current high prices on the one hand and the demands 
of employers for labor on the other, must be carefully watched. The repeti- 
tion of such abuses of home work as were revealed by studies of conditions 
in New York should be avoided. 

Not only in this country but abroad has it been observed that more 
unfavorable conditions for the children are created where their mothers do 
industrial work in their homes, than result from other forms of work under- 
taken by married women. Carmagnano, in Pediatria (March, 1920, XXVIII, 
No. 5), believes that we should go so far as to provide legal measures to 
protect prospective and nursing mothers who are engaged in wage-earning 
or piece-work at home, as we protect them in factory work. 



DAY NURSERIES 

In almost every establishment visited, more married women were em- 
ployed than ever before. Many of these were young women with few home 
responsibilities, for it was frequently said that in these days working girls 
return to the factory or store a few days after they are married. Many, 
however, are women with families who find even the fairly good wages of 
their husbands insufficient for the family needs, or those who wish to pro- 
vide for the future by laying something aside now that wages are high, or 
others who are helping to pay for a home or sending money to suffering 
relatives in Europe. 

Many complaints come from the schools that children of school age are 
kept at home to care for the younger members of the family, or in other 
cases that mothers are either leaving the children to run the streets or lock- 
ing them in their houses while the mothers are at work. More than one 
child left in this way has been burned to death. 

Whether mothers of small children should be permitted to work is a 
difficult social problem. They cannot be legislated into their homes, nor 
should they be encouraged to evade responsibilities by day-nursery facilities. 
On the other hand the children cannot be permitted to be neglected. Day 
nurseries have provided care for some children whose mothers are obliged 
to work. 337 such children were cared for by the Day Nursery and Free 
Kindergarten Association last year. The day nursery, however, is an expen- 
sive institution, and we have little information from which to judge its net 
social worth. 

If working women were to be charged one dollar per day per child, which 
is the approximate cost of nursery care, probably few women would use 
day nurseries. Should the community then contribute to the support of the 
families of those mothers by supplying nursery care for a slight fee, encourag- 
ing the mothers to work outside their homes and leave their children for 
the group care of the nursery? If such is to be the case the community 



HiALTH AND INDUSTRY 575 

must insist that this care be of the best and that preventive health measures 
for the young child be used to ward off later illnesses and defects so far as 
possible, in order that the eventual economic cost to the community may 
not be too high. 

Mothers are working at the present time. The care that should be given 
to their children is a community health problem with economic and social 
aspects so important that each community should give careful study to 
its own situation. 

MOTHERS' PENSIONS 

The provision of mothers' pensions has been a partial approach to the 
same problem, but is applicable only in cases of widows who are mentally 
and morally sound and whose legal residence is established. Even where 
mothers' pensions can be granted, they are most inadequate. $15 per month 
for the first child and $7 for each additional child, is the maximum per- 
mitted. This maximum is always granted in Cuyahoga County, but is 
so inadequate that in numbers of cases the pension must be supplemented 
by the Associated Charities. 

In some counties, however, no pensions are given, and in others the 
amount is very small, so that great effort will be required to arouse sufficient 
public opinion through the state to secure legislative increase of the maxi- 
mum. 

The court takes the stand that no mother may receive a pension if she 
work* more than three days a week, which means that a widow with four 
children is faced with the alternatives of receiving a pension of $36 per 
month or of earning a living for the family. 



RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is the recommendation of the Survey 

That industrial and other establishments bring to the attention of 
employes the health value of suitable working clothing, with special regard 
for the advantages of proper footwear for women who are much upon their 
feet, and for the safety of women in machine trades. 

That in establishments where there is routine physical examination of 
men, women employes be admitted to an examination of similar nature. 

That uncertainty of the adequacy of piece-work earnings be obviated 
by a guaranteed minimum wage-rate when practicable. 

That the industries of Cleveland devote special consideration to the 
elimination of hazards of accident and illness where women are employed. 

That various industries endeavor to eliminate seasonal variations in 
employment through regularization of work. 



576 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



That special effort be made to interest both employers and employes 
in the use of seating suitable for different operations, and that where possible 
chairs be adjustable for height of seat and back. 

That every establishment employing women provide one or more 
couches for the use of such employes. 

That the municipal department of health maintain careful supervision of 
laundries with special reference to the comfort and health of employes. 

That the public be more adequately informed regarding the technical 
difficulties incident to maintenance of a telephone service, to the end that 
its cooperation be secured in a. reduction of the hazard of nerve strain for 
telephone operators, and a consequent improvement of a service which at 
present is essentially dependent upon the high efficiency of a human factor. 

That night work of women be prohibited by law, except in essential 
public utilities. 

That greater publicity be given to provisions of the laws of the State 
of Ohio governing conditions of employment. 

That the number of women inspectors of the Industrial Commission 
assigned to the Cleveland district be increased in order that the conditions 
attending the employment of women and children in individual establish- 
ments may be observed more frequently than at the yearly intervals at 
present prevailing. 



INTEREST OF THE COMMUNITY 

The hope of solution of the various problems in connection with the 
employment of women lies in the interest of the community. The Young 
Women's Christian Association has, through its Industrial Extension De- 
partment and more .recently through the Industrial Women's Club, taken 
an active part in recreation for working girls, and has also attempted, by 
educational means, to prepare these girls to think out their problems for 
themselves. 

The Vacation Savings Club has been effective in the encouragement of 
thrift among working people, especially women. 

The Girls' City Club has been recently established by the League of 
Women Workers, with the aid of secretaries of the Vacation Savings Club, 
and affords a downtown social club for girls, with a variety of recreation 
and classes. 

The local branch of the Consumers' League has taken an active interest 
in the various aspects of the work of women, and is cooperating with other 
agencies in an effort to learn actual conditions of work in relation to present 
and proposed legislation, and to learn the opinions of thinking working 
women concerning their own problems. 



HIALTH AND INDUSTRY 577 

The State-City Free Employment Bureau is interested in the work of 
women from the practical point of view of placement. The worth of such a 
central agency for employment has been demonstrated in many places, and 
its usefulness grows as it is used. 

Where working women play so important a part in the industrial life of 
a city as they do in Cleveland, there is reason to hope and believe that the 
people of the city will consider and protect their interests. 



When a Feller Needs a Friend 



- By BRIGGS 



ICocrrutot. I3:. NOT Tort THUni* If. 



fitsnWfl Ttiat childhood 15 
endowed with certain inherent and 
inalienable rignts among which are 
fmnrmi toil for daily bread, 
the right to play and to dream - 
the rght to the normal 5leep of 
the night season ; the right to 
an education that we rpay hav/^ 
Duality or opportunity for develop- 
ing all that tner^ is in us of 
mind aiad. h^art" 





Courtesy New York Tribune and The Cleveland Press 



578 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 579 

Children and Industry 
By FLORENCE V. BALL 

INTRODUCTORY 

A STUDY of children and industry is included in the report of the Hos- 
pital and Health Survey because the health of the large portion of the 
city's population who are going to be its industrial workers depends largely 
upon what provisions are made for their welfare during the period when 
they are 15-18 years old. The years from 15-18 are the adolescent years, 
and children of this age face especial health problems which must have care- 
ful attention. Out of the children who go to work are developed the future 
industrial workers and citizens of the city. If only a few of the children in 
the community were going to work it might not be important from a health 
standpoint to consider their interests so carefully. But at 17 years of age 
75% of the children of Cleveland are already at work, and many of them have 
been at work for two or three years previously. They are no longer under 
the direct care of school medical authorities. Neither are their especial 
needs studied and provided for in industrial medical service. Unless special 
supervision is provided for children of these years, their passage into industry 
is unguarded and unguided, and irreparable damage may be done to their 
mental and physical well-being, which will have serious results both in their 

own future and in that of the community. 



\<>r is the sound health of this group of children assured by considera- 
tion of their physical wants alone. Their problem is a psychological as well 
as a physiological one. The degree of adjustment between children and 
their first jobs, the success of their transition from school into industry, 
the amount of preparation which they have had for industrial life, are all 
factors of great power in determining their development from childhood into 
sound maturity. 

\ -tudy of children and industry from a health standpoint involves three 
general considerations: first, measures taken to protect the health of chil- 
dren upon entrance into industry, \>\ the adoption of requisite health stand- 
ards; second, regulation of their industrial careers until they reach matur- 
ity, which means ;i study of legal restrictions of children's work as well as a 
study of present conditions under which they work; and, third, the more 
indirect but no le>^ important relation between educational preparation, 
adjustment with the job and sound health. 

I'nder what circumstances ;ire children going to work? What measures 
have been taken to develop their liodies and make them physicially fit to 
enter industrial life? What kind of work are children doing and what kind 
of a chance docs it olier them for future industrial comj>etency? What hap- 
pens to children at work who are not normal, mentally or physically? What 
in education has prepared children for the shift from school to eight hours of 
labor daily, at work quite different from the sort of activity which has char- 



580 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

acterized their school life? What is going to be the effect of such a radical 
change on growing boys and girls, whose physical and mental instability at 
this time is marked? 

Childhood naturally falls into several distinct periods, the prenatal period, 
infancy, the pre-school period, the school period and the adolescent period. 
Each of these periods is important in the welfare of children. To those 
interested in one particular stage of a child's development, that one may 
seem of paramount importance. Probably not until all periods are equally 
emphasized will children have a full chance for development. However, the 
successive needs of childhood may be viewed, no one will deny the need for 
careful instruction and guidance during the adolescent years. All of the 
care which has been given to children's health in earlier years will prove to 
have been futile if they are allowed to go free from guidance and protection 
in these later years before they are competent to take care of themselves. 
The physical and moral difficulties which approaching maturity thrusts on 
them, require for children assistance and advice and often medical care, in 
order to safeguard their health, as well as to complete the training and prep- 
aration which have been the work of society for the 14 or 15 preceding years. 

These are the years of transition from supervised childhood to indepen- 
dent maturity. Opinion is divided as to the advisability of allowing chil- 
dren to go to work during this period. One point of view sees always the 
child in the developing boy and girl and desires for the child the maximum 
of care and protection. This protective care can go too far and, in extreme, 
smothers the springs of initiative and self-reliance needed in the man. The 
other point of view, more hard-headed, believes that participation in the 
work of the world cannot begin too soon for sturdy development. In its 
interest in independent character it tends to lose sight of the fact that too 
early work stunts a child's development and that a sound mind should 
be combined with a healthy body in order to realize its greatest powers. 
Another point of view, the commercial one, of the dollar value of child labor, 
should not be seriously considered. Obviously the industry of this country 
does not have to depend on the work of children for its income, although it 
is chiefly to combat the commercially-minded that it is necessary to make 
such strictly defined child-labor laws. Otherwise, it would be possible to 
make laws elastic, in order to meet more easily the individual needs of chil- 
dren. 

It is our belief that the efforts made on behalf of children of adolescent 
years, regarding their passage from school to work, should .be directed 
towards individual adjustments. In concern for the child, the man in the 
developing boy should not be overlooked, neither should the child be 
allowed to enter the adult's world of work too soon. There is great variation 
here in individual children. Some children mature much sooner than others 
and are ready sooner to make the transition from school to work. Methods 
must be developed by which allowance can be made for individual variation. 



Mr. \ i. TII \ \ i) INIMSTRY 581 

Considerable antagonism is aroused towards the present regulation of children's 
work, by the hardship caused in individual rases. Even though hardship in 
individual oases is no argument for the abolition of restrictions on the age of 
children going to work, it should be possible to originate some methods 
for making distinctions in individual cases, which will not be loopholes for 
unscrupulous and destructive evasion of the laws designed to protect the 
health and best interests of children. Such distinctions can be worked out on 
the basis of the physical ability of the individual child, determined after 
careful medical and mental examinations. It is purposed to bring out the 
possibilities of such a method in the following sections. 

This study is a survey of the present relation between children and in- 
dustry in Cleveland, presenting information not so much comprehensive, as 
representative of the situation. The regulations limiting children's work 
which arc at present in force are considered first, and next, the information 
which has l>een available regarding the numl>er of children at work, both 
legally and illegally. Discussion, in some detail, of the kinds of work in 
which children are found employed follow. The questions of their health and 
the measures taken to safeguard it are considered separately. There is included 
a brief report on the mentally subnormal children known to be at work. 
One section of the report considers the relation between industrial training, 
educational preparation, vocational guidance, and health and efficiency. The 
conclusions reached at the end of the study and the recommendations made 
are summarized in the last section. 

The study was made during the spring of 1JWO. It had l>een the inten- 
tion of the Consumers' League of Ohio to make some such research into 
health in the industrial field in Cleveland. I'pon hearing the comprehensive 
plans contemplated for the Hospital and Health Survey, the Consumers' 
League decided to support the services of a special worker who would be under 
the direction of the Survey, rather than to carry on an independent research. 
Such an arrangement was effected for the present study, which has been 
made by a member of the staff of the Industrial Division of the Hospital 
and Health Survey, the subject of Children and Industry l>eing especially 
appropriate to the long continued interest of the Consumers' league in work- 
ing children. 



].K<, Al. PROVISIONS FOR < HILDRIA I.', TO 18 (,<HN<, TO WORK 

In order to understand the situation as it is in Cleveland for children <>f 
working age, a review of the existing legislation relating to children of this 
age is essential. Who arc children:' When docs a hoy heroine a man. and 
a girl a woman? The Ohio Child Labor La\\ say- that a girl is an adult 
when >hc ,. |s. and may work the same hours and under the same circum- 
stances as any woman, save that she cannot work at night until she is -,' | . 
According to the Child Labor La\\ a boy of Hi may work longer hours than 
an adult woman mav \\ork. After he is IS this law considers him a man 
in every respect, able to work any nuuil>cr of hours, day or night, and under 
the same conditions as -<>vcni men's work. 



582 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Research has shown that boys mature more slowly than girls, but the 
Child Labor Law says that a boy may go to work a year earlier than a girl, 
and that he may have a year's less schooling than a girl. 

On the other hand, the common law of the state does not consider a boy 
a man until he is 21, when he may for the first time exercise property rights 
and the right of franchise, and get a marriage license without permission of 
his parents or guardian. 

Following is a summary of the essential provisions of the Child Labor Law 
of Ohio, and of other laws relating to children of 15 to 18 years going to 
work. 



AGE REQUIREMENTS 

Employment of boys under 15 and girls under 16 years of age is strictly 
forbidden. Age and schooling certificates are required for all boys under 16 
and all girls under 18 years of age. 

Boys under 16 and girls under 18 years of age may not legally be emdelrpo 
more than eight hours daily, 48 hours weekly, before 7 in the morning, not 
after 6 in the evening, nor nlore than six days in any week. 

Boys under 18 years of age may not legally be employed more than 10 
hours daily, 54 hours weekly, before 6 in the morning or after 10 at night, 
nor more than six days in any week. 

Girls between 18 and 21 years of age may not legally be employed more 
than nine hours daily (except Saturday in mercantile establishments, when 
10 hours is the limit), 50 hours weekly, before 6 in the morning and after 10 
at night, nor more than six days in any week. 

Certain occupations involving physical and moral hazard are prohibited 
for all women. Girls under 21 cannot work at employment involving con- 
stant standing. No boy or girl under 18 can be employed at extremely 
dangerous occupations to health and morals, eighteen such occupations being 
specified in the law. No boy under 15 years of age and no girl under 16 years 
of age can be employed at all, save in agricultural work or in domestic service. 
No boy 15 to 16 can be employed at dangerous machinery or where his health 
may be injured and his morals depraved, or .at the tobacco trades. Thirty- 
two other occupations are prohibited to boys in the law. 



EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS 



1. The age and schooling certificates required for all boys 15 to 16 years 
of age, and all girls 16 to 18 years of age must show that every boy has 
passed a sixth grade test, and that every girl has passed a seventh grade test. 
If upon examination and by school record a child proves to be below the nor- 
mal in mental development and unable to pass this test, he may m-eivc ;i 
school certificate at the discretion of the issuing officer. 



Ill . \I,TII AND INDUSTRY 588 

^. Every hoy 15 to 16 years of age must return to school if he ceases 
work and does not find other work. No provision is made requiring girls 
16 to 18 to return to school if not at work. 

HEALTH REQUIREMENTS 

A certificate is required from the school physician or some properly qual- 
ified physician showing that a child is physically fit to lie employed in any of 
the occupations permitted by law for a child between 15 and 16 years of age, 
provided that if the records of the school physician show such child to have 
been previously sound in health, no further physician's certificate need be 
required. 

SPECIAL VACATION CERTIFICATE 

Hoys 15 to 16 years of age and girls 16 to 18 years of age may have vaca- 
tion certificates to be employed in occupations not forbidden by law, even 
though they have not passed the required school grade, provided all other 
requirements for a certificate are complied with. 

STREET TRADES 

No provision is made in the Ohio State Law which covers street trades. 
There is a city ordinance, not enforced, regulating this kind of work. This 
will t>e further discussed in a section of the report on newsboys. 

JUVENILE COURT 

Provision is made through the Juvenile Court and probation system for 
dealing with delinquent young people of all ages who can be classed as juve- 
niles. The offending street trader, or truant from school, here receives less 
severe handling than in regular law courts, and is dealt with by persuasion 
rather than by punishment. 

KNKOKCEMENT OK PRESENT LAWS 

This comes under the School Attendance department of the city schools a no 1 
the department of Factory Inspection of the State Industrial Commission. 
These two agencies cooperate to keep track of all children of the ago in 
question. The adequacy of their working force and their success in enforcing 
these regulations will be discussed at the end of the next section. 



STATISTICS HW CHILDKKN IN INDUSTRY IN CLEVELAND, 1919 

There are three >our-cs ,,f information from which to ascertain how 
many children there arc in Cleveland, of what age and of what sex, ho\\ 
many of them arc working and how many are in school. 

1. The school cciisii>. taken every spring by the Census Hureau of the 
Hoard of Kducation. enumerates each child in the city from 6 to SO years of 
\\hether he is in school, out of school or at work. 



584 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

2. The Industrial Commission of Ohio obtains annually from all employ- 
ers records of the occupations and wages of all boys and girls under 18 whom 
they employ. 

3. The work certificate office, at the Board of Education, keeps on file 
the name, age and sex of every child who, after complying with certain re- 
quirements, secures from the office an age and schooling certificate, which 
entitles him to go to work. 

It was possible to obtain information from these three sources for the 
same period of time, the year of 1919. The school census of May, 1919, was 
analyzed so as to obtain information for boys and girls separately, the records 
of the work certificate office for the school year, September, 1918, to June, 
1919, were secured and, through the courtesy of the Industrial Commission, 
their statistics for 1919, which are not yet published, were obtained and 
analyzed. 

The information collected in this way for the number of children at work 
is somewhat surprising to compare. Following is the summary of results. 
The full tables for this information may be found in the Appendix, Tables 
XVI. to XVIII. 



TABLE XIX. 

COMPARISON OF THREE TABLES FOR NUMBER OF CHILDREN AT WORK IN 

CLEVELAND IN 1919. 

Boys Girls Total 

School Census, 15-18 years of age , ^...9,068 (15-18) 6,778 (16-18) 15.846 

Industrial Commission of Ohio, 15-18 years of 

age 2,957 (15-18) 2,072 (16-18) 5.029 

Work Certificates Issued, 15-16, 16-18 years of 

age 1,444 (15-16) 2,057 (16-18) 3,501 

Of the three records probably the records of the School Census more 
nearly approximate the truth as to the number of children actually in indus- 
try. Their figures were obtained in a house to house canvass of the whole 
city and were then checked up with the existing school records at the Census 
Bureau of the Board of Education, where a school child's card contains as 
well, a record of the whole family of children, whether of school age or not. 
The figures of the Industrial Commission were obtained from employers, 
and it may well be that they recorded only the certificated children whose 
permits were on file in their office, which would be boys 15 to> 16 and girls 
16 to 18 years of age. The boys 16 to 18 employed are only estimated in 
many cases. Not all employers keep age records of their employes. Fur- 
thermore, the Industrial Commission records are not complete, as a number 
of employers have not yet made their reports to the Commission for 1919. 
The work certificate office figures included only those children who went to 
work through the legal channels. 



II, \ 1,1 H AND INDUSTRY 585 

4. Illegal Child Labor and Law Enforcement. 

Comparison of these sets of figures shows the great extent of unlicensed 
labor on the part of girls 16 to 18 years of age. Almost 5,000 girls are at 
work in Cleveland with no check on them in any way to see that the health 
and educational standards considered essential for them are maintained. In 
addition, these figures take no account of the extent of work among children 
\vho are under the legal age for employment. Reports have come in on all 
>iles as to the number of under age children who are at work regularly, as 
well as at work part time after school and on Saturdays. 

It has been exceedingly difficult to verify these reports, save for scattered 
individual cases. There is undoubtedly truth in the prevailing opinion. 
The school census bureau is freely used by a number of employers to verify 
the ages of young children applying for work. Records were kept by the 
school census bureau office for several weeks of such calls from employers, 
and disclosed actually at work, or applying for work, 168 boys and girls who 
were under the legal age for employment. 



AGES AND Nr.MHKK OF CHILDREN APPLYING FOR WORK 

Age Boys Girls 

11 1 

12 5 

13 25 13 

14 34 41 

15 1 48 

Total, 66 102168 

42 of the boys and 73 of the girls were regularly at work, the remaining num- 
ber, 23 boys and 28 girls, had applied for work. 22 employers were repre- 
sented in this list. One department store was responsible for 60 of the viola- 
tions, the majority of which were for girls, and one manufacturer of metal 
products was responsible for 18 violations, most of them for boys. The 
facility with which these figures were collected is an indication of the extent 
of illegal employment of children. In addition must be reckoned those chil- 
dren working after school and on Saturdays without permits. 

Some of these children had been out of school for months, two or three 
as long as two years. One boy had been injured and his case brought into 
court. Another boy of 15 was working with a paper company without a 
permit. An accident brought this case to the notice of the school authori- 
ties. The boy's hand was crushed in a machine. His school record showed 
him to be defective, of a mental age of 9 years according to the test. If this 
l>oy had gone to work through the work permit office where his physical and 



586 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

mental condition would have been determined, his employer would have 
been notified of his mental disability, and the boy protected from an accident 
hazard. 

The Child Labor Law of Ohio is often cited for its excellence. If the law 
is not enforced, its excellence is without virtue. 

One explanation of this illegal employment is to be found in the depart- 
ments of School Attendance and of Factory Inspection. For it is their joint 
responsibility to see that the school and child labor regulations are enforced. 
Both these agencies work at a disadvantage. One truant officer must keep 
track of 10,000 children. Boston requires one attendance officer for every 
6,000 children. Obviously, one officer cannot cover all of the cases of irregu- 
lar attendance which occur among 10,000 children. As it is now, the truant 
officers devote only a small part of their time to following up children of 
working ages. If a child has come into the office and obtained a permit for 
a job, but has left that job, the permit then coming back to the office from 
the employer, he should return to school. This is not followed up. No one 
knows what becomes of the child. A list of such children was once started 
but the list grew so rapidly that it was impossible for the attendance officers 
to keep up with it, so the matter was dropped. This means that either the 
children are not working and are not in school, or they are working illegally 
without a permit. 

There is no question of the efficiency of the present force. School prin- 
cipals and others interested have spoken most highly of the work of the 
attendance department, saying that the officers are untiring in their efforts 
and most cooperative. With such a small force something has to be neg- 
lected and the children of working age have been ready to take advantage 
of the light authority imposed on them. 

This situation is true also for the State Department of Factory Inspection 
of the Industrial Commission. There are for the 88 counties of Ohio eight 
women visitors to see to the enforcement of the child labor law and others. 
The several counties surrounding and including Cleveland have the full 
services of two inspectors, who do splendid work, but who, obviously, could 
not be expected to be responsib'e for full enforcement of the law. Cleveland 
industry alone employs tens of thousands of women and young people and 
needs the supervision of several inspectors in order that industrial plants 
may be visited more than once annually. 

Undoubtedly one source of illegal child labor is the tremendous labor 
shortage which has prevailed throughout the present year. This shortage was 
mentioned almost without exception by every employer visited. "We 
can't get help. Ordinarily our rule is never to employ anyone, boy or girl, 
under 18. But we have been forced to make exceptions to this rule because 
we can't get enough help otherwise." 

The attitude of foreign parents is antagonistic also. They wish their 
children to go to work as soon as possible and will resort to any subterfuge 



I I I \ I. T II AND I N D U 8 T l< 1 587 

in <rcler to evade the law. It should IHJ pointed out that economic nece^>ity 
is by no means always the explanation of their attitude. Foreigners have a 
different attitude toward their children from that of most Americans. Chil- 
dren represent so much potential earning power which must l>e utilized for 
the family income at the earliest possible time. The sense for property, 
owning a home, is strongly developed in European peasant people, and they 
will make every sacrifice of themselves and even of their children, in order 
to acquire a little land and a house, having no thought for the possible physi- 
cal harm they are bringing on themselves. The strong constitution which is 
the inheritance of the Euroj>ean i>easant does not always endure for 
his children. Life in an American city offers less opportunity for the de- 
velopment of a rugged physique able to withstand heavy toil as well as the 
high power, top-speed existence characteristic of city life. 

Extension of school hygiene and general health education will in time 
eliminate this attitude on the part of parents towards their children. But 
meanwhile the laws designed to conserve the health and welfare of children 
are the only defense available to protect them from their own ignorance and 
the ignorance or short-sightedness of their parents or employers. 

But one of the principal causes of so much illegal employment of children 
is the fact that the children know they "can get away with it." Otherwise 
there would never be so many applications for work from such young chil- 
dren. Inadequate supervision on the part of the truant officers on one hand 
and of the Factory Inspection Department on the other, leaves too many 
loopholes for children to slip through. 

If it is impossible to enforce these laws with the present organixat ion 
and personnel of the school and state departments, then their methods should 
be improved and their personnel increased to cover the city adequately. 
No city of the si/.e and importance of Cleveland can afford to allow large 
numbers of its children of the ages of 1-2 to 10 years to enter industry, unre- 
stricted and undirected, their physical fitness to perform the tasks which 
they pick out for themselves, in no way ascertained, nor their capacity to 
stand up under continued years of industrial life assure* I in any degree. 

More supervision must be provided both by the school authorities and 
by the State Industrial Commission, in order to check up >n this illegal 
employment. This is vital. No prerequisite health standards for children 
at work can be established and maintained until it is certain that every 
child going to work goes through the work permit oflice, where he is medi- 
cally examined and mn>t S|M>\\ physical fitness before he can obtain a permit 

for employment. 

It i> recommended that at least three re w en inspec tors be assigned 

to the Cleveland district by the State Industrial Commission and that the 
number of attendance ofiicers in the School Attendance Department be in- 
d from I.'*, the present number, to at lea-t -.Ml. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



WHERE CHILDREN WORK 

1. OCCUPATIONS EMPLOYING CHILDREN 

Boys and girls are employed in greatest numbers in manufacturing, retail 
and wholesale trade, and in telephone and telegraph work. Table XX. in the 
Appendix shows the distribution of boys and girls in the various trades, as 
shown in the Industrial Commission's report. As before stated, the statistics 
of the Industrial Commission are not numerically complete, but they are 
sufficiently extensive to be representative of trades employing children in 
Cleveland. The information obtained through personal visits to 50 different 
establishments employing children in some numbers, corroborates in every 
instance the evidence of the Industrial Commission's figures. 

The last published report of employment by the Industrial Commission 
of Ohio for Cleveland is for the year of 1915. A total of 3,299 children under 
18 were employed in that year, as against 5,029 employed in 1919, showing 
an increase of about 1,800 in four years, or 35%. Table XXI. in the Appendix 
shows the distribution of children in the various trades for these two years, 
1915 and 1919. There are several noteworthy changes. Telephone and tele- 
graph work in 1919 used 463 girls under 18. In 1915, 35 girls were so employed. 
On the other hand, the employment of young girls has fallen off considerably 
in the manufacture of clothing, hosiery and knit goods, 1 and woolen and 
worsted goods. The employment of boys has increased, mainly, in the 
manufacture of electrical machinery, foundry and machine shop products 
and sewing machines. Their employment has decreased in steel works and 
rolling mills. Both boys and girls are employed in greater numbers now in 
the retail and wholesale trade than in 1915. 

The largest numbers of both boys and girls are employed in manufactur- 
ing, in round numbers 3,000 boys and 900 girls. The majority of these are 
wage earners, as distinguished from clerical workers. This is true of all 
employment for children. The classification of the Industrial Commission 
includes three group's of employes: clerical workers, wage earners and sales 
people. 23.7% of all children accounted for are clerical workers, 72.8% are 
wage earners and 3.5% are sales people. 

Boys and girls are scattered throughout the manufacturing trades, being 
found in greatest numbers engaged in the manufacture of men's and women's 
clothing, hosiery and knit goods, the metal trades and printing and publish- 
ing. 39 manufacturing establishments were visited. In all, 50 establish- 
ments employing young people were visited and information collected re- 
garding hours, wages, nature of work, opportunity for advancement, educa- 
tional requirement, medical service and general conditions of work. The 
opinion of each employer was obtained as to the employment of junior help. 

Medical service is described in detail in the first section of the Industrial 
Survey report, and conditions of work in the second section, therefore, no further 
discussion will be made of these two subjects in this report. In all places 
where girls are found at work women are employed as well, and conditions 



I I I \ I, I II A \ I) I N I) I S I H V 589 

of work are identical for both. This does not apply equally to boys. It 
must be remembered, as pointed out earlier in the report, that boys do not 
work under the same su]>ervised conditions of work which the law insists upon 
for women and girls. Hoys must use those toilet and dressing room facilities 
which are provided for the men, and must eat their lunch under the same 
cin iiinstances that men do. This often means a cold lunch. While many 
factories provide a cafeteria where girls and women may obtain a hot lunch, 
imt nil of them provide the same service for boys and men. 



A . Hours of Work 

The law limits the hours of work of boys 15 to 16 and girls 16 to 18 years 
of age, to 8 daily and 48 weekly. So far as it was possible to ascertain the 
facts on this point, the law is observed. Employers who wish to use the 
services of children, find no difficulty in arranging their schedule of hours to 
accommodate an eight-hour shift for the children. Employers who can get 
along without the services of children state that they employ no one under 
18. because of the difficulty of arranging a separate 8-hour shift. 



H. Wages 

Table XXII. in the Appendix shows the rates of wages paid to children in 
all occupations. 2,635 of 5,029 children listed by the Industrial Commission 
report receive from $10 to $15 weekly. 648 children receive less than $10 
weekly. Figures obtained by visits in the spring of 1920 run very slightly 
higher, 22 establishments pay between $13 and $15 weekly, 18 establishments 
pay $15 or more weekly and 15 establishments pay less than $13 weekly. In 
all cases where employers were questioned as to wages, the beginning rate 
has IK-CM quoted, as the character of the information for regular wage rates 
varies greatly. Some employers use hourly rates, others weekly, some esti- 
mate wages on a piece work basis, and others use a straight time rate. Even 
a payroll would not give exact figures, for the result of the labor scarcity of 
the past few months has been to make labor very independent, working only 
a few days in one place, or at one time. As one employer said when inter- 
viewed, "The girls come and go as they please. I don't dare say anything, 
or they put on their hats and leave. All I do is to carry the key." 

Wage rate.- are slightly lower in retail and wholesale trades, and very 
definitely >> in telephone and telegraph work, where the rate is $10 to $12 
weekly. Manufacturing pays more, especially to boys. More boys receive 
from $15 to $21 per week than from $10 to $15 per week. Wages for boys 
are generally higher than for girls. This is true of all occupations. The 
present wage.-, paid to boy> in tlie variou.-. >hops elassed under metal trades 
work have been so high as to make boys a scarcity in all other kinds of work 
open to them. On the whole wage rates for children are high, due to the 
fact that many children are doing adults' work because of the labor shortage. 



590 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

C. Nature of Work and Opportunity for Advancement 

These vary in almost every trade for boys and girls. In the industrial 
field proper the manufacture of men's and women's clothing offers to girls 
good opportunity to learn a trade and advance to higher positions. Boys 
in this trade run errands, or work in the shipping room. Their greatest 
chance for a job with some future is to become an apprentice to a cutter. In 
the six establishments visited, girls learn the trade in a school maintained 
in the factory or from instructors, and require from two to eight weeks in 
which to learn. They may start in at once on power machine operating or 
begin by examining or packing the finished product. One instructor states 
that young girls are not strong enough to do machine work and so are started 
in on hand work. The sewing trades offer a very good opportunity to girls. 
Girls should be carefully watched, however, against undue eyestrain. One 
factory has the eyes of girls regularly examined by an oculist, and insists on 
glasses being obtained if prescribed. The physical condition of each girl 
should be determined before she is allowed to begin power machine operat- 
ing. This could be done by the company physician or by the examining 
physician at the office where she obtains her permit to work, and a recom- 
ntendation put on her permit as to her physical ability to essay heavy work. 



The Manufacture of Confectionery 

This is a seasonal industry and attracts girls of the floater type who never 
stay very long anywhere, or who wish to work only occasionally and do not 
wish to work where they have to spend time learning a trade. Chocolate 
dipping is the only operation for women in this trade requiring any skill, 
and very few of the younger girls are found at chocolate dipping. The em- 
ployment of boys in this trade is negligible. 



The Manufacture of Hosiery and Knit Goods 

This industry employs boys and girls in about equal numbers. In most 
instances it is no longer a seasonal industry. . The work is easy to learn and in- 
struction is given by other workers or by foreladies. Some of the boys and girls 
work on knitting machines, but most of them handle the finished product in the 
stock room, doing inspecting, folding and packing. In addition, boys are em- 
ployed to run errands. There is little or no opportunity for advancement in this 
kind of work. An increase in wages is the most that can be hoped for. 
Considerable standing is necessary. The law states that no girl under 21 
shall be employed at an occupation requiring her to stand constantly, and 
that seats must be provided for every girl and woman employed. Seats 
are usually provided and sometimes made use of. The average girl needs 
instruction in health education. Some standing is necessary in 'all occupa- 
tions, but many employes stand constantly, even though their work does 
not require it. On the other hand, many tasks are done standing which 
could be done seated, if employers would deVote a little thought to the mat- 
ter. Numerous machines are now operated from seats, which formerly re- 
quired a standing position. It is very essential to the health of young girls 



Ill \LTII AND INDUSTHV 591 

that they be not subjected to the strain of continued standing. No small 
function of the medical service in industrial plants should be the instruction 
of employes, especially the younger ones, in the application of common sense 
to their daily living, in such matters as alternate sitting and standing at 
work, changing of posture while at work, the wearing <>f practical working 
clothes which will give freedom of movement and the maximum of comfort, 
the necessity for nourishing diet, plenty of sleep, fresh air, and other related 
subjects. 



The Metal Trades 

Of the 23 metal trades establishments visited, nine employed boys and ;i 
few, girls. 94 boys and 9 girls under 18 were found at work. The girls 
were for the most part engaged in packing and sorting parts and in making 
small pasteboard boxes. In no case was their work difficult and in every 
case they were seated at benches. For boys the metal trades offer exception- 
ally good opportunities for learning a skilled trade. In eight of the nine 
plants they were found working in machine shops under the supervision of 
skilled workmen, making good pay and having every chance to apply them- 
selves and get ahead. Very few of these boys, however, were under 16 years 
of age. Employers almost universally stated that it was their rule to employ 
no boys under 16. "They are a nuisance." Much of the machinery involves 
too great an accident hazard for such young boys, and there is nothing much 
they can do but run errands. Kven boys from 16 to 18 years of age are looked 
upon with disfavor. Whatever the explanation may be, it is true that the 
dissatisfaction of employers with boys of this age is general. "They are 
hard to get and no good." A numl>er of firms were visited which had been 
known to employ boys of this age, but no longer do so. having made a strict 
rule to employ no one under IS, boys or girls, because they had proved to be 
such unsatisfactory help. As a group, the metal trades seem to be above 
the average in plant organization for the welfare of employes. Medical 
service is provided, equipment is good, hot food may be obtained at noon. 
and some recreation is provided. This is well worth noting because of tin- 
large number of hoys it affects. 1,1 1!) of the 4,090 boys employed in indus- 
try proper in Cleveland are in the metal trade- 
in the plants visited 115 of the hoys were employed as apprentices. This 
means that they were systematically learning a machinist's trade and in addi- 
tion were occupied part of each week in study and class \\ork, either at Kast 
Technical High School or in classes conducted in the plant. The superi- 
ority of this method of inducting boys into industry cannot be emphasized 
too strongly. It will be discussed in more detail in a later section. 

There are only a few shops in Cleveland \\here a modern or in fact any 
system of apprenticeship is now made use of. A number of employers stated 
that they have plans for it in mind, but that with the present scarcity of 
boys. i| i-, not possible to establish such a system now. In the two plants 
where an apprent iceship system is well established. L'reat satisfaction was 

expressed as to the results obtained. 



.592 Ho.SPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Printing and Publishing 

This is a trade which is largely unionized in all its branches, even in the 
binderies, which make use of girls and women. For girls, in practically all 
work done by them outside of the binderies, there is no job with a future. 
Feeding presses is the commonest sort of a job. This is easy work, is safe, 
is done sitting, but is very monotonous. Employers frankly say that it is 
blind alley work and it is very difficult to hold girls at it any length of time. 

Boys have always the chance to learn the printer's trade or to become 
pressmen. This work they may learn through the apprenticeship system 
which is directed by union rules. Union rules require four years' time 
spent as an apprentice before a boy is able to qualify as a skilled worker. 
Non-union shops claim that the work can be learned in a year and a half. 
Union rules require, in the case of pressmen, that there can be only one 
apprentice to every five pressmen in a shop. The employer in this trade 
states that there should be an allowance of one apprentice to every three 
pressmen in a shop. As the union rule works out, it is difficult for a boy to 
become an apprentice, as there are few openings. No relation is made be- 
tween school and shop. No part of the boy's time is spent in class work. 

Working conditions in the printing trades are fair. There are definite 
lead hazards in most branches of the trade, and as yet union organization 
has not recognized this hazard iu relation to young boys who are especially 
susceptible to lead poisoning. No provisions are made to protect boys from 
a lead hazard. In European countries boys are not permitted to work in 
occupations which expose them to lead fumes or dust. Boys in American 
shops have been found doing the dustiest kind of work, cleaning and brushing 
linotype machines and gathering up lead scraps. Under section 13337-4 
of the State Child Labor Law the State Board of Health has power to forbid 
the employment of boys under 18 at any process injurious to their health. 
This authority should be used to exclude boys from employment on those 
processes in the printing trades involving a lead hazard. 



Retail and Wholesale Trade 

Seven large department stores were visited. In this group 105 boys and 
266 girls under 18 are at work. They are apparently employed in about 
equal numbers. Here again opportunity differs for boys and girls. Boys 
are employed in the stock room as messengers and as "jumpers" and wagon 
boys in the delivery department. Many boys who are still in school engage 
in this kind of w*ork after school and on Saturdays. This is not difficult 
work for an active boy. It is done in good surroundings, for the most part. 
The modern department store, of which there are a number in Cleveland, 
serves hot meals and uses care and thought in arranging for the welfare of 
its employes. The chief objections to this kind of work for boys are that it 
does not get anywhere in giving training for a trade, and the law regulating 
the hours of work for young boys is often disregarded in the delivery service. 
It is common experience to have a package thrust in a house door late in the 
evening by a small boy, especially on Saturdays and in a holiday season. 



Ill \ i, r H AND INDUSTRY >!' 

(iirls are welcomed into department store organization very readily. One 
employer says, "We cannot get along without our junior help." Another 
says, "We give careful attention to the young girls coming to work for us, 
for in them we look for our future material for salesmanship." At least four 
of the stores visited have an educational department, where girls receive a 
certain amount of class instruction as training for store work, (iirls under 
18 rarely start in as saleswomen. They are employed as branch cashiers, 
as wrappers and in inspecting merchandise. In time they may graduate 
into salesmanship work, where there is greater opportunity both in salary 
and for responsible positions. The New York State Factory Investigating 
Commission considers there is a definite health hazard for young girls in 
much of department store work. "The nervous tension of the work of parcel 
wrappers and of floor cashiers has been found to be of a serious character." 



Telephone and Telegraph Work 
Telephone Work. 

About 400 girls under 18 are employed in telephone work. This is a 
marked increase over the number in 1915, when only 35 girls were listed for 
both telephone and telegraph work. The telephone companies have in the 
past endeavored to limit employment to girls over 18, but their inability to 
get sufficient operators, with the resulting unsatisfactory telephone service, 
has led them to seek younger girls. 

No report of the trade of telephone operating can l)e made without careful 
consideration of the nature of the work. Telephone officials stoutly insist 
that there is no nervous strain in o]>erating, that it is pleasant and healthful 
work. Some of them base this statement on their own exj>erience of year- 
in the service. And in apjH'arance these women justify their contention. 
However, in comparison with other types of work OJXMI to girls there is con- 
siderable difference, (iirls work in "tricks" of four hours; having during 
that time one 15-miuutc relief jx'riod, when they can leave tlie switchboard. 

This 15-minute relief period is a regular part of the routine. However, 
when a supervisor is short of workers it is not infrequently impossible for 
her to arrange this relief period. The rest of the four-hour jxriod operator- 
must sit steadily in one position before the switchboard. There is no op- 
portunity for them to move around and change their physical position, a> i- 
the case in most other occupations. During this jM'riod girls are sitting with 
their arms stretched out before them or reaching upward, and their eye- 
must be continually on the switchboard. White and colored lights are con- 
tinually winking on this board in front of them. In addition, operator- 
must listen and talk against the constant bux./ and noise created by a large 
number of ]>cople talking in one room, even though the noise from talking 
has been scieiit ifically reduced to a minimum by the construction of the 
-\\itchboard meehani-m. While the noise in the operating room of all 
exchanges doe- not compare with the roar in the average machine -hop. the 
difficulty i- that in a telephone exchange almost continuous conversation i- 
necessary with subscribers, requiring dose and sustained attention from 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



operators. It is often difficult for a subscriber to retain his poise and calm 
during a fifteen minute period of telephone communication. How much 
more exacting it is to expect the same of an operator for four hours at a time. 

Telephone work is learned in a training school, requiring attendance from 
two weeks upwards, part of which time is spent in the class room, and part 
at the switchboard. A salary is paid to the student while attending school. 
The same excellent lunch and rest room facilities are provided for students 
as for regular operators. 

There is good opportunity for advancement to supervisory positions for 
a girl who likes telephone work and will continue in it. There is also con- 
siderable opportunity in the commercial field for private branch exchange 
operators. This kind of work pays well and often leads to other opportuni- 
ties. 

The average duration of service of telephone workers is not long. Sta- 
tistics for Cleveland are not available on this point, beyond the statement of 
officials that their labor turnover is high. However, in the report on tele- 
phone work just made public by the New York State Industrial Commission, 
it is stated that of every three applicants registered for telephone training 
one does not finish training, one stays less than one year, and one stays more 
than one year. As a girl is an expense to the company until she has been 
employed one year, this means that the loss on operators is high. The 
telephone companies make every effort to cut down the high labor turnover 
by means of careful selection of operators, improved conditions of work 
and well developed welfare features. That the rapidly shifting working 
force may be due to the exacting nature of telephone operating seems not 
to have been so carefully considered. While medical service is provided for 
all plants of the companies, it is not adequate. The facilities of the medical 
department should be expanded to give operators a periodical as well as an 
initial physical examination, and complete medical records should be main- 
tained, in order to obtain reliable information as to the degree of nervous 
strain experienced, and its effect on the health and efficiency of operators. 

That there is a distinct health hazard in telephone work for younger girls 
seems undoubted. Up to the age of 18 years a girl's nervous organism is 
none too stable in any case, and it; is questionable whether it should be sub- 
jected to the peculiar nervous strain of telephone operating in an urban 
community. The Ohio Child Labor Law prohibits to girls under 18 certain 
occupations dangerous to their health. It is recommended that a careful 
study be made of the effects on the health of young girls of this kind of work, 
and that if the results of this study warrant it, telephone operating be included 
in the occupations forbidden to girls under 18 years of age. As the tele- 
phone companies, in Cleveland as well as elsewhere, are coming to rely 
more and more on the services of younger girls, this is a question which should 
have immediate attention. 



II K A L T II AND I N D U 8 T 1< V ">/> 

Telegraph Work. 

As organized in Cleveland at the present time telegraph work has few 
places for girls under 18 years of age. The only work open to them is mes- 
senger work in the operating room. When a girl becomes 18 years old, how- 
ever, she may go the company school and take a several weeks' course in tele- 
graph operating. There is in this work a trade with some, if not a consider- 
able future, and it involves no great health hazard. 

Telegraph business makes use of boys in large numbers, 140 being em- 
ployed as messengers by the two companies in Cleveland. Their work is 
easily learned, familiarity with the city being about the only requirement. 
There is no real opportunity for advancement in messenger work. A boy 
might better make his initial contact with the industrial and commercial 
world through a job holding out some inducement to buckle down and learn 
a trade. Messenger work, like newspa|>er selling, can be done and is suc- 
cessfully in one company, by older men. Employers like the energy and 
hustle native to youth, but it is short-sighted to allow that energy to be 
dissipated in a job without a real future. 



I). Kducatwnal Require in rnl 

Throughout the trades there is no educational requirement, save in the 
case of apprentice schools, when a boy must have graduated from the 8th 
grade. The last group descritad, including telephone and telegraph work, 
endeavors to maintain an 8th grade requirement. Their need for workers 
does not always allow them to do so. Possibly the most striking comment 
which can be made upon the various tasks at which girls under 18 and boys 
under 16 are employed is that the mentally subnormal children found at 
work in the city almost without exception are engaged at the same tasks, 
upon which normal children are working. Apparently the tasks are so 
simple that it is possible for subnormal children to engage in them without 
difficulty. The work is easily learned. Few of the jobs upon which the 
younger people are now employed require any great skill. From the stand- 
point of learning a trade this is not always objectionable. For example, 
in department store work there are a variety of tasks for girls to become 
familiar with, no one of which requires any great skill for proficiency, but all 
contributing to a knowledge which is essential to the higher jobs opening up 
to girls later on in the profession. The same may be said of metal trades for 
boys. There is considerable preliminary work UJMHI which a boy's time 
may be spent, which provides general training for machine shop work and 
which docs not waste his time. 

From the standpoint of learning a trade, it is objectionable, however, to 
employ a boy or girl at work which utilizes youthful energy without yielding 
any training for future competency. The messenger work at which so many 
boys and some girls are employed in factories merely HM-> young legs because 
they are quicker than old ones, and M> |<.iiir ;i> a man has at hi- disposal a 
pair of young letr> it i- c;i-irr to IIM- them than to think up some means of 



596 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKV 

getting along without them. The use of messenger and office boys is a 
holdover from the older, more inefficient methods of doing business when 
work was conducted without thought for the most economical organization 
of time and energy. In the labor shortage in Cleveland of the past spring, 
the job that was the hardest hit was that of office boy. It was the universal 
complaint that it was impossible to get an office boy, even when a largely 
increased salary was offered as inducement. When opportunity was open 
for other work, boys chose the job of office boy and messenger last of all. 



E. Comments of Employers 

Opinion differed somewhat as to the merits of boys and girls under 18. 
It was almost universally stated that the boy of certificate age, that is, 
15 to 16, would be better off in school. Many employers thought all children 
under 18 were better off in school, but so long as it was possible to do so, 
they employed a few. A number stated that they intended to eliminate 
the younger help as fast as possible. 

F. Conclusions 

The trend of the comments of employers strengthens the conclusions 
reached after the study of children's employment, a brief summary of which 
is recorded in the observations made on the various occupations. These 
conclusions are first, that the presence of boys of 15 to 16 years of age in 
industry is not necessary and can and should be eliminated; and, second, 
that there must be more conscious direction into the industrial field of boys 
and girls 16 to 18. The blind way in which the average boy or girl gets his 
or her first job is one reason for their employment at casual w r ork, learned 
today and forgotten tomorrow. Their work is unsatisfactory and they are 
unreliable because there is nothing about their jobs to wake them up to 
real effort. Their minds are elsewhere. 

Blind alley jobs in children's employment have been recognized for sonic 
time, and while not approved have been more or less condoned as unavoid- 
able. They are not unavoidable. The labor of children 10 to 14 years of 
age was once thought unavoidable and was condoned. It has been proved 
conclusively that such labor is not necessary. So long as children are allowed 
to drift about, as fancy dictates, from job to job, instability and unsatisfac- 
tory work will result. Methods should be worked out in connection with the 
certification of children for work, which will provide that a child's first job 
is selected with some care and thought. This selection should be determined 
by the inclination of the child as much as possible, but also by his physical 
and mental capacity, ascertained through the careful medical examination 
made. 

Unless especially pointed out in the description of the particular occupa- 
tion there is comparatively little health hazard for a normally developed 
child, 16 years of age, in the trades where he is found employed in Cleveland, 
provided the legal regulations regarding hours and conditions of work are 



H HALT 11 AND INDUMTIO 597 

complied with. There is quite a definite health hazard, however, in the 
effect on a child of irregular and promiscuous jobs, or in work uninteresting 
in itself and holding no promise of a real vocation in the future. The opinion 
of the director of boys' employment of the Public Employment Bureau 
in Cleveland is of weight <>n this point. After several years' experience she 
states her conclusions as follows: "The freshness, interest and alertness of 
the boy seeking his first job are so much valued by employers that school 
boys seeking vacation work are readily hired, even though their services 
are temporary. Contrasting strongly with the keen forccfnlncss of these 
school boys are the sullenness and stolid disinterestedness of the boys who 
keep changing jobs. Employers have corroborated our observations that 
boys are, as a rule, less valuable at the end of one or two years' work than 
they were when they began their first job. The chief reason for this unfor- 
tunate but common state is that boys leave school anxious to earn money, 
and, because they have not thought about a trade or future advancement, 
they take the first thing they happen to find. This is usually a 'blind- 
alley' job which pays from the start a reasonably high wage. The boy is 
at first delighted and applies himself so well that his earnings, if on a piece- 
work basis, become higher. If he wishes to speed up and work overtime, 
he can earn more. Because of his high weekly earnings at this rate, if he has 
a chance on another job at a higher rate, he leaves to try that. After a year 
or so of this, the results noticed in him are definite physical deterioration, 
such as nervousness, enervation, drooped shoulders, sluggish bodily move- 
ments, and slow mental reactions. Boys who have shown great promise 
when their applications were first presented, but who have insisted on tln> 
kind of work, have been a real disappointment when it is evident what their 
work has cost them. The long, confining hours of industry, unless the boy 
is buoyed up by the stimulation of a future finished apprenticeship and a 
worthy goal of achievement, and the loss of nervous energy in high sj>eed 
jobs stamp upon the face, figure and health of that boy tin- price he has had 
to pay." 

It is largely from a health consideration that more care is urged in the 
selection of jobs for children. Children have a right to work and in many 
cases the effect on them of employment is highly beneficial. But they are 
not adults and some su|>crvision of their activities in industry is legitimate. 
Children are not wholly free agents in the selection of their school studio, 
and there is no reason why they should be in the selection of work until they 
have reached the age of maturity. Boys and girls of 1({ have not reached 
the age of maturity. I.eft to their own direction they think of their health 
last, if they think of it at all. If they are directed into work for which they 
are physically and mentally qualified, the health ha/ard involved in allowing 
young children to work daily will be greatly diminished. 



-'. STHKKT TKAIM.- 

There IN MO provision in the Ohio State Child Labor La\\ relatu 
newsboys, and other street traders. There is a Cleveland city ordinance, 
not enforced, containing these provision-*: 



.)!>s HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

No boy under 10 and no girl under 18 years of age may work at all on 
the city streets. 

No boy under 14 years of age may work on the city streets before .5:30 
in the morning and after 8 at night. 

No boy 10 years of age and over may work on the city streets, without 
a permit issued to him in writing by the mayor of Cleveland, or by his author- 
ized representative. The permit shall state that the boy is mentally and 
physically fit to perform this work. After a permit is secured by a boy 
he shall receive a, badge, Which he must wear while at work. This permit 
may be revoked if the provisions of this ordinance are violated. Trades 
which come under this ordinance are, selling of papers, periodicals, gum, 
pencils, candy, perfume and other commodities, in a public place. 

The Consumers' League of Ohio has campaigned for some time to secure 
the enforcement of this ordinance. Through interviews with public officials 
they secured the following promises: 

(a) Mayor Davis said that he would authorize someone at the Board of Edu- 
cation to issue permits and badges. 

i 

(b) Superintendent Spaulding and Mr. Jones have promised that the Board 
of Education would issue the permits and badges, provided money could 
be raised to pay for the latter. 

(c) Chief of Police Smith has promised that he would instruct his squad in 
the enforcement of this ordinance. Judge Addams will cooperate. 

The Consumers' League states that the ordinance is not now enforced 
because 

1. The newspapers do not wish regulation, claiming they are making efforts 
to take care of the trade from within. 

2. There is no money in the city license department to pay for badges (esti- 
mated cost $300.) 

/ 

3. There is no money to pay special officers to be detailed to this particular 
work. 

Boys and a few girls enter these trades as young as six and remain in them 
throughout the years while they are in school. The majority of them sell 
newspapers. Anyone who will take the trouble to observe, may judge for 
himself as to the extent that newspapers are sold on' the downtown streets 
and busy outlying street corners by small boys. 

Nor is it necessary to point out in any detail the undesirable nature of 
this work for children. Common sense alone will indicate the inadvisability 
of allowing children from six years of age up to spend time on the downtown 



II I \ I. I II \ \ I) I NDU ST 10 



-t reels, in an atmosphere of great confusion and excitement, gelling home 
;it'tcr dark, going to Ix-d late and having irregular and badly chosen meal-. 
Tin- fact that a progressive city like Cleveland will eontiime to allow its chil- 
dren to lia/ard their health and safety in this way IN pu/./ling, although it 
may be an illustration of the extremes to which Amrri< .11 sentiment for 
business independence will go. There is a very real ap|>eal made by the 
-mall hustler who thrusts an evening pa|>er at the passerby, which has l>een 
felt by everyone, but it requires only a little thought to realize that this 
appeal is not justified by the price which the child must pay in the end. 

For the purpose of securing some sjK'cih'c information as to the extent 
and general character of the newsboy trade, a census was taken in a downtown 
school adjoining the business district, of the boys in that school who were 
selling newspapers or other articles on the streets. There are about 800 
pupils in this school, 400 of whom are boys. One hundred records were 
>ccnre:l from boys and 10 from girls by a canvass made from room to room. 
A summary of these records is found in Table- XXIII., A and H, in the Apjicn- 
dix. As nriny as -.JO boys under 10 ye^rs of age were found who sold paper-. 
Six of these youngsters sold pa|>crs until after 8 at night. Fourteen of them 
earned less than ~>(l cents a day. Twelve of them were classed by their 
teachers as not having good health, and eleven of them were classed a- 
having inferior mental capacity. 

According to the ratings of age and grade in use by the public schools, 
.">!! i if the 100 boys who sold papers were retarded in school one. two and three 
years. Eight additional boys were in a s|>ecial "opportunity" class which 
was not graded. 1? out of the 100 boys were in open air classes. 34 of the 
100 boys had a poor health record and l(i a fair health record, making 50% 
of the boys who.-se health is only fair or poor. All of the boys sold pa|>ers on 
Saturdays, cither for the same afternoon and evening period or all day. 

While it would not be just ifiable to conclude that the physical and mental 
condition of these boys is due wholly to the fact that they sell new-pa; 
as there arc probably other contributing factors, such as home conditions, 
ignorance of foreign-born parents, and others, the fact should be emphasi/ed 
that almost two-thirds of these boys ;l re in no condition, physically or men- 
tally to justify their work of selling pa|>ers in their span- time after school 
and on Saturday-. 

iiteeii of the boys were found in open air classes. This means that 
they had l>een diagno-ed a- suffering from some degree of poor nutrition. 
and -o were placed in special rooms where a maximum of fresh air is provided 
and the children are given the benefit of extra food. The teachers report 
that the children improve greatly in health when attending these open air 
duse& A number of stories of the new-boy- found in these .|MMI air room- 
are of interest. 

Arthur, aiic !, in the third grade, sell- paper- every afternoon until 8 
o'clock and Saturday the -amc time. Saturday morning he -ell- bo\c> 
which he pick- up around the market He make- about .">< cent- .1 day. 



600 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SITKVKY 

He is only a fairly good student. As open air class boys rank, his health is 
fair. 

Joe, age 10, in the fourth grade, delivers papers from 4:30 until 7 in the 
morning. He sells papers after school until 6. On Saturday his hours are 
from 4:30 A. M. to 7 A. M. and from 9:30 A. M. to 6 P. M. He makes 
about 75 cents a day. Although he was regular in attendance at school, his 
physical condition is poor. He was a failure last year in school, and at 
present applies himself only fairly well. 

John, age 11, in the fifth grade, sells papers after school until 6. He is 
badly undernourished, and is only a fair scholar. He expects to get a job 
and work this summer. 

Peter, age 11, in the fifth grade, sells papers after school until 6 o'clock. 
He makes a dollar a day. He has been selling papers for a year, is markedly 
nervous and jumpy. He has been a truant from school and has to report to 
the truant office. He is bright, but he is not able to apply himself, according 
to his teacher. 

Martin, age 10, in the fourth grade, works after school until 6 o'clock, 
making 40 cents a day. He was sick and lying on a cot when interviewed. 
He is only a fair student. 

Amelio, age 11, in the sixth grade, sells papers until 7 every night and 
on Saturday from 10 in the morning until 8 at night. He has been selling 
papers five years. He is regular in his attendance at school, but not very 
strong, and is very nervous. His health has improved greatly since going 
into the fresh air class. 

Mike, age 7, in the second grade, sells papers until 7 at night, making 
19 cents a day. He goes to the office with his brother for the papers. He is 
frail looking. His teacher reports that he is not at all well. 

Frank, age 8, in the third grade, sells papers from 7 in the morning until 
school time, and after school until 8. He makes 95 cents a day, including 
tips. His health seems fair. He is very nervous, talks very fast and stut- 
ters. He is in a special class for stutterers, and tries very hard to overcome it. 

Billy, age 8, in the second grade, sells papers until 10 at night. It 
takes him a half hour to get home from the downtown district where he 
works. The school nurse and doctor cannot find anything wrong with him, 
but they have not been able to understand his sleepiness. 9 The teacher 
states that it has been a struggle all the year to keep him going. "He is so 
lifeless, bright enough and gets along well enough in his studies, but has no 
energy." 

Sam, age 11, in the fifth grade, delivers papers from 5 to 7:30 in the morn- 
ing and sells after "^IjMMtrilptil 6. He makes ;i dollar a day. He has been 




II HALT 11 AND I N D I s I 1< \ 601 

selling pajHTS two years. He is small, nervous and <>f a high strung type. 
He is bright, a good student, and lias been a truant, but not at the present 
time. 

Joe. .me 11. in the fiftli grade, sells papers until 7 o'clock. Thru every 
night and Sunday lie watches tickets in a show until J) o'clock. He gets ~:> 
cents a week for this. He is undersized and not strong. He is intelligent 
and a good student. 

Joe, age H, in the fifth grade, sells pa|>ers after school until 7, making 
K) cents. He has been selling papers for five years. On Saturday, from K 
in the ijmrning until 4 in the afternoon, he sells boxes which he picks up 
around the market, making about $1.50. On Sunday he shines shoes from 
S to 10 in the morning, making ~>0 cents. He gives the money to his mother. 
She usually gives him a dime. He is very anaemic and not in good health. 
Hi.- scholarship record is poor. 'He does n<>t apply himself, and his teacher 
considers that he has dull mentality. 

These cases, Delected at random, show very clearly the kind of life which 
newsboys lead. While the amount of money tlu\v make varies in many 
cases, it is not worth the time sj>cnt making it. It .should be noted that in 
every case where boys are working later than (i o'clock their physical condi- 
tion shows the effect of their late hours and irregular meals. 

Their hours out of school should l>e occupied in a manner which will not 
drain their vitality further. The excitement of street life with its over 
stimulation of young nerves and energies requires sound health and strength 
to withstand its strain. Boys should not be allowed to etigage in newspa|>er 
selling and other street trading unless they can show a clean bill of health 
and are up in their school studies. Hoys like and enjoy this kind of work, 
in most cases. If they are allowed to engage in it only when they can com- 
ply with a certain standard of scholarship and physical ability, the desire to 
become a newsboy could be utilized as the necessary incentive to master 
school studies and develop health habits. 

It is recommended that the city ordinance regulating street trades )>< 
enforced, (HMiding amendment of the ordinance or inclusion of these trade- 
in the slate law. 1'ermits to boys to engage in this work and badges to be 
worn by them while at work, should be issued through the work certificate 
office of the Hoard of KducJttion. where each boy will receive a medical 
animation showing him to be physically fit for this occupation before he can 
obtain a permit. 

Ivirly morning pajwr delivery should also be regulated by issuance of 

certificates based on physical fitness for this work. 

Allhouiih P-giilation of this I rade does n , ,t come under tip .-ho.il 

law, the enforcement of the existing city ordinance directly affects pupils 
throughout their school life and tinles> M, me effort is madejo^keep watch of 

H 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Si u\ i^ 



the children in these trades, their unguarded pursuit of them will break down 
the work of the Board of Education in the medical and truancy departments. 

It is logical that children in the school system engaging in these trades 
should do so only under the direction of the Board of Education, so that the 
work of the medical and truancy departments may not be nullified by the 
extra-school activities of these children. 



3. AGRICULTURAL WORK AND DOMESTIC SERVICE 

Neither of these groups of work is included in the list of occupations 
employing children which come under the regulation of the State Child Labor 
Law. The number of children who are employed at these kinds of work 
cannot even be guessed at, as no record is kept of them in any place. Un- 
doubtedly some of the 6,778 girls 16 to 18 years of age, listed by the school 
census as working, are employed in domestic service. 

Agricultural work for children under 18 does not affect any number of 
children in Cleveland except in one situation, which is, however, of consider- 
able importance. This is the case of children who leave Cleveland in the 
early spring and remain until the late fall to work in agricultural fields either 
in Ohio or elsewhere. The children are recruited by agents who are paid by 
the farmer who employs them so much a head for children recruited. These 
agents obtain individual children without their parents, or whole families, 
and transport them to the locality where they are to work. 

Principals of schools in districts where there is an industrial population 
report that every spring about six weeks or two months before the close of 
school, or in April sometimes, there is an exodus of children and families 
from the district. One school principal reported that 20 families and some 
boys had gone from her district, taking about 100 children altogether, the 
majority of whom were her school pupils. They went to work in the beet 
fields near Flint, Michigan, and were signed up by agents who came into the 
district and went directly to the homes of the families. In this school dis- 
trict there are Italians, Slavs and Hungarian gypsies. The Italians do not 
undertake this kind of work, but many Slavs and most of the Hungarian 
gypsies go. 

This happens every spring. These people will return about one month 
after school begins.^The children miss from two to three months of school 
and considerable retardation in school is the result. 

All of the children from 6 years of age upward work in the beet fields. 
According to the statement of this school principal even the little tots bring 
home as much as $150.00 for the season's work. The living conditions are 
primitive. The people live in shacks and very bad sanitary conditions pre- 
vail. The National Child Labor Committee has made considerable research 
into this form of work and has found very undesirable situations in every 
state visited. 



II I \ I. I II AND I N 1) I > TRY 

So far as is known practically no boys arc employe*! in domestic service. 
As before stated, it is impossible to make any estimate of the immlxT of 
girls under IS years of age so employed. In the canvass made of one school 
to obtain information as to the numt>ers of children working after school 
hours at selling papers, it was learned incidentally that quite a number of 
girls 14 years of age and under were doing housework after school and on 
Saturdays. 

Exj>erts in industrial diseases slate that housework contains more health 
hazards than are found in any other industry. There are no statistics avail- 
able to sustain this statement, but it would be wise to make a study of this 
occupation and accumulate more accurate information regarding it. It is 
questionable whether housework has any l>eneficial effects on the health of 
very young girls who engage in it. 

Both of these occupations should have age limitations and some super- 
vision of conditions of work, particularly agricultural work. There should 
he an age limit of at least 14 for these occupations and a limitation of the 
hours of work, similar to the limitations in hours for other occupations. A 
health certificate should be required of every child. Regulation of condi- 
tions of work may involve some difficulties needing the cooperation of other 
agencies, but examinations for a health certificate can l>e conducted in 
the same manner as for other occupations by the existing machinery, with- 
out great difficulty. By limiting the age and the hours of work of children 
engaging in these occupations and by requiring of them a certificate of 
physical fitness for this kind of work, their health will l>e letter safeguarded. 



HEALTH OF CHILDREN AT WORK 
1. MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF CHILIWKN H>U WORK PERMITS 

"Little has been done up to the present time in the -Tinted States to pre- 
vent children from going into work for which they are physically unfit, and 
practically no study has been made of the effects of early labor on the growth 
of the body. Many children who begin work between the ages of 14 and IS 
are the children of least resistance in the community. They are in general 
the children of the poor, and in consequence are likely to be the ill-nourished. 
the undersized and the anaemic. Already handicapped, their growing bodies 
can offer no resistance to the exacting demands of industry on muscles and 
nerves. During these maturing years they are |>cculiarly liable to injury 
from overstrain and peculiarly sensitive to all sorts of industrial hazards 

"A great deal of the work done by children is. moreover, totally unfit for 
them. It often involves too much sitting, or too much standing, the carrying 
of weights beyond the child's strength, the over exercising of one set of 
muscles at the expense of another, and, in certain occupations, the loss of 
sleep. Foreign investigations have shown that the sickness rate among 
juvenile laborers is alarming, especially during the second year of working life 
when the injurious effects of early labor upon already undevelojM'd l.odies 
have had time to make themselves felt. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



"A 'physical minimum' for children entering employment was provided 
in the standards adopted by the Children's Bureau Conferences held in 
Washington and other large cities in May and June, 1919. This minimum 
proposed that 'A child shall not be allowed to go to work until he has had a 
physical examination by a public school physician or other medical officer 
especially appointed for that purpose by the agency charged with the enforce- 
ment of the law, and has been found to be of normal development for a child 
of his age and physically fit for the work at which he is to be employed.' 
It proposed also that 'There shall be an annual physical examination of all 
working children who are under 18 years of age.' (For the complete text of 
the standards, see pages 3, 4, 5 of Conferences Series 2, Bureau Publication 
No. 62 of Children's Bureau of the U. S. Dept. of Labor.) 

"But what constitutes 'normal development' for boys and girls of dif- 
ferent ages, and what indicates that a child is 'physically fit' for the employ- 
ment which he is about to enter? Only through exact observation and meas- 
urements can it be demonstrated that a child is unfit for certain kinds of 
work, or that too early and too exacting labor is endangering his physical 
development. The standards to be applied constitute a vitally important 
part of the problem of child labor." 

The above paragraphs are quoted from the statement of the Federal 
Children's Bureau made at the time of the appointment of its Committee 
on Health Standards for Children Entering Industry. It states very clearly 
the necessity for special care for children of these years who are going to 
work. 

In the descriptions of the various occupations in w r hich children were 
found employed in Cleveland an effort has been made to point out the par- 
ticular health hazard, if any, present in each. There is, however, some health 
hazard in any kind of employment for growing boys and girls, unless their 
work is carefully supervised. Their physical and nervous organisms are not 
yet stabilized. They have less endurance, and they are more susceptible to 
fatigue and bodily strain. Postural strain is most likely to be overlooked 
unless a child receives some medical supervision after his initial examination 
for a certificate. The bony structure of a child is quite flexible. Children 
are peculiarly susceptible to deformities if subjected to unusual and pro- 
longed strain on one set of muscles, the use of which is especially required 
by the job at which they are employed. 

In the future, probably industry itself will exercise more supervision over 
the work engaged in by children in its employ. The attitude of many em- 
ployers at the present time is exceedingly intelligent and considerate, in so far 
as they have knowledge of .the physical needs of children 15 to 18 years old. 
As the medical service in industrial plants develops there will be better 
facilities for close observation of children at work, and of the effect on them 
of different kinds of work. It will be possible to make finer adjustment^ 
between children and the tasks they perform which will definitely aflVd 
their health and efficiency. 



M K \ 1, I H V N 1) I N I) I - I l< ^ (ill.-, 



Pending flic time when industrial medical service can share this respon- 
sibility, the health of children in industry must l>e guarded by the public 
department which has the responsibility of examining the mental ami phvsi 
eal abilities of children applying for working certificaN 

In Cleveland this work is done in connection with the Department of 
Medical Inspection in Schools of the Board of Kdiication. The present 
requirement in the Ohio School Law of a health certificate for every child going 
to work has been only superficially observed until the past year. The present 
director of the work has been at work since last June. Records have l>een 
in use only since September, 1919. Therefore, there are no data available for 
;i longer period than one school year. 

Children are examined carefully as to eyesight, hearing, teeth, throat, 
lungs and heart, and are looked over for bodily defects, fallen arches, evidences 
of malnutrition. All children are measured and weighed. They are 
questioned on their previous health history and for any diseases from 
which they have suffered, such as epilepsy, rheumatism, contagious diseases, 
influen/a. etc. This is quite a casual inquiry of the whole group l>eing ex- 
amined. On the occasion when the procedure was observed 1.) girls were 
being examined, and as the room is small there was some confusion. The 
girls took a personal interest in each individual examined, crowding around 
her until ordered back. 

The information obtained is recorded on each child's health record and 
filed. Separate files are arranged for records of children with serious physical 
defects, of children requiring correction of defects, and of children who are to 
be re-examined at a later period. The last named usually have conditional 
certificates. The medical officer spends about three hours daily in the office 
and a daily report is made up which is kept in the school medical inspection 
office. These records show the total numl>er of boy-, and girls examined, 
the number considered defective and those who were relatively sound, the 
different defects found and the number of corrections effected during the 8 
months from September to May. 

In the H months from September, l!)l!) to May. I!)-,'!), there \\civ examined 
4,JHS children, 1.001 boys and 1,347 girls. -Mh> of the boys and 1!) of the 
girls, or 1,111 of the children, had one or more physical defects. The com- 
plete figures from these records will l>e found in Tables X\ IV. and X \ \ . 
in the Appendix 

The defects from which children were suffering in largest num!>crs were 
carious teeth, defective vision and poor nutrition. (W.S children had d< 
live teeth, of which number M"! were later reported corrected. 1!)!) children 
were handicapped by defective vision, of which numl>er 10!) were later re- 
ported as having corrections made. 10.' > children were suffering from some 
F poor nutrition. There was no record of treatment recommended 
or received in these < hildren were diauuo^ed ,i Auspicious or 

positive tubercular en 



606 



The records of the large number of children suffering from decayed teeth, 
in many cases so bad that repair was impossible, from defective vision and 
from poor nutrition, indicate that the work of school medical inspection is 
not adequate. Children should not be allowed to reach the ages of 15 and 
16 with such uncared-for teeth that many must be extracted. Poor nutri- 
tion may be due to a number of causes. More study of the subject of nutri- 
tion is necessary. The school medical department is already conducting 
experiments and classes in nutrition which it is hoped will lead to the diminu- 
tion of the undernourishment which handicaps so many school children. In 
some cities a minimum standard of nutrition is set, determined according to 
the height, weight and age of the child, as requisite for a health certificate. 

It is not within the functions of this department to do other than examine 
children and prescribe treatment for physical defects discovered. No medical 
or dental work is done. The child is sent back to his own physician for treat- 
ment. In case it is understood that the parents of the child are unable to 
pay for such care, the child is referred to one of the public dispensaries. 

In order to obtain prompt action on the part of parents in having the 
prescribed corrections made, certificates are usually refused until the work 
has been done or until the child can show evidence that the corrections are 
under way. A conditional certificate valid for a short period of time is often 
given to a child who is under medical or dental treatment for some remediable 
defect. At the end of the period for which the conditional certificate has 
been given the child must return to the office and show evidence that the 
defect has been corrected before he can obtain a permanent certificate. 

While this department has been organized less than a year, it is already 
fairly well established, and its work is proving its value. The officers are 
much interested in its development and the outlook is promising for an 
organization having a splendid influence on the health problems of 
children going to work. The department needs to be considerably expanded 
and its working force increased. Health standards for children going into 
industry should be formulated, patterned after those soon to be issued by 
the Federal Children's Bureau Committee already mentioned. A summary 
of the committee's preliminary report on standards is included at the end of 
this section. One of the functions of the department still to be developed 
should be sufficient contact with the industrial field to assure familiarity 
with the jobs in which children are employed, in order that the examining 
physicians may be able to decide intelligently as to the desirability of dif- 
ferent kinds of work for the various children examined. 

It is to be regretted that there are no health records available for a longer 
period of time than one year. It is not possible to learn from the records of 
one year only, the physical effects of employment on children, data which it 
is important to collect before conclusive statements can be made as to the 
desirability of this or that occupation for children. A prominent activity of 
this department should be the study of the various occupations which chil- 
dren enter, and the accumulation of evidence of the development of children 
after a period of months and years in these occupations. This information 



II \ I. I' II AND I N I) I > I K ^ (ill-; 

can only be obtained hy means of j>eriodic medical examinations of children 
after employment lias begun. The Ohio law Mating to health certificate^ 
for work permits should be amended to require such jx'riodie medical exami- 
nations. The law should be amended also to assure a medical examination 
in every case In'fore a certificate is is>u-d for .1 specific job. The pledge of 
the employer required in the present law should l>e amended to specify tin- 
exact nature of the work a child is to do, as otherwise a child may be trans- 
ferred to work, other than that for which he received his work cert if i< 
which may be injurious to .his health. The amendments to the present law 
can IM- made as in the suggested form of the law, which follows: 



-M <;<;KSTED CONTENT OF OHIO LAW HE HEALTH CKKTIKICATE KOK 
CHILD APPLY INC KOK A WOKK CKIMIKK ATK. 



Section 7764-1 (4) Health Certificate. A certificate from the school 
physician, or if there be none, from the board of health, and if there be no 
board of health within the school district in question, from a licensed physi- 
cian appointed by the board of education, showing after a thorough medical 
examination that the child is physically fit to be employed at the specific 
occupation for which the child makes application for a permit, such occupation 
to be one not prohibited by law for a child under 18 years of age. 

Periodical examination of children who have been granted one health 
certificate shall be provided for by limiting the period of time for which 
certificates may be issued to two periods of six months each and one period 
of one year successively. A thorough medical examination showing the 
child to be physically fit for the employment in which he is to engage or is 
engaged shall be necessary in every case, before a certificate may be issued. 
Certificates may be granted for shorter periods of tirr.e than six months or 
one year, successively, if the physical condition of the child warrants more 
frequent examination, or if the child is allowed to work while receiving medi- 
cal treatment for correction of remediable physical defects. 

A new certificate shall be required upoi every change of employment. 

An adequate force of qualified physicians and others shall be provided 
for the work of examination and follow-up which may be necessary. 

(Pledge of Employer) (1) A pledge or promise signed by the employer 
or by an authorized manager or superintendent, specifying the exact nature 
of the work which the child is required or permitted to do, the number of 
hours per day during which the child is to be regularly employed, and the 
name and address of the employer, in which pledge or promise the employer 
agrees to employ the child in accordance with the provisions of this act, and 
to return to the superintendent of schools or to the person authorized by 
him to issue such certificates, the age, schooling and health certificate of the 
child within two days from the date of the child's withdrawal or dismissal 
from the employer, giving the reasons for such withdrawal or dismissal. 



608 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



.'}. SUBNORMAL CHILDREN IN INDUSTRY 

There are at present no means of ascertaining the mental capacities of all 
children wishing to go to work, other than the school record, which is too 
brief to furnish any information except the fact that the child has completed 
a specific school grade. Completion of the sixth grade is required of all boys 
and of the seventh grade of all girls. If it is decided that the mental capacity 
of a child is such that he cannot pass the required grade, that child may obtain 
a special permit to go to work, other requirements being complied with. 
School children who are suspected of being mentally deficient are tested by 
the examiner of subnormal children of the Department of Medical Inspection 
of the Board of Education. Only a small number of the subnormal children 
in the city are so examined. Such of those known deficient children as apply 
at the attendance department for a certificate to work, have on their school 
record the fact of their deficiency, and that fact is taken into consideration 
when the children are medically examined for a certificate. This information 
is invaluable in directing a child into the sort of work for which he is most 
suited because of his mental disability. A 15 year old boy went into the 
attendance department one day to obtain a permit to drive a truck for a 
construction company. He proved to be physically sound and during the 
time while he was being examined seemed normal. His school record showed 
that he was mentally deficient, having tested to a mental age of eight. The 
doctor promptly refused to grant him a permit for that job, as it did not 
seem wise to allow a boy of eight year old mentality to drive a truck about 
the city streets. 

There has been some discussion in the department as to the advisability 
of putting the statement of a child's mental deficiency on his school record, 
which goes to the work certificate office. Some officials felt that it was 
unfair to handicap the child in this way in finding employment. It is true 
that such a statement may not give a fair representation of the child's ca- 
pacity. The circumstances under which mental tests are given to a child 
may be such as to upset a not too well balanced mentality; that is, to a 
child in any degree uncertain of himself, it would be very upsetting to have to 
answer questions by strange people in the presence of his teacher and others 
who are strangers or of whom he is afraid. In such cases no child would 
give a very good account of his faculties. Furthermore, intelligence tests are 
still in the field of research, and not yet completely developed. It should 
not be so difficult to ascertain the mental capacity of an adult whose 
faculties have become somewhat crystallized, but it is questionable whether 
one group of tests as now used can set a value on the faculties of a growing 
child some of whose abilities are still latent. One employer, who has con- 
siderable sympathy for handicapped children, stated that he took three 
certificate boys who were mentally subnormal and put them to work in the 
machine shop. That was a year or so ago. Two of the boys wefe still there 
this spring, and one of them, his employer states, is making one of the best 
machinists in the shop and is an assistant foreman. It was his opinion that 
the tests which classed these boys as subnormal were too narrow in their 
scope, giving no indication of the fact that their ability might he entirely 
alon<r a mechanical line. 



II I A I.T II AND [NDU8 I U \ 60 

Whatever tin- facts may l>e as to the adequacy of tin- tests as now given, 
their uaefulnesa is undeniable and those in charge of them are exerting earnest 
effort to make the tests used complete, reliable and in step with the latest 
findings in this field of rest-arch. While more efficient tests may be worked 
out, those already in use are of great assistance in indicating, even if crudely, 
difference in menial capacities. 

Any knowledge of a deficiency in mentality of a child wishing to go to 
work should be communicated to his employer, as a protection both to the 
child and to the employer. In the visits to industrial establishments made 
during the course of this study, employers were questioned as to this point 
and the answer was invariably the same. "This information should be on 
the certificate of the child. It is of great assistance to us in deciding just 
what the child shall do. and it protects us both from the chance of an accident." 

A study was made of all the records of the subnormal children applying 
at the work certificate office for working paj>ers from September, !!)!!), to 
March. llhJO. Of the xMWIi health records on file in the office for that period 
148 were those of children whose mentality was deficient. According to 
these records 6.4% of all children having work jK-rmits are subnormal. 
This d(H-s not represent the total numl>er. It represents only those 
children whose subnormality had been ascertained while they were in 
school. In close connection with the medical examination for work certifi- 
cates there should IK- facilities for determining more accurately the mental 
capacities of all children wishing to go to work. The data available from 
such examinations will be an exceedingly valuable contribution to the studies 
of employment for children which are now being made. 

A careful study was made of the 148 records of children of subnormal 
mentality. The work which these children were doing was analy/ed, their 
physical defects tabulated and mental age recorded. In Table \\\'I. in 
the ApjxMidix the information thus obtained is shown in detail. 

There was more deficiency among the boys than among the girls, as the 
subnormal boys were 8.6% of the total number of boys who had obtained 
work certificates and the subnormal girls were l.s' , of the total numlx-r of girls. 

Twenty-se\en of the boys and t \\enty-t wo of the girls had no physical 
defects. Poor nutrition and bad teeth were the chief sources of trouble for 
both boys and girls. In many cases the two went together. While the 
number of cases of defective vision was not great, it should be noted that 
what is described as mental deficiency in children is not infrequently retarded 
mental development due to bad vision. l.'J girls and 8 boys who had tested 
subnormal in school came to the work certificate office with defects in - 
sight which should have been corrected before, in view of the fact that the 
children were -thought to be defective and had proved to be s,. upon b- 
tesle.l 

Not all of the children who had applied for \\..rk certificates ucre at work 
Between a third and a half of the certificates had been returned to the ofl 



<>!<) . HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

showing that the children had left their original jobs. As the office has not 
followed up such cases, it is not known whether these children got other jobs 
and are working illegally or whether they are staying out of school at home. 

The jobs for which the children had certificates could be classified in 
three general groups, machine work, hand work and errand work. Almost 
half of the boys were doing errand work as messengers, wagon boys, etc. 
The machine work was of a simple sort, such as is done in a large knitting 
mill. Under hand Work was grouped a large number of jobs in sorting and 
packing products, all of which require practically no skill and involve the 
repetition many times of one simple operation. Employers seem to have 
no objection to this group of workers. In many cases the work is very little 
different from that required of normal children. As before stated, the kind 
of work which many young children are doing is exceedingly simple, is easily 
learned and involves little or no mental effort. 

A question which requires study and which must be settled regarding 
such children, is whether or not they should continue in special schools where 
they can receive more training, or whether they should be more carefully 
inducted into industry where they can be under the stabilizing influence of 
regular work. 

Opinion differs on this point, Spine teachers of backward children regret 
very much that they leave before 16 years of age, saying that it takes several 
years of special work to get any results with the children. Others believe 
that they are better off at work than in school and that the law requiring 
their attendance in school should be more flexible than it is, in order that 
such individuals may get to work as soon as possible. Such children can re- 
ceive their industrial training to better advantage in a shop than they can 
in a special class in school, where only meagre industrial equipment is pos- 
sible. 

In Cincinnati a special committee supervises the industrial careres of all 
such children. In Baltimore unusual boys are taken from school and put 
to work under the direction of a department having this special responsi- 
bility. The effect of carefully directed work on the character development 
of these boys has been noteworthy. An experiment of this kind is well 
worth trying. Too little is known of the possibilities which lie in the right 
kind of work for backward and unusual children. It is suggested that a 
special arrangement should be made in the work certificate offices whereby 
children of this group will be carefully studied and directed into employment 
and followed up after they are ;it work. 



4. SiM\i\i<v OK STANDARDS OK NORMAL DKVKLOI-MKNT AND PHYSICAL 
FITNESS KOK WORKING CHILDREN 

(Tentative report of the committee appointed by the U. S. Children's 
Bureau to formulate standards for the use of physicians in examining chil- 
dren entering employment and children at work.) 



H E A LT H AND INDUSTRY 



A. GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS 

1. Age Minimum for Entrance into Industry. 

Should be not less than 16 years. It is important to protect a child from the physical 
and nervous strains of industry because of his general instability during the pubescent 
period. 

2. Physical Minimum for Entrance into Industry. 

No child under 18 years should be permitted to go to work wht> is not normally de- 
veloped for his age, of sound health and physically fit for the work at which he is to be 
employed. 

3. Physical Examinations for Children Entering Industry. 

A thorough medical examination fdr entrance into industry should be required and 
must show that a child is physically fit for industry. Before the examination is made the 
child must bring a promise of employment from his prospective employer stating the 
specific occupation in which he is to be employed. 

4. Re -examinations for Children Changing Occupations. 

With each change of employer another examination should be made before the child 
is again permitted to work, likewise when a child is transferred in the same place to work 
differing in its physical demands and hazards from that for which a permit is issued. 

5. Periodical Re-examinations for All Working Children. 

Yearly medical examinations should be required of all children at work up to the age 
of 18 years, or more frequently if judged desirable. These examinations shall take place 
either in the certificate issuing office or in the place where the child is employed. 

6. Need of study by local administrative and medical officers of occupations in 
which children are employed and of their effect upon health. 

Occupations employing children should be especially studied by the examining physi- 
cian, who should also be required to familiarize himself with conditions of employment and 
the various health hazards of industry. 

7. Need of authoritative scientific investigation. 

Considerable further study of the effects of different kinds of work upon the physique 
of the adolescent child is necessary, and especially with reference to: 

(a) Comparison of the rate of growth of children employed in different occupa- 
tions with that of children not in industry. 

(b) Comparison of morbidity among children employed in different occupa- 
tions with that of children not in industry. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



(c) Comparison of mortality among children employed in different occupa- 
tions with that of children not in industry. 

(d) Fatigue in children employed in different occupations and industries. 

(e) Effect of employment in specific occupations at different stages of physio- 
logical development upon the growth and health of (1) normal children, 
and (2) children with certain physical defects. 

(f) Effect of employment in specific occupations upon the special functions 
and organs of adolescent girls and young women. 

(g) Types of work desirable for: (1) children with some mental defect, and 
(2) children who are suffering from some physical handicap. 

Considerable material for these studies could be obtained from public 
school medical records and records of examinations made for work certificates. 
All such records should be standardized so as to be statistically comparable. 

8. Certain tentative minimum standards obtainable from results of scientific 
research already available. 

Although further study is necessary, there are sufficient data already on hand to 
justify the recommendation now of certain tentative minimum standards, which will 
materially safeguard the welfare of children entering industry while still immature. 



B. MINIMUM STANDARDS OF PHYSICAL FITNESS FOR CHILDREN 
ENTERING AND WORKING IN INDUSTRY 

1. Standards of normal development. 

(a) Certificates should be refused to children who do not come up to the fol- 
lowing minimum standards of height and weight for specified ages, based 
on the most reliable present-day experience. 

Age Weight (in clothing) Height 

14 80 Ibs. 58 inches 

15 85 Ibs. 58 inches 

16 90 Ibs. 59 inches 

Exceptions may be made if other circumstances in the child's case, 
such as racial characteristics, warrant it. 

(b) Certificates should be refused to children who do not show certain unmis- 
takable signs of adolescence. 

2. Standards of health and physical fitness for specific employment. 

(a) Certificates should be refused permanently to all children who have cer- 
tain specified defects. All such children should be referred to the appro- 
priate agency for whatever assistance may be necessary. 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 613 

(b) Certificates should be refused to all children pending correction of all 
serious remediable defects. Such children should be referred to the ap- 
propriate medical agency for the necessary medical treatment. 

(c) All children who, for any reason, show a tendency to weakness or disease 
of any organ should be excluded from occupations which tend to aggravate 
that tendency. 



C. POINTS TO BE COVERED AND METHODS TO BE EMPLO YED 
IN PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS 

1. Item* for Inquiry. 

(a) First examination should include a record of sex, race and nationality, age, 
intended employer (name and address), intended occupation and industry, school grade 
completed, family history of father, mother, brothers and sisters, previous illness and phys- 
ical examination. The physical examination should include the following: 

Height Maturity Nasopharynx 

Weight Skin Glands 

Physical condition Eyes Chest, heart, lungs 

Nutrition Ears Abdomen 

Anaemia Mouth Nervous system 

Summary of defects, as correctable and non-correctable. 

Certificate should be (a) recommended after first examination, or (b) refused, either per- 
manently or temporarily, pending correction of specified defect, or (c) recommended after 
re-examination (that is, after correction of defect). 

(b) In re-examinations the same points should be covered as in the first 
examination, and any changes noted in detail. 

2. Record card and instructions for use of examining physician. 

The use of a uniform record card is recommended in order that uniformity may be 
obtained in administration and in statistical analysis. Such a record form is included in 
the report of the committee. (These standards in full may be obtained from the Federal 
Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C., upon application.) 



EDUCATION'S RESPONSIBILin 

More educational preparation for the transition from school to industry 
is necessary. Upon the training provided in public education depends in a 
great measure the success with which children are guided out of the school 
period of semi-dependence into the industrial period of greater freedom and 
final independence when they must rely wholly on their own efforts. 



614 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

It is generally agreed that education's prime function is that of training 
for citizenship in the complete sense. That this education must contain 
more elements which will connect it with industrial life is also generally 
agreed. When 75% of the children leave school shortly before the comple- 
tion of the elementary grades to go to work, it is necessary to plan a course 
of education which will supply the essentials within these grades. Indus- 
trial experts believe that vocational training should not be included in ele- 
mentary education except in the broadest sense, that schools supported by 
general taxation should not be expected to supply specific training for par- 
ticular jobs, that being the responsibility of industry. But the schools are 
not alive to their responsibility in getting children safely to work. Their 
influence should not cease as soon as the child goes through the school door. 
Authorities agree that partial supervision of the child should continue until 
the child is 18. His public school education should continue at least as long 
as that in some form. 

The problem of incorporating into the school program a sufficient amount 
of preparation for industrial life, of the right sort, is one of the most pressing 
and fundamental of the many questions which educators must face. Of the 
various experiments already being tried out none has as yet proved itself of 
sufficient value to justify its general use. The problem has many angles 
and requires considerable study and experimentation. The endeavor of 
the National Association of Corporation Schools to gather data on the 
subject and to develop experimentation in industrial training as well as 
in general education is a noteworthy instance of the many earnest efforts 
being made to throw light on a perplexing but interesting problem, interest- 
ing because it is of recent growth and is an index of the changing attitude of 
society towards industry. It has taken a long time for general thought to 
recognize that cultural education may include knowledge of the industrial 
world as well as of the world of letters and of science. 

This problem cannot be solved easily. It is not within the province of 
a health survey to make specific recommendations as to how it shall be done, 
whether by more vocational training of a general nature in the school cur- 
riculum, whether trade apprenticeship hi industry, or by the exten- 
sion of the establishment of continuation schools. The Smith-Hughes Act, 
passed by the United States Congress in 1917, has been a great incentive to 
the organization of some sort of vocational education in all of the states of 
the country. The local Board of Education or the Ohio state educational 
authorities should give this subject careful consideration in the near future 
and make more adequate provision for industrial training in the school pro- 
gram than exists at the present time. 

One element of training for industrial life which should be mentioned 
here is that of health education. Education for physical development and 
health maintenance cannot begin too soon. Knowledge of the elements of 
hygiene and sanitation should be thoroughly taught. For the child entering 
industry it is important that he shall know not only the value of physical 
and nervous energy and its conservation, but also the particular health 
hazards which he will encounter in industry. Trained to take into account 



1 1 i . A L T H AND INDUSTRY 615 

health considerations just as he takes into account wages and hours of work, 
in determining the relative merits of possible jobs he will have learned a 
valuable lesson, and a most useful one. As reported in the section on Child 
Health Work (Part III.) there is no systematic instruction in hygiene and 
sanitation offered to the school children of Cleveland at present. A study 
of the subject brings out the necessity for such instruction for children who 
are going into the greater freedom of the industrial world, while they are 
still children. Every possible measure which can be taken to teach them 
to take care of themselves contributes towards their development into 
healthy adults. The Board of Education should provide at once for syste- 
matic and thorough health instruction throughout the grammar grades. 



JUNIOR VOCATION DEPARTMENTS 

Nor is there space in the scope of a health survey to do more than indi- 
cate the problem of actual industrial placement of children going to work 
at an early age. Sufficient industrial training before leaving school and care- 
ful selection of the first jobs in industry are both factors of influence hi 
assuring the establishment of sound health in children of this formative age. 
Not only must a child be adequately prepared and physically qualified to 
go into industry; he must also get into the right place where his individual 
abilities have a chance for expansion. As pointed out previously a child 
cannot be expected to do this unaided. Many do and eventually make a 
success of their work, but it is not reasonable to expect Jthat every child can 
do so, nor to assume that it is anything more than chance when a child does 
by accident, marked inclination, or repeated trials, land in a job which suits 
him and offers opportunity for development. Provision should be made for 
continuance during the early years of his employed life of the supervision 
by which a child is guided through school life. Some advice and individual 
consideration for each child going to work, given by a person familiar with 
the various fields of work open to children and having sympathy with and 
understanding of their desires and inclinations, can be of great service in 
effecting an early adjustment for the child with industrial life. Vocational 
guidance is still in the stage of experimentation, being one of the many prob- 
lems concerning children of working age which have only recently received 
attention. 

The whole problem of inducting children from school" into industry, which 
has been considered in this study in its relation to the establishment of sound 
health in youth, can be met by the organization of Junior Employment 
Departments. England as long ago as 1910 saw the possibilities of central- 
ization, and made provision for it in the Education (Choice of Employment) 
Act. For the past five years even more care lias been given to working 
children than provided for in this act. Children going to work have the 
benefit of individual advice regarding work, of consideration of their physical 
well-being, of educational opportunity to train for a vocation either before or 
after they begin work. It is considered to the nation's intm-st "that all 
children receive a good chance of health and satisfactory employment." In 
England the juvenile labor exchange is under the direction of the school. 



616 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Junior employment departments or vocational guidance bureaus are 
developing in this country, and it has been found likewise advantageous to 
have the department closely connected with the school. When the activities 
for children of this age are closely related it is possible to unify the efforts of 
all and to be sure that all children are kept track of, and all information re- 
garding individual children made use of. There are numerous reasons which 
make advisable such centralization of activities. 

In Cleveland a free public employment bureau has been in existence for 
some years under the joint control of the state and city authorities. This 
bureau has conducted employment work for boys and girls for some time. 
The boys' work is in a separate department. The girls' and women's work 
has been combined in one department although previously separate. Careful 
investigation of the work in which young people are employed and of the 
establishments where they are to be sent has been a prominent feature of the 
junior employment work. 

The work of this department could probably be more effectively carried 
on in direct connection with the Board of Education department which has 
supervision of all children going to work. By such a central organization 
the process of guiding children from school to work would be a continuous 
one, under unified control and direction, making contradiction of purpose 
impossible. Free interchange of opinion and advice between those ascer- 
taining by examination the abilities of children and those directing them 
into industry would 'be possible and of great value. All of the data available, 
relating to the various phases of the employment of children, would be ac- 
cumulated in one place and their value for research and action be unequaled. 

Until such time as it is possible to effect a consolidation between the two 
departments it is recommended that their relations be made as close and 
direct as possible in order that the opinion of those examining the child who 
wishes to go to work, may direct the efforts of the employment bureau in 
finding the child suitable employment. Employment suited to a child's 
physical and mental abilities is essential. The degree of harmony attained 
between a child and his first job has no small influence in determining whether 
he will settle down and develop desirable work habits leading to a well ori- 
ented character or whether he is going to be dissatisfied in a short time and 
try another job, drifting about until his work habits become unsettled and 
his character unstable. 

An outline for such a Vocational Guidance Department is appended. It 
contains in the plan of organization the essential activities involved in deal- 
ing with the children of working age, all of which are properly 'included in a 
department functioning under the Board of Education in any city. Some 
features included have proved their value in similar departments already 
organized in this country and abroad. A plan of this character is appropri- 
ately a part of this report as it emphasizes ou opinion that the problem 
of the child going into industry is fundamentally one of health, and 
in order to protect his health adequately there must be a central bureau 



1 1 I \ I. T II A N D I X D U 8 T 1< V 617 



which will serve as a bridge for his safe conduct from M -liool into the industrial 
world. Proper consideration of a child's physical abilities comes first. This 
fact recognized and coupled with the other factors which must be considered, 
there is no reason why children should not benefit by their early industrial 
experience, rather than be permanently handicapped if not wasted to society 
by their ill-advised efforts at work, before they are equal to it or for which 
they are unfitted. A careful organization of the procedure of letting and 
getting children to work will give the health questions the important place 
which they should have, and will provide adequate machinery for continuing 
the task of supervision of children until they reach maturity. 



SUGGESTED PLAN OF ORGANIZATION FOR A Ji M<M< VOCATION \i. Hi KEAU 
OK THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OK CLEVELAND 

To include boys 15 to 18 and girls 16 to 18 years of age. This period of years is sug- 
gested rather than 1 5 to 2 1 years, because it is the division made by the State Child Labor 
Law between children and adults. Also it simplifies the division of children's and adults' 
employment into two offices, which offices can then be physically as well as officially 
separate. 

This organization will include all steps in the procedure of letting and getting a child 
to work, from the time when he is still in school and thinking of going to work, to the time 
when he is well established in suitable employment. 

/. School Connection*. 

1. Continuous record cards to be used, containing the medical, mental, scholastic 
and social (including family) history of the child, beginning with his first year in school 
and following him through the grades to the office where he makes application for a work 
certificate. Such records have been used with great success in other cities. 

2. Scholarship fund for children who otherwise would be obliged to go to work be- 
cause of economic necessity. 

3. Vocational talks to children who are thinking of leaving school, emphasizing the 
importance of longer schooling, but also giving introductory information regarding indus- 
trial life. 

4. Published leaflets on occupations open to children, to contain specific informa- 
tion relative to various occupations for the benefit of children making ready to leave 
school for work. 

//. School Attendance and Illegal Employment 

The school attendance and illegal employment of children of working age must be 
closely checked up in order to make certain that every child going to work does so legally 
by going through the work certificate office where he must undergo a medical examination 
before receiving a work certificate. 



618 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



In order that all information relative to children 15 to 18 years of age may be utilized, 
the school census records should be available at this office. 

Special duties of one or more of the regular school attendance officers would be to 
follow up the school attendance of children of this age, to keep in touch with the State 
Factory Inspection Department regarding children at work, and to follow up all cases of 
children whose certificates have been returned, to see that they return to school if not at 
work. Correspondence has been successfully utilized to accomplish some of these ends. 

///. Issuance of Work Certificates. 

1. Establishment of birth and school records in accordance with the legal require- 
ments. 

2. Medical examinations for health certificates, as required by law. The physician, 
nurses and clerks are to make and record medical examinations and follow up children 
whose permits are held up, until remediable defects are corrected, or are refused because of 
physical disability. These children must be kept track of, to see that they get medical 
assistance when necessary or return to school if not allowed to be at work. The school 
medical record of a child is of service here. . . 

3. Mental Tests At present only marked subnormality is recorded in most offices. 
Intelligence tests are now used most effectively by many large corporations. Their use in 

this department is essential in aiding in the selection of suitable work for normal as. 
well as for subnormal children. 

IV. Vocation Bureau. 

1. Continuous research in occupations open to children is necessary for the purpose 
of advising children wisely regarding work, and for the purpose of accumulating informa- 
tion in respect to the health hazards for young people in various types of work. Too 
little is known on this subject at the present time. Such information must be available to 
the physician diagnosing a child's physical capacity for employment. 

2. Placement and Guidance Connects children who have received work certificates 
with jobs, and has the advantage of all the facts established by previous examinations as 
to the child's physical and mental qualifications, for use in vocational guidance work. 

V. Research. 

Through the many contacts which this bureau would have, and the large amount of 
information in its files, special studies of related questions would be of value, as well as 
periodical analysis of information in the files. 



VI. Advisory Committees. 

NOTE In the two months which have elapsed since the field work for 
this report was completed, steps have been taken by the Cleveland Board of 
Education towards the formation of such a bureau. The Bureau of Attend- 
ance of the Board of Education has been enlarged and its functions extended. 



Hi ALT ii AND INDUSTRY 019 

Records have been established which will carry the medical, social and school 
history of the child from the time when he first enters school to the date 
when he leaves school to apply for working papers. Vocational advice to 
such children is to be provided, and the possibility of arranging for employ- 
ment work is being considered. Greater empha>is ^ }>eing put on a child's 
physical status, ascertained by medical examinations, as the determining 
factor in deciding whether or not*he shall receive a permit to work. 



SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 

/. Recommendations Requiring Legislation. 

1. The Ohio State Child Labor Law should be amended in the following particulars: 

Age Requirements The employment of boys before they are 16 years of age should 
be forbidden. Age and schooling certificates should be required of all boys under 18 
years of age at work. This makes the age requirements for boys and girls the same. 

In all cases in the law where an "age and schooling certificate" is mentioned the law 
should be changed to read "age, schooling and health certificate," inasmuch as the health 
certificate received by the child going to work is one of the most important factors to be 
considered in certifying a child for employment. 

2. The Ohio School Code should be amended in the following particulars: 

Educational Requirements Girls 16 to 18 years of age are not now required to continue 
school if not employed. The law should be amended to include this requirement and to 
make similar requirement for boys 16 to 18 years of age. 

Health Certificate The section of the law relating to a health certificate for a child 
going to work should be changed. In no case should a child receive a certificate based on 
a previous record of the child's health. A thorough medical examination, made by a 
qualified physician, should be the requisite for every health certificate issued. These 
certificates should be issued in such a manner and for such periods of time as to insure 
periodical examinations of children over the two years from 16 to 18, or while they are 
employed on a certificate basis. Every health certificate should be issued for the specific 
job for which the child makes application for a permit. There should be included a pro- 
vision for an adequate force of examiners and assistants, for the work of examination and 
necessary follow up. 

Pledge of Employer Added to this section of the law should be a clause requiring 
that the promise signed by the employer specify the exact nature of the work which the 
child is required or permitted to do. 

Agricultural Work and Domestic Service are not now included by the Ohio Child Labor 
Law in the occupations under its supervision. There should be an age limitation of at least 12 
for these occupations and a limitation of hours of work, similar to those limitations in hours 
of work in other occupations. A health certificate should be required of every child. 
Regulation of conditions of work may involve some difficulties needing the cooperation 



620 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

of other agencies. Examinations for health certificates can be conducted in the same man- 
ner as for other occupations by the existing machinery without great difficulty. 

3. The City Ordinance regulating street trades should be enforced, pending the 
inclusion of these trades in the State Child Labor Law. Certificates to boys to engage in 
this work and badges to be worn by them while at work, as specified in the ordinance,' 
should be received from the work certificate office of the Board of Education, where each 
boy will receive a medical examination showing him to be physically fit for" this kind of 
work, before he can receive a permit. 

//. Recommendations re Existing Departments, State or Local. 

1 . Enforcement of the State Child Labor Law is under the direction of the Industrial 
Commission of Ohio. The law is not at the present time adequately enforced. Methods 
of work should be improved and the personnel for inspection increased, in order to elimi- 
nate the illegal employment of children, the extent of which the findings of this study 
indicate. 

2. Enforcement of the State School L a>a is similarly inadequate. It is under the direc- 
tion of the Board of Education. The number of School Attendance officers should be in- 
creased and the organization of the Attendance department and the Work Certificate 
Office revised. The School Census maintained by another department of the Board of 
Education should be more closely related to the department of Attendance, to aid in the 
work of checking up on the attendance of children, and especially those of working age. 

3. Medical Examination for Work Certificates The present organization is under the 
direction of the Department of Medical Inspection of the Board of Education. It needs 
to be considerably expanded and its working force increased. Health standards for chil- 
dren going into industry should be formulated, patterned after those soon to be issued by 
the Federal Children's Bureau Committee on Health Standards for Children in Industry. 
One of it's functions, still to be developed, should be sufficient contact with the industrial 
field to assure familiarity with the jobs open to children, in order that the examining 
physicians may be able to decide intelligently as to the desirability of different kinds of 
work for the various children examined. 

4. Mental Examinations for Work Certificates There is at present no means of de- 
termining the mental capacities of children wishing to go to work, other than the school 
record, which is too brief to furnish any information except the fact that the child has 
completed the required school grade, except in the case of children who have been known 
in school as markedly subnormal. There should be in close relation to the work of medical 
examination for health certificates facilities by which to determine more accurately the 
mental capacities of children wishing to work, in order to aid in the selection of employ- 
ment for them. 

* 

5. Educational Training More educational preparation for the transition from school 
to industry is necessary. It is not within the province of a health survey to make specific 
recommendations as to how this shall be done, but the Board of Education or the State 
educational authorities should give this question careful consideration in the near future, 
and make provision for more effective industrial education. In particular the Board of 
Education should provide at once for systematic and thorough health instruction in the 



1 1 i. ALT ii AND INDUSTRY 621 

grammar grades. Knowledge of the elements of hygiene and sanitation is essential to the 
child entering industry as well as knowledge of the character of the health hazards which 
he will encounter in industry. 

6. Junior Employment The junior employment work at present under the direction 
of the Public Employment Bureau should be carried on in more direct connection with 
that department of the Board of Education having supervision of all children going to 
work, in order to have unified control and direction, making contradiction of purpose 
impossible. Until such time as it is possible to effect this consolidation it is recommended 
that the relation between the departments be made close and direct, in order that the 
opinion of those examining a child applying for a work certificate may direct the efforts of 
the employment bureau in finding suitable employment for the child. 

7. Attendance Department Plans have been made recently to enlarge and extend the 
functions of the Attendance Department of the Board of Education. Sufficient promi- 
nence should be given to the medical and mental examinations in all questions relating 
to the issuance of work certificates and to vocational guidance, as the medical and mental 
examinations, properly conducted, give unequalcd opportunity to make adjustment be- 
tween the law and individual variation in capacity and physical development. More de- 
pendence should be placed on the results of careful examinations of children in deciding 
as to their employment in various occupations, thus lessening hardship or unfairness in 
individual cases. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE I. 

Classification of 1,521 Industrial Organizations by Size Groups 

Including Employes 



Group by Size of 
Organization 

1 , 000 and over . 


Number of 
Organizations 

39 


Per Cent of All 
Organiza- 
tions 

2 56 


Number of 
Employes 
in Group 

84,359 


Per Cent of 
All Employes 
All Groups 

42 98 


Average 
Number 
Employes 
per Organ- 
ization 

2 163 


500 and over . 


80 


5 25 


112,535 


57 34 


1 406 6 


400 and over . 


100 


6 57 


121,362 


61 84 


1 213 6 


300 and over . 


134 


8 80 


132.802 


67 67 


991 


200 and over .. . 


182 


11.96 


144,564 


73 66 


794 2 


100 and over ... 


294 


19 32 


155,246 


79 10 


528 


1 and over 


1,521 


100 00 


196,246 


100 00 


129 


Less than 1 , 000 


1,482 


97.44 


111,887 


57 02 


75 4 


Less than 500 


1,441 


94.75 


83,711 


42 66 


58 


Less than 400 


1,421 


93.43 


74,884 


38 16 


52 6 


Less than 300 


1,387 


91.20 


63,444 


32 33 


45 7 


Less than 200 


1,339 


88.04 


51,682 


26 34 


38 5 


Less than 100 


1,227 


80.68 


41,000 


20 90 


33 4 


1 , 000 and over 


39 


2.56 


84,359 


42 98 


2 163 


500 to 1,000 


41 


2.69 


28,176 


14 36 


687 2 


400 to 500 


20 


1.32 


8,827 


4 50 


441 3 


300 to 400 


34 


2.23 


11,440 


5 83 


336 4 


200 to 300 


48 


3.16 


11,762 


5 99 


245 


100 to 200 


112 


7.36 


10,682 


5.44 


95 3 


1 to 100 


1,227 


80 68 


41,000 


20 90 


33 4 















Totals 



1,521 



100.00 

TABLE II. 



196,246 



100.00 



Medical Service in Industrial Organizations 



Group by Size of 
Organizations 



Total Number 

Number Organ. 
Organ. with 

in Medical 

Group Service 



Total 
Number 



Total 
Number 



Employes Employes 

in Recyg. 

Group Service 



Per Per 

Cent Cent 
Organ. Emps. 



129.0 



Group 
Served 



Group 
Served 



1 , 000 and over. 

500 to 1,000.. 

200 to 500.. 

1 to 200. 



39 

41 

102 

1,339 



32 

30 

7 

3 



84,359 
28,176 
32,029 
51,682 



72,196 

20,786 

2,118 

365 



82.05 85.58 

73.17 73.77 

6.86 6.61 

0.22 0.70 



Per 
Cent 

Emps. 

Served 
of All 

Emps. 

36.78 

10.59 

1.07 

0.18 



Per 
Cent 

Organ. 

Served 
of All 

Organ 

2.10 
1.97 
0.46 
0/20 



Totals .. 1,521 



72 196,246 95,465 4.73 48.64 48.64 4.73 



1 , 000 and over 


39 


32 


84,359 72,196 82.05 85.58 36.78 2.10 


500 and over 


80 


62 


112,535 92,982 77.50 82.62 47.37 4.07 


200 and over 


182 


69 


144,564 95,100 37.91 65.78 48.45 4.53 


1 and over.. 


.. 1.521 


72 


196.246 95.465 4.73 48.64 48.64 4.73 



HKALTH AND INDUSTRY 



TABLE III. 
Personnel of Medical Departments 



Group by Size of 
Organization 

1 ,000 and over 

500 to 1,000 
200 to 500 
1 to 

Totals 72 



Number No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of 

Organ. Number of No. of Full- Part- Phym. Trad. Prac. Cleri- 



with Med. Employe* 
Service Served 


Ind. 
Diip. 


Time 
Phy. 


Time 
Phyt. 


on 

Call 


Nurmci 


Nurses 


cal 
Perm. 


32 
i 30 


72, 
20, 
2, 


196 
786 
118 
365 


53 
30 
7 
3 


6 
1 




41 
16 
4 
1 


8 
8 
1 
1 


69 
18 
6 



12 
7 

1 


14 





1 7 


) 3 



95,465 93 



62 



18 93 



20 



14 



TABLE IV. 
Administrative Relations of Fifty-six Medical Departments 



Group by Size of 
Organizations 

1,000 and over 

500 to 1,000 

200 to 500 

1 to 200... 



MEDICAL DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBLE TO 
Administration Production Employment Claims 



Totals 



7 
8 
1 
2 

18 



5 
5 



10 



15 
8 
3 



26 



Total 

29 
21 

4 
2 

56 



TABLE V. 
Medical Service in Mercantile Establishments and in Public Utilities 





No. 
















No. 




Eat iih 


No. of 


No. of 


No. of 


No. of 


No. of 


No. of 


No. of 


with 




with 


Dis- 


Em- 


Full 


Part- 


Phys. 


Trnd. 


Prac. 


Vistg. 




Medical 


pen- 


ployr* 


Time 


Time 


on 


Nurses 


Nurse* 


Nurs- 




Service 


saries 


Served 


Phys. 


Phys. 


Call 






ing 


Mercantile . . 


6 


6 


9,107 


1 


3 


2 


5 


2 


2 


Public Util. 


6 


7 


13,302 





7 


1 


6 


1 


2 



Totals. 



12 



13 22,409 



10 



11 



624 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

TABLE VI. 

Accident Frequency and Severity Rates for Cuyahoga County 

Based Upon Ohio Industrial Commission Report for 

July to December, 1914 

For six months period: 

Accidents causing death 44 

Accidents causing permanent partial disability 330 

Accidents causing disability over seven days 3 , 892 

Accidents causing disability two to seven days..._ 4,571 

Time Loss: 

Cases fatal (6,000 days each) , 264,000 days 

Permanent partial disability 52,127 days 

Temporary disability, over seven days 103,976 days 

Temporary disability, under seven days 9 , 199 days 



Total time loss, all accidents, six months 429,302 days 

Accepting estimate of Bulletin 9 (1915), Industrial Commission, employes in industry 
numbered 185,000. 

Estimated number reportable accidents annually 17,344 

Frequency rate (number per 1,000 full-time workers) 93 .7 

Estimated number days lost per year : 858,604 

Severity rate ( days lost per worker per year) 4.53 



TABLE VII. 

Accident Frequency and Severity Rates for Groups of Operatives 
Employed Within Selected Areas 

Based Upon Reports Furnished by the Industrial Commission of Ohio Covering 
the Period of June 1st to November 30th, 1919 

Accidents During Six Months 

Number 7 Days More Estimated Estimated Sever - 

of and than Yearly Freq. Yearly ity 

Group Employes Fatal Less 7 Days Total Rate Time Loss Rate 

I. 24,298 3 905 215 2,246 92.4 33,927 1.3 

II. 19,600 6 2,147 520 5,346 276.3 74,345 3.7 

III. 10,193 2 1,371 287 3,320 325.7 33,945 3.3 



Totals 54,091 11 4,423 1,022 10,912 201.7 142,217 2.6 

Time losses were estimated by reckoning a fatal accident as equivalent to 6,000 days. 

Employing average values previously published by the Industrial Commission, tem- 
porary disability of seven days or less was reckoned at 2.1 days; temporary disability of 
more than seven days, at 28.2 days. 



HEALTH AND INDUBTIM 625 



TABLE VIII. 

Comparative Accident Frequency and Severity Rates in the Con- 
struction and Metal Trades 

Based Upon Statistics Published by the Industrial Commission of Ohio for 
Cuyahoga County, July to December, 1914 

Construction Metal 

Trade* Trade* 

Number of employes _ _ 20,000 72,900 

Accidents (6 months): 

Fatal 19 10 

Permanent partial disability 30 71 

Temporary disability _ 1,393 3,825 

Total number accidents. _ 1,442 3,906 

Accidents (calculated for one year) 2,884 7,812 

Accident frequency rate 144.2 107.1 

Corrected for assumed 10-hour day, 200-day year 216.3 

Corrected for assumed 8-hour day, 200-day year 270.3 

Calculated time loss, days per year 290,868 246,858 

Accident severity rate : 14.5 3.38 

Corrected for assumed 10-hour day, 200-day year 21 .0 

Corrected for assumed 8-hour day, 200-day year 27.2 

The corrections above noted are made in consideration of the fact that many workers 
in the construction trades do not work a 3,000-hour year, which is the normal basis of 
computation of frequency and severity rates. 

The time losses given in this table were calculated from those published by the Indus- 
trial Commission, with the exception of allowances for fatal accidents, which were reckoned 
as each equivalent to a loss of 6,000 days. 



626 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE IX. 

Classification of 79 establishments employing women, presenting numbers of 

various establishments, numbers of women therein employed, 

and group totals. 



E 
Group 

Industrial 


No. of 

.stablish- 
ments 

23 
11 
7 
6 
3 
2 
5 


Group Nature of 
Total Group Members 

Metal Trades 


No. of 

Female 
Employe* 

3,691 
4,642 
2,700 
371 
220 
375 
614 


Group 
Total 




Knitting and Textile 


12,613 


Garment Trades 


Candy Factories 


Paper Box Factories _. 
Tobacco Factories 
57 Miscellaneous 




Mercantile 


7 


7 Department Stores. 





6,730 






Personal Service 


6 
3 
2 


Laundries i 


505 
708 
245 


1,458 




Hotels 


1 1 Restaurants 




Public Utilities. 


2 
2 


Telephone Companies 
4 Telegraph Companies 


1,675 
430 




2,105 



Totals. 



79 



22,906 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 



H 


IO Wi * I 

- 8 8 | 


f 


* 


8 i s 


I 










i 














Q 






1 




i 




2.5 


M 

H 


10 0) 9> <0 


V ?l 

^ O 


M 

s 


G) 00 00 O* 

to o 55 *** 
in ^ 00 


e m 

.* *1 

o* t 
r " 


s 


>- 01 4k - 

to ** 


W 2. ^ 

?* OB" 

2 30- 


2 

to 


200 *O O 
o< * o 


& I 5 j 

H Mi 

g. > 


1 


>- - tn O 


21 8 2 

M a <* y 
II 

ro . 2 


M 


to 


E ^ 


i 


W 00 00 

o "- : 


- B 

i 


M 

to 
to 

O 


IO h- O O 

i s i 


f -I 






J* 






? 8 


<y> 


en H- O 




w 


S i 1 


| J 


i 


O* O) O ^ 

210 i O 
en ! o 


i 



M '^ < M | 

*** 

10 01 OJ 

V <2 ? 

O W 2 00 



628 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 







rH N* O rH 











rH 




.' 


m *o t-~ co <M 


m 




* 


CO *t CN rH 


CN 

rH 




H . 


CM rH fs. IO o 


<o 




H 


rH rH 


m 




o 


Ot CO ; in rH 
0> m rH 






o 


CN rH rH O 


m 




i 


00 VO CO t- 


S 





^ 


oo ot : so 
CN vo : m 


rf 





! 


i 


rH 


g 


Tf 

tj 


m CN : rH 


00 


S 


H 


i 




o 








b 


. 


co o j o 


co 


vi 


Q. ^ 


co o oo 


rH 




^ 


O m rH 


*^ 


C 


J 


rH rH ! 


CN 


: f .11 




: 


* 


: ' H if 

I-J * 89 


:" 


00 

O> rH in . rH * 
rH CN 00 


* 
CO 

rH~ 


pg 2 


* 






^- r< _ 








< 3 ^3 





CN rH C4 rH rH 


^ 


H *c 


M 






09 








-1 
11 


^ 


m o in oo oo 


VO 


* ~ 


J . 


00 


O) 


IM 




W 


rH rH CO - rH 


** 


. c 








1 


fsi 


S 

CN 


m 

CN 


1 


1 


rH~ 


rH 


A 

3 


JU 


- 


CO 


. 






! 








: 






II 








1 


i 
\ 






H 








1 1 


| 




a 


S W 

oo *i 


J 







lift 1 


O 

H 






S & i 





HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 



629 



TABLE XII. 

Classification of starting weekly wage rates for women in 55 industrial 
establishments employing women. 



Group 1 

Metal 


12-13 

3oll.,rs 


13-14 
Dollar* 

1 


14-15 

Dollar. 

7 


15-16 
Dollar* 

6 


16-17 
Dollar* 

5 


17-17.50 
Dollar* Total* 

2 21 


Knitting and Textile.. 
Garment. 


4 
1 


2 


2 
5 


2 
1 


1 


11 
7 


Candy 




4 






2 


6 


Miscellaneous 


3 


1 


2 


2 


2 


10 


Totals.... 


8 


8 


16 


11 


10 


2 55 



TABLE XIII. 



Classification of luncheon facilities in 56 industrial establishments 
employing women. 



Group 

Metal 

Knitting and Textile.. ... 

Garment . 

Candy 

Miscellaneous 



Lunchroom Selling 

Supplementary 
Cafeteria Lun<-h 



11 

5 
3 
2 
2 



Lunchroom 
Only 


No 
Lunchroom 
U*ed 


7 


2 


3 


3 


3 


.... 


2 


1 


8 





Total* 

23 

11 

7 

5 

10 



Totals 



23 



23 



56 



630 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XIV. 

Classification of 33 industrial establishments employing women and having 

centralized employment service, by size-groups based on total 

number of employes. 



Group 
Metal 


1,000 and 
Over 

6 


500 to 1,000 

3 


200 to 500 
6 


1 to 200 
1 


Totals 
16 


Knitting and Textile 
Garment... 


1 



3 

5 



1 



1 


4 

7 


Candy 


o 





1 


2 


3 


Miscellaneous . . 


1 








2 


3 















Totals... 



11 



33 



TABLE XV. 

Classification of 23 industrial establishments employing supervisory women, 
by size-groups based on total number of employes. 



Group 

Metal 


1,000 and 
Over 

4 


500 to 1,000 



200 to 500 

3 


1 to 200 



Totals 
7 


Knitting and Textile . 





4 








4 


Garment 





5 


o 


1 


6 


Candy 


o 





1 


3 


4 


Miscellaneous 











2 


2 















Totals.... 



23 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 



03 1 



I* 

3 * 
C jo 

3 * 
2, 

M 


H 

j 

M 
cn 
00 


1 

cn 

B 

cn 


Cn 

10 
0) 


4 




cn 


Z 
e 
3 






t 


cn 


cn 

00 


n 




a 














o 






Cn 
cn 

O 


9t 
w 

O 


IB 

8 

o> 


co 
w 

8 


4 




S 

- 

a 
















A 






O 

00 

O 


cn 


cn 


ft 


*+ 


s 



9 




2 


00 


CO 


* 


< 




Q 




00 

* 


to 

I 


5 


! 


s l 




5 

2. 
5* 


53 
















00 




M 


s 


O 


?t 




a 



r 




Cn 


*? 


* 




) 


s 















00 


a 


gm 


s 

In 


O 
M 


cn 

M 


cn 
o 


'4 




Z 

e 


r* 


S* 


cn 





Cn 






3 






M 


cn 


Cn 






1 






m 







+4 O 




* 






1 


00 







p e. 









00 














^ 




k 


10 
cn 


i 


cn 
*o 


4 




! 




3 







10 






r 






^ 










OB 






M 


cn 


ON 


z"^ 










B 

o 


10 

O 


i 


? l 




> 














K3 
















o 


A 




3 


O 

s 

Cn 


2 


cn 


Cn 




4 




(0 

a 








$* 


co 






i? 








y 


Cn 


z a 




x 






00 


i 

CO 


cn 


? 


H 








o 








8 






o> 


^ 


M 







e. 






It 


s 

B 


M 


cn 


fj 








s 


00 


10 


o> 











632 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

TABLE XVII. 
Number of Children at Work, By Age and Sex 

From the Work Certificate Records, September, 1918 to September, 1919 

Permits Vacation Total 

September, 1918 to Permits Number 

June, 1919 June-September, 1919 ML at Work 

Boys _ 1,444 581 2,025 

Girls.... 2,057 546 2,603 



Total _ 3,501 1,127 4,628 



TABLE XVIII. 
Number of Children at Work, By~Age and [Sex 

From the Records of the Industrial Commission of Ohio, 1919 

Clerical Wage Sales Total 

Workers Earners People Workers 

Boys 617 2,248 92 2,957 

Girls.... 573 1,416 83 2,072 



Total... 1,190 3,664 175 5,029 



TABLE XIX. 
Comparison of Tables 16-18 for Number of Children at^Work 

Work Certificate Ind. Commission 

Records. 4 
Ages 15-18 . 

Boys 9,068 1,444 2,957 

(15-18) 

Girls 6,778 2,057 2,072 

(16-18) 

Total 15,846 3,501 5,029 



School Census 
Ages 15-18 

9,068 


Records. 
Ages 15-16 and 
16-18 

1,444 


(15-18) 
6,778 


(15-16) 
2,057 


(16-18) 


(16-18) 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 



TABLE XX. 

Occupations Employing Children Under 18, By Age and Sex 
Analysis of Records of Industrial Commission of Ohio, 1919 



Construc- 
tion 



Boys 

Clerical Workers.- ......... 

Wage Earners ................ 

Salespeople . ...... ........... 

Total. 



Girls- 
Bookkeepers 

Wage Earners 
Salespeople.- 



Total.__ 



15 

67 

1 

83 



12 



12 



Total- 
Clerical Workers 27 

Wage Earners......... 67 

Salespeople 1 



Manufac- 
turing 

309 

1,778 

3 

2,090 



205 

688 

6 



Grand Total 



95 



899 



514 

2,466 

9 

2,989 



Service 

116 

56 



172 



92 
43 



135 



208 
99 



307 



Trade, 
Retail and 
Wholesale 



157 

316 

88 

561 



187 

299 

77 



563 



344 
615 
165 

1,124 



Telephone 

and 
Telegraph 



20 
31 



51 



77 

386 



463 



97 
417 



514 



Total 

617 

2,248 

92 

2.957 



573 

1,416 

83 

2.072 



1,190 

3,664 

175 

5,029 



Per Cent of Total Number Employed of Each Group by Sex 



Girls..... 



Clerical Worker* 
No. Per Cent 


Wage Earner* 
No. PerCent 


Sale* People 
No. Per Cent 


Total 
No. Per Cert 


617 

573 


20.9% 
27.6% 


2,248 
1,416 


76.0% 
68.4% 


92 
83 


3.1% 
4.0% 


2,957 
2,072 


100% 
100% 



Total...... 1,190 23.7% 3,664 72.8% 175 3.5% 5,029 100% 



634 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XXI. 

Distribution of Children in All Occupations and in Leading Manu- 
factures for 1915 and 1919 

From the Records of the Industrial Commission of Ohio, 1915 and 1919 

Boys Girls 

Occupation 1915 1919 1915 1919 

Construction : 58/83 12 

Manufacturing 1,638 2,090 859 899 

Service 37 172 6 135 

Trade, Retail and Wholesale 323 561 299 563 

Telephone and Telegraph Work 44 51 35 463 



Total... 2,100 2,957 1,199 2,072 

Boys Girls 

Leading Manufacturers 1915 1919 1915 1919 

Autos and Auto Parts 66 120 53 18 

Bolts, Nuts, Etc 44 76 6 3 

Clothing, Men's and Women's 26 37 286 115 

Confectionery 8 32 76 

Copper, Tin, Etc 76 61 19 

Electrical Machinery 71 277 14 53 

Foundry and Machine Shop Products.... 200 334 12 53 

Gas and Electric Fixtures 24 96 23 187 

Hosiery and Knit Goods 36 15 121 29 

Printing and Publishing 202 242 26 81 

Sewing Machines 160 10 

Steel Works and Rolling Mills 76 4 

Woolen and Worsted Goods 20 1 7 42 

Total... 849 1,423 580 686 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 635 

TABLE XXII. 
Weekly Wage Rates for Children By Occupation and Sex 

From the Report of the Industrial Commission of Ohio for 1919 



c 

Weekly Wage* 

Under $5.00 

Boys 


instruc- 
tion 




Manufac- 
turing 

20 


Service 
4 


Retail and 
Wholesale 

29 


and 
Telegraph 

1 


Total 

54 


Total 


Girls 





2 


2 


17 





21 


75 


$5.00-$6.00 
Boys 


1 


13 


3 


23 


1 


41 




Girls 





4 





2 





6 


47 


$6.00-$7.00 
Boys 


7 


8 


5 


35 


2 


57 




Girls 


1 


1 


5 


24 





31 


88 


$7.00-$8.00 
Boys . 


5 


31 


11 


19 


5 


71 




Girls 





14 


7 


8 





29 


100 


$8.00-$10.00 
Bovs 


34 


87 


23 


74 


11 


229 




Girls _ 





47 


9 


49 


4 


109 


338 


$10.00-$12.00 
Bovs 


14 


268 


43 


109 


12 


446 




Girls 


1 


201 


40 


177 


328 


747 


1,193 


$12.00-$! 5.00 
Boys 
Girls 


11 
5 


567 
371 


49 
33 


138 

172 


10 
86 


775 
667 


1,442 


$15.00-$! 8.00 
Bovs 


4 


473 


16 


87 


6 


586 




Girls 


2 


178 


14 


83 


20 


297 


883 


$18.00-$21.00 
Bovs 


2 


424 


19 


40 





485 




Girls 


1 


57 


14 


23 


8 


103 


588 


$21.00-$25.00 
Boys 


3 


154 





4 


2 


163 




Girls 


1 


18 


5 


7 


10 


41 


204 


$25.00-$30.00 
Bovs 


1 


42 








1 


44 




Girls 





6 


2 


1 


5 


14 


58 


$30.00-$35.00 

Bovs 


1 


3 


1 


3 





8 




Girls 


1 





2 





2 


5 


13 


















Total..._ 


95 


2.989 


307 


1.124 


514 


5,029 


5,029 



636 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE XXIII. A 




School Grade 


Age 


I. II. 


III. IV. 


V. 


VI. 


Tota 


6 


4 








4 


7 


1 3 









4 


8 


6 


2 






8 


9 


2 


2 






4 


10 


1 


2 5 


4 




12 


11 


1 


2 5 


12 


1 


21 


12 


(Special 2) 


.... 


10 


5 


17 


13 


(Special 6) 


2 


5 


12 


25 


14 





.... 


2 


1 


3 


15 


.... 


... .... 


1 


1 


2 



Mental Capacity 
Good Fair Poor Total 



1 
2 
3 
3 
7 

11 
9 
8 



4 
1 
3 
5 
5 
11 



4 

4 

8 

4 

12 

21 

17 

25 

3 

2 



Total 



11 



10 



10 34 



20 100 



44 31 



25 100 



TABLE XXIII. B 

Analysis of Records of 100 Newsboys, Continued, Showing Age, 
Health and Hours of Work at Night 



Health 


Age 


Good 


Fair 


Poor 


Total 


6 


3 


_.. 


1 


4 


7 


.... 


1 


3 


4 


8 


4 


1 


3 


8 


9 


1 


1 


2 


4 


10 


6 


2 


4 


12 


11 


8 


3 


10 


21 


12 


8 


4 


5 


17 


13 


17 


3 


5 


25 


14 


3 








3 


15 


1 




1 


2 



Work Till Night 
6789 



2 
1 
1 
1 
4 
9 
9 
12 
1 



1 



10 Total 



Total 51' 15 34 100 



19 40 



14 14 



100 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 



GST 



Itf * o* 
?*8 

fill! 

| P 



gs*2 



IM 
E 



Si 



i i 



^ 

i en to en 



> 4k at 
H- H- to to o 



H 

1 



i? 



il 










4k I IO ^ NJ 1 H- 

M I 4k M !- 4k * 

N* I M O 00 to 0> 



So 
<O 



l| 

2 

S i- 
* &E? 

= 



a a 
2,2 



en o o I k- i en 10 to 



03 



i o ^ o2 



10 i to 50 eo co to u> 
* I * H - I en 4k 



is 



en M ' T 

N- 12 

BK . I * "* 'I ** I < i ! *^ 

K> : h- H- <T! IN- 4k* 9 I ft entOen lOOten 2** 

M 1 *4 4> ^ I i I M M 4> *1 4k|enO - | ^i 4k calooen 3 



8)1 I >- 9 OOlOOt 4kOtOO 

iOjBen^|K>^K>tO& O I 00 - O I O O 



2 



2 



CO 

89) O> 
-J 



O O O 

K> O 

oo to 



I 



638 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



GO 



aooofooo^-es^coovovo > !|oo 

.S3 T}- d O r+ 1-1 I ' P4 

05 to 1-1 J l 



V 



G -M 
IH 



59 3 

rf O t^ 

H Ul 



f 

*o 

d 
o 



S 



) t 

c^ 


i> 


1 


r- 


t> 


t> 
t> 


C 


IT 

<y 

** 



- 


f-i 


r- 


"; 

2 
























ve and Suspicioi 
























2 

































"^ 
















& 








1 








c c 



1 




f 


4 


V 

I 

' , c 
h 


V 

1 

1 


a 

1 

.2 
C 


1 

*J 



5 

ec 
^ 


1 


I 


1 

1 


1 

4, 
< 


1 
| 


!U 
E 

| 


! 

s 


"t 

C 

t 
! 


Tuberculo 
Trachoma 



HEALTH AND INDUSTRY 





! 

1 




vb 

00 


oi CM oo oo P. o i in 
Z& - 1 *> 

Of! 


i O * H 1 

Zfc ^ 1 a 
I 

op > ' 

>^ r S ^ V C4COOOC4O 1 t/) 




^ 




'a 


^O y 


^ o 






IN 
O 





A 
6 


ll 

CM ^f O .-i O I * 


1 *! 

O f fO ^ O 1 00 




O 





g 




c 






ex 


H 

a 


o 

1 


ll 

j; B e* H 1 ^- 


1] 

O * 00 C* | 


i 




">* 


~ 


I 


*O 


" - " 






Q, 


o 


*0 










& 


i 




2 1 oo oo oo o o i i- 

^ ^ M | 00 


S -a 5 
(3 |*as*^i2 




d 
2 
2 


1 


O 

S 

V 


-1 


s a 

g -p. 






1 

u 


"3 


Septem 


i 

A) 

^ 


sl| 


>C -H fO CM <N | 00 

! a| 


TABLE 3 


Subnorm 


Education, 


Examined T 


'CO o co <M o I vo 

^ H 
e. 

U M 00000 1 

BJj 


'CCO OOOOOlO 

"8 IH 
.S * 
^ & 

Sr" . 
If OC4OOOIC4 

U w j S 









M 




n 






^ 


o 

o 


j 

Q 


Q 


1 2 . 






" 

- 

C 


1 
o 
OQ 


00 


5 : ^ <N 1 * 

a | ' 

OT H 


< 00 001^ 

g 1 
in cO H 

^ 5* 






*o 


c 


13 


0. 

5 


z , 

n o t- co o 1 o> 


!} * 
S ' | - <* - o | o 






00 





. 


H 


H 








u 


c 




jj 






o 


g 


^ 


, 


* 






Q> 


2 


*0 


.2 ~ -H >0 O 1 00 


.2 ^4 in m c< o i ro 
O -2 1 ~ 




tf 




i 


> 


i 






N 







'fig C, WM | - 


00 3.5 "" "* * * | 











2 


1* 


i* 

2 






00 

1 

"3 




I 


2 m ^ m to -< i * 

^ Tj- -H 1 00 

z 


b 
O ^ 












o.^& r oo ot o <-4 


n.8b * oo o *4 








. 




S^ "* "^ "3 


f ?< "* ^ "J 












O. 1 ^ 


C 












H 


H 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public HealthfServices. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child]Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine,J)entistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 

The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 

THE PREMIER PRESS 

Cleveland. O. 




Hospitals and 
Dispensaries 



PART TEN 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Hospitals and 
Dispensaries 



PART TEN 



Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 




Copyright. 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 

308 AnisSeld Rldg. 
Cleveland - Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBRioE. Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUOHLIN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCK WOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 

and the following collaborators : 
tiKRTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D., Director of Tuberculosis Survey: 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

I. THE CARE OF THE SICK Page 

Resources for Care 819 

Some Definitions 822 

II. HOSPITALS 

Hospital Provisions and Community Needs 828 

Organization for Service .' 838 

The Human Problem of the Hospital Patient 849 

The Medical Profession and the Hospitals 858 

Finances and Administration 868 

Some Practical Matters of Administration 877 

III. DISPENSARIES 

Dispensaries in Cleveland : 890 

The Public Health Dispensaries _... 901 

Policies and Needs 912 

The Down-town Dispensary 922 

IV. SPECIAL PROBLEMS 

The Convalescent and the Hospital 926 

Community Program for Convalescent Care 938 

Chronic Illness and Its Care 944 

Social Service in Hospitals and Dispensaries 952 

The Ambulance Service of Cleveland ... 961 

V. HOSPITAL AND DISPENSARY PLANNING 

Community Planning 966 

Individual Hospital Planning 973 

Organization to Carry Out Plans 979 

APPENDIX 

Tables . 984 



Hospitals and Dispensaries 

lly Mi. MM .1. M. D \vis, .In.. Til.]). 

I. The Care of the Sick 
RESOURCES FOR CARE 

NO thorough understanding of the work and problems of the hospitals 
;tiul dispensaries of ( 'leveland can IK* had without seeing these institu- 
tions in a broad perspective. The primary purpose which leads to 
the establishment of hospitals and dispensaries is to provide eare in illness. 
We need to understand not only what hospitals and dispensaries do for their 
patients, but also their relations to the community, and the part which they 
<hould play in the life of the average family. 

The volumes of the Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey which precede 
this, in the Survey's scries of publications, have been devoted to general com- 
iimnity problems and to public health programs. As Dr. Haven Emerson, 
Director of the Survey, says: "First comes the description of the environ- 
ment of the community; then its efforts at self -protect ion against disease. 
Then we must logically put education before practice; and, as the climax of 
the whole, the most elaborate, the most intricate, the most difficult of all 
medical social undertakings, the Hospital and the Dispensary, to show how 

immunity does or can take care of those whom it has failed to protect." 

The great emergencies which strike the life of the average family are sick- 
nrsN, accident, and unemployment. Sickness and accident both affect the 
physical welfare of the body, varying from the most trivial illness to the 
gravest emergency. The resources for dealing with sickness and accident 
Vary accordingly, from the application of the simplest home remedies to 
the tense dramas of the operating table*. 

Studies of sickness made by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company 
among its industrial policy holders, and by other agencies, indicate that from 
two to three per cent, of the population of a city like Cleveland are usually 
sick at any one time. This excludes minor illness and diseases not causing 
incapacity. In greater Cleveland this means that -20,000 to 30,000 persons 
are usually to be found ill on any given day, the number of course showing a 
wide variation according to season and to other conditions like the wide- 
spread presence of epidemic disease. \Ve know that the hospital popula- 
tion of Cleveland ranges from 4,000 to 3,000, being generally near 2,500. 
Thus about ten per cent, of the sickness in Cleveland, excluding "minor" 
ailments, is generallv cared for in hospitals. These figures should help to 
put the hospital problem in its due perspective. 

The section of this report entitled "Some Practical Matters of Administration," is by Warren 
>ck, M. D., Consultant in Hospital Administration for the Survey. Other contributions by 
Dr. Babe oo k are indicated in their places, and his helpful cooperation throughout is gratefully acknowledged. 
Mrs. Mary Strong Burns. R. ti., is the author of the section on "The Convalescent and the Hospital,' 
and Frederic Brush. M. D.. of an important part of "Community Program for Convalescent Care.' 
For the collection of much information utilized in the report the author is indebted to many of his col 
leagues in other branches of the Survey. Especial acknowledgment should be made of the studies con 
tributed by Anna M. Richardson. M. D.. and by Miss Harriet L. Leete, R. N.; and of the devoted, pains 
taking work of Miss Josephine Colegrove in the collation of data and the preparation of the manuscript 
for the printer. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEV 



\Ve need to approach the study of the hospitals and dispensaries of a 
great city from the standpoint of the community rather than of the institu- 
tion; to see them as the average citizen and the average family sees them, 
rather than as the physician or the specialist in hospital administration. 
Laying aside for the moment the demands which the average family may 
make on hospitals and dispensaries for the promotion of health, a real though 
slowly growing part of their function, the primary reason for the utilization 
of hospitals and dispensaries is the occurrence of sickness or accident. When- 
ever illness or accident comes, the individual or the family must reach a 
decision as to what is to be done. Choice must be made among possible 
resources. It is well to list these resources so that all of the elements of the 
picture shall be in mind. A list of ten resources for the care of illness might 
be included: 

1. The home remedy, 

2. The advice of friend, grandmother, or neighbor of reputed wisdom, 

3. The private physician, 



4. The drug store, 

5. The physician of an organization of which the patient or family is a 

member (for instance, lodge doctor, industrial physician, city 
physician), 

6. The quack doctor or medical institute, 

7. The midwife (for obstetrical care), 

8. The nurse, 

9. The hospital, 
10. The dispensary. 

The attitude of a community towards its hospitals and dispensaries is 
made up of the points of view of its individual citizens. These points of 
view are practically expressed in determining what choice is made among 
the resources for the care of sickness. Such choice or decisions are influenced 
by considerations of finances, but also by custom, personal connections, 
prejudices and information or misinformation regarding the availability, 
powers and prestige of the various resources for the care of a given case of 
illness or accident. 

It is obvious that the ten resources for the care of illness vary in their 
grade of efficiency. It is obvious that the various elements in the popula- 
tion select resources differently. Thus the use of the midwife is largely con- 
fined to foreigners; the quack reaps his richest harvest from among the less 
educated; the service of the dispensary at the present time is chiefly for 
those of limited means. One man with a pain in his back goes to a dispen- 
sary. Another equally unblessed with this world's goods hies himself to a 
drug store and purchases and applies a widely advertised "Rheumatic's 
Ready Relief." One woman goes to a hospital for an operation; her neigh- 
bor two blocks away refuses to go to an institution even on the advice of her 



II">I'ITAL AND DlM'l \-\liii - 



family physician. because she IN "afraid of hospitals." A member of a 
lodije utili/es the services of tin- official doctor of tin- organi/ation during a 
minor illnes^ lint when In* thinks something serious is tl.c matter \\ith him, 
he calls a "real doctor," meaning one whom he pays. <^ua. -ks - ,,: 
thronged with thousands of credulous victims, and the mails are filled \\itli 
money directed toward the coffers of patent medicine vendors. On 
among the resources available for the care of sickness are as varied as the 
circumstances surrounding each case, and as manifold as human nature 
itself. 

A health sur\ey of Cleveland might theoretically arrange the ten resources 
for the care of illness in the order of their relative efficiency, and then study, 
for different sections of the population, their usual order of utilization 
for different kinds of sickness or accident. Such a study cannot practically 
be made, but supposing for the sake of argument that it could be made, let 
us ask this question: would the order of utilization by the people of the ten 
resources for the care of illness correspond to their order of relative efficiency? 
In so far as it does not, the well-being of the community suffers. Reputable 
physicians and the hospitals and dispensaries in which these physicians ren- 
der service, obviously constitute the primary and fundamental medical re- 
sources for the care of illness and the promotion of health. Are they used 
with the degree of fullness and of discrimination with which they should be? 
If not, why not? The answer would not be the same for all groups of the 
population. 

A study of the hospitals and dis|>ensaries of Cleveland cannot rightly be 
limited to the amount and the nature of the work done, the internal adminis- 
tration, and other technical problems, important as these are. It needs also 
to include a study of the attitude of different sections of the people the 
medical profession, the well-to-do, the poor, the foreign-born, etc. toward 
these institutions. It is on the basis of these attitudes, understandings or 
misunderstandings, that the choice among medical resources is made in time 
of sickness or accident, and upon which the utilization of hospital and dis- 
pensary for the benefit of the public ultimately rests. Financial support of 
hospitals and dispensaries by the community depends precisely on the same 
considerations. In thus section of the report of the Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey, therefore, an endeavor will be made to review the details 
of the work of the hospitals and dispensaries of the city, in their medical, 
administrative and financial aspects, and to consider also the relation of 
these, institutions to the various sections of the public which use them or need 
to use them. Hospitals and dispensaries represent or ought to represent 
the organization of medical services upon a scientific basis, bringing to bear 
upon t he needs of the individual patient the maximum resources in equip- 
ment and skill that twentieth century medical science can muster. To pro- 
mote a better understanding of hospitals and dispensaries by t he community 
is to promote at the same time their better and more discriminating utilization, 
and their more effective and generous support. 



822 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Si i<\ i -.\ 

SOME DEFINITIONS 

The hospital and the dispensary, taken together, comprise what may be 
culled the organized or institutional practice of medicine. In the private prac- 
tice of a physician, some patients are seen in his office, others in bed in their 
own homes or in a private room of an institution. In the institutional 
practice of medicine the dispensary patients correspond tp those who are 
seen in the physician's office, and the hospital patients to those whom he 
sees in bed. 

During the winter of 1919 and spring of 1920, when the Survey was made, 
there were 47 institutions known as hospitals, and 26 dispensaries and health 
centers in Cleveland and Lakewood.' Under a law of Ohio which became 
effective in 1919, all hospitals and dispensaries must be registered with the 
State Department of Health and render to it an annual report. Eight of the 
above 47 "hospitals" had not registered with the State Department of 
Health at the time the field work of the Survey was completed (June, 1920). 
Their names were found in the telephone directory. They are not further 
referred to in this report, except in relation to the public supervision of hos- 
pitals, in the section on "Organization to Carry Out Plans." The definition 
of dispensary as thus far interpreted by the State Department of Health 
does not appear to include the Health Centers or clinics doing primarily 
preventive work. 

The medical institutions of Cleveland may be further divided according 
as they are members of the Cleveland Hospital Council or not. Table I. 
in the Appendix gives the hospitals and dispensaries of Cleveland, stating 
after each the approximate number of beds in the hospital, and the approxi- 
mate number of annual visits by patients to the dispensary. 

On the accompanying map these institutions are shown in their proper 
location. 

It is important to state certain definitions and distinctions which will be 
of service in understanding the problems and relations of the hospitals and 
dispensaries of Cleveland. 

Hospitals may be broadly classified in two ways: first, according to the 
character of diseases treated, and, second, according to the relation of the 
institution to the community. 

With regard to the character of diseases treated, the distinction is between 
general hospitals, such as City or Lakeside Hospitals, and special hospitals, 
such as Cleveland Maternity or St. Ann's Maternity Hospital. The latter 
receive only patients of a designated medical type. It will be observed at 
once that Cleveland has few of the second group. 

On the other basis of classifying hospitals in their relation to the com- 
munity, two divisions may be made: 

(a) Public-service hospitals. 

(b) Proprietary hospitals. 




828 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



The first class receive patients as a public service, whether pay, part-pay 
or free patients. The second class are conducted as corporations for the profit 
of their owners. It is important to notice that the term "private hospital," 
which is not infrequently used, is decidedly ambiguous. The word "private" 
is sometimes employed to indicate a hospital supported by private funds as 
distinguished from a state or a municipal hospital. In another sense, a 
private hospital is taken to mean one which receives only private patients of 
certain physicians and no ward or "staff" patients. In still a third sense, 
the word "private" is applied to a hospital which is conducted as a private 
business for profit. To use the same word "private" for a hospital which 
is performing a great amount of public service rendered alike to those who 
pay and those who do not pay, as for an institution which is run as a business 
enterprise, involves dangerous confusion. The term "proprietary" makes 
the proper distinction. 

This term, however, is not necessarily one of reproach. It is perfectly 
legitimate and proper for an individual or a corporation to maintain a hos- 
pital for profit, as a business enterprise. Such an institution corresponds to 
a "private school" or "academy," and may be as well conducted and as 
useful to a limited circle of patients as are many well known private schools 
to their clientele. 

As will appear later, a number of institutions in the above list fall within 
the proprietary class. There are some of these hospitals which were incorpo- 
rated as business organizations to be run for profit, but which in practice are 
conducted as public service institutions, and .have been so recognized by the 
Cleveland Hospital Council. According to the principles which will be laid 
down in this report, the extent to which the public should assist financially 
in the maintenance of a hospital should vary in precise degree with the amount 
and proportion of public service rendered by the institution. To be able to 
measure this accurately and to make the results of this measurement known 
to the public or to the agency representing the public, such as the Community 
Fund, is one of the important aims which those interested in hospitals must 
have in view. 

The degree of public service rendered by a hospital does not correspond 
with the number of its free patients. Some persons have the notion that 
doing charity means giving something for nothing. The twentieth century 
idea of charity is a service, not a dole. The public service rendered by a 
hospital should be measured from a financial standpoint by the amount of 
care given at a rate lower than the cost of the service. This in practice means 
measured by the number of days of care rendered during the course of a year. 
If a patient is treated for a day and pays only half the cost of the service, 
the hospital may be credited with one-half of a day's free care. Such is a 
simple method of estimating the financial aspect of the public service of a 
hospital. 

From the professional standpoint, public service must be estimated in 
terms of kind and standard of care, a more technical and difficult matter to 
evaluate. Classification of hospitals according to the quality of service, an 
invidious task, can ^e undertaken here only with reference to one distinc- 



llo^l'l I \l.-> \Ml I >l-l'l \-\Kll ^ 825 

lion. The public ought to understand tin- difference between the "medical 
hoarding IHMIM-" and tin- hospital. 

In every htrge city are found institutions, usually of the proprietary class, 
li have an operating room, a nursing service, and which receive the 
patients of private physicians, put them to l>ed. nurse and feed them, and 
provide for nursing attendance at operation if the case is surgical. The pri- 
vate phy>ician carries the same individual responsibility that he would if 
the patient \\ere in hed at home. The difference is merely that there are 
facilities for a major operation close by, and that the patient's household is 
-pared the difficulties of adjustment- to illness, the introduction of a trained 
nurse, provision for a s|>ecial diet, etc. These are to all intents and purpose- 
rnedic.-d hoarding hou-<-- 

The modern hospital is as different from a medical boarding house a.s a 
passenger liner is from a tramp steamer. Both float and both will take one 
somewhere. Hut one is just a boat, while the other is a boat plus an organ- 
ization. 

The modern hospital provides the physician with certain facilities which 
are unavailable in the patient's home. Medical practice today requires 
more than the physician's individual trained senses. Laboratories for many 
tests and an X-Ray department are necessary adjuncts to modern medical 
practice. The patient cared for at home can secure these benefits only 
through expensive and somewhat slow recourse to private laboratories. In 
the hospital, this equipment and a vast variety of other instruments and 
apparatus are brought together under a single roof, and organized under a 
single control, so as to be most economically and effectively used. Modern 
me'l'cine also is highly specialized. No one physician can master all the 
science. Many cases require examination and study by physicians each 
representing a different branch of medicine, in order that all the necessary 
facts !>< obtained, and through consultation an accurate diagnosis of the 
disc; -labli-hed. The staff of a modern hospital provides a group of 

specialists working with joint equipment, and under a mutually acceptable 
plan of team work, which should render the service of each of maximum 
value to the others as well as to himself and to the patient. 

Similarly the modern hospital provides assistants to the physician of 
>pecial skill; the medical assistant, the interne: the laboratory assistant, 
the technician; the nurse, and the social worker. Through the aid of these 
a istants the highly special skill of the physician is kept for just that kind 
of work which requires it, and his time is not spent on routine or details. 
Consequently with a given expenditure of time and energy he can render 
<-e to a much larger number of patients, and more effective service 
at that. 

A modern hospital may be defined a- an institution in which there i- 
joii t use of medical equipment and cooperative organization of medical 
skill for the dia-no-i-. treatment and prevention of disease. 

A critical study of hospitals makes it clear that some institutions mam 
tain the principle- of the medical boarding house with respect to their private 



HOSIMTAI. AND UKAI/IH SIKVKV 



I i 1 [a, \vh!\- having a well organized system for modern hospital work 
v.ith reject to th'Mr \var.l eases. Is privacy a substitute for service? 

The distii-.clion between the two types of services will be illustrated in 
numerous iio:,tis during the course of this report, and will be of importance 
in collection \\ ith certain final conclusions. Each hospital trustee and every 
hospital patient will do well to see how these principles work out with re- 
gard to the hospital which he knows best 

The disi ersnries may be classified as are the hospitals. As a matter of 
fact, the list of dispensaries on pages .984-086 contains none of the pro- 
prietary class. There are indeed some clinics maintained in Cleveland by 
individual physicians, whether on their own account or in connection with 
industrial establishments. Some of these are reputable enterprises; some of 
them are merely quack medical institutes. The latter class will be referred 
to only in connection with some general recommendations of the Survey in 
the section on "Organization to Carry Out Plans," as are the hospitals not 
registered with the State Department of Health. 

Cleveland has only one dispensary treating the sick of the class confined 
to .special diseases the Babies' Dispensary. Its clientele is limited to chil- 
dren not over three years. A highly important group of special dispensaries. 
however, are the public health dispensaries, which aim to prevent rathei 
than treat disease, to educate rather than to cure the Health Centers, 
Baby Prophylactic Stations, and Prenatal Clinics. Broadly speaking, a line 
for the support of dispensary work is drawn by the municipal authorities on 
the border line between preventive and curative medicine; private support 
of dispensary work being largely though not wholly confined to the dispen- 
saries treating the sick, and public support being almost entirely confined to 
the dispensaries whose work is primarily preventive and educational. 

The term "dispensary" originally meant a place where medicine was 
given out or dispensed to the poor on the prescription of a physician, and the 
word has persisted, although at the present day the giving out of medicine 
is a minor function of a dispensary. Medical diagnosis, advice, and treat- 
ment other than medicine are the services of primary significance. The 
term "out-patient department" is frequently used as synonymous with dis- 
jjensary when applied to a dispensary which is part of the organization of a 
hospital the bed cases being the in-patient department and the dispensary 
the out-patient department. In this report, the term dispensary will be 
generally used except when it is desired to draw a special distinction between 
the "in" and the "out" patients. 

The unit for measurement of the services rendered by hospitals and dis- 
pensaries is important to define. 'Hospital service is measured in days of 
care. A patient who has been in the hospital for two weeks has in this sense 
received fourteen units of service. The unit for measuring dispensary serv- 
ice is the visit paid by the patient to the clinic. It will be observed that the 
visits paid by patients to a dispensary in the course of a month or of a year 
is much more than the number of individuals treated, just as the number of 
days' care given patients in a hospital is much larger than the number of 



i i \l.> \\D Dl>IM.\-\l;ii - 



different patienU. In actually studying tin- \\ork (if a given institution or 
of the city as a whole. we arc of course interested in the number of individuals 
i f..r ;i> uell a> in the hulk of service rendered. Days of hospital care 
and viits to dispen>ary clinics represent the latter element bulk of work 
done. The number of individuals treated is in practice a more difficult 
figure to obtain, because of the likelihood of the same individual, in ease of 
rcadmi.ssion to dispensary or hospital, being counted as a different patient. 

One of the fundamental problems of every professional institution today 
IN how to make a speeiali/ed and technical niece of work clear to the average 
person. The problem is to interpret hospitals and dispensaries to the com- 
munity. This means stating facts showing the kind, amount and quality 
of service rendered, and stating them in such a way that they are easily 
understood by the average person. It is of relatively little importance 
what facts a temporary survey gathers and reports such facts are at most 
cftily a cross-M-rtion, a momentary picture. It is of very great importance 
what facts the hospitals and dispensaries gather and present regularly to 
the public, and how they present them to the unprofessional mind whether 
in a vivid and convincing fashion or in dry and technical form. What a 
board of trustees needs to know about their own hospital or dispensary; 
what the contributors to the Community Fund need to know about all 
hospitals and dispensaries; what the general public needs to know about 
the hospitals as a whole or about its municipal institution in particular 
these are of fundamental importance for the Survey to suggest. 

The cost of maintaining medical institutions has been increasing with 
great rapidity, not only because of the general rise in prices, but because of 
advance in medical science, the more elaborate equipment that is necessary, 
the higher socialization in many branches in a word, higher standards of 
service, yielding better results for the cure and prevention of disease. Public 
comprehension of these new and higher standards has lagged behind their 
establishment in the strongest institutions. Such comprehension forms the 
basis on which taxes for municipal institutions must be levied and cam- 
paigns for community chests or for building funds successfully accomplished. 
Adequate moral and financial support of hospitals and dispensaries depends 
upon making these standards and needs clear in terms of human interest 
and popular understanding. The defining of units, the assembling of sta- 
tistics and the compilation of professional reports are fundamental prerequi- 
sites. The statement and interpretation of these data to the community 
are a necessary sequence. 



828 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 



II. Hospitals 

HOSPITAL PROVISIONS AND COMMUNITY NEEDS 

Reserving the study of dispensaries for Chapter III., we may now com- 
pare the hospital facilities of Cleveland with those of other communities 
and with the probable needs of the city. 

During the winter of 1920, while the Survey was in progress, the number 
of hospital beds in the cities of Cleveland and Lakewood was 3,378, including 
all the institutions registered with the State Department of Health. 

Of these, 3,088 beds were in the 20 hospitals of the Cleveland Hospital 
Council, as follows: 

Beds 

Cleveland City Hospital '. 785 

Cleveland Maternity Hospital 60 

Fairview Park Hospital 85 

Glenville Hospital 74 

Grace Hospital 35 

Huron Road Hospital 84 

Lakeside Hospital 289 

Lakewood Hospital 53 

Lutheran Hospital 50 

Mount Sinai Hospital 225 

Provident Hospital 29 

Rainbow Hospital 85 

St. Alexis Hospital 250 

St. Ann's Maternity Hospital 55 

St. Clair Hospital 43 

St. John's Hospital 150 

St. Luke's Hospital 139 

St. Vincent's Charity Hospital 290 

Warrensville Tuberculosis Sanatorium 270 

Woman's Hospital .__. 37 

Total 3,088 



\\D 1 >I">I'K\\UIKS 



Tin- 11 non-council hospitals included ^!Mt beds, as follows: 

Beds 

Cleveland Emergency Hospital 22 

Cleveland Home Hospital .' 10 

East Cleveland Hospital '. 31 

East Fifty-fifth Street Hospital 60 

East Seventy-ninth Street Hospital 22 

Florence Crittenden Home '. 12 

Joanna Private Hospital 9 

Mrs. Hitchcock's Private Hospital 15 

St. Mark's Hospital 45 

Salvation Army Rescue Home.- '. 54 

Wright's Hospital 10 



Total 290 

In this classification it is to be noted that in conformity with the usual 
practice, beds (1) for the insane and feeble-minded, (2) for the infirm and 
aged, (3) in orphanages, and (4) under the control of the United States 
Government, have not been included. The list includes hospitals for general 
and special cases of an acute or chronic nature, and convalescents, but not 
the four classes mentioned above. This point is important in making com- 
parisons with other communities. 

If these beds are compared with the population of the cities of Cleveland 
and Lakewood, taken together, we should find that there are 3,378 beds to 
a population of approximately 840,000 in these two cities. However, these 
bed-; .-ire serving more than the population of Cleveland and Lakewood. 
They are used by what may be called the metropolitan district, and even 
more distant areas depend upon them. We may form a definite estimate 
from data collected by the Survey on the two days, December 3, 1919, and 
January 15, 1920, on each of which was taken a census of the patients in the 
Council hospitals and in three others. A tabulation of the patients in these 
hospitals on these two days by location of residence(the average of the two 
days) showed that of the 2,651 patients 14.7 per cent., or practically one- 
seventh, came from outside the city of Cleveland. This number includes of 
course those coming from Lakewood, but it is certain that at least one-eighth 
of the patients who were in the hospitals on these two days came from out- 
side C eveland or Lakewood. At least one-eighth therefore should be added 
to the population served by the hospitals on our list, which would make a 
total of about 945. OCO. Dividing this by the number of beds, 3,378\ we find 
that there is provision to the extent of about 2.8 beds to one thousand of 
po] u'ation. This is a fundamental figure, because it is an index of the de- 
gree of provision of hospital service for community needs. Its significance 
\\ill require elucidation. 



830 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Comparisons must needs be made with other communities. In the 1919 
report of the United Hospital Fund of New York City, a classified list is 
given of the hospitals in that metropolis. There is shown a total of 28,208 
beds,, which does not include the four classes of institutions mentioned 
above, or many small private institutions such as appeal in the Cleveland 
list among the non-council hospitals. The proportion of patients coming 
from outside the limits of Greater New York is not known, but most of the 
suburbs of New York are better provided with hospitals than the outlying 
districts of Cleveland. It is assumed that the omissions from the list of hospitals 
in New York given by the United Hospital Fund would probably balance in 
number the beds required to serve non-residents. On this basis, provision 
of hospital beds in the metropolis in proportion to population is five per 
thousand. 

Boston provides another basis of comparison. The legal city of Boston is 
a little smaller than Cleveland, according to the 1920 census, 727,000 against 
796,836, but Boston is one of some 38 towns and cities within the metro- 
politan district, with a total population of approximately 1,500,000. A list 
of hospitals in this "Greater Boston" showed, from figures in the Medical 
Directory of 1918, 140 hospitals, general and special (excluding those types 
above named) with a total of 7,247 beds. This is 4.83 beds to 1,000 of popu- 
lation. 

Taking the city of Boston alone, with a census population in 1920 of 
727,000, it was found that there were 108 hospitals, with 6,062 beds. This 
is an average of 8.3 beds to 1,000 population, but this figure should not be 
used for comparative purposes, since so large a proportion of the Boston beds 
are used by the metropolitan district, with double the population of Boston 
proper. For purposes of comparison with Cleveland, the figure for the 
metropolitan area should be taken. It will be observed that the figures for 
New York and for "Greater Boston" are almost exactly the same. 

It is apparent that Cleveland falls far below either Boston or New York 
in providing hospital service in proportion to its population. On the basis 
of five beds per thousand Greater Cleveland needs fully 4,725 beds, or at least 
1,350 more than now exist. In view of the fact that even when new beds are 
planned for, time is required to build and equip the hospitals to contain them 
and that population needs continue to grow, it may be conservatively esti- 
mated that Cleveland needs to add 1,500 beds to its hospital capacity as 
quickly as possible. Even at the present moment (June, 1920) it must be 
recalled that while the 1920 census showed a smaller population for Cleve- 
land than had been anticipated, yet the growth of the suburbs, which must 
depend largely upon UK- main city for their hospital service, has been pro- 
ceeding at such a rapid rate that it is fair to estimate that not less than 1,500 
rather than 1,300 beds should be stated as the shortage in the year 1920. 

Were this merely a conclusion derived from statistics, it would be indeed 
questionable. The statistics, however, are worked out merely to give an 
index to well-established facts showing the shortage of hospital beds in 
Cleveland and the unfortunate results of this shortage. To depict these 



I1I'ITALH AND DlSPENHAK 1 1 - 831 

will require ;i -|(.MT ;in;i lysis of the service offered by the hospitals of the 
atj 

The hospitals of Cleveland are predominantly devoted to surgery. On 
the two Survey census days, if the hospitals of the city were taken together 
(omitting City Hospital, Warrensville Tuberculosis Sanatorium, and Rainbow 
llosjiitah. it \\;is I'niiiid that 48 per cent, of the patients were surgical, 
and that in the majority of the hospitals the ratio was much higher. The 
reason that City Hospital is excluded is l>ecause in its 78.5 beds are included 
large groups of cases such as tuberculous, alcoholic, venereal disease and 
contagious disease patients, which do not appear in any other hospital. On 
the census days, only 21.5 per cent, of the patients represented general medi- 
'ine. and only 9.4 per cent, special services. 18.7 per cent, were obstetrical, 
.iixl 2.4 per cent, not stated. The figures themselves are given in a footnote.* 

Cleveland is seriously deficient in provision for s]>ecial classes of cases, f 
Obstetrical cases are found in the majority of the hospitals. The average 
for the two census days was 313, or about one patient in ten, 9.3 per cent, of 
the total patients in the Cleveland hospitals on those days. Provision for 
obstetrical cases in special hospitals is made only at Cleveland Maternity 
Hospital and at St. Ann's Maternity Hospital, a total of 115 beds. Recent 
years have seen a great increase in the demand for care in hospitals at the 
time of confinement, particularly by middle-class families, but these cases have 
had in the main to l>e provided for in the general hospitals, without the de- 
velopment of s|>ecia1 hospitals, special services, or special wards to meet the 
particular need. 

Regarding cases of eye disease, it was found that only one hospital, 
Lakeside, makes any special reservation of beds, four beds being held in the 
male surgical ward of Lakeside for this service. There is no special ward in 
the city for ear, nose and throat cases. In New York 608 beds are provided 
in sj>ecial institutions for eye, ear, nose, and throat cases, aside from such 
provision as is made in the general hospitals. In Boston, 219 beds are pro- 
vided; in Baltimore, 153; in Philadelphia, 58; in Chicago, 32. 

In social provision for children, Cleveland is similarly lacking. 

Pediatric services exist at Lakeside, City and Mount Sinai, and beds are set 
aside for children in the following additional hospitals: Children's Fresh Air 
Camp, Fairview Park Hospital, Huron Road Hospital, Lakewood Hospital, 
Rainbow Hospital, St. Alexis Hospital, St. Ann's Hospital, St. John's Hos- 
pital, and St. Luke's Hospital, making a total of 302 beds designated as chil- 
dren's Ix'ds. for other than contagious or convalescent ca-< - 

'Cla**ification of Patient*, Censut Day* (averaged] 

Type of Service Number Percentage 

Medical 361.0 21.5 

Surgical _ _ 805.5 48.0 

Obstetrical m 312.5 18.7 

Special 157.5 9.4 

Not stated. 40.0 2.4 

tin 1918 Boston had beds in special institutions to the number of 2698, as follows: 

Tuberculosis 792 Children 240 

Bye and ear 225 Women (maternity) 436 

Contagious 340 Women and children together . ... 542 

Cancer.. . 25 Convalescent 98 



s:K* HOS-MTAI. AND HEALTH 



It will be observe*! that these ;ire all parts of general hospitals. As com- 
pared with this. New York has 1,298 beds for children in special hosritftl*, 
and in addition, at least as many more beds specially set aside for Children 
in a numb?r of general hospitals; Boston has about 240 beds for children in 
special hospitals and more than that in pcdiatric divisions of a number of 
general hospitals. 

On the two census days, there were 496 children found in the Cleveland 
hospitals, of whom .57 were in the contagious disease service of City Hos- 
pital. The vast majority of the remaining 489 were scattered through the 
wards and rooms of general hospitals, the greater number being surgical 
cases. 

In the matter of provision for contagious cases, Cleveland has 100 beds 
at City Hospital. Boston has 340 beds in its City Hospital. In connection 
with contagious diseases, these figures are comparable, since both institutions 
rarely take cases except from within the limits of the legal city. It is stated 
by such a national 'authority as Dr. Charles V. Chapin that for the common 
contagious diseases (excluding tuberculosis, venereal diseases, etc.), a com- 
munity should provide at least one bed for every 2,000 of population. This 
in Cleveland would mean almost 400 beds. Boston it will be observed has 
measured up to Doctor Chapin 's estimate; New York, with 2,100 beds for 
contagious cases, almost meets it. 

A special report of the Survey dealing with tuberculosis (Part IV.) lias 
shown that Cleveland has not enough beds for this disease. 

The estimates of the specialists in venereal disease are to the effect that 
at least 200 beds should be provided in the City Hospital, and that a certain 
amount of provision should be made in general hospitals. (See Part V.) 

In the orthopedic service, a bra'hch of medicine of rapidly increasing im- 
portance, Cleveland has an insignificant provision. The number of reported 
orthopedic cases in hospital beds, at the time of the Survey, was not known. 
except at -Rainbow Hospital, which is chiefly designed for convalescent 
orthopedic cases of children. Boston has about three times the provision for 
orthopedic cases as has Cleveland, and New York has over 360 beds in 
>,/. rial hospitals alone for acute cases of this type. 

These facts go to show where the deficiencies in provision of hospital beds 
in Cleveland lie. The reason for the shortage of beds is obviously that the 
population has grown more rapidly than has recognition of needs for more 
hospital service. We find in the Cleveland hospitals the more urgent sur- 
gical and some medical cases being treated, but very little development of 
services for special cases. In general it may be said that the urgent diseases 
or emergent cases, particularly surgical, which force themselves on the com- 
munity's attention and upon the attention of the individual hospitals, and 
which cannot be denied admission, have left little room for other types of 
work. 

The effect of this shortage of 1,500 beds cannot be measured. We can only 
estimate the number of sick persons who have had to be cared for in their 
homes with inadequate facilities for diagnosis, for nursing, for fliet. and for 



llo->r| I \l.-> \M) Dl-IMN- MMI.- 883 



ill kinds. The lumber of cas >s of di^ea^e needing the services of 

list, the complete ;in<l thorough observat i<m necessary to make a 

MO i-. such a> is only possible under hospital conditions, we can only 

infer. NYc can only in imagination picture the suffering that has resulted, the 

development of slight illness into serious, the diminution of productive power, 

the los^ of opportunity to prevent as well as to cure disease. Such shortage 

of hospital beds can only mean a waste of the vital resources of the popula- 

tion. 

Against these figures ought to be set others which suggest an almost 

ontradictory picture. If there were a shortage of beds. it might seem at 
first sight that the 3,400 taxis now available should be constantly filled to their 
capacity. Such, however, is not the case. On the first census day, Deccm- 
lx>r 3. !!)!!), x'.-'iSl hospital patients were reported as in hospitals with a 
theoretical capacity at the time of 2,831 beds. On the second census day, 
January I.">. 1920, 2,663 patients were reported in hospitals having 3,001 
beds. The percentage of beds filled on the census days for this group of 
hospitals. was !>.").? and N8.7, respectively. 

A similar comparison can be made on the basis of an entire year, by tak- 
ing the number of beds in the hospital and multiplying this number by 365, 
thus securing the maximum days of care that might be given during the year, 
< 'omparison of the actual number of days' care, as reported, with this figure 
gives the proportion of utilization of hospital facilities for the year. For the 
group of seventeen hospitals for which figures were obtained for the year 
I!)1S, a total of 929,825 days of care was possible but only 686,967 days of 

are were given, or 73.9 per cent. During the year 1919, for a group of six- 
teen hospitals, a total of 930,465 days of care was possible, but only 645,280 
days of care were given or 69.3 j>er cent. 

It should be stated at once that we cannot expect a hospital or group of 
hospitals to have all beds filled all the time. There are periods of epidemics, 
and in normal times there are occasional days when a hospital may have 
every bed taken, but such conditions are exceptional. A hospital may re- 
fuse cases when it has vacant beds, because there must be classification of 
patients to a greater or less degree, and the ward for which the patient is 
suited on account of his sex or disease may be full, while there may be 
vacancies elsewhere. Inability to receive a given patient is thus compatible 
with some vacancies in the same hospital. Over any considerable period of 
time during the year, there are many reasons why a certain number of beds 
cannot be completely utilized. Rooms and wards must be renovated and 
occasionally repairs are necessary. In many hospitals a certain number of 
beds are set aside for the temporary detention of patients, particularly chil- 
dren, during a jxriod of observation so as to eliminate risk of contagious 
disease. 

Such arc Mnne of the reasons why hospitals never show the use of their 
beds during the year up to anything like 100 per cent, of capacity. An 
annual average of 75 j>er cent, is a very fair showing. During the winter 
and spring months there is generally greater demand for hospital service 



834 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

than during tin- summer and the autumn, and consequently a higher ratio of 
use of beds is usually found for the six months beginning with January, if 
compared with the other six months of the year. Hospital administrators 
may take advantage of this condition by doing repairs and renovations, so 
far as possible, during the less active months. 

A tabulation of individual hospitals presents some interesting points. 
as shown by Table II in the Appendix. 

It should of course be one of the prime aims of hospital administration 
to utilize the facilities of the plant to their fullest capacity. Good hospital 
administration should show a higher average use of beds than 70 per cent, for 
a year. Conditions will vary among general hospitals. Conditions in special 
institutions, such as hospitals for maternity cases, children, chronic cases, 
etc., must be considered on their own merits. Thus, in the Cleveland City 
Hospital, certain large units are set aside for tuberculosis, neurology (includ- 
ing many alcoholic cases), venereal diseases and contagious cases, and the 
demand for these beds is affected by many conditions different from those 
which affect the general medical and surgical services. It should, how- 
ever, be the aim of hospital administration to make its internal arrangements 
as flexible as possible.* While contagious and acute surgical cases are not safely 
to be mixed in the same wards, there should be a constant effort toward the 
utmost" flexibility of classification so that pressure on one division of the 
service can be relieved by rearrangements which utilize beds vacant in other 
divisions. 

A comparison of Cleveland figures with those of a number of leading New 
York hospitals shows the majority of Cleveland institutions in a somewhat 
unfavorable light. Nineteen hospitals in the United Hospital Fund of New 
York showed in 1919 an average of 79 per cent, of their bed capacity filled. 
The lowest hospital showed 63 per cent, and four showed 90 per cent, or over. 

On the whole it may be said that a general hospital should be so adminis- 
tered as to run to an average of at least 75 per cent, of its capacity during 

Figures provided by the City Hospital just before this report goes to press show, for the year 1919 
and the fi st nine months of 1920, the details of the use of the different divisions of the hospital. These 
are as follows: (The figure!' in the parentheses are for the first nine months of 1920, and the others for 
the year 1919.) 

Total Days Total Days 

Treatment Treatment Percentage 

Department Beds Possible Given Occupied 

Tuberculosis....- 100 36,500 27,447 75.7 

(100) (27,400) (16,430) (59.9) 

Contagious. _ 100 36,500 14,806 40 5 

(100) (27,400) (13,8591 (50.5) 

Specific 75 22,500 13,575 60.3 

(125) (35,250 (13,264) (38.7) 

Observation 50 18,250 12,077 66.2 

(50) (13,700) ( 8,938) (65.0) 



Main and Convalescent.- _ 400 146,000 105 001 72 

(380) (104,120) ( 74.614) (71.7) 

The very wide variations between the degree of use of the different services of the hospital are ap- 
parent. It will be noted that the small percentage of use, particularly of certain divisions, has continued 
throughout a long period of time. 



i \i.- AMI Di-ri N8ARIES 



the year as a whole, and that ;m a venter of over HO j)er ceHt. should be 
expected during the busier portion of the year. A figure as high as !)0 |>er 
t. ought to be the goal. 



In estimating the hospital needs of a large community, however, it would 
not be safe to expect a. percentage of utilisation of hospital beds as a whole 
throughout the year to be more than 75 pei cent, at the present time, even 
in the face of a general shortage of beds with consequent increase of pressure. 
The Survey has sought to point out the necessary inflexibilities of hospital 
arrangements and the irregularity of demand throughout the year to account 
for this seeming inconsistency. 

On the map on page 823 are shown the eight "Health Districts" used by 
the Cleveland Division of Health for administration purposes. The hos- 
pital population of the city on the two census days was tabulated with refer- 
ence to location of residence of the patients according to these health dis- 
tricts. Comparison with the map will assist in interpreting Table III in the 
Appendix which gives this tabulation. 

A glance at this table and at the map shows that the hospitals of the city 
have not been located according to any general plan, nor to any great extent 
with reference to the needs of any particular locality. Thus District II and 
District VIII show the largest proportion of cases in the hospitals, 
and this is what one might expect considering the congested residential 
character of District VIII, and also the enormous business and industrial 
population of District II, during the working hours. A large amount of 
need for hospital attention invariably arises under such conditions, yet the 
only hospital in District II is Huron Road, and the district has less than 
one third the number of beds per thousand of population that are provided 
in Health District III, which, with three times the proportion of beds ac- 
cording to population, shows less than one-third the number of hospital 
vs per thousand. Comparison with District VII is also instructive. 



A numl)er of hospitals are found located near the boundaries of districts, 
and belong to the one as much as to the other, but the more fundamental 
fact is that the range of service of many hospitals has very little relation to 
the district in which it is located. Table IV in the Appendix shows the 
proportion of cases on the first census day registered in each hospital from 
its owrt health district. 

Further study of the individual hospitals on the second census day and 
in some cases for other periods, showed quite clearly that hospitals can be 
divided into two groups, with respect to their range. One type, such as 
Huron Road, Lakeside, City, Mount Sinai, St. Luke's, and St. Vincent's. 
have what may be practically called a city -wide range. The proportion of 
cases drawn from their own vicinity is no larger, or is less than one would 
expect in pro|ortion to distribution of population. In the other group are 
hospitals such as Fairview Park. St. John's, Glenville, Lutheran, Provident, 
Grace, St. A n's, and St. Alexis, which show a large proportion of patients 
drawn from their own vicinity. The difference between the two da ->-(> i-* 
often more striking when the figures for the individual hospitals in the latter 






HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SIK\KV 



da.ss arc examined in detail. In some instances from two-thirds to three- 
fourths of the patients are found to be drawn from the hospital's own dis- 
trict or u neighboring district, so that the git-at bulk of the hospital clientele 
is local, (ienerally M;caking, the range of the larger hospitals is wider than 
the range of the smaller ones. 

The facts shown in these tables are of importance in connection with the 
location of future hospital units, and will be referred to later in that connec- 
tion in the section on Community Planning. 

It is important that each board of trustees understand the range of its 
own hospital. Adaptation to the special needs of its clientele is a very 
different matter in a hospital which serves primarily its neighborhood from 
the case of one which draws from all over the city and from the environs. 

The most important summary conclusion to which the data in this sec- 
tion lead is the shortage of 1,500 hospital beds in Cleveland in 1920. The 
work of the existing hospitals has been unduly limited, because of this short- 
age, to urgent surgical and to maternity eases. Medical and special work, 
particularly for children, has not been provided for in any adequate degree. 
Study of the Cleveland hospitals reveals these conditions quite clearly, and 
they are thrown into relief by comparisons made with New York and Boston. 
It is apparent that while the best administered hospitals of Cleveland have 
used their beds to as full capacity as the best institutions elsewhere with which 
comparisons have been made, the hospitals in Cleveland as a whole have fallen 
below a desirable percentage of utilization of their theoretical capacity, even 
in the face of the community's need for beds. Some of the reasons for this 
have been indicated, and the need for flexibility and efficient administration 
has been pointed out as a remedy. 



MOR 




Fig. II. 

Provision and Need for Has pita Bent 



, i \i.s, \\i> Di-si-i .N>\itii - 



Distribution of hospitals OCCOrdidg to s<'<-lioiis of the city shous lark 
ill the past of any general phnning and the need for the formulation of prin- 
ciples by which the locations and functions of future hospitals can IK* de- 
termined. It is aitpareul that there is special need and large demand for 
hospital service coming from the central section of the city, and inasmuch as 
a considerable part of the need from tin's section is known to he of an urgent 
character, future plans for the location of hospitals must take into con- 
sideration local provision for this central section. 

It has heen sought in this section to point out not only general matters 
of interest to the city as a whole, hut to indicate some of the kinds of fa< -I - 
which hospitals need to know ahout themselves; which the trustees and 
their representatives should have periodically reported to them. In how 
many hospitals do the monthly reports to the trustees show, for instance, the 
percentage of beds used in each of the main divisions of the hospital in pro- 
portion to the theoretical capacity of each division? Shrewd business men 
know just what facts to demand in regular reports from their own enter- 
prises so that they shall be able to determine whether or not the business 
is well run. Trustees should be as discriminating in the selection of the facts 
which they ask to have set up as the guideposts for the business and policy 
of their hospitals. 



838 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION FOR SERVICE 



A hospital is much more complex than most business organizations of 
equivalent size. Its peculiarity is the inclusion of a number of different pro- 
fessions, each highly specialized, which must work together and which must 
be kept in effective working relations. The basis of a hospital is its medical 
>t.ilf, but in addition to this medical element, is the business administration, 
represented by the business men of the trustees, by the superintendent, and 
by his administrative assistants; the nurses, another highly specialized and 
well organized group; social service, representing still another and different 
type of work in the hospital; and finally, the housekeeping, mechanical, and 
clerical groups, who maintain the essential daily routine of the plant. It 
should \ye added that while the emphasis of the work of most superinten- 
dents is on the business side, the superintendent ought to interpret, develop 
and represent all phases of a hospital's activity. 

Hospital personnel thus includes such widely varying elements and 
draws them into such intimate relationship that the successful organization 
and administration of a modern hospital is a difficult matter requiring special 
training and skill. There are stated at the end of this chapter a series of 
recommendations regarding hospital organization to which the discussion of 
this chapter aims to lead, and which it endeavors to interpret. 



The basis of hospital organization may be one of three types. The 
first, which is found only in the proprietary hospital, is a group of stock- 
holders or owners of the hospital corporation, who may or may not have an 
interest in the professional and welfare activities of the institution. The 
second type, as represented by City Hospital, is under the direction of a 
single man, the Director of Pub ic Welfare, who appoints the executive 
officer and staff of the hospital. The third type, the usual form of organiza- 
tion of privately supported hospitals, is that of a board of trustees. Cer- 
tain hospitals which are under the control of religious organizations fall 
somewhere midway between types two and three. 

It is proper enough that there exist proprietary hospitals as a form of 
business enterprise meeting an apparent public demand, but no hospital 
which aims to be in the public service class can expect to receive public con- 
fidence and support unless it has as its governing authority an individual 
or group possessing the point of view of public service, without financial 
interest in the operations of the institution. 

The conditions found in the City Hospital of Cleveland indicate very 
clearly the need for more general public interest in an institution of major 
importance, such as this. The most serious administrative deficiency found 
at the City Hospital by the Survey was in the nursing service. So great a 
shortage of nursing service was found that the conditions amount to a serious 
neglect by the city of its solemn responsibility for the humane care of sick 
and helpless citizens. It is recognized that the ultimate responsibility rests 
with the citizens of Cleveland, who should have appropriated more money for 
the maintenance of City Hospital. More immediately, the responsibility rests 



; i IXfl \\D DIMM \-\Kll - 



with the appropriating authorities of the Cleveland municipal administra- 
tion." Tin- exec.itive oHi<-er> of tin' Department of Public Welfare and the 
City Ili'spital should be held responsible for voicing the need in a clear, 
effective, and persistent way, both to the appropriating authorities and to 
the public. 'I here is not evidence that sufficient attention has been called 
to tlie conditions by the administrative officials who have been aware of 
them. 

In the nursing service of City Hospital a decided shortage of students 
exists, and in some instances, of the supervising staff also. It is a conserva- 
tive estimate that there are only about one-third as many students as are 
needed for the number of patients, as 63 students are assigned the 481 beds 
used for training a ratio of one student to 7 or 8 beds. The ratio of students 
to beds was in actual practice lower than this one student to 10 beds in the 
general services during the day, and one student to 40 beds at ni^ht. Due 
to the shortage of student nurses, ward attendants have had nursing duties 
assigned to them for which they were entirely unqualified. 

The presence of a board of trustees or cf a visiting committee who were 
actively interested in the hospital might probably have been of great service 
to the administrative officers of the hospital and to the Director of Public 
Welfare in making apparent to the municipal administration and to the 
general public the needs of the City Hospital and the gravity of the present 
deficiency. As the Survey has recommended, an appropriation of $150,000 
a year for nursing service is necessary for at least the next year or two in 
order to secure a sufficient number of graduate nurses to provide a minimum 
of sat isfadory care for the patients. If, as the Survey has also recommended, 
a sufficiently capable head of the training school can be secured with an ade- 
quate corps of trained assistants, it is probable that the training school 
can be so built up that the amount just mentioned can be diminished in 
future years, as an increased number of student nurses is received, up to the 
maximum for which the hospital can provide suitable training. 

At Warrensville Infirmary the Irfck of medical and attendant service is 
also grave, and here again the institution has been lost sij.ht of, even by 
sections of the public which, if they knew the facts, would be interested to 
arouse public opinion to better conditions. The need is not only for more 
medical staff and attendants at Warrensville, but also for recreational facili- 
ties for old people and others who are patients and who need some element 
in their lives beyond the barest minimum of physical care; also for the em- 
ployed help of the institution, who, particularly under present economic 
conditions, are obtained with difficulty in a place which is relatively isolated 
in comparison with other places in which as good, if not better, wages, can 
be secured. Much in this direction would gladly be done by volunteer 

-tance if the right people knew the facts and were interested to be active 
in the matter. 

It has been recommended by the Survey that the Cleveland City Hos- 
pital be governed by a board of trustees, which would require a change in the 

It it recognized that legal restriction* upon municipal taxing power have placed considerable 
imitations upon Cleveland's expenditures for public services, as in many other cities. 



H4U HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Si K\ 1.1 

city charter. It may be pointed out that from the standpoint of efficiency, 
government by a director need in no way suffer in comparison with 
government by a board of trustees. The effectiveness of either form of 
government depends upon personnel, the recommendation in favor of a board 
of trustees being chiefly that of greater stability through changing municipal 
administrations. This again may work for good or ill, depending upon per- 
sonnel. At some periods it would serve to retard progress, and in others to 
prevent disruption following a political overturn. On the whole, however, a 
board of trustees is desirable. 

Even under the most ideal conditions of municipal administration, a city 
hospital needs to be brought in contact with its community, and this can 
best be secured by attaching to the institution in some way a group of dis- 
interested citizens, men and women, who will visit it, be in touch with its 
work, help its governing and executive officers by friendly advice, and above 
all else, interpret the institution, its work, and its needs to the financial 
appropriating authorities and to the public as a whole. The formation of a 
strong board of trustees best accomplishes these purposes, but if this pro- 
posal proves unacceptable, some progress toward the same result may be 
accomplished by a properly selected visiting or auxiliary committee, 
appointed by the Director of Public Welfare; such a committee 
of course having only advisory powers. The degree to which such a board 
will be of practical service will depend almost entirely upon the Director. 
He has it in his power to stimulate the board to activities which will 
not interfere with the hospital's activities but be of benefit, or, on the other 
hand, he may reduce the group to one on which few capable individuals will 
find interest in serving. In the absence of a board of trustees, however, "the 
presence of some such advisory body is highly advisable. 

A hospital which is managed by a religious sisterhood will do well, as 
four such hospitals in Cleveland have recently done, to appoint a lay advis- 
ory committee which will exercise much the same functions as a board of 
trustees though without the legal authority usually vested in them in other 
hospitals. 

For the typical hospital, privately incorporated, there should unques- 
tionably be a board of trustees. Such bodies are usually either self-perpet- 
uating or elected by a hospital membership or by church or other organiza- 
tions which constitute the hospital corporation. Members of boards should 
have definite terms, and the personnel should change slowly, a few terms 
expiring each year. Many of the chief deficiencies in hospital administration 
in Cleveland and elsewhere have arisen because of defects in the make-up 
of the board of trustees or in its relationship to other groups in the hospital 
organization. The composition of boards of trustees has too frequently 
been determined by an historical accident which threw together a group of 
doctors and lay business men who together made up the original body, or 
on the other hand the board is composed entirely of business men, who are 
usually immersed in affairs, and leave to the medical staff or to one or two 
of their own number, practically the whole responsibility for administration 
of the institution. 



\\D I >i-i'i \-\ifii .-- KH 

1'erhaps the mo.st fnMjiH-iit cause of difficulty in Cleveland has been the 
f\i-t -in . of a number of different hoards or groups within the same hospital, 
without dear definit ion of their respective powers and duties. Thus then* 
may t>e f> md a hoard of trustees, a board of managers, and an auxiliary 
hoard in the same institution. The personnel of one of these groups may 
heentire'y women; of another, entirely men; the third may be also of women, 
or i>f both men and wmnen. The original reason for the formation of these 
different bodies was obviously the desire to interest as many persons as pos- 
sible in the hospital for the sake of moral and financial support. Principles 
of organization applicable to hospitals as well as to business establishments 
require that there shall be one governing authority. The existence of other 
boards or committees is not inconsistent with this principle, but the pro 
visions of the by-laws and the actual practice of the hospital should make 
it quite dear that a single body which should be known in general as the 
"Hoard of Trustees" has complete authority*, and that all other commit 
tees or groups have advisory powers or delegated powers only; nor should 
powers be delegated by the board save to committees which include some of 
its own membership. Delegation of power to other committees almost 
invariably leads to division of authority and confusion in administration. 

In a few hospitals where numbers of different boards and committees 
exist, a simple remedy is practical -consolidation. There are usually found 
a certain number of active members within each committee, just about 
enough altogether, to make a single effective governing body. 

A board of trustees of a hospital ought to include within itself alPthe 
chief elements with which the hospital is concerned. Boards frequently 
suffer from being composed entirely of business men. Boards of trustee- 
should include other elements which enter deeply into the work of a hospital. 
Education is one of a hospital's interests, in relation to nurses, to medical 
study, and to the community in general along health lines. Kvery hospital, 
particularly those connected with medical schools or maintaining training 
schools for nurses, should include in their boards one or more persons inter- 
! in or connected with educational activities. Men and women concerned 
in the philanthropic and social service relations of a hospital likewise repre- 
sent an element which ought to be on every hospital board. Selection of 
personnel from the business, educational, philanthropic, and other element 
which ought together to mak up the circle of interests of a hospital is no 
e.-t^y task, for tin* group as a'whole must not l>e too large, it must be har- 
monious, aiid must be caoable of prompt and effective action Such mingling 
of interests in the personnel of a board is a goal to be sought for. Men 
experienced in the management of business affairs constitute a necessary and 
valuable element, but men and women interested and concerned with other 
activities need to he sought for and included. 

It is perhaps not quite clear to the average JKTSOII why the physicians 
who do the medical work of a hospital should not be members of its board of 
trustees. The accumulated experience of ho>pitaK throughout the country 

It it well to restrict the use of the word "Board" to this one body, and to use the term "com- 
mittee" for all other groups, medical and lay. 



842 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



is against such membership. The physician who is on a hospital staff or 
who is in active practice will have, if a member of the board of trustees, a 
double position and a double interest. The word double is not to be inter- 
preted as meaning selfish. As a member of the board, the physician is in a 
position of authority over the hospital policies. As a member of the staff, 
he is connected with the conduct of a definite piece of work carrying out 
these policies within the hospital. So long as hospital staffs are made up 
of practising physicians, each of whom gives a portion of his time to the hos- 
pital service, the selection of a few of these men for membership on the board 
of trustees is certain to create difficulties. The medical knowledge and in- 
terest of the physician is the professional guide to which the board of trus- 
tees must give attention, but this guidance from the medical staff can best 
be furnished through the medical staff's own organization, acting as a pro- 
fessional body and related to the board through a suitable committee and 
through the superintendent. 

The nursing work of a hospital is another element of great importance in 
the daily administration of the hospital, and one which at the present time 
presents especial difficulties. A special section of the report of the Cleveland 
Hospital and Health Survey is devoted entirely to nursing (Part IX.) Here it 
may be mentioned merely that the relation between the nurse and the hos- 
pital administration in the past has been largely through the nurses' train- 
ing school. As the nursing report shows, hospitals have been too ready to 
utilize their training school for nurses as a means of securing cheap labor. 
Part of the young woman's payment for receiving education in nursing has 
been rendered by giving manual service. Nurses are too much in demand 
to permit these conditions to continue. While part of the education of a 
nurse lies necessarily in the hospital and dispensary, where practical ex- 
jjerience must be gained, the education of the future nurse and the daily 
conduct of the hospital routine cannot be identified so closely in the future 
as they have been in the past. The education of nurses must stand in a 
greater measure on its own feet, as an educational enterprise, affiliated with 
the hospital more along the lines of the affiliation between medical school 
and hospital. The routine work in caring for patients must be conducted 
in a larger measure by women who have already had their educational train- 
ing for the work, and who do not receive an educational course as part of 
their compensation. The varied activities which have been carried out in 
the past by the graduate nurse and the pupjj nurse must in the future be 
conducted by an apportionment of tasks among graduate nurses, attendants, 
maids, and orderlies. 

In its relation to hospital organization, this may mean physical separa- 
tion between the training school and hospital in many instances, as out- 
lined in the nursing report. The conduct of training schools by hospitals 
as part of their own organization requires special knowledge and usually a 
special committee, in order that educational policies may be developed, and 
educational standards maintained. For these reasons, the special training 
school committee recommended in the plan of organization is deemed de- 
sirable. The relationship proposed between the trustees, the training 
school committee, the superintendent of the hospital, and the head of the 
nursing service, should be considered carefully. 



HOSPITALS AM) l>i-n \-\KH - sj:; 



The social service department represents the newest element to enter 
the hospital, and its position as yet has not received universal recognition. 
In a niiinlier of the best institutions, however, in Cleveland and elsewhere, 
the sorial service department is developed and its place is fairly well defined. 
Few boards of trustees and few Superintendents have at the present time 
-ulii' ient knowledge concerning the policies and the methods that should 
prevail in a social service department to l>e able to guide it properly. A 
special social service committee is therefore thought desirable, to serve with 
advisory powers only, and to help in developing the social service of the 
hospital so as to be of the maximum assistance to its medical work. 

A failure on the part of the board of trustees to give sufficient authority 
to their executive officer, the superintendent, is another source of weakness 
in not a few hospitals in Cleveland as elsewhere. More than one executive 
head in an organization is an obvious weakness and danger. To manage 
a modern hospital with all of its varied interests and all the widely differing 
groups within its personnel, requires a man or woman of unusual ability and 
tact, and witli special training. Everywhere in the country the numl>er of 
such qualified persons is at present far below the demand. The board and 
its advisory committees need to supplement the superintendent in advisory 
as well as in directing ways. It will be observed that according to the plan 
for hospital organization outlined in the following, the superintendent stands 
in a central position, meeting with the board on the side of hospital adminis- 
tration, and with the medical executive committee on the side of the hos- 
pital's professional activities. 

A third aspect, which is not mentioned in the plan of organisation, but 
which may be taken for granted, is the superintendent's relation to his 
administrative departments; the steward, the dietitian, the engineer, as well 
as the head of the nursing and of the social service departments. Periodical 
conferences between the superintendent and the administrative group are 
desirable. Medical, nursing, social, and administrative interests within the 
hospital rentier it desirable that from time to time representatives of all the 
different groups l>e brought together for their better mutual understanding. 
Recommendation numl>er (> points in this direction. It is particularly im- 
portant that meml>ers of the board of trustees shall understand personally 
the hospital inter-relationships and the different parts of its work, and that 
they shall come into contact at first-hand with sources of information. 
Through such conferences held from time to time for the discussion of selected 
problems, this can l>e achieved. There is no stimulus to members of a 
managing hoard like direct contact with facts and with the |>eople who are 
doing the work over which they have authority. 

"What is the whole duty of a Trustee?" is perhaps the fundamental 
question concerning hospital organization. How is a man or woman living 
in a great city and with business or other definite vocation, to give sufficient 
time to a hospital really to understand its \\ork and to be able to meet to 
the full the responsibilities of trusteeship? The question cannot be answered 
in general terms, for the activities of a modern hospital are so varied and so 
technical that few members can come into sufficient touch with all of them 
to have sound judgment upon all questions that may arise regarding any 



844 HOSPITAL AND HKALTII SuBVEi 

one of them. Yet, by division of labor among the members of a hoard, and 
above all, by a really active sense of responsibility made effective through 
the leadership of the president or other officers, a reasonable degree of knowl- 
edge of the work of the hospital can be gathered by each member, and the 
sum total, when the board gathers together, will be sufficient to render 
the trustees a truly responsible governing body. 

It is of particular importance that the trustees understand what facts 
they should know of periodically, so that these may be presented in the 
monthly and annual reports of the superintendent. The percentage of beds 
used in each division of the hospital has already been mentioned as one of 
these important facts. The length of stay of cases in -the different divisions 
of the hospital is another. At the time of the Survey census, it was found 
that taking the general hospitals of Cleveland as a whole, 44.6 per cent, of 
the patients had at that time been in the hospital from three to fourteen 
days, 13.2 per cent, had been in the hospital less than three days, 19.2 per 
cent, between fourteen and thirty days, 9.2 per cent, between one month 
and two months, and 12.9 per cent, more than two months (9% not stated). 
The proportion of cases staying for these longer periods is higher than it 
should be in hospitals designed primarily for acute stages of disease. The 
reason lies largely in the lack of dispensaries and of facilities for convalescent 
and chronic patients in Cleveland, to which attention will be devoted later 
in this report. A study of individual hospitals showed wide variations in this 
figure, ranging from no patients staying over sixty days to as high as 29.9 
per cent. A report showing the length of time that patients have been in 
the hospital, and the number in the various divisions of the hospital who 
had been there more than a normal period, should be of distinct value to the 
trustees as well as to the medical staff and the superintendent. 

Statistical record of patients who have been refused admission is another 
item of significance. Monthly reports should show the number of refused 
cases, classified by the main type of case, i. e., medical, surgical, children's, 
etc., and classified also according to whether the applicant was for a pay, 
part-pay, or free bed, and with classification according to reasons for re- 
jection. Not a few hospitals fail to keep any memorandum of cases refused 
admission because of lack of room or other reasons. Data as to w r hether 
or not a waiting list is maintained, or whether refused cases are placed on 
the waiting list, are also of value, although the maintenance of a waiting list 
is not always practicable. 

Statistics regarding the results of care have been developed somewhat 
through the American College of Surgeons, but their further development 
and the regular reporting of the condition of patients at discharge and at 
specified periods thereafter should be part of the regular reports of hospitals 
in the future. Similarly in dispensaries, the trustees should know what 
proportion of patients pay one visit and never come back to continue needed 
treatment. 

Those items are mentioned here merely as illustrations and of course are 
in addition to the ordinary statistics of the number of patients admitted, the 
number of units of work done in each of the chief divisions, and the financial 



HOSPITALS \\i> DIM-I. \-\KII - 845 

figures showing income and expenditures for the various departments of the 
institution. In the section on individual hospital planning we shall return 
to this subject and summarize the more essential facts which a hospital or 
dispensary should gather and present regularly for the information of its 
riling body, its supporters and the public. To substitute guidance by 
farts for guidance by impressions and by hearsay is the goal of the best ad- 
ministration. 

Si MMAUY OF PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITAL ORGANIZATION* 

1. The final governing authority of the hospital should be a Board of 
Trustees. No member of the Board should be a member of the active or 
consultant medical staff of the hospital. Hospitals which are under a re- 
ligious or public city or federal organization and which therefore cannot 
have Trustees, should appoint an Advisory Committee similarly constituted. 
In addition to the men members of the Board of Trustees who represent 
chiefly financial, administrative and broad public interests and experience 
it is of much importance that there be included on the Board of Trustees a 
representative of some institution of higher education, viz: University, Nor- 
mal College and women members whose experience and interest can be relied 
upon to contribute constructive ideas and opinions. 

2. The appointment of the medical staff should be vested in the Board 
of Trustees. All members of the staff, chiefs of services, or assistants should 
be appointed by the Board for terms of one year renewable by the Board. 
The nomination should be made on the initiative of the Board of Trustees 
or of the Medical Staff or of an executive committee of the medical staff. 
The Board of Trustees should consult with the Superintendent, or Chief 
Executive Officer, before confirming the nomination of a Medical Staff, or of 
i ndividual members thereof. 

3. The Superintendent of the hospital should be appointed by the Board 
He should have entire administrative authority over all departments of the 
hospital. Under the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Trus- 
tees, the Superintendent of the hospital should have authority to nominate 
or appoint all heads of departments and employes. This implies the au- 
thority for discharge or dismissal of any employe for cause. The superin- 
tendent should be the representative of the trustees in relation to the staff 
or outside interests. 

4. The medical staff should be definitely organized for the promotion of 
team work, common policies and satisfactory relations with the administra- 
tion of the hospital. Regular meetings of the medical staff or sections 
thereof should take place for the discussion of professional work. For 
guidance in organizing such professional conferences the recommendations of 
the American College of Surgeons are called to the attention of the medical 
staffs of hospitals. The staff should be organized into divisions or services, 
medical, surgical, etc. It is desirable that there be a recognized chief for 
cadi division. 

' Prepared in collaboration with Haven Emerion. M. D., Director of the Survey, and W. L. Bab- 
cock. M. D., consultant on Hospital Administration. 



846 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(a) Provision should be made in the By-laws of the Hospital for the 
recognition of physicians, not members of the staff, whose practice in the 
hospital complies with definite hospital standards. It is recommended that 
these physicians organize into an auxiliary staff, without service or voting 
power, and that a delegate or delegates from this staff be recognized by the 
Trustees and Attending Staff as their representative. 

5. There should be a Medical Executive Committee composed of mem- 
bers of the medical staff, selected by the medical staff or by the Board of 
Trustees on the nomination of the medical staff. The Superintendent of 
the Hospital should be a member of this Committee. The total member- 
ship of the Committee should not be so large as to be unwieldy. Seven 
members is generally the maximum desirable. 

1 6. It is recommended that the Board of Trustees of hospitals arrange for 
periodical conferences of designated members of the trustees, of the medical 
executive committee, the superintendent and administrative officers such as 
the heads of the training school or nurses' service, and of the social service 
department. This joint group should meet periodically for the discussion 
of hospital policies or administrative matters. 

7. The staff of the dispensary or out-patient department should be ap- 
pointed according to the principles above laid down and the physicians 
serving in the dispensary should receive definite recognition as members of 
the hospital organization and staff. For each department of the dispensary 
there should be designated a chief of clinic who should be under the general 
authority of the chief of the corresponding department of the hospital, but 
who should be directly consulted by the superintendent or the assistant 
superintendent who is in charge of the dispensary on all matters affecting 
the dispensary. . The chiefs of the dispensary service should constitute a 
Dispensary Medical Committee which with the superintendent, the assistant 
executive in charge and such others as may be designated should meet from 
time to time on dispensary matters. It is suggested that a representative 
of the dispensary staff be a member of the Medical Executive Committee. 

8. The medical staff of the hospital acting thru the Medical Executive 
Committee and the Superintendent should formulate a definite set of stand- 
ards, subject to ratification by the Trustees, for all professional work of phy- 
sicians in the hospital touching such matters as attendance, the making 
and supervision of records, diagnosis, use of laboratories, X-Ray and other 
diagnostic aids, the duties of residents and internes, the inter-relation of 
staff physicians and outside physicians, the matter of fee-splitting, etc. 

ft. Physicians not members of the hospital staff should be entitled to 
send to the hospital and to treat therein private cases in rooms or wards, 
subject, however, to such limitation as to number of beds to be allotted to 
outside physicians as may be formally made by the Trustees, and provided 
that the physicians treating such cases conform to all standards made by 
the Medical Staff. 



HMMM i \i.- \\D l>i-ri\-\i; i- 847 

10. No physician should receive a fee from patients other than such fees 
as may be permitted to staff physicians nor should any physician receive a 
fee from a patient unless the charges for the hospital care have been met 
according to the rate established for various rooms or wards for members 
of the staff and outside physicians alike. 

11. In such hospitals as may still continue to keep a training school as 
part of the hospital organization there should be appointed by the Board of 
Trustees a training school committee composed of both men and women, 
to direct educational policies. This committee should include representa- 
tives of the Board of Trustees, with other persons known to have had experi- 
ence in education, and also members of the alumnae of the nurses' training 
school. The superintendent of the hospital and the director of the train- 
ing school in the hospital and representatives of the medical staff selected 
by the medical executive committee, though not members of the training 
school committee should sit with the committee. 

f Among the Catholic hospitals or in hospitals administered under a re- 
ligious organization which have no boards of trustees and are subject to the 
direction of the Bishop of the diocese, a committee on the training school, 
advisory to* the Bishop, might with advantage be established at once to 
direct the^educational policies of the training school. 

The relationship between schools of nursing and hospitals should be 
essentially the same as that created between medical schools and hospitals. 
The School of Nursing, like the medical school, should exist primarily to give 
technical education to students who are to obtain part of their training in 
the hospitals. 

An ideal organization for a school of nursing which should l>e realised in 
Cleveland as soon as circumstances permit is clearly the University organiza- 
tion in which ward training would be given in such hospitals as come up to 
the conditions required by the University for educational purposes for its 
students. 

12. The superintendent of nurses in the hospital should be appointed by 
the Board of 'jVustees of the hospital, on nomination of the superintendent 
of the hospital with the concurrence of the training school committee. She 
should have administrative authority, subject to the superintendent of the 
hospital, over the entire nursing service and she should be responsible for the 
educational standards and policies as laid down by the training school com- 
mittcc. It is considered desirable that the superintendent of the hospital 
should delegate to the superintendent of the training school the appointment 
ami dismissal of nursing ]>ersonnel. 

The offices of principal of the training school and superintendent of nurses. 
are educational and administrative offices, respectively, and may or may not 
be combined in the same individual. When they are << untuned the head of 
the training school should le designated "Superintendent of Nurses and 

Principal of the Training School." 



848 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

13. The Social Service department of the hospital should be under the 
direction of a head worker who should be responsible to the superintendent. 
It is recommended that there be a Social Service Committee, which among 
other members, should include one or more of the trustees, of the medical 
staff and the superintendent of the hospital. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 849 

I III HUMAN PROBLEM OF THK HOSPITAL PATIENT 

r 

"Treat not only the disease, treat also the man." These words of Ru- 
<lolpli Yin-how set the standard for the highest form of hospital service. 
Tin- t\\<> <r three thousand patients who are in the hospitals of Cleveland 
daily, present the hospitals not only with a variety of bodily ills, but with 
problems of personality and environment which are as varied as human 
nature, and which influence vitally the ultimate success of the hospital's 
mission In maintain as well as to restore health. 

Yin-how's words set not only a standard but express a warning, for the 
hospital's great danger is overspecialization attending to pathology and 
overlooking ]xrsoimlity. Successful work in the operating room may be 
inde]>eii<lent of what the patient is or thinks or feels, but successful restora- 
tion of the patient to health and living efficiency depends not only on the 
surgery but on the patient's state of mind after he goes from the operating 
room to his bed in the hospital and from his bed in the hospital to his home. 

lu a survey it is necessary to consider Arsons as well as patients, in 
order that a true picture be given of the hospital's services, of their relation- 
ships to the community, and of their values and deficiencies, as judged by 
the final results in making people well and humanly efficient. The Survey 
has therefore endeavored to study the ]>eople and their reaction to the hos- 
pitals of Cleveland as well as the hospitals of Cleveland in their relations to 
the people. Several hundred interviews and conferences were held with 
physicians, including both members and non-members of hospital staffs; 
with nurses in hospitals and in public health fields; with social workers; 
with organizations of the f oreign-born ; with church workers; and with people 
met more or less at random in their homes or elsewhere. 

Tho>e who are accustomed to hospitals too often fail to recognize how 
new and strange an experience, to the average patient, is his first contact 
with a hospital. The admission procedure, the unfamiliar antiseptic odors, 
the sight of many sick people, the precise business-like efficiency of hurry- 
ing nurses and doctors, fill many a patient with vague and uncertain ideas 
of what may be going on behind the many closed doors, and what may 
soon l>e happening to himself. Courage is easily lost in the strange insti- 
tutional atmosphere. The educated man who is familiar with hospitals, 
having previously been a patient or a visitor, and who is self-confident and 
at ease even during sickness, is in quite a different position from the un- 
informed immigrant who has never had contact with doctors or hospitals 
in his life, or the tiinil woman, or the sensitive child. 

It 1^ not that hospitals or their personnel lack kindness in the treatment 
of the patients. It is their business to be helpful, and hospitals and their 
doctors, nurses, and other personnel generally are, but it is rather that hos- 
pitals are helpful in a professional and technical way, while the patient is 
generally full of worrying questions he would like to have answered, of fore- 
bodings which it would be desirable to dispel, of states of mind which depress 
him, and which, if maintained, will hinder his recovery. These forebodings 



g50 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURYKY 

and these states of mind require not merely a general attitude of kindness, 
hut sympathetic insight, clear analysis, and definite action to dispel. 

The human problem of the hospital patient can be perhaps best illustrated 
by the foreign-born. On the two Survey census days, 63.1 per cent, of the 
adult patients were American-born, and 36.9 per cent, were foreign-born. 
According to the estimates in 1917, of the Cleveland Americanization Com- 
mittee, there were 744,728 total population in the city, of whom 231,939 
were of foreign birth, 466,142 native born of native parents and 281,586 
native born of foreign or mixed parentage. Those of the third group are 
largely children. Taking these figures, we find that the 231,939 foreign- 
born are 49.7 per cent, of the 466,142 native born of native parentage. This 
figure may be roughly compared with the percentage of foreign-born adults in 
the hospitals of Cleveland, which was just stated as 36.9 per cent. This illus- 
trates an important point which studies in other communities have verified 
that the foreign-born adult generally uses the hospitals less than the 
American-born adult. This is largely because of lack of familiarity with an 
institution with which many immigrants had little experience, previous to 
coming to this country. It must be remembered that a large number of 
recent immigrants have come from small towns and many of them think, 
"Hospitals are places where you go to die." A considerable- proportion of 
the foreign-born patients, moreover, speak little or no English. 

The attitude of the foreign-born toward the hospital reflects all the lights 
and shades of the hospital's own attitude toward its patients of foreign 
birth. Frequently the very human and impressionable surface which the 
foreign-born presents ready for the hospital's sign and seal, is masked be- 
hind an enforced silence because of unintelligible speech. Too often the 
phrase "those ignorant foreigners" shows merely lack of understanding by 
the American-born. A common language is the searchlight most useful in 
discovering physical, racial, or temperamental needs, and means of adjust- 
ing the hospital regime to treat these. When the hospital has given time and 
thought to its task, it has been able through sympathetic interpretation to 
convince the patient of its friendly interest, its ability in diagnosis, its skill 
in treatment, and when this conviction is made doubly sure by intelligent 
follow-up work in the home, there is every evidence that the hospital's work 
is worth while, that the patient is grateful and appreciative, and that the 
experience has been of permanent educational value to him in the matter of 
personal and public health and in the growth of a sense of social and civic 
participation. 

The result is different when the hospital has had no specific machinery 
for getting at the back of the foreign patient's mind, and making the some- 
what inflexible and mysterious hospital routine less a puzzle to him. The 
patient's mild skepticism as to whether American hospitals are good places 
for the foreign-born, increases to a large doubt. This is further enlarged by 
his friends, who have. trouble in being understood at the inquiry desk; who 
may be unable to talk with the doctor or to get the diagnosis. If a mediral 
case, the patient worries through a retarded convalescence and goes home 
glad to be free and wondpVtafc If a surgical case, often his climax of 




HOSPITALS AND DISPENSAKII - 851 

pmtrst against the vast unknown of hospital machinery is a refusal to per- 
mit operation. He leaves against a<l\ i< . grateful for the somewhat peremp- 
tory discharge i>f the hospital, which in turn, feels inwardly affronted that its 
effort to help should he powerless l>efore his unreasoning "stupidity." 

In >even hospitals the proportion of foreign-horn adult patients was over 
80 IHT cent., the maximum being as high as 47 per cent. No hospital in 
Cleveland has made any definite provision for interpreters, either as a 
matter of promoting the ease and comfort of the patient, or of increasing 
hospital eHiciency. As a rule the hospital is concerned with "making the 
patient understand" "We manage to make 'them understand somehow." 
Some other patient of the same mother tongue who has learned English is 
pressed into service, or an employe or a visitor is called upon. The prob- 
lem, however, is not merely "making the |>atient understand, " but is to render 
the patient "understood." 

The following table, based on the average of the two Survey census days, 
showed an interesting phase, the contrast between the proportion of pay, 
part-pay, and free patients among the adult foreign-born and the American- 
born patients in the hospitals of Cleveland. 



HOSPITAL PATIENTS ON Two SURVEY CENSUS DAYS, AVERAGED 

American-born Foreign-born 

Number Percentage Number Percentage 

Pay 989 39.2 351 23.8 

Part-pay 735 29.1 444 30.1 

Free 733 29.1 631 42.8 

Information not furnished 66 2.6 48 3.3 



Total 2,523 1.474 

The table indicates what one would expect, that the foreign-born show a 
much larger proportionate use of the free beds. The generally higher eco- 
nomic status of the American-born is doubtless sufficient explanation. 

< )ne important relation of the hospital to the community is the furnishing 
of information about the condition of patients. Patients themselves want to 
know how they arc getting on, and their relatives and friends likewise wish 
this information. Hospital staffs and administrators must use their dis- 
cretion in what they tell the patients or relatives, just as private physicians 
do, yet the hospitals often fail to give elementary and necessary information 
or to give it in a way which will be helpful or even useful. 

Many inquiries come by the telephone. A story has been reported of an 
immigrant family, very anxious to secure information as to the condition of 
the father who had l>een taken to a hospital after an accident. Unable to 



852 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKV 

speak English, the mother and her children had recourse to the neighbor- 
hood druggist. He called up the hospital three times, and was unable to 
learn anything that would either satisfy himself or relieve the family's 
acute anxiety. The error was not inhumanity on the part of the hospital, 
for the information was later furnished readily, but was due to the fact that 
the telephone operator had not been taught to appreciate the importance of 
interpreting the hospital to the public. This incident would not be men- 
tioned were it not an illustration of many. 

The importance of this duty is often not sufficiently clear to the hospital 
administration to make them provide adequate instruction to the person or 
persons who are responsible for answering such inquiries, either in person or 
over the telephone, or to cause the selection of a sufficiently trained and 
tactful person to perform this function. 

Sometimes a mother is eager to see her child frequently. There are 
often perfectly good reasons why she should not see the child at all or during 
certain periods, but not infrequently there is failure to explain to an anxious 
family why the privilege is denied. 

Interpretation of the hospital's work, rules and results to the public is 
part of the hospital's job. The public includes its own patients, their rela- 
tives and friends, and also the broader circle of the hospital's supporters, 
and any one in the community, in fact, who has a reason to be interested in 
the hospital's activities. This interpretation of the hospital's work, rules 
and results, is made partly in the hospital's formal reports and partly through 
its daily relations with its patients and those interested in them. Too little 
attention has been given to such interpretation through the channels of the 
hospital's routine contacts. 

The patient's lack of understanding of the hospital is too often matched 
by the hospital's lack of understanding of the patient. The patient can be 
greatly helped to understand the hospital by the right procedure at the time 
of admission. Hospitals which maintain dispensaries should use the dis- 
pensary as the means through which patients are admitted to the wards. 
The provision of a trained and tactful member of the social service depart- 
ment in connection with the admission desk of the dispensary will serve to 
start many patients, who will later be referred from the dispensary to the 
wards, with some understanding about hospitals in general and this hospital 
in particular. From this standpoint, the two critical points in the patient's 
hospital career are the clay of admission and the time of or just before dis- 
charge. 

A considerable portion of patients are sent to the hospitals by charitable 
societies. On the Survey census days, it appeared that an average total of 
201 patients, or 11.8 per cent, of all patients, had been admitted to 
hospitals at the request of some charitable agency. In the case of these 
patients, the charitable society stands to the hospital as an interested party. 
If its work with the patient and with the family is to be successful, it may 
need to know the physical condition of the patient, and the prognosis. It 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSAKII ^ 863 

is the duty of the hospital to cooperate with the charitable society by fur- 
nishing the necessary information, consistent with the interests of the in- 

di\ iilual patient. 

The hospitals have not always met this responsibility completely or wisely, 
because of the same deficiency just mentioned, lack of a definite sense of 
responsibility for interpreting the hospital's work, and failure to assign a 
sufficiently trained and responsible person to the task. 

\ Considerable portion of the patients in some institutions come as in- 
dustrial accident cases, or are sent through a medical department conducted 
at sonic commercial or manufacturing establishment. The special report 
of the Survey on industrial medicine and hygiene (Part VII), deals with 
this matter, but in an industrial community like Cleveland its importance 
justifies mention here. The hospitals need to serve industry, and industry 
should support the hospitals adequately in return for service. 

What can the hospital do in relation to the difficult problem of the foreign- 
born who do not speak English? The calling in of paid interpreters is finan- 
cially impossible in most of the smaller hospitals. Moreover, no one inter- 
preter can speak every language and almost any language of western Europe 
is likely to be called for sometime. Few if any hospitals could afford even 
one full-time interpreter, or could manage to keep such a functionary busy 
with the particular patients whose language he could speak. The problem 
of hospital interpretation cannot be solved by paid interpreters employed by 
the individual hospitals. The chief practical recommendations to be made 
are these: 

If a hospital and its out-patient department are taken together, a sufficient 
number of patients speaking a given foreign language or group of related 
languages might come to the institution on an average day to justify and 
require the entire time of an interpreter, and the work in the two branches 
could be adjusted so as not ordinarily to conflict. The use of full-time in- 
terpreters, however, doing no other work, must necessarily be limited to 
very large institutions, such as the new City Hospital will be. Most hos- 
pitals which receive patients not shaking English should solve the problem 
of interpretation by depending on specially trained nurses or social workers 
or by calling in the aid of outside organizations interested in the foreign- 
born or of the foreign-born themselves. Hospital superintendents in engaging 
employes for certain positions should consider ability to speak certain for- 
eign languages as an asset and a reason for the engaging of a particular 
individual. Really good interpretation in securing medical and social his- 
tories ami in meeting the patient's human needs while in the hospital, cannot 
be obtained by calling in an uneducated orderly. The main reliance should 
be upon nurses and members of the social service department who have a 
definite professional sense of responsibility for the hospital patients. 

In communities having a considerable number of foreign-born of any one 
race group, cooperation can usually be obtained from immigrant organiza- 
tions themselves. These organisations should be encouraged to serve as 



854 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

visitors to patients of their own race who have not other friends and in help- 
ing with the more difficult and special cases in which interpretation is neces- 
sary and beyond the power of any employe of the hospital. Enough hos- 
pitals are now utilizing outside cooperation of this sort sufficiently to show 
that it is 5 gladly provided by immigrant organizations (or by American 
immigrant welfare societies where they exist) without cost to the hospital 
and to the mutual benefit of both sides. Such an arrangement with immi- 
grant organizations would go a long way toward promoting general under- 
standing of the hospital by the people of that group in the community. 

These plans, however, cannot be effective unless some department of the 
hospital and ultimately some individual is definitely charged with organizing 
and keeping up the system of interpretation. Generally speaking, the social 
service department should be charged with this responsibility and some member 
of the staff of the department should be selected to carry out the responsibility 
who is especially qualified and interested. A hospital which has any con- 
siderable proportion of foreign-born patients should make a point of having 
in its social service department someone who is able to speak at least one of 
the foreign languages common among patients and who has secured special 
knowledge and training in the backgrounds and characteristics of several 
immigrant groups so that she is capable of fulfilling these duties. This will 
involve some inside work with various hospital employes, particularly nurses 
and other members of the social service department; the use of phrase books; 
the encouragement of various means by which nurses and social workers 
may secure knowledge about the backgrounds and characteristics of the 
chief immigrant groups. An effort should be made to interest internes in 
the same, and this should have the support not only of the hospital superin- 
tendent but of the chiefs of the medical staff. It should be made apparent 
that thus better histories can be obtained, better cooperation of the patient 
secured, and better medical results achieved. 

The critical moment for the patient, from the standpoint of disease, is 
often the time of admission to the hospital, but the critical time for the 
patient from his standpoint as a person is usually at or a little before dis- 
charge. In the discussion of the problem of convalescent care (page 000) will 
be found statistics indicating that a large majority of hospital patients 
leave the hospital needing some definite form of medical care, either in their 
homes, in a dispensary, or in an institution for convalescents. The 
information gathered in Cleveland agrees entirely with the studies and 
estimates of Dr. Frederic Brush, the leading national authority on con- 
valescent care, that the medical job is not done at the time the patient 
leaves the hospital. The hospital's responsibility as a hospital is not always 
to do this medical job, but it must link the patient with the physician, the 
dispensary, the convalescent home, or other organization which will perform 
the needed service. 

The beginning of this connection is the explanation to the patient (or 
to his parents, if the patient is a child) of the patient's condition, in terms 
that will be understood by the lay mind; of what need exists, if any, for 
further medical supervision; or of what daily routine of diet, hygiene, 



HOSPITALS AND DISPK\-\I;II - 



( \ n IM . .UK! occupation is desirable during the period after discharge. 

Kxplanation to the patient or to those responsible for the patient, of the 
ent's condition on discharge and what may be called the needed pro- 
i for after-care, is a definite responsibility which few hospitals in Cleve- 

land have met. save in cx< eptional instances. It is part of the hospital's 

responsibility to have a definite system for meeting this need. 

At a feu hospitals there has l>een established a so-called follow-up sys- 
tem, usually modeled upon that of the American College of Surgeons. This 
aims to MM -lire for the medical staff the results of operations or the condition 
of the patient at a certain ]>eriod after discharge, such as three months, 
sj\ months, or a year. Such information is of medical value to the staff, 
and in the long run will tend to the advancement of medical science and the 
improvement of service to patients. But the term "fish-up" instead of 
"follow-up" should l>e applied to a method which merely secures facts as 
to a patient's condition a certain time after he is discharged, and does not 
in some definite and effective way help to make the conditions during this 
period what they should be. A follow-up and not a fish-up system is the 
standard which should be set in a progressive community like Cleveland, 
which wishes to obtain 100 per cent, value from the medical work of the 
institutions which it supports. 

When it is found that six per cent, of 200 patients recently discharged 
from four of the leading hospitals needed continued hospital care in other 
words, had relapsed since their discharge; when it is found that 12.5 per 
cent., in addition, were living under such home conditions that satisfactory 
convalescence was unlikely (See Table VII., Appendix), it is apparent that 
expensive hospital service is easily wasted because of the lack of a little fur- 
ther service which would have made all the preceding work permanently 
worth while. 

"Should the social service department have the responsibility for the 
problem of after-care?" No! The medical staff of a hospital have the 
responsibility for the care of its patients, and making a medical program 
for after-care is a part of that responsibility which cannot rightly or effec- 
tively be delegated. When it comes to carrying out the details of the work, 
the -ocial service department has a definite place, as will be brought out 
more fully later in discussing this subject. The social service department 
can assist the staff of the hospital in securing the facts regarding the pa- 
tient's personality, family housing, home conditions, neighborhood, and 
finances, which in conjunction with the medical facts known regarding th 
patient's condition, will enable the responsible member of the staff to for- 
mulate a program for after-care. When it comes to assisting in carrying 
out the program, the social service department generally has |>een and 
usually should be (ailed in, either to make explanations to the patient or 
to arrange for contact with the Visiting Nurse Association, the Department 
of Health nurses or a charitable society which will be able to exercise super- 
vision. to assist in improving home conditions or in securing the institu- 
tional care that may be required. 



As the facts in the section on convalescence bring out, the need for finan- 

cial aid during after-care is approximately much less frequent than the 



856 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

need for explanation and advice, given in terms of the patient's degree of 
education and understanding, and of the practical conditions of his environ- 
ment. 

The dispensary attached to the hospital should be used as one of the means 
of providing after-care of discharged patients. Reference of the patient 
to the dispensary should be made in every instance where further super- 
vision is necessary and the patient cannot pay a private physician. The 
follow-up system should insure the actual return of the patient to the dis- 
pensary in a large majority of instances. 

In summary, the patient's lack of understanding of the hospital needs 
to be overcome by development of the admission procedure, which should 
be concerned with more than the elementary procedure of registration, 
assignment to a definite ward or room, and fixation or remission of fees, and 
which should include educational and interpretative elements. The special 
problem of the non-English speaking foreigner should be met at the time 
of admission, and later through some definite provision for interpretation, 
both by hospital personnel and through the cooperation of associations 
interested in immigrants, as above suggested. 

The utilization of the dispensary as the place of admission for ward 
patients will, if the dispensary admission system is rightly organized and 
its personnel rightly selected, enable the average ward patient to go into 
a hospital bed with some previous understanding of the situation. 

The hospital has a definite responsibility for interpreting the patient's 
condition to him or to those responsible for him, in terms which can be 
understood by laymen and which will be a practical help; also of explaining 
and of helping (at least in the beginning) in the needed program for medical 
after-care. This is part of the medical responsibility of the hospital, and 
while a social service department is of great assistance both in securing 
facts regarding the patient's personality and environment, and in helping 
to carry out the medical after-care or referring the patient to an agency 
which will do so, a hospital which has no social service department should 
still be responsible and be able actually to provide for at least the explana- 
tion to the patient or his relatives, and the definite reference of the patient 
to the needed sources of after-care. 

The medical staff of the hospital, through its executive committee, 
should be expected to define the duty of the hospital in this respect, so the 
administrators of the hospital can have medical authority behind them for 
seeing that this responsibility is carried out by visiting and resident staff, 
nursing and administrative assistants, and by the social service department 
if there is one. 

Answering inquiries regarding patients is a definite part of the hos- 
pital's duty to the community and should be fulfilled according to a defi- 
nite cooperative policy by carefully instructed members of the hospital's 
administrative personnel. Cooperation with charitable agencies in behalf of 
their patients is a particularly significant responsibility of the hospital, 
affecting no inconsiderable proportion of the ward patients. 



Hnsi-lTALS AND DlSPKN- \ l< 1 1 .- 857 

Iii the long run, the degree of support of the hospitals of Cleveland will 
depend upon (In- decree to uliidi their work is appreciated by the com- 
munity. The elaborate facilities equipment, staff, and organization needed 
for the thorough study and treatment of hospital cases require an increas- 
ingly high degree of appreciation on the part of the community of just what 
hospital work is, what it requires, and what it costs. The foundation of 
appreciation is understanding. Anyone grasps the beneficent service of a 
hospital to the emergency accident patient, but understanding of the less 
obvious and more typical cases, which constitute the large majority of pa- 
tients, is not so easy. The patient's lack of understanding of the hospital is 
pardonable at the time of entrance. The patient's lack of understanding of 
the hospital at the time of discharge is a misfortune to the patient and to the 
hospital as well. Only on the basis of mutual understanding can adequate 
support for the best hospital work be built up and maintained in Cleveland. 



s.>s HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



THE MEDICAL PROFESSION AND THE HOSPITALS 

In the City of Cleveland the American Medical Directory of 1918 gives a 
list of 1,169 physicians, of whom 1,050 are stated to be in active practice. 
A tabulation of the staff lists of the members of the Hospital Council showed 
that 309, or 29 per cent, of the total were on the staff of a hospital or dispen- 
sary, while 71 per cent, had no such connection. Allowing for the small 
number of additional physicians on the staffs of the non-council hospitals, it 
is certainly true that two-thirds of the medical profession appear to have no 
connection with organized medical service. 

A similar comparison made about five years ago in Boston indicated that 
the proportion of physicians having a hospital or dispensary connection was 
about 50 per cent, larger. In New York, figures collected by the Public 
Health Committee of the Academy of Medicine indicated that almost 
exactly 50 per cent, of the medical profession in New York were on hospital 
or dispensary staffs. Cleveland thus has relatively more physicians than 
either of these two cities who are not members of any hospital or dispensary 
organization. 

It is apparent that so far as membership on a hospital staff implies ad- 
vantages for the scientific study of disease, for the use of special equipment, 
and for consultation with specialists, the majority of physicians of Cleve- 
land have not these advantages. So far as membership on hospital staff 
gives control in the use of hospital facilities, tabulation of the Cleveland 
hospitals by number of beds and size of staff shows that about 25 per cent, of 
the medical profession have control of about 80 per cent, of the hospital 
beds. 

A patient may of course be admitted to a hospital at which his private 
physician is not a member of the staff, but if the, patient is a ward case, the 
physician then loses the right to treat him. General complaint was made to 
the Survey during the first months of its work by physicians who were not 
on hospital staffs, that they often could not secure admission of their pa- 
tients to hospitals even as private cases, and of course they also complained 
of the many instances in which the patients were admitted to wards, when 
the care of the patients had to be resigned to the members of the regular 
hospital staff. 

A study of the sources from which patients were admitted to hospitals 
on the two Survey census days showed the following: 

Request for Admission Percentage 

By staff physician ........................................................................................ 51 .3% 

By non-staff physician ........................................................... ................... 33 . 2 % 

By charitable or relief agency .................................................. . ................. 11 .8% 

Source not stated. ......................................................................................... 3 . 7% 

Note In this tabulation City Hospital, Warrensville Tuberculosis 
Sanatorium, and Rainbow Hospital are omitted, as admissions at these in- 
stitutions are on a different basis from those at general hospitals. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 859 

These figures appear to indicate that a considerable number of physicians 

not members of the hospital staffs may and do send their patients to the hos- 

pitals ;ml treat them ;i> private cases. It is quite evident, however, that a 

number of the \M~)0 practising physicians in Cleveland have little if 

any contact with the hospitals even in this way. 

There are wide variations shown in the proportion of patients admitted 
through non-staff physicians. The variation depends less on the size of the 
hospital than on the number and organization of its regular attending staff. 
Thus some of the small hospitals have relatively large staffs, and physicians 
not members thereof apparently rarely secure admission for their patients. 
On the other hand, some hospitals of similar size showed on the census days 
a high percentage of patients admitted by non-staff physicians proportions 
ranging up to 83 per cent. 

Figures for a group of large general hospitals may be of interest, as show- 
ing the wide variation found. These are shown in Table V. in the Appendix. 

Part-pay and free cases may be admitted through non-staff physicians, 
but are rarely treated by other than members of the regular staff. In the 
group of pay patients, on the other hand, there are a considerable number of 
private patients among the cases which are admitted through non-staff 
physicians and who then usually remain under their care. 

It must be recalled that these percentages relate only to the two census 
days, but there is reason to believe that the figures are representative of the 
usual relationships between the patients admitted through members of the 
staff and those admitted through non-staff physicians. 

The general attitude of a hospital toward the non-members of the staff 
is expressed by its admission policy. Most hospitals receive private patients 
and most hospitals have a rule that such patients are accepted, when va- 
cancies exist, from any reputable physician. In practice, however, it is rea- 
sonable and inevitable that the members of the officially appointed attending 
staff have the closest contact with the hospital and are likely to fill a consider- 
able proportion of its beds. When such shortage of beds exists as in Cleve- 
land, the difficulty felt by many physicians not on hospital staffs in secur- 
ing admission of their private patients is not more than may be expected. 
There has been no substantial evidence that the administration of the hos- 
pitals, year in and year out, has been unduly inconsiderate of the private 
physician of good standing who sought admission for his patient. Mem- 
bers of the official staff have received reasonable preference but this is only 
natural. Until more beds are available for private patients of physicians 
in privately-supported hospitals, present conditions cannot be expected to be 
radically improved. 

In a few institutions there has been found a practice, not formally recog- 
nized by rule, but real nevertheless of holding beds vacant twenty-four 
hours or even more because certain members of the staff were likely to wish 



860 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

to send patients in. A practice of this kind is unjustifiable, but is excep- 
tional in Cleveland. 

A study of the degree to which members of hospital staffs overlap revealed 
the fact that, except in the teaching institutions affiliated with Western 
Reserve University Medical School, there is no large degree of multiple 
membership on hospital staffs. Even in the case of University teaching 
at Lakeside, City, and St. Vincent's Hospitals, there is little actual overlap- 
ping of the staffs. The number of men holding positions in the staffs in one 
or more hospitals in Cleveland is shown in the following table: 

MULTIPLE MEIKBERSHIP ON HOSPITAL STAFFS 

233 physicians, or 22.2% of total number, serve on 1 hospital staff 

55 " " 5.2% " " " " " 2 " staffs 

jc it j ^<y u t( tt ti (t 3 " " 

e "0 S7 " " " " " 4 " " 

I Q QC/ K tt it 5 <t tt 

These memberships, however, include some inactive as well as active 
memberships. In general, active membership in more than one hospital 
staff is not wise, except in the case of multiple membership held for teaching 
purposes or in the case of men who are engaged in restricted specialties of 
medicine or surgery and can render these special services to a number of 
institutions with benefit to all. Of the 42 members of the City Hospital 
staff, 26 are nominally active members of other hospital staffs. This, how- 
ever, is a teaching institution. The instances in which a physician is carry- 
ing several active memberships in hospital staffs in Cleveland are propor- 
tionately small. Some of these individual instances, however, are worthy 
of notice, atid the Survey, in its reports to the several boards of trustees, 
has called them to the attention of the individual hospitals concerned. A 
position involving active service in one hospital ought to be sufficient for a 
physician and it is wiser for his attention to be concentrated on this institu- 
tion than to be divided among several. Multiple membership, therefore, 
with the exceptions noted, should be discouraged. 

In connection with Western Reserve Medical School, the following 
figures are of interest. 331 of the 1,169 listed physicians in Cleveland are 
graduates of Western Reserve University Medical School 28.3 per cent, of 
the total. Of the 309 staff positions in the hospitals and dispensaries of Cleve- 
land, 75, or 24.2 per cent, arc held by graduates of Western Reserve Uni- 
versity Medical School. It will be seen that the proportionate number of 
positions held by graduates of this medical school is somewhat smaller than 
the number of graduates of the school among the medical profession as a 
whole. It should be added that in the hospital and dispensary positions 
31 in addition to the 75 just named, are held by members of the medical 
school faculty who are themselves graduates of other schools. This gives a 
total of only 106 out of the 309 hospital and dispensary staff positions which 
are held by graduates or members of the faculty of Western Reserve Medical 
School. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 861 

In connection with the so-called "democratizing" of hospital facilities 
for the medical profession, it should l>e pointed out that no hospital can be 
satisfactorily managed without a definite official staff. A medical boarding 
house, as previously defined, is merely a nursing home in which physicians 
treat private patients. Any hospital which endeavors to maintain a medical 

ni/ation. equipment, and personnel, for diagnosis and treatment, must 
have some medical authority appointed, to be responsible to its managing 
body. A number of the proprietary hospitals are maintained by one or more 
physicians who conduct them as their own enterprises, and who are medically 
as well as financially responsible. The public service hospital with a board 
of trustees or other disinterested governing body, must appoint an official 
attending staff. The functions of this staff are not only the care of patients, 
excluding such patients as are admitted specifically as private patients of 
non-staff physicians. Its functions also include the determination and main- 
tenance of the standards of medical practice which shall be observed in the 
institution. A medical staff of a hospital should not be merely a group of 
individuals each of whom has a certain ward or number of beds under his 
charge, for a year or part of a year, but it is or should be an organization 
a group of physicians representing different branches of medicine and sur- 
gcry, organized for the joint practice of medicine with the equipment and 
facilities provided by the hospital, defining and maintaining the profes- 
sional standards and policies which shall be effective throughout the insti- 
tution. 

In some hospitals the medical staff does not fulfill these functions ade- 
quately. It does not set clearly defined standards which govern the practice 
of physicians in the institution. Thus in the matter of record keeping, 
there are a number of hospitals in which fairly accurate and complete records 
are kept upon ward patients, showing that physical examination was made, 
laboratory tests performed, and that careful notes were entered at the time of 
operation or during the course of the patient's treatment. In the same 
institution, the records of the private patients of physicians may be limited 
to identifying or financial data, and have almost no medical information of 
significance. Such a hospital has not maintained (so far as the records show) 
the same stamLrd of care for private patients as for part -pay or free pa- 
tients, who come under the charge of the hospital's attending staff without 
remuneration. Records are not always a complete index of the degree of 
care actually provided, yet there can be no doubt that particularly in the 
matter of laboratory tests and consultation with specialists, part-pay and 
free cases in many hospitals receive more thorough study than do many 
private patients. Greater privacy and more intimate personal relation of 
the patient to the family physician are maintained for the private case as a 
possible counter-balance. 

In proportion as the general public and trustees of hospitals appreciate 
that a modern hospital should not be a medical boarding house in whole or 
in part, but a medical organization in wl.ieh the best resources which the 
hospital has to offer in equipment or personnel should be made available for 
every patient in so far as he needs them, hospital organizations and hospital 
procedures \\ill !< uniform for all classes of patients, private. part-]>ay, and 
free. Patients and physicians alike will profit by such a policy. 



862 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

With these principles in mind, there have been ap|>ended to this chapter 
certain details which supplement the general principles of hospital organ- 
i/ation stated in the section on Organization for Service. 

The organization of the medical executive committee is for the purposes 
(a) of providing the medical staff with a small group which will enable it to 
conduct the routine business of its organization, formulate hospital standards 
and policies, and make arrangements for the monthly staff meetings; and 
(6) of providing a group for regular conferences with the superintendent of the 
hospital, and, from time to time, conferences with representatives of the 
board of trustees, to assist in administering the hospital satisfactorily. 

The provision of an auxiliary staff is believed important, particularly in 
view of conditions such as those of Cleveland. It is Highly desirable that 
the number of physicians having some connection with hospital staffs should 
be increased. On the other hand, it is essential that active attending staffs 
of every hospital be not so large, in proportion to the number of beds, i* to 
be unwieldy or incoherent. Otherwise standards of service are likely to suffer. 
The organization of an auxiliary staff provides a means of recognizing in a 
definite way physicians who are utilizing the institution for their private 
patients or for consultation purposes, and for giving such physicians a definite 
channel through their delegates whereby they can express themselves to the 
official staff or to the hospital trustees. 

Beyond such machinery of organization, other means exist for opening 
the facilities of Cleveland hospitals and dispensaries to a larger proportion 
of the medical profession. It is not only in connection with the surgical 
operation upon a patient, but also in the medical treatment of acute cases, 
that physicians need the advantages of the diagnostic equipment of hospitals 
and dispensaries, and of the skill of specialists on their staffs. The labora- 
tory, the X-Ray department and other diagnostic equipment, and the service 
of specialists need to be utilized by the private physician in behalf of his 
patient. To make the splendid equipment and personnel of Cleveland hos- 
pitals available for diagnostic purposes to the medical profession of Cleve- 
land on a large scale is one of the chief goals to be sought for. This must be 
worked out in practice largely through the increase of dispensary service in 
the form of diagnostic clinics, to be available for consultation purposes for 
non-staff physicians. More detailed reference to this is made in the succeed- 
ing chapters on dispensaries. 

The enlargement of dispensary service which Cleveland so greatly needs 
would provide opportunity for a considerable number of physicians to come 
into close contact with hospital work, as dispensary staffs should be organ- 
ized in intimate relation with hospital staffs. (See page 846.) The 
medical advantages of facilities for diagnosis, of consultation, and in general, 
of intimate contact and co-working with other progressive physicians could 
be opened to a very large number of physicians not now on the staffs of 
Cleveland medical institutions. The approximate proportion of physicians 
connected with hospitals and dispensaries in Cleveland ought surely not to 
be less than in New York (about 50 per cent.) which would mean the addi- 
tion of 200 or 250 physicians to the staffs. If dispensary service in ( 'leveland 



HOSPITALS AND DI^IM. \-\RIES s<i;; 



is developed as it should !> during the next few years, this result may be 

measurably achieved. 

There are certain groups in the medical profession who feel that their 
opportunities in the medical institutions of the city are specially limited. 

Interviews with a number of foreign-born physicians revealed a consider- 
able feeling that they "hadn't had a chance." A list of 63 foreign-born 
physic -jans in Cleveland, furnished by one of the organizations interested in 
immigrants, is probably considerably less than the actual numl>er. Many 
of these physicians have a large practice among groups of immigrants and 
their children, who constitute a considerable proportion of the population 
of Cleveland. Only nine of these 63 physicians were found to be on the 
lists of any of the hospital staffs. The foreign-born physicians of the more 
recent groups of immigrants, such as the Slavic and Italian j>eoples, are 
practically unrepresented. It may be felt by many that such a condition 
will tend to take care of itself with time. However, the unstimulated move- 
ment of "time" is too slow. A definite effort should l>e made to give recog- , 
nition on hospital or dispensary staffs to physicians of good standing who 
are of foreign birth or descent, particularly in institutions which number 
among their patients large numbers of the foreign-born. As has apj>eared 
in the section discussing "The Human Problem of the Hospital Patient," 
(pages SM)-8;>7). a number of the hospitals fall into this group. There is 
unusual value, in dispensary service rendered by well-selected physicians of 
this type. 

Physicians of the Negro race constitute a small but definite group whose 
opportunities to work in medical institutions of Cleveland have been greatly 
restricted. There are said to be 19 Negro physicians in Cleveland. One 
of these men is on the dispensary staff of Lakeside Hospital. Representa- 
tions made to the Survey by physicians and laymen of standing among the 
colored people of Cleveland are to the effect that the negro physicians and 
the negro people feel the deprivation brought about by lack of member- 
ship on the staffs of hospitals and dispensaries. The problem can be dealt 
with only in one way, by determining that appointments shall be based 
solely upon merit. It is a fine testimony to the spirit and policy of the hos- 
pitals of Cleveland that so far as negro patients are concerned, there has 
been absolutely no complaint by the Negroes about discrimination. The 
establishment of a special hospital for colored people is believed to be unneces- 
sary and undesirable. 

Perhaps the most important relation of hospital and dispensary to the 
medical profession is their educational function. The hospital and dis- 
pensary represent to the physician an opportunity to raise the practice of 
medicine to a higher power because they bring under his command the use 
of equipment, the organized professional skill of specialists, and technical 
assistance such as ;ire very rarely available in private practice, and then 
only to the rich. 

The educational function of the hospital and dispensary is only 'in part 
exercised through medical schools. The teaching of a medical school like 
that of Western Reserve University depends in a large measure upon the 



864 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

hospitals and dispensaries which are affiliated with the school. Under- 
graduate teaching is and in general can most advantageously be limited 
to a few selected hospitals. The development of post-graduate instruction 
under the medical school in the general and special branches should pro- 
ceed at a rapid rate in the near future, and should involve the use of a con- 
siderable additional number of hospitals and clinics. 

The actual value of the hospital as a place of advancing medical science 
and of the skill of the local profession depends of course largely upon the 
use made of the advantages offered. Decidedly one of the most important 
means of self-criticism which a member of a hospital staff can have is the 
autopsy. Definite knowledge concerning the disease which caused the death 
of a patient can very frequently be obtained by autopsy as in no other way. 
It is disappointing to find that according to reports received by the Hospital 
Council during the year 1919, only 456 autopsies were performed. Reports 
from some hospitals were a little indefinite, and the true number might 
have been slightly larger. The figures and details are shown in the following 
table. 

AUTOPSIES PERFORMED IN 1919 IN CERTAIN HOSPITALS 

City (approximately) 209 Mt. Sinai 50 

Fairview Provident 

Glenville 1 St. Alexis __ number unknown 

Grace ; number unknown St. Ann's 20 

Huron Road..._ 5 St. Clair 1 

Lakeside 110 St. John's 20 

Lakewood number unknown St. Luke's 5 

Lutheran St. Vincent's.- 27 

Maternity 8 Woman's.- 

Total 456 

Such a low percentage can only mean one of two things either failure 
on the part of the medical staff to appreciate the importance of autopsies, 
as a real checking up of results, and setting a real standard of self-criticism 
and self-improvement, or on the other hand, a lamentable deficiency in 
administration, in failing to endeavor, in each case of death, to secure if 
possible consent for autopsy from the family of the patient. Experience in 
many hospitals in other communities shows that it is necessary to fix re- 
sponsibility upon some definite person for each branch of service, usually 
on the senior resident or interne, for securing permission. Compliance with 
the spirit as well as with the form of the standards of the American College 
of Surgeons demands that the medical profession for its own sake show 
better results in the future in securing autopsies in the hospitals of Cleveland. 
It is recognized that the public needs education to understand the great 
value of autopsies, not only for the physician, but in the long run to improve 
the treatment of every patient. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 865 

It is particularly interesting to observe that the three teaching hos- 
pitals (City, Lakeside, and St. Vincent's), together with Mount Sinai, show 
396 autopsies out of a total of 456. Taking these four hospitals, the number 
of autopsies compared with the number of deaths is shown in the following 
table. It will be observed that the best showing made is of only about 
one-third of deaths autopsied, and that the average even of these hospitals 
i s less than 25 per cent. 

AUTOPSIES AND DEATHS, COMPARED, 1919, IN FOUR HOSPITALS 

Percentage of 
Autopsies Deaths autopsies to deaths 

City 209 861 24.3 

Lakeside 110 320 34.4 

Mt. Sinai. 50 188 27.1 

St. Vincent's 27 331 8.2 



Totals 396 1,700 23.3 

Beyond the formal courses recognized as such under the medical school, 
however, the broader educational function of the hospital and dispensary 
ought to be fulfilled. Monthly staff meetings for the discussion of cases, 
review of hospital statistics, and of the result of operation or treatment, are 
valuable means whereby the physician and the hospital are stimulated, and 
the service of the institution is advanced. The participation of an auxiliary 
staff should be of much educational value. The daily contact of physicians 
with one another in the clinics of the dispensary and in the wards is a less 
formal but no less effective means for development of knowledge and skill. 
Finally, the opening of facilities for diagnostic service to the physicians of 
a community on a broad scale, through diagnostic clinics, and larger pro- 
vision for treatment of private patients, should serve to render the medical 
educational functions of the hospitals and dispensaries effective over a much 
wider range and to a more profound degree. 

MEDICAL STAFF ORGANIZATION* 

(a) The members of the Medical Executive Committee should include 
the chiefs or representatives of the division of medicine and surgery, one or 
more representatives of the specialties, and a representative from the assist- 
ants or junior members of the staff. 

(b) The Medical Staff should establish standards of hospital practice 
in all departments, including laboratories, X Ray department, etc. All 
Medical Staffs should take official action by resolution or pledge in the 
matter of fee splitting. No member of the Medical Staff should hold mem- 
bership on the Board of Trustees. Privately organized hospitals with 

By W. L. Babcock, M. D. Reference should be made to page* 845-848, to which this is a supple- 
ment. 



866 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Boards of Trustees consisting of medical men should reorganize by arranging 
for the appointment of a lay Board of Trustees, the physicians interested 
in the hospital organizing into an Attending Staff. The senior Attending Staff 
physicians should hold active staff membership in one hospital only. This 
restriction should not apply to members of the staff engaged in university 
teaching, or to specialists with limited services, or in small hospitals to 
clinical assistants. 

(c) The following additional committees will often be found useful: 

Library Committee. 

Resident House Staff Committee. 

Hospital Records or Program Committees. 

(d) Provisions should be made for the recognition of non-staff physicians 
by permitting the use of a limited number of hospital beds under the general 
supervision of the Chief of the Medical Staff through Chiefs of Departments. 
It should be recognized that the so-called open hospital is a powerful factor 
in preventive medicine, a post-graduate school for the general practitioner, 
and a great influence towards his professional elevation. The practice of 
non-staff physicians in hospitals should be regulated, scrutinized and carefully 
supervised by the Executive Committee. 

(e) The stand taken by the Cleveland Hospital Council to the effect 
that all hospital bills should be paid before the Attending Physician or Sur- 
geon collects his bill is to be commended and should be made a rule in every 
hospital. 

(f) At least ten staff meetings should be held annually, at monthly 
intervals, excluding July and August. As many more may be called as are 
deemed necessary. The Executive Committee should meet monthly or 
oftener. Regular Staff Meetings should be 90 per cent, clinical. Routine 
business should be abbreviated and parliamentary discussions avoided, 
except on important matters of staff or hospital policies. Provision should 
be made by the Record Committee, or otherwise, for review of clinical records. 
Reports of unusual or interesting cases should be presented for group dis- 
cussion, together with results of original research work carried out by indi- 
vidual members of the staff, or the hospital laboratories. It is also desirable 
that arrangements be made to serve light refreshments after these staff 
meetings, which must, of necessity, be held in the evening. It has been 
shown in at least one instance where this program has been carried out for 
years that the percentage of staff attendance has averaged 75 to 80 per cent. 



HOSPITALS AND Di-ri \-\un - *<;? 

of staff membership and has exceeded, by several hundred per cent., the 
attendance at regular meetings of the County Medical Society. Attention 
is called to the recommendations of the American College of Surgeons as to 
program for staff meetings. The Associate, Auxiliary and Resident Staffs 
should meet with the Attending Staff at their monthly clinical meetings. 



868 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

FINANCES AND ADMINISTRATION 

To maintain the 21 institutions which are members of the Cleveland 
Hospital Council cost nearly three million dollars during 1919. About 97 
per cent, of this was for hospital care and 2^ to 3 per cent, for dispensary 
service.* This $3,000,000 represents about 700,000 days of hospital care 
given, and 120,000 dispensary visits. It represents service to probably 
80,000 different individuals. In other words, these hospitals and dispen- 
saries care for one person out of every twelve in the population of greater 
Cleveland, and cost about $3.07 for each member of the population. Only 
a fraction of this cost, however, is a net charge upon the community, for as 
the third column of Table VI. indicates, the operations of the institutions 
yielded a very considerable portion of the necessary income. 

Over two-thirds, in fact, of the expense of the non-municipal hospitals is 
repaid by fees from patients and by other earnings. The other third, or 
between $600,000 and $650,000, has to be provided by interest on endow- 
ments, by legacies and gifts from the public. Taxation must provide for the 
"municipal institutions to approximately the same amount. It will be ob- 
served that in these figures relating earnings to expenditure, only the non- 
municipal hospitals are considered. While there are some earnings in the 
municipal institutions, they cannot fairly be compared with the other hos- 
pitals in this respect. 

The non-municipal hospitals bring upon the public an annual charge of 
approximately $460,000, after deducting from the total expense the earnings 
from patients and the amount available from endowments of various sorts. 
This figure is the estimate for the year 1920, as presented to the public in the 
Community Chest campaign of November, 1919. The City Hospital, to- 
gether with Warrensville Tuberculosis Sanatorium, required in 1919 an 
appropriation of $625,656.92 from taxation. Adding together the cost for 
the municipal and the non-municipal hospitals, we find that $1,086,000 is the 
approximate amount required to maintain the hospitals and- dispensaries of 
Cleveland, in annual contributions by the public or "voluntary" taxation, 
taken together with legal or compulsory taxation. This is about $1.30 for 
every man, woman, and child in the city of Cleveland, or about $1.10 per 
head if the larger metropolitan area which these hospitals serve is taken 
into consideration. 

Parenthetically, it should be noted that these figures do not include the 
cost of the dispensary "Health Centers" maintained by the Division of 
Health, the cost of the city physicians who care for the sick in their homes, 
or any of the other expenses of the Division of Health. In the main, the 
bulk of these vast sums goes for the care of sickness. The total amount 
expended for education in hygiene and for the prevention of disease is only 
a fraction of this amount, the exj>enditure for the Division of Health being 
less than 50 cents per capita. Expenditures for hospitals are necessary 

*The cost of the dispensaries is not accurately stated in several of the hospital reports, and the above 
figure is therefore an estimate, merely. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 869 

and desirable under present conditions, but one may look forward to a day 
when the proportion between the expenditure to cure illness and expenditure 
for prevention will not be so heavily weighted against the preventive measures. 

The cost of hospital service is more accurately expressed in terms of the 
unit previously defined; namely: average cost per day of care. As will be 
seen at the foot of Table VI., this average cost for a large group of the non- 
municipal hospitals was approximately $4.39 in 1919. 

Hospitals have felt keenly the high cost of living, more heavily in fact 
than most institutions, because of the large proportion of their expenditure 
which goes for food, drugs, and supplies of all kinds, which have especially 
increased in price during the past few years. The public has not appre- 
ciated how expensive good hospital service must now be. 

When individual hospitals are compared, the average cost stated in their 
reports for the year 1919 varied from $2.00 to $5.62. This range is doubt- 
less too wide, in that it is not believed the lower rate is a true representation 
of the cost of any hospital. Accounting systems have not always been de- 
signed so as to charge to annual maintenance all the items which should 
properly be so entered. It is not believed at the present time that any mem- 
ber of the Hospital Council is maintaining service at a rate less than $3.00 
per diem, and this figure is too low to render adequate service under present 
conditions. A general hospital properly equipped should expect a per capita 
cost of fully $4.00 per diem. When a hospital is rendering an unusual grade 
of service or is conducting medical teaching or research, a cost of $5.00 a 
day need not excite objection. 

In general, the average cost of a day's care, or the so-called "hospital per 
capita, " must be used with great caution as a basis for either commendation 
or criticism. It must be known how the per capita cost is made up whether 
for instance a low per capita is due to undue crowding, whether a high per 
capita has been due to a small number of bed days care given because of tem- 
porary lack of demand or enforced closing of certain wards or rooms, or 
whether a high per capita is due to unusual quality of service, or on the 
other hand to uneconomical administration, or again whether a low figure 
may be accounted for by careful, economical administration, or else by the 
lack of the proper facilities. 

As a rule, many different elements must be known and considered before 
forming any judgment as to the significance of a given per capita cost. The 
average for the city as a whole is of considerable general interest, particu- 
larly in view of the need to call public attention to the expensiveness of 
modern hospital service. The fact that hospitals have been generally 
charging ward rates (at least until very recently) as low as $2.00 per diem is 
a little misleading. The average person has somehow taken for granted 
that if a patient paid the so-called ward rate, the hospital's cost was met. 
This is far from the truth. Ward rates have generally been put far below 
cost, and in recent years, most of the hospitals of Cleveland have failed to 
raise ward rates to correspond with the increase in expense. This has been 



870 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

due in considerable measure to a desire not to levy a tax upon the sick and 
suffering, or to make known rates which might keep needy patients from 
the hospital doors. 

Time was when hospitals were thought of as charities for the destitute, 
but at the present time, hospitals are public services receiving the well-to-do 
and middle classes as well as the poor, in varying proportions. The general 
public should be brought to the point of understanding that hospital ser- 
vice ought to be paid for at its cost by those who are able to pay, and that 
room and ward rates should be adjusted with respect to cost of service. 
Considering the fact that a hospital of the public service class often has an 
endowment, it should be expected that the income from the endowment will 
go to help make up the difference between the cost of service and the earn- 
ings from operation. A deficiency will be due partly to the fact that the 
ward rates are put at less than cost, and partly to the fact that many patients 
should be and are accepted who cannot pay even these rates. 

As a general principle, ward rates ought to be fixed somewhat below the 
cost of service, but not very much below. It is believed wise that at the 
present time the hospitals of Cleveland should not announce rates for ward 
service at less than $3.00, and in many hospitals or in some divisions thereof, 
ward rates may be $3.50 a day. The naming of these rates in no case should 
imply that patients unable to pay them in part or able to pay nothing should 
be refused admission. A hospital cannot expect financial support from the 
public unless it makes the patient's need and not the patient's means the 
basis on which service is offered and rendered. 

In the following section of this Chapter (pages 877-889) Dr. W. L. Bab- 
cock has outlined a large number of highly practical suggestions and recom- 
mendations regarding administration. Many of these relate to finances. 
It is only fair to point out that the Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey, 
despite evident eagerness on the part of all members of the Hospital Council 
to cooperate, found it no easy matter to secure many of the fundamental 
financial and statistical figures from a number of hospitals. There was no- 
\vhere lack of willingness, but the accounts had not been kept with a view 
to critical self -analysis. 

Methods of hospital cost accounting have been pretty thoroughly worked 
out during recent years. Many smaller hospitals feel that they cannot 
readily maintain the trained book-keeping staff to carry out a cost account- 
ing system. The extra time required by such a system and the extra expense 
involved seem too much, and the hospital is likely to go without. In the 
long run, good cost accounting is a money saving enterprise. It points the 
way to more economies than its own maintenance cos,ts. It also helps in 
fixing rates so that they bear proper relation to cost, and tends to increase 
income where income needs to be increased. 

The needs of the smaller hospitals can be met only by some cooperative 
enterprise. The Welfare Federation should establish an expert accountant 
service, available to any of the Cleveland Hospital Council members, for 



HOSPITALS AND DI-IM A^VRIES 871 

service in the administ rat ion of proj>er accounting systems and for advice 
periodically or whenever necessary in its maintenance. Such i plan would 
make available to all hospitals a grade of accountant service which few if 
any could afford to maintain alone. The plan would have the further great 
advantage of enabling uniform financial reports to be periodically rendered 
to the individual boards of trustees, to the central budget-making authori- 
ties of the Welfare Federation and to the public-, which in the long run foots 
the bills. 

In matters of financial as well as medical service, trustees need to de- 
termine exactly what figures they need to have presented to them in their 
annual or monthly reports, in order that they shall know all they need to 
know regarding the work of the hospital. The central accounting system 
proposed would be of great constructive value to every board of trustees, 
not only in furnishing information, but in helping them to see what infor- 
mation they need to have furnished. An X-Ray department, for instance, 
is very expensive to maintain in terms of gross expense, but in many hos- 
pitals a considerable proportion of the X-Ray work is for patients who can 
pay a fair fee, so that the net expense of maintaining the department is not 
large. In a hospital doing a large proportion of its work for patients who can 
pay few if any fees, conditions are different, but in any hospital, proper ac- 
counting will show just what the X-Ray department costs, just what ratio 
the income derived from it in its different classes of work bears to the expense 
thereof, and the trustees will be*able to judge at the end of a month or a 
year how much net charge this service brings according to the character of 
work and service rendered, and the rates which patients can reasonably be 
expected to pay. 

Perhaps the most fundamental need for trustees is to appreciate that hos- 
pit als are public services in the broad sense of the word. Two more or less 
opposite conceptions have dominated hospitals: (1) that represented in its 
extreme form by the proprietary hospital treating private patients where 
financial return from the patient is largely used in determining his accepta- 
bility, (4) the charitable corporation in the old sense of the term, according 
to which hospitals are regarded as rendering benefits to the helpless who 
neither can or should be expected to make any financial return. At these 
two extremes we would find hospitals serving private patients only, and 
hospitals serving only the poverty stricken and the destitute. The outstand- 
ing development in the relation of hospitals to the community during the 
last decade or so has been the increase in hospital demand by persons of 
the middle clashes, the self-supporting families of moderate means in fairly 
comfortable financial condition but with no large property holdings and no 
lai-c annual margin of income over cxpcndit lire. These so-called middle 
'lasses are more and more finding that it is better to go to the hospital than 
to lie treated at home in serious illness, surgical operation, or for maternity 
care, 

Much testimony has been received in Cleveland that there is great de- 
mand for beds for tlic-c middle classes. Beds are demanded in private rooms 
or more particularly in two to four-lx-d rooms or small wards, where fees 



872 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

will be moderate and service excellent but not of what may be called the 
exclusive type. 

The hospitals of Cleveland face such large financial obligations in view 
of the high cost of living that much anxiety has been felt by many trustees 
in looking forward to the future. Generous public support for the hospitals 
through the Community Fund or in other ways is indeed necessary, but the 
enlargement of the hospital facilities of Cleveland, particularly in providing 
more fully for the middle classes, will assist the hospitals financially by 
rendering a larger proportion of their services of a self-supporting nature, 
and thus help in carrying a general overhead which in itself is a very consider- 
able part of modern hospital expenditure. 

The Cleveland Hospital Council is to be congratulated for having re- 
cently secured from the Industrial Commission of Ohio, a more satisfactory 
recognition of the hospital's service to industrial accident cases. In Ohio, 
as in many other states, the establishment of workmen's compensation took 
place without adequate recognition of the large part that hospitals and dis- 
pensaries would need to play in its successful administration. Industries 
and insurance companies found that prompt and competent medical assist- 
ance to men who had met with industrial accidents was not only humane 
but was good business. The promptest possible return of the employe to 
his work stops the weekly payments and saves more money than it costs. 
There are no theoretical or practical reasons why hospitals which are sup- 
ported by the community as public service enterprises should render any 
service to industry for less than the service costs, when under the very foun- 
dation principles of workmen's compensation, the industry is supposed to be 
paying the full amount of the bill for industrial accidents.* 

Hospitals supported by the community must necessarily receive and 
care for many patients who are properly public charges of the city or county 
or of some other county. It is fair and desirable that hospitals be reimbursed 
for the care given patients who are proper charges upon the public. Since 
the city of Cleveland maintains its own hospital, the City Hospital is natur- 
ally the first place to which such patients should be sent, but because of 
emergency or other reasons, other hospitals will necessarily receive cases 
which are charges upon the city or county. The law as recently amended 
renders it proper for the Commissioners of Cuyahoga County to reimburse 
institutions furnishing care to persons who are public charges. f It is be- 
lieved that the following principles should govern the administration of this 
provision : 

1. A policy of paying privately owned and supported institutions for services such as 
the care of the dependent sick, which is a public function and a means of preventing disease 
and dependency, instead of providing adequate, publicly owned and operated hospitals 
out of the general tax rate of the city, is essentially unsound and should be condemned as 

Through the efforts of the Hospital Council the State Commission adopted the principle of "hospital 
cost for "service rendered" on July 1, 1920. 

fThe Hospital Council has already negotiated with the County Commissioners on this subject and 
negotiations are encouraging. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 873 

offering temptations to the political use of public monies, and as contrary to the spirit of 
municipal government. 

2. Notable instances of abuse of the practice of subsidizing private hospitals and other 
privately owned institutions are to be found in the recent history of the state of Pennsyl- 
vania. In certain cities, however, notably Detroit, Michigan, and New York City, pay- 
ment to private institutions for the care of public charges has served a useful purpose 
and has been honestly administered. 

3. Only as a temporary expedient and under strict and exact determination of the 
quality and quantity of services rendered for which payment is made can such a practice 
be approved for the city of Cleveland. 

4. With the city definitely committed to the construction and maintenance of a 
modern City Hospital, the facilities now under consideration and agreed to by the private 
hospitals can confidently be expected, if carried out, to offer relief for approximately the 
next twenty years on the basis of the estimated growth of Cleveland. 

5. Without urging the point to the extent of asking for any public declaration or 
commitment by the Hospital Council to a policy, it is thought by the Survey that agree- 
ment should be reached by the hospitals in the Hospital Council to apply funds for the 
extension of their facilities for part-pay patients equal in amount to the sums received in 
the year from the County Commissioners. It is particularly the responsibility and privilege 
of the privately owned hospitals to meet the need of the patient of modest means who 
expects to pay part, if not the whole cost of hospital care. County payments for the care 
of the dependent sick should be a resource for increasing part -pay bed capacity and should 
not be accepted merely as a relief from the burden of raising funds for meeting current 
expenses. 

6. With the understanding that the full influence of the Hospital Council collectively 
and through its component institutions will be used to accomplish the two objects men- 
tioned in 4 and 5 above, and in the belief that the necessity for County payments to pri- 
vate hospitals should cease when adequate provision for the dependent sick is made in 
publicly owned end operated hospital or hospitals, the Survey endorses the proposed 
system of contracts with the County Commissioners under the following conditions: 
namely, that payments by the County Commissioners to hospitals with which they make 
contracts shall be made only for services of an approved quality, provided for a definite 
period of time and for specified individual patients who have been shown to be entitled 
to public relief after investigation of their home or economic condition by representatives 
acting under the orders of the County Commissioners. 

7. Inasmuch as the County Commissioners cannot, without amendment of state laws, 
employ from public funds investigators to ascertain the quality of services given to patients 
or to verify claims of hospitals and patients that such and such individuals are proper 
objects of public assistance, it is suggested that the Hospital Council request the Community 
Fund to put at the disposal of the Welfare Federation such amount from the unassigned 
funds as may be needed (tentatively estimated as $5,000) to employ trained social investi- 
gators to be put at the disposal of the County Commissioners for the purpose above de- 
scribed. 



874 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

8. It is suggested that the Hospital Council bind its members by mutual agreement 
to enter into contract with the County Commissioners only on the basis of the condition* 
suggested in 6. 

The hospitals of Cleveland are in a fortunate position compared with 
those of most cities, because of joint financing through the Community Fund. 
The needs of many institutions are brought before the public at a single 
time in a forceful impressive way. Mutual relationship among hospitals 
and a better understanding of the broad needs of the community are cer- 
tainly promoted also. None the less does the work of each hospital need 
interpretation to the public which supports it financially. There is in- 
deed a more definite demand for accurate and comprehensive financial re- 
ports under such a system as exists in Cleveland, since the central financial 
and appropriating committees of the Welfare Federation are in a position 
to scrutinize the financial reports of each hospital much more closely than 
the average contributor will in communities wherein each hospital raises its 
funds independently. An added stimulus is thus applied toward economy 
and toward careful financial and book-keeping systems. All the more do 
the hospitals of Cleveland, particularly the smaller ones, need expert ac- 
countant service to enable them to work out their book-keeping and their 
financial reports in the best way. 

The Purchasing Bureau of the Cleveland Hospital Council is a distinct 
and notable achievement, indicative of the spirit of cooperation in com- 
munity enterprises which is characteristic of Cleveland. Through the Pur- 
chasing Bureau more economical and satisfactory buying of standard hos- 
pital supplies is made possible. Each member of the Council is thus pro- 
vided with the services of an expert in buying, who is devoting his entire 
time to studying markets, making contracts and assisting the hospitals to 
get the best and the most for their money. It is to be regretted that the 
use of the Bureau by a number of hospitals has not been as large as it should 
be. If the purchases of the hospital for all kinds of supplies be taken, and 
the amount of purchases made in 1019 through the Purchasing Bureau, be 
expressed as a percentage of this, we have a certain index of the degree to 
which the hospital has taken advantage of this measure of economy. It is 
found that the percentages of utilization by the different hospitals were as 
given in the following table: 



HOSPITALS AM > I >i-n \-\un.-* s?:, 

PROi-ninioN \TI I'M-: OK TIIK CKNTHAI, I'i i IIASING BVKI.M <>i mi < i 

LAND HOSPITAL CorxciL 

Proportion of Maximum* 
Hospital Purchasing Possibility 

Cleveland Maternity 2/3 

Fairview Park Less than 1/3 

Glenville Approximately 4/7 

Grace 1/6 

Huron Road ....1/8 

Lakeside .Maximum 

Lakewood 1/13 

Lutheran 1/25 

Mount Sinai .Less than 1/3 

Provident ....1/12 

St. Alexis 1/20 

St. Ann's ... 3/8 

St. Clair 1/5 

St. John's 1/5 

St. Luke's ...About 1/4 

St. Vincent's 1/17 

Woman's Approximately 1/5 

Most hospitals find it convenient to make some purchases independently 
from time to time, because of the unusual character of the article to be 
bought or lx>cause of the haste with which it must be secured, but given 
efficiency on the part of the Purchasing Bureau, these objections should be 
reduced to a minimum. Furthermore, it is obvious that the more fully the 
Bureau is utilized, the larger will be its purchasing power and the l>ctter 
terms it can make. Doctor Babcock's recommendations regarding the 
Bureau (pages H82-885) are very pertinent and practical. 

In this as in helping the hospitals t< save money by getting the largest 
discounts for cash (page 879 section on "Practical Matters of Ad- 
ministration") the Welfare Federation is in a position to make the money 
contributed by the public go further than it now does. 

Hospitals arc likely to l>enefit by taking advantage of every opportunity 
for expert assistance in any of their many special lines of activity. The 
School of Pharmacy of Western Reserve t'niversity, for instance, is in a 
position to offer assistance to the hospitals of Cleveland that would be of 
great benefit in two ways: enabling the hospital to render a higher type of 

In 1919 Lakeside Hospital made practically all of its purchases, amounting to exactly one-third of 
its operating expenses, through the Central Purchasing Bureau of the Cleveland Hospital Council. That 
figure has therefore been adopted as the maximum purchase percentage, and the purchases of other hos- 
pitals have been figured on this basis. 



876 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

service to the public, and lowering the cost of medicines to the hospitals. 
For a description of the proposed service, see the section on Pharmacy, in 
Part VIII. Such a plan would take at least a year to perfect, but its value 
to hospital service should be self-evident. 

Hospital financing and hospital administration have become technical 
matters. At best, the average layman is not concerned with or even inter- 
ested in their details. It is of the greatest importance, however, that the 
hospitals of Cleveland shall not lose their individuality because of joint re- 
lations through the Welfare Federation and the Cleveland Hospital Council, 
and that the work of each hospital as well as of all hospitals taken together 
shall be properly understood by the public. To take technical reports of 
income, expenditure, and service rendered, as prepared by the hospital for 
the use of its trustees, the Cleveland Hospital Council, and the Welfare 
Federation, and to utilize these reports as the basis of an account of hospital 
work in which the whole community will be interested, is the duty of a 
"publicity man." The publicity men and the Welfare Federation which 
provides publicity service, should constantly bear in mind that the public 
needs to be helped not only to understand what hospitals do, but that their 
work is costly and why this is so. Comparisons of the present cost of hos- 
pital care with the cost in former years will be useful if so presented as to 
bring home to the reader that the added cost is not only because of higher 
price levels, but means also a higher quality of service. The business man 
who thinks in terms of dollars and cents needs to be made to see why the 
medical boarding house type of institution has a lower cost, and why such 
low cost is not as good a thing for the community as a hospital costing fifty 
per cent, more per capita but run as a modern hospital with adequate medical, 
nursing, and social service facilities for diagnosis and treatment. The public 
must learn that health can be bought at a price and that the price is worth 
paying. 



llo-I'lTALS AND DlSPEN8AIUI> H?7 

SOME PRACTICAL MATTERS OF ADM1MS I K A IK >\ 
By W. L. BAHC.M K, M D., 

Consultant on Hospital Administration for the 
Cleveland Hospital ami Health Survey. 

N 

In making these statements ami recommendations on (ieneral Adminis- 
tration, it is recognized that the Cleveland Hospital Council has had many 
of them under consideration and in certain instances has actually had com- 
mittees at work in standardization of supplies, uniform records, accounting, 
uniform rates, etc. In its contact with the administrative depart mcntsjof 
the hospitals within the Council, the Cleveland Hospital Council has de- 
veloped a working organization of great practical In-nefit to its members. 
The projects under consideration by its various committees, as well as the 
recommendations herein, are practical and logical steps in the develop- 
ment of economical administration and efficiency. The Council would be 
of little benefit to its membership unless it adopted standards that would 
tend to lift the level of the hospitals to an efficient average. The Council 
can be of the greatest benefit if it leads, plans and organ i/es in advance of 
the hospitals. 

FINANCIAL 

1. FIN \\<I\L AND OFFICE RECORDS, BOOKHKM-IM;. ETC. The Cleve- 
land Hospital Council has unified and standardized the financial and statis- 
tical reports of its constituent hospitals. The bookkeeping systems, forming 
the basis of these reports, which are rendered monthly, have not been 
standardized in the various hospitals. It is recommended that the book- 
keeping forms and headings used by the various hospitals be made uniform. 
This is particularly necessary for cash blotters, and voucher registers, in 
order to show similarity in distribution of earnings and expenses. 

The records furnished the Cleveland Hospital Council relating to per 
capita cost in some of the hospitals have been fallacious from the begin- 
ning for the reason that many of the extraordinary expense*. <>f some of 
the hospitals have been charged to special funds and not to maintenance 
accounts. In several of the smaller hospitals record of receipts and expend- 
itures only is maintained. No attempt has been made by these hospitals 
to credit or debit the various departments of the hospitals with their earn- 
ings or expenses. The per capita costs reported by Cleveland hospitals 
for 1919 varied from 8^.00 to $5.(5 ]>er day. In order to determine wherein 
this difference may be found, it is necessary to check earnings and expenses 
by departments, siidi as training school, laundry, housekeeping, building 
maintenance and current repairs, administration, professional care of 
patients, ,-tc. The latter should IK' subdivided into its natural subdivisions, 
such as laboratory. \-Ray department, surgical department, house stalF. etc. 

.' \( (!)( MING The monthly and annual accounting for all hospitals 
should be made by an accountant under the direction of the Welfare Federa- 



878 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

lion. It may be feasible for the latter organization to maintain the serv- 
ices of a paid accountant staff who could carry on a month-to-month audit 
in all hospitals within the Federation and furnish each Board of Trustees 
with a monthly and annual accounting statement. If the recommendations 
set forth in paragraph 1 are carried out in all of the hospitals, it will sim- 
plify the audit and accounting to a great extent. If a uniform system of 
financial records and bookkeeping is established for each of the hospitals 
in the Council, the time devoted by auditors on the books of some of the 
hospitals could be reduced .50 per cent, or more. It should be stated here 
that the Welfare Federation has provided for these audits heretofore through 
a firm of auditors. It is understood that the Cleveland Hospital Council 
is endeavoring to secure a uniform system of accounting for all hospitals 
in the Council. 

3. STATEMENT OF EARNINGS The monthly and annual statements of 
earnings of hospitals should be based on cash receipts only. Unpaid per- 
sonal accounts of hospitals have no place in a statement of earnings. The 
present earnings and income reported to the Cleveland Hospital Council 
and Welfare Federation from the various hospitals are not comparable 
for the reason that some hospitals base their statements on cash receipts 
only, while others include unpaid personal accounts in their statement of 
earnings. (Note A.) 

Note A The practice of many hospitals in carrying unpaid personal accounts on 
their balance sheet as an asset is misleading, fallacious and wrong in principle. A vary- 
ing percentage of most of these accounts are uncollectible because they are largely accounts 
of part-pay patients. If the statement of earnings includes cash receipts only, such open 
accounts as are paid after the patient leaves the hospital will appear in the statement 
of the month during which they are paid. It is impossible to estimate the percentage of 
unpaid hospital accounts that are uncollectible. The good accounts- are usually paid 
within a few days, while the great majority of the remainder are uncollectible. 

4. APPRAISAL OF PROPERTY An appraisal of the physical property, build- 
ings and equipment, should be made of all Cleveland hospitals on a basis of 
present values. The reproduction cost of hospital buildings at the present 
time is in some instances at least 100 per cent, higher than five years ago. A 
proper percentage for annual depreciation cannot be established without an 
appraisal. It is also necessary in order to determine valuation for fire insur- 
ance, etc. It is possible that the expense of an appraisal could be lessened 
if the Cleveland Hospital Council made a contract for all the hospitals rep- 
resented in the Council. The expense could then be prorated between the 
hospitals according to property values. 

5. DEPRECIATION Depreciation of buildings and equipment should be 
charged off annually. The bookkeeping system recommended in paragraph 
one should provide for an annual depreciation charge. 

6. PER CAPITA COST All expenditures for current repairs, new equip- 
ment, replacement of equipment and betterments to existing buildings 



\MI I )i^ri.\-\un - 879 

should l>c charged to maintenance account. The per capita JMT diem cost 
<>f maintenance will thereby be placed on a uniform la*is for all hospitals. 
l-Apciiditures for new buildings, and equipment for new buildings, should 
be charged to capital expenditures. (Note 15 

Note B The per capita cost per diem for maintenance has been reported for Cleve- 
land hospitals as follows: 

(a) For 1918, minimum, $1 .69; maximum, $4.60 

(b) For 1919, minimum, $2.00; maximum, $5.62 

(Not including Warrensville Infirmary or the City Hospital). It is believed that the 
minimum per capitas reported do not actually represent the true per capita cost. 

7. CASH DISCOUNTS Cash discounts should be taken on all bills where 
possible. Experience in hospital accounting has demonstrated that legiti- 
mate cash discounts will represent one-half of one per cent, of total expendi- 
tures of general hospitals, or two-thirds of one per cent, of total expenditures 
for maintenance, exclusive of salaries. (Note C.) 

Note C The practice of holding bills for approval of committees of the Board of 
Trustees or Managers is pernicious and accounts for failure to obtain some cash discounts. 
The Board of Trustees should put in the hands of hospital superintendents full authority 
for approving bills for payment of all current expenses. Extraordinary expenditures 
could be authorized by the Boards of Trustees before order is placed by superintendents. 
Hospitals which habitually pay bills after 30, 60 or 90 days cannot purchase to good advan- 
tage in the open market, and have a poor credit rating. It may be necessary for the Cleve- 
land Hospital Council to establish a fund to cover the discounting of bills for smaller 
hospitals. 

8. RATE FOH WARDS AND ROOMS Ward rates are ridiculously low, aver- 
aging $2.00 per day. These rates should l)e raised to at least xS.OO per day, 
which figure represents only part cost of maintenance. Private room rates 
in some hospitals are also low and should l>e advanced. Board bills for ward 
and room beds should be collected one week in advance for general cases, and 
two weeks in advance for maternity cases. Therefore, patient's relatives 
should be billed weekly in advance. Recognition should be given the fact 
that wages and salaries are materially higher than when these rates were 
originally established. It should be understood that ward and room rates 
cover bed, board, pupil nursing, interne service in the larger hospitals, cer- 
tain routine and diagnostic services, and for free and some part-pay patients, 
gratuitous medical attendance. 

9. RATES COMPENSATION The rate formerly allowed by the Ohio State 
Industrial Commission for compensation cases was outrageously low Such 
rates should be established on a basis of cost of maintenance. $3.00 to $3.50 
JXT day, plus charges for all extras, will represent the approximate cost of 



880 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

ward patients, at present. The Cleveland Hospital Council has taken the 
commendable stand that hospital cost for hospital service should form the 
basis for the establishing of hospital rates by the State Industrial Commission, 
and it is gratifying that the Council has recently secured recognition of this 
principle from the Commission. 

10. RATES FOR MUNICIPAL AND COUNTY PATIENTS The charge for the 
care of these patients should be based on the average cost of maintenance 
for the preceding year and be a matter of annual adjustment. It should be 
based on per capita per diem cost. No hospital should accept a lump sum 
or subsidy from any municipality, state or county authorities. Contract 
should never be made for the care of the sick on the basis of a lump sum 
annually. 

11. EXTRA CHARGE SCHEDULE A charge schedule for extras should be 
adopted by all hospitals, and charges made for many supplies and much ser- 
vice that is now rendered free. Few Cleveland hospitals have an adequate 
extra charge schedule. Hospital clients think nothing of paying for all ser- 
vices rendered at a hotel or elsewhere. Extra charges for supplies or ser- 
vices for part-pay patients can be cancelled or reduced at discretion where 
patients are unable to pay. The following schedule of charges is -suggested : 

Blood transfusion for private patients $50 . 00 

Blood transfusion for ward patients 25 . 00 

Large surgical dressings 1 . 00 to $2 . 00 each 

X-Ray and stereoscopic examinations...-. 10.00 to $40.00 

Board of Special Nurses 1 . 50 per day and up 

Plaster casts 2 .00 to $10 .00 

Services of hired anesthetist 5 . 00 

Nitrous oxide gas and oxygen 5.00 per adm. hour 

Salvarsan administration 5 . 00 to $10 . 00 

Proprietary drugs, patent medicines, serums, ampules 

and special prescriptions Cost plus 10% 

Splints and surgical appliances Cost plus 10% 

Meals for relatives of patients 75 to $1 . 00 each 

Cots 1 . 00 each 

Ambulance service Cost 

First-aid services for out-cases, including dressings 5.00 to $10.00 

Operating-room fee 10 . 00 

Labor-room fee.. 5.00 to $10.00 

Special nursing Cost 

Laboratory fees for Wassermann, blood, stomach, fecal, spinal fluid examina- 
tion, etc., for private-room patients. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENHAUH - 881 

12. CREDIT INVESTIGATOR (a) Large hospitals should maintain an in- 
vestigator or credit man whose duty it shall be to investigate the financial 
circuinstam > of patients. Many patients are maintained without cost 
who are able to pay part cost; many ward patients are cared for at part cost 
who are able to pay full cost. Ability or disability of ward patients to pay 
for extras outlined in the preceding paragraph can be established by this in- 
vestigator. The data accumulated by the Social Service department of 
large hospitals should be available for the use of the office investigator. 
It is not considered suitable for the social service worker or department to 
be used as financial or credit investigator to protect the business credit of 
the hospital. 

(6) It is recommended that the Cleveland Hospital Council engage a 
credit investigator to investigate the economic status of undetermined cases 
in several small hospitals. The salary and expense of this investigator can 
be prorated over several hospitals. It is believed that the financial benefit 
derived from the employment of such a man would be productive of a definite 
increase in income to the hospitals. An alternative would be the working 
out of some arrangement with the local credit association. 

13. CLASSIFIED WAGE AND TIME SCHEDULE The project of the Cleve- 
land Hospital Council, through a committee of Council members, to standard- 
ize hospital wages and hours of duty covering certain groups of hospital 
employes is commendable and should be carried out. It is probable that 
some variation in scale will be necessary in order to provide for the differ- 
ence in responsibility, etc., in certain positions in large and small hospitals. 
Experience has shown that wages in hospitals may be standardized in the 
following departments: 

Training School Department Floor supervisors, ward orderlies, 
ward maids. 

Housekeeping Department Waitresses, chamber-maids, pantry 
girls, cleaners (by the month), housemen and porters. 

Laundry Department Laundresses, washmen and wringermen. 

Repair Department Carpenters, painters, steamfitters and their 
helpers, wall washers, window cleaners. 

Engineering Department Engineers and firemen. 
Ambulance Department Chauffeurs. 

It would not be advisable to extend this classification as to wages and 
hours into offices, laboratories or professional departments which depend 
on specialists or certain skilled employes. 

Owing to the difference in the size of kitchens and variety of personnel 
employed therein, it is not considered feasible to classify kitchen employes. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURYKI 



14. DISCOUNTS IN ROOM RATES TO PRIVILEGED PERSONS The ma- 
jority of hospitals in Cleveland give special rates to members of the staff 
and their families, to graduate nurses of the hospital and the clergy. 

Hospitals with endowments primarily given for the benefit of people of 
lower economic status, should limit their room rate discounts to persons who 
give gratuitous service to the hospital. Such discount rate should not be 
less than the per capita cost of maintenance. 

PURCHASING DEPARTMENT 

1. CENTRAL PURCHASE BUREAU The majority of Cleveland Hospitals 
can utilize the services of the Central Purchase Bureau to greater advantage. 
Several hospitals especially have neglected their duty and opportunities in 
taking advantage of the Central Purchasing policy. The Board of Trustees 
of every Cleveland hospital should satisfy themselves that the hospital 
under their control takes advantage of this principle to a maximum degree. 
Their investigation of the subject should include a comparison of prices paid 
by the Bureau during the last year for like commodities purchased by the 
superintendent of the hospital during the same period. 

Full advantage of a central purchasing bureau will not be manifested 
until the hospitals standardize supplies. 

The replies to questions referring to the efficacy of the purchasing de- 
partment of the Cleveland Hospital Council, from the standpoint of the hos- 
pitals, reveal two chief criticisms: 

(a) That delays in the delivery of supplies purchased through the 
Bureau are frequent. 

(b) That prices obtained by the Bureau are in some instances no better 
than quotations made the hospital direct. 

In reference to (a): it may be stated that many delays have occurred 
during the past year on account of slow freight, insufficient production and 
causes beyond the control of the Bureau. It is often necessary, in order to 
obtain the best prices, to purchase supplies out of town that ordinarily 
would be purchased by the hospital in the city. It is believed that criti- 
cisms could be lessened if the hospitals would anticipate their wants further 
in advance. To meet this criticism, the Bureau should make prompt de- 
livery a requisite for the acceptance of orders, and aim to consider prompt 
delivery in conjunction with minimum prices. 

In reference to (6) : it may be stated that the benefits of Bureau purchas- 
ing can be increased through larger orders. The nature of many commodi- 
ties does not enable the central purchasing bureau to obtain a price any lower 
than might be obtained by the hospital. This fact of itself should not pre- 
vent placing orders through the Bureau for most commodities, inasmuch as 






HOSPITALS AND I)ISI>KN-\I;II - 883 

the Bureau's chief advantage lies in the placing of large orders. The Bureau 
should keep hospitals informed of pending advance in prices. 

The Cleveland Hospital Council Purchasing Bureau should systematize 
its Quotation Department so as to furnish without delay quotations th.it 
the hospital executive may use in comparison with prices he may have re- 
ceived. To obviate the lost time element, the following should pertain: 

(a) Prompt furnishing of quotations. 

(b) Prompt placing of orders. 

(c) Prompt delivery of goods. 

-2. WAREHOUSING BY THE BUREAU It is not believed that the full benefits 
of Central Bureau purchasing will be manifest until the Cleveland Hospital 
Council provides warehousing and storage facilities. Investigation shows 
that many of the smaller hospitals are buying in small quantities, or from 
hand to mouth, for two reasons: 

(a) Lack of capital requisite for carrying goods in stock. 

(b) Lack of storage facilities. 

In view of the cooperative relationship of the hospitals to the Cleveland 
Hospital Council and the Welfare Federation, the remedy does not wholly 
lie within the hospitals. Additional storage space cannot be provided in 
many hospital buildings without definite building additions. Limited earn- 
ing power of small hospitals precludes the establishment of a fund sufficiently 
large to carry a stock of goods. 

Investigation and study of the cooperative purchasing bureau main- 
tained under the auspices of the Cincinnati Community Tnion has thrown 
new light on this subject. The Cincinnati Community I'nion has set aside 
a revolving fund of $50,()()() to provide for the expenses, warehousing and 
stock for the charitable organizations, institutions and hospitals of the city. 
Although in operation only a few months, the participants in this coopera- 
tive bureau are enthusiastic over the results. It is recommended that th$ 
Cleveland Hospital Council investigate the possibilities of warehousing to 
a limited extent in order to encourage greater use of the purchasing possibili- 
ties of the bureau. It is believed that if the hospitals of Cleveland can be 
assured of immediate delivery from warehouses of many staple supplies, 
their bureau requisitions would be greatly increased. The Cincinnati experi- 
ment has shown that the capital tied up in stock at certain times has only 
represented ;i fraction of the amount set aside. In fact, it is believed that 
during certain seasons of the year a part of the money set aside for warehous- 
ing stock could IK' drawing interest or be used for other purposes. In this 
connection, attention may be called to the fact tha provided with warehouse 
c;ip;icity. the 1'urchasing Bureau of the Cleveland Hospital Council 
could take advantage of opportunities for seasonable purchases that would 
be neglected or considered impracticable for hospital executr 



884 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

3. AUTHORIZATION OF PURCHASES The purchase of supplies or requisi- 
tion on Central Purchasing Bureau should be made only with the approval 
of the superintendent, authorized purchasing agent or steward, the latter of 
whom should be subordinate to the superintendent. (Note D.) 

Note D The practice of direct purchases or Bureau requisitions by heads of depart- 
ments or dietitians without the authority of the superintendent is pernicious and not 
good business procedure. The superintendents of certain hospitals first become familiar 
with some purchases when bills are received. Marketing in open markets by dietitians 
and heads of departments is good practice when properly authorized and checked by 
the hospital superintendent. 

4. STANDARDIZATION OF SUPPLIES The project of the Cleveland Hos- 
pital Council to standardize the majority of hospital supplies is absolutely 
necessary to the proper development and functioning of the Central Pur- 
chasing Bureau. Superintendents of hospitals who have preconceived ideas 
as to standards should come to an agreement with the committee on standard- 
ization in order that they may participate in the benefits to be derived from 
the uniformity of specifications, once standardization is accomplished. It 
will not be possible to extend the principles of standardization over all hos- 
pital supplies, but it is believed that the same can be extended over most pro- 
visions, housekeeping supplies and to a certain extent over furnishings. It 
is also recommended that an attempt be made to extend it over certain 
staple drugs and surgical supplies. 

5. STORAGE FACILITIES AND ADVANCE PURCHASES Hospitals should 
aim to take advantage of minimum prices that may be obtained through 

(a) Quantity purchases. 

(b) Purchases in advance of needs. 

This plan necessitates increased storage or warehouse capacity for some 
hospitals. 

Advantage can be taken of the markets by the seasonable storage of the 
following goods: canned goods, coffee, tea, navy beans, sugar, soap, starch, 
laundry soda, flour, butter, eggs, dried fruits; and sometimes crockery, 
glycerin, lard, narcotics, certain bulk chemicals, manufactured dry goods, etc. 

Sufficient eggs should be stored in public warehouses in April, and butter 
in June, for hospital consumption during the months of maximum high prices. 
(October, November, December and January.) 

Egg candling and storage should be carried out only by reputable and 
high class firms who will guarantee quality at time of consumption. Eggs 
should never be stored in anything but new cartons. 

6. INVENTORIES Physical inventories should be taken on the last day 
of each month, comprising all material stock in storerooms. The practice 
of most hospitals of depending on book inventories is fallacious and not 
justified in commercial practice, except for the drug department. (Note E.) 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES ssr> 

Note E This recommendation comprehends inventory of unissued stock supplies 
such as groceries and provisions, household supplies, gauze and cotton, dry goods, laundry 
supplies, in storeroom awaiting issue. Warehouse supplies should, of course, be included. 
Once the system of monthly inventories is established on standard inventory blanks, 
one office employe assisting the steward or proper head of department, can take inven- 
tory and complete records in one or two days, depending on the size of the hospital and 
the amount of goods carried in stock. It is estimated that the hospital which does not 
carry on inventory a stock of supplies equal to 10 to 15 per cent, of its annual purchases, 
is not taking advantage of seasonable purchases or storage possibilities. In this con- 
nection, attention is called to the fact that certain suppplies, soaps for example, improve 
in storage, and that but few supplies deteriorate. 

7. CONTRACTS Annual, limited or quantity contracts should be sought 
for certain supplies; notably coal, electric lamps and milk from producers. 
It is strongly recommended that all hospitals make arrangements to obtain 
their milk supply from the producer rather than depend on commercial 
distributors. 

8. DRUGS AND SURGICAL SUPPLIES It is recommended that the Cleve- 
land Hospital Council employ or develop a trained drug and surgical supply 
man as buyer. Expert knowledge of drugs and drug markets, and a prac- 
tical knowledge of the hospital use of surgical supplies are qualifications nec- 
essary. It is believed that such a man could develop the purchasing in this 
department and prove a decided economy after the department is organized. 

The offer of the School of Pharmacy of the Western Reserve University 
to cooperate with the hospitals of Cleveland in the standardization and 
manufacture of certain drug supplies is highly commendable. The hospitals 
of Cleveland have an opportunity to avail themselves of the use of a drug 
manufacturing laboratory and expert supervision of their local drug depart- 
ments that is not vouchsafed to many hospitals in other cities. It is under- 
stood that the Cleveland Hospital Council has already taken steps to take 
advantage of this splendid proposition. 

The venereal clinics of the city should take advantage of the free pro- 
vision of arsphenamine by the state. 

9. FOOD SERVICE AND DIRECTING PERSONNEL The entire food service 
of the hospital should be under the direction of a trained dietitian. In small 
hospitals it is possible to combine the service of dietitian and housekeeper. 
In this connection, it should be remembered that trained dietitians may make 
good housekeepers after reasomible experience, but that housekeepers do not 
ordinarily make good dietitians without special training. The service in 
employes' and nurses' dining rooms should be under the direction of the 
dietitian as well as the food service to patients. In large hospitals it is nec- 
essary to study carefully and provide for the cooperative relationship of 
the steward's department, main kitchens, which are usually in charge of a 



886 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

chef, and the dietitian. The details of the hospital food service are too 
intricate to be covered by a survey of this character. 

10. STEWARDS OR PURCHASING AGENTS In large hospitals stewards or 
purchasing agents are necessary in order to relieve the superintendent of 
many of the petty details of purchasing supplies. Where a steward or 
purchasing agent is employed he should have assigned to him duties and re- 
sponsibilities similar to those of stewards of large hotels. 

HOSPITAL ECONOMICS AND SALVAGING 

1. REPAIR DEPARTMENT Hospitals of over 50 beds can economically 
support a general repair man for steam fitting, electrical repair and carpenter 
work. The painter, or painters, should be employed by the month. The 
repair department can be extended in personnel and equipment as the bed 
capacity increases. The development of a central surgical instrument 
repair shop for the use of all hospitals is desirable. These shops should be 
under the control of one or more of the larger hospitals or of the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. Experience has demonstrated that surgical instrument 
and appliance shops can be made self-sustaining almost from the beginning. 
Prompt, uniform and satisfactory production at a lessened cost will be the 
inevitable result. Such an activity might well be included among the func- 
tions of the central brace shop as proposed for the orthopedic center. (See 
pages 200-201.) 

2. MANUFACTURING Manufacturing of certain hospital supplies can be 
extended by individual hospitals in accordance with their needs and the 
ingenuity of the hospital executives. A central sewing room for manufactur- 
ing dry goods should have a place in every hospital. 

It is only necessary here to call attention to the fact that manufacturing 
can be extended without limit in hospitals that have the requisite repair 
personnel. Some hospitals manufacture fracture beds, bed elevators, wooden 
stools, mattresses, cotton waste from recleaned gauze, stretcher canvass, 
Bradford frames, extension apparatus, splints, etc., without limit. The 
manufacturing of dry goods adaptable to hospital use is limitless, depending 
on the facilities provided. The economical manufacture of soap from grease 
is strongly urged, and can be carried out in the laundry with very simple 
equipment. Soap thus manufactured should be used for household clean- 
ing purposes as soft soap. Laundry soap should be manufactured from soap 
chips. 

3. WASTE AND SALVAGING Lack of attention to waste in hospitals is 
uniform all over the country. It is not within the province of this Survey 
to discuss it. Attention is called to the opportunity for salvaging and sale 
of waste paper, old barrels, waste rubber, old metal, rags, bottles, etc. Sur- 
gical gauze and bandages should be washed and re-washed until worn out. 
It can then be reduced to cotton waste or sold with rags. 

4. LABOR SAVING DEVICES Labor saving devices should be utilized 
wherever possible. Electric dish-washing machines are an economy of time 



HOSPITALS AND PIMM .\-\KH - 887 

;nnl hl>or in any hospital. In hospitals of sufficient sj/e, tin- same may be 
sain! of electric dough-mizers, meat-cutters and vacuum cleaner- 

.V FIKI: PROTECTION This subject should he studied carefully by hospifa I 
trustees and executives with the assistance of expert advice. Few hospitals 
have a sufficient. numl>cr of fire extinguishers, and where these are provided, 
they an- not refilled with proper frequency. Only extinguishers approved 
by the I'nderwritcrs' Association shouhl he used ami these should l>e re- 
filled twice annually. At each refilling, they should IK' labelled or tagged 
with date of refilling. 

Standpipe with hose connections, fin- escapes. fin- buckets in attic, should 
receive attention. Heads of departments should be drilled or instructed in 
their duties in the event of a fire. Fire drills are desirable, but almost im- 
possible on account of the frequent changing of employes. 

6. INSURANCE (FiRE) It has been ascertained that many of the hos- 
pitals surveyed are inadequately insured against fire. After appraisal of 
buildings, old policies should t>e cancelled and new policies taken out on the 
basis of reappraisal. It is believed that fire insurance rates are due to ad- 
vance and it is recommended that appraisals be made, old policies cancelled 
and new policies issued so as to take advantage of present rates. It is 
preferable that hospital insurance policies be dnun for five-year ]>eriods, 
which provide for lower rates. Co-insurance policies are not recommended 
except for fire-proof buildings. For non-fire-proof buildings a maximum cov- 
erage is recommended by means of straight policies. The contents of hospital 
buildings should be fully insured as most hospital fires are small and the 
contents suffer to a greater degree than the buildings. Owing to the recent 
rapid increase in construction cost, hospitals should examine their fire insur- 
ance policies without delay and increase them to a figure approximating 
present values. 

Compensation insurance covering employes should be carried by all 
hospitals. Klevators and automobiles shouhl also be properly covered. 



( i 1A HRAL RECOMM I A I >ATI( >\S 



1. It is recommended that standing house orders be established: 

(a) For preparation of patients for operation. 

(b) For after-care of surgical cases. 

(c) For preparation of patients for confinement and after-care (pre- 
natal orders); (post-natal orders). 

(d) For preparation of patients for operation and after-care in tonsil- 
lectomy. 

.' That large hospitals sterilize ami manufacture prepared catgut from 
raw catgut. 



888 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

3. That large hospitals manufacture nitrous oxide gas. 

4. That arrangements be made to purchase oxygen of local manufac- 
turers rather than of jobbers. This will necessitate the hospital owning its 
own tanks which can be sent to manufacturers for refilling. All large cities 
have a number of plants manufacturing oxygen as a by-product. Its cost 
under these circumstances should be 50 per cent, less than prices paid job- 
bers. 

5. That rubber gloves be not issued at the expense of the hospital to 
staff members for use on private cases, or to non-staff physicians. 

VISITORS AND VISITING HOURS 

Visiting the sick should be limited as much as possible, especially in open 
wards. Hospitals where possible, should reduce visiting days to three or 
four days per week, including Sundays. Two of these days could have 
visiting hours for wards 6 :00 to 7 :00 or 7 :00 to 8 :00 P. M., and the remaining two 
days 2:00 to 3:00 or 3:00 to 4:00 P. M. 

Visitors to private rooms are difficult of regulation. They should be 
limited if possible to afternoons between 2 :00 and 5 :00 P. M. 

Non-professional visitors in the operating room during operations ^should 
not be permitted. The practice of allowing relatives of patients to witness 
operations is dangerous and susceptible of much criticism. It should not 
be permitted. 



HYGIENE OF HOSPITAL AND PERSONNEL 

1. HEALTH TESTS All employes handling or preparing food either in 
storerooms, kitchens, pantries, dining rooms, diet kitchens, etc., should 
have a complete physical examination, including a Wassermann examina- 
tion, before being accepted for appointment. The medical examination 
and tests made should be adequate to exclude typhoid carriers from this 
service. 

All nurses before admission to the training school, and employes before 
assuming duties of their positions should give evidence of a recent vaccina- 
tion against smallpox, or be vaccinated. 

In the event of development of cases of diphtheria among hospital per- 
sonnel, all employes and nurses should have the Schick Test to determine 
susceptibility. The making of a Schick Test as a routine procedure prior to 
employment or entry to the training school, is unnecessary. It should not 
be neglected, however, in the face of an epidemic. 

The authorities of the hospital should provide for and encourage medical 
exmination of all their employes annually. . 

2. MILK SUPPLY Hospital laboratories should install apparatus for 
testing their milk supply on delivery daily. Determination of quantity of 
butter fat, bacteria content, temperature and specific gravity will permit 



HOSPITALS AND DISPKN-M n - 889 

checking of contract which would provide for certain minimum standards. 
Hospital milk should lx cooled to 50 degrees immediately after milking, 
delivered at the hospital l>efore reaching 60 decrees and contain not less than 
I per cent, of butter fat. The milk contract should call for milk for drink- 
ing purposes known as Class "A" grade. Milk should be delivered to hos- 
pital raw and provision made at hospital for pasteurization for such milk 
as may l>e desired pasteurised prior to use. (Note G.) 

Note F Class "A" milk in Cleveland is raw milk from tuberculin-tested herds, 
scoring 90 per cent, or better, with less than 50,000 bacteria content per c.c. It may be 
necessary in some instances to use Class "B" pasteurized milk, which conforms with Divi- 
sion of Health standards. 

S. WATER SUPPLY The hospital laboratory should periodically test the 
water supply. If storage tanks arc in use, tests and culture should be made 
from tanks as well as spigots. 

4. VENTILATION During the winter months, hospitals with the plenum 
system should give rigid attention to the details of this system with frequent 
examination of air in wards and exposure of culture media. Hospitals using 
direct-indirect methods combined with heating, during winter, should make 
weekly examinations of air as a check on the mechanical operation of exhaust 
fans and the mechanics of the ventilating system. 



890 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

III. Dispensaries 
DISPENSARIES IN CLEVELAND 

As outlined in the section entitled "Some Definitions," and as shown in 
Figure HI., Part II., there are two classes of dispensaries in Cleveland 
those treating the sick and those primarily concerned with preventive work, 
or the clinical and the public health dispensary, as the two types may be 
called. In Cleveland, five dispensaries treating the sick deal with general 
diseases; one, the Babies' Dispensary, confines its work to children under 
three years. There are also a number of industrial dispensaries supported 
by business establishments for the treatment of accident cases. The indus- 
trial dispensaries are dealt with in Part VII. of the Survey report, and are 
merely mentioned here. The public health dispensaries are dealt with in 
the next section of this chapter. 

All of the dispensaries treating the sick except the Babies' Dispensary 
and the industrial clinics are attached to hospitals, and are usually called 
the out-patient departments of those hospitals. All of the public health 
dispensaries, on the other hand, are distinct from hospitals, with the excep- 
tion of a few of the prenatal clinics. 

The six dispensaries treating the sick are as follows: 

Dispensaries Dispensary Visits, 1919 

Lakeside Hospital Out-patient Department 59,891 

St. Vincent's Charity Hospital Out-patient Department .. 21,863 

Mount Sinai Hospital Out-patient Department 19,324 

Babies' Dispensary and Hospital 14,977 

St. Luke's Hospital Out-patient Department 13,313 

Huron Road Hospital Out-patient Department 5,864 

It is probable that the number of different individuals treated was about 
30,000 in 1919. 

From the above table it will be found that the dispensaries of Cleveland 
are comparatively few in number and small in size as compared with those of 
other leading cities. In the section on "Policies and Needs," such compari- 
sons will be made. In this section the general work of the dispensaries is 
reviewed. 

LOCATION OF DISPENSARIES 

The six out-patient dispensaries are very unevenly distributed Lakeside 
is on the lake at East Twelfth Street; Charity is one mile inland at Twenty- 
second Street; and Mount Sinai about one mile and a half inland at 105th 
Street. These three dispensaries treat all kinds of diseases. ^Huron Road 
Dispensary, located in the center of the city, does very little except surgical 



IIo.sriT.vi.> VM l>in \-\KII - 



891 




Fig. III. 

NOTE: The height of the\black rectangles represent* the percentage of dispensary patient* liring tit 
thf (iittrict and attending the dispensary designated by the letter above. 



892 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

emergency work; the same is true of St. Luke's, which is in the middle of an 
industrial district. The Babies' Dispensary, not far from Charity Hospital, 
confines itself to sick babies up to the age of three years.* 

A study of locations shows that the dispensaries are not so located as to 
interfere with one another, but it is obvious that the west and south sides of 
the city are entirely without provision. The range from which patients come 
to the dispensaries varies considerably as shown by Fig. III. In Cleveland, as 
elsewhere, it is found that a dispensary with medical teaching draws from a 
relatively wider area, since consultation cases are sent to its staff for special 
study and since the reputation of its staff draws patients. In general the 
range of a dispensary varies somewhat in proportion to its reputation. 
People will go long distances to secure expert medical care of which they 
feel themselves to be greatly in need, but convenience of location and near- 
ness of a dispensary are of great assistance in bringing people in the early 
stages of disease under care and in attaining easy supervision of treatment. 

CLASSES OF DISEASE TREATED 

Tuberculosis is not cared for in these dispensaries except in so far as diag- 
noses are made when patients come into the dispensary with other com- 
plaints, but the supervision and control of cases of tuberculosis are carried 
on by the Health Centers and the special sanatoria for this disease. The 
common "contagious" diseases are also excluded from dispensaries. 

ORGANIZATION AND EXECUTIVE CONTROL 

The management of a dispensary of any size, such as those at Lakeside 
and Mount Sinai, involves the handling of a considerable number of patients 
and a number of physicians, nurses, social workers, and other assistants, and 
needs skilled and executive direction. Rarely, however, has there been pro- 
vided by the hospital any officer responsibly charged with full control of the 
dispensary and expected to give to it his main attention. At Lakeside and 
Mount Sinai, an assistant superintendent of the hospital is director of the dis- 
pensary, but at Lakeside until recently the actual conduct of the dispensary 
fell entirely upon the head of the social service department. At the smaller 
dispensaries at Huron Road Hospital and at St. Luke's Hospital, and also at 
Charity Hospital, there have been no executive directors. The hospital 
superintendent is responsible for the dispensary as well as for other depart- 
ments of the hospital, but no official has been assigned to take charge of the 
dispensary. 

Only at the Babies' Dispensary has there been definite and continued 
executive direction and carefully worked out organization, under the pro- 
fessor of pediatrics at the University, with a salaried nurse devoting her full 
time to the detailed administration. This organization has indeed devoted 
too much attention to its own executive detail and administrative system, 

*A small number of orthopedic cases receiving special treatment are accepted up to 14 years of age 
at the Babies' Dispensary. ^ 



HoM'lTALS AND DISPENSARIES 



but furnishes on the whole an example of the value of a well-thought-out 
and well-worked-out plan of dispensary administration under full-tiim . 
responsible executive direction. 



BUILDINGS 

The Babies' Dis]>ensary is especially well designed for its purpose. The 
other dispensaries are all hampered for want of room or from old dark build- 
ings. St. Luke's and Charity function in basements; Huron Road in a rather 
forlorn annex; Mount Sinai in a small double house; and Lakeside in poorly- 
arranged, inconvenient rooms. All of the institutions except Charity are 
planning new buildings, and Lakeside is planning certain modifications of the 
present plant that will make it much more suitable during the remainder of 
the time the building is in use. The unsuitable or inconvenient character of 
the plants is typical of the lack of attention paid to dispensary work in the 
past, while the increasing interest in this form of service is reflected in the 
projected developments. 

PATIKXTS 

\- slimvn on flu' map (Fig. III.), the existing dis|>ensaries draw their pa- 
tients largely from the central congested areas of the city. Sufficient num- 
bers come from a distance to show that when the work and existing value of 
dispensaries is known, distance is not an insuperable obstacle. It would be 
interesting and important to ascertain how far the distribution of dispensary- 
patients by districts agrees with the economic condition of the population in 
each section. Obviously, the dispensary draws primarily from the poorer 
elements. There are considerable districts in the west and south sides 
which appear to contain a large number of people who are financially as much 
in need of medical charity as those who are near the existing dispensaries. 
Some light is thrown on this point by the study of nationalities. Thirty- 
three nationalities were found registered among records studied in the six 
<lis|>ensaries. The proportion of foreign-born found in the more recent of 
these records of races is smaller than the proportion which these races bear 
to the total population of Cleveland. Knowledge of dispensaries and willing- 
ness to go to a strange institution j>enetrate only slowly among many groups 
of immigrants. At Lakeside Dispensary, American-born patients consti- 
tuted over one-half of the total; Charity draws largely from Italians and 
Negroes; Mount Sinai shows over half of its attendiance, Jewish; Babies' 
l>is]>ensary shows 24 per cent. American-born parents, 18 JMT cent. Slavic, 
16 ]MT cent. Jewish, 14 per cent, colored, and many other nationalities rep- 
resented in small percentages. Very little has been done at any of the dis- 
pensaries to provide interpretation for patients not speaking English. There 
is much complaint from outside charitable agencies that adult patients not 
speaking Knglish find it difficult to make themselves understood, or to 
understand what the doctor finds to be the matter or what he wants them to 
do. 



894 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



FEES AND FINANCES 

It is becoming the general policy of dispensaries throughout the country 
to charge admission fees at each visit of a patient, the fee usually being of 
nominal amount (except in "pay clinics") and being remitted in whole or 
in part where the patient is not able to pay. In Cleveland, only one of the 
five general dispensaries, Lakeside, has adopted a general admission fee in 
its daytime clinics. Mount Sinai Dispensary charges ten cents for the 
first admission but not thereafter, and Charity makes a nominal charge 
when a person loses his admission card. All make charges for medicines at 
prices more or less corresponding to cost, and also usually charge for special 
treatment or appliances. 

In the evening clinics which are designed for persons who are at work 
in the daytime and generally aim to be quite or nearly self-supporting, fifty 
cents a visit is charged by Mount Sinai, Charity, and Lakeside the three 
dispensaries which maintain such clinics. Babies' Dispensary has a grade 
system the highest class pays fifty cents and the lowest grade nothing for 
admission. 

The charging and collection of fees and the designation of what these 
fees should be and when and why they should be remitted, require an adequate 
admission system for a dispensary. The present inadequate organization of 
most of the institutions would make it difficult to administer satisfactorily an 
admission fee system. It is of course essential that if admission fees are 
routinely charged, there be a system for receiving and accounting accu- 
rately for monies, as well as for deciding what fees should be paid by patients 
or be remitted. Having such a system in a dispensary is always stimulating 
to better administration and also serves to provide the funds for it. An im- 
portant by-product, moreover, is the greater attention given to the economic 
and social condition of patients, promoting more careful attention to the 
social as well as the medical needs of those admitted, and protecting the 
medical profession better against those who could properly pay for the ser- 
vices of a private physician. 

The exact cost of dispensary service in Cleveland is not ascertainable 
because no one of the out-patient departments of the hospitals fully sep- 
arates its expenses from those of the hospital. Immediate expenses are 
usually charged to the dispensary, but the overhead heating, lighting, super- 
vision, and other general expenses are not usually figured in. It is probable 
that the average cost per visit does not exceed fifty cents with the exception 
of the Babies' Dispensary, which is independent of a hospital. The five out- 
patient departments of the hospitals, with about 115,000 visits, probably 
cost altogether about $60,000 a year. Really adequate administration of the 
dispensaries as hereafter recommended would cost more, but the difference 
would be met or more than met if adequate admission fees were charged. 
Failure to have proper cost accounting is a serious limitation t>n dispensary 
service. What seems cheap, is held cheaply. 



Ho-i-iTALS AND Dl-l'l.\-\i;ll - 895 

MEDICAL WORK OK I )IMM \- \UIES 

Physicians \\<rk in the daytime clinics of the dis|>ensaries without finan- 
cial remuneration, except in a few instances of physicians doing special work 
at Lakeside and at the Haloed I )is|>cnsary. These two dispensaries are 
teaching clinics for Western Reserve I'niversity. members of the staff being 
also nieniliers of the staff of the medical school. In the evening pay clinics, 
all the physicians receive either a regular salary or an amount de]>endent on 
the fees received from patients. A large part of the dispensary work in 
Cleveland is connected \\ith the teaching of medical students, all of the staff 
at Lakeside and at Babies' Dispensary, and part of the staff of Charity and 
of Huron Road, being connected with Western Reserve I'nivcrsity Medical 
School. 

The dispensary staffs are only in a few instances organized satisfactorily 
in relation to the staffs of the hospital with which the dispensary is con- 
nected. (See section on "Organization for Service.") The practice of 
making all appointments annu illy has been taken advantage of only at 
Mount Sinai. The Babies' Dispensary is the only one that has an accurate 
and complete enough system of record keeping to afford a basis for clinical 
research. Most of the opportunity for the student is lost because of inade- 
quate records, and much duplication of work among disjxMisaries and within 
the same. dispensary is necessitated for the same -eason. 

Opportunities for consultation among physicians representing different 
specialties is an important element in good dispensary work, but this oppor- 
tunity is relatively small in the Cleveland dispensaries owing to loose organ- 
ization and to very lax systems of referring and transferring patients be- 
tween dispensaries or clinics. The making of efficiency tests of the medical 
work and the accumulation of facts on which to base judgment concerning 
administrative procedures lias yet to be undertaken. 

RECORDS 

p 

All of the five general dispensaries excepting Charity have a central 
filing system all records concerning each patient being filed together. At 
Charity, the filing of the records of each particular clinic separately repre- 
sents a serious drawback since the work of the different specialists upon a 
case cannot readily l>e assembled and the needs of the patient studied as a 
whole. Card record forms for the medical work are in general use, differing 
widely in detail. Conference and comparison would lead to improvement 
and standardization. Mount Sinai has a plan for a summary sheet for 
diagnosis and laboratory tests, an ex|>criment which is worth pursuing. 

SOCIAL SERVICE 

The too considerable part played by under staffed social service depart- 
ments in the administration of several of the dispensaries is described in 
detail in the section on "Social Service". It may be mentioned here that 
in relation to cooperation with charitable agencies, the social s,-r\ i e <!<- 



896 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

partments have usually made an effort to define their attitude toward the 
social agencies, particularly in relation to the need of patients for material 
relief. All of the social service departments are avowedly opposed to the 
giving of material relief, regarding this as the duty of a "family agency" or 
relief society. In general an exception is made of certain medical needs 
which the social service departments regard as adequate reason for giving 
financial aid. Thus at Mount Sinai, it is felt that a patient's inability to 
pay for glasses or for dental work is an indication that there are other more 
general financial needs and the case is transferred, by the social service 
department, to general charitable or relief agency. Lakeside Social Serv- 
ice Department will give money to patients for carfare and occasionally 
will make small loans. A very small fund is in the possession of this depart- 
ment for such purposes. The Babies' Dispensary provides milk at less than 
cost or free, if necessary. This is provided for babies up to the age of fifteen 
months; after that if the baby is ill, it will be continued up to eighteen months, 
but never later. This is also done at the Health Centers. The total deficit 
for the year 1919 was $18,000, of which the city pays $6,000 and the Babies' 
Dispensary $12,000. With these exceptions the social service departments 
do not give material relief, but transfer to charitable agencies all cases in 
which such needs appear evident or probable. Thus H pretty clear division 
of function between the social service department and the non-medical 
agencies has been worked out. 

On the other hand, there has not been a satisfactory understanding be- 
tween the dispensaries and the charitable agencies with reference to the 
examination of patients not acutely ill, but concerning whom a charitable 
society needs to secure facts as to physical condition, working ability, and 
the general health needs of the family. In some instances, notably at Lake- 
side, it has been difficult for charitable societies to secure examination of 
these cases, who often not being sick, do not interest physicians coming to 
the dispensaries primarily to see and treat illness. It has also been difficult, 
at Lakeside almost impossible, for charitable societies and agencies, to secure 
information regarding the diseases or defects found in patients in whom 
they are interested. The families known to charitable societies and receiv- 
ing relief from them, can obviously not afford to pay for medical care, and 
it is particularly for such families that dispensaries should serve as family 
physicians. This means providing health examinations and advice concern- 
ing occupation, nutrition, etc., as well as diagnosis and treatment during 
illness. The dispensaries have given only a very limited degree of service 
in this connection, although a real beginning has been made at such places 
as the Babies' Dispensary and Mount Sinai. An important field for larger 
service lies here. 

REPORTS AND TESTS OF DISPENSARY SERVICE 

The annual reports of the dispensaries are most inadequate. The dis- 
pensaries probably serve altogether, in a year, as many as 30,000 persons 
hospital beds, 50,000 to 60,000, or twice as many. Yet the attention devoted 
to reports of hospital work is not twice as much as that given to dispensary 
reports, but ten times as much or some such ratio. Even the number of 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES s<7 

patients served or treatments given in each of the several clinics medical, 
surgical, etc., were not obtainable from the dispensary reports, (except from 
one institution) and had to be specially secured for the Survey. The authori- 
ties of the institutions have not provided themselves with the elementary 
data with which to judge even the scope and amount of service rendered, 
much less its quality. The collection of routine statistics of the work of 
each clinic is a matter neither difficult nor costly. 

DEFK n \ IKS IN CERTAIN BHAM in .- 

Like the hospitals, the dispensaries are undeveloped in certain important 
specialties in which the public needs service. Clinics for children (over the 
age of three) are the most notable example. The children's clinics at Lake- 
side and Mount Sinai are very small; there are none at Charity Hospital, 
Huron Road, or St. Luke's. The age limit set by the Babies' Dispensary 
has been an unfortunate restriction. It has served to limit the development 
of clinics for babies elsewhere, and has indirectly tended to diminish the 
chance of adequate clinics for older children. Moreover, no one clinic for 
sick babies can meet the. need for a city as large as Cleveland. All sick 
babies needing dispensary care are expected to come to one spot, the Babies' 
Dispensary, and even when there they are not treated unless the nurse at 
the admission desk agrees with the mother, or with the visiting nurse who 
referred the mother, that the baby is too ill to be at a Babies' Prophylactic 
Station and that the family is too poor to pay a private physician. A study 
by the Survey showed that somewhat more than half of a group of cases 
recently applying at the Babies' Dispensary were referred elsewhere. It is 
to be strongly recommended that: (1) Babies' Dispensary accept children 
up to 14 years. (2) Pediatric Clinics treating children up to this age be 
developed at all present and future dispensaries. 

Clinic service for cases of heart disease is an undeveloped field in Cleve- 
land. Mount Sinai appears to have recognized the problem and to have 
begun efforts to get cardiac cases under care, at Rainbow Hospital. It is 
highly (lesirah!.- that cardiac clinics be developed as parts of the general 
<lis|>ensaries which exist or are to be established at City Hospital, Lakeside, 
Mount Sinai and the proposed central downtown dispensary. 



RELATION OF DISPENSARIES AND HOSPITALS 

The usefulness of the out-patient department as a means of increasing 
the efficiency of the hospital has been but slightly recognized in Cleveland. 
The dispensary should be the link whereby most of the hospitals' contacts 
with the community are made. Thus the admission of ward patients should 
be largely through the dispensary, though of course emergency and some 
other cases will enter otherwise. The medical study given in tin- dispensary 
to the patient should be the beginning of the hospital's work with him and 
not, as now, be usually wasted because the medical organization and the 
records of the out-patient department are not correlated with those of the 
hospital. 



898 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



CARE CURE 



ri'RK-PRF.U.vriON 





Foll<m.u P 


1 






1 FomlulU 




ttttl 






* 






Fig. IV. 
Inter-relation Between Hospital and Dispensary. 



\\D Di-i'i \-\un .> HIM) 

Of equal if not greater importance, is the function of the dispensary in 
connection with the discharged patient. This subject is studied in detail 
iu the sections on convalescence. 

CLINIC MANAGEMENT 

The time of doctors, given freely to service in clinics, is much too hrgely 
spent in non-medical routine calling in patients, attending to records, etc. 
Paid and trained clinical assistants is necessary if the doctor's time in the 
clinic: is to be of maximum value to himself and to the patient. The details 
of efficient clinic management have l>een worked out in a numtar of dispen- 
saries in other cities. 



KKLATIONS TO THE MEDICAL PROFESSION 

There has l>e?u for some years an apparent feeling on the part of some 
members of the medical prof?ssion that dis]>en.-&rics interfere with private 
medical practice because they accept patients who could afford to pay a 
physician. Much of this feeling has lx?en due to misapprehension of the 
facts; some has been due to the failure on the part of the hospitals to deal 
with the medical profession on even and open terms. The Survey has found 
no evidence that cases who are able to pay a ,>ri\ate physician have been 
accepted by the dispensaries except occasionally, by mistake or honest mis- 
judgment, and the proportion of such mistakes apj>ears no larger than studies 
in New York and Boston have shown to be practically inevitable. The pro- 
portion of dispensary applicants who are able to pay private rates for the 
medical care which they need is believed not to be larger than three per cent. 
and as the records of the Babies' Dispensary, of Lakeside, and of other insti- 
tutions show, a numl>er of such applicants are refused treatment. The prin- 
ciples which it is believed should govern the admission of patients to dis- 
pensaries are stated in the section on "Policies and Needs." 

It has been unfortunate that this vital matter of relationship between 
the dispensary and the physician should not have been made the subject of 
systematic cooperation, conference and study by representatives of both 
sides. Had, for instance, a committee of the Hospital Council met with a 
committee of the Cleveland Academy of Medicine a number of times during 
the past five years, there would probably never have de\clo|>ed any atti- 
tude of disagreement. In the section on "Policies and Needs" a recommen- 
dation is made with the aim of bringing about such cooperative functioning. 
It is of vital importance to remember that the dispensary (also the hospital 
is essentially a cooperative enterprise of the medical profession and the trus- 
tees and administrators, undertaken for the purpose of community service. 
The adequate development of dispensaries in Cleveland will offer to the rank 
and file of the medical profession opportunities of which it is now largely 
deprived for consultation with specialists and for aid from laboratories 
and Other facilities in di.iunoxis ;ui-l treatment. Physicians may be sure that 



900 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

whatever assists the public to give more attention to bodily health and to 
understand and utilize the most advanced resources for medical care, will 
also stimulate the use of that primary and best loved resource, the family 
physician. 




HoPiTALH AND DISPENSARIES 901 



THE PUBLIC HEALTH DISPENSARIES 

As previously pointed out, the public health dispensaries differ from those 
just described in that they lay emphasis on preventive work rather than on 
diagnosis and treatment of sickness. They also differ in that each public 
health dispensary limits itself to a definite area, receiving patients only from 
this district. Generally speaking, the offer of a preventive and educational 
service will draw persons from a much smaller area than in the case of a 
clinic treating sickness. The effective range of an infant welfare clinic is 
quite sm ill; that is the area from which it will draw many cases L limited 
to a comparatively small region around the dispensary. The same is true 
of the prenatal clinic, while the tuberculosis clinic has a somewhat wider 
range. In practice the district which a public health disj>ensary does serve 
depends largely upon the extent to which it is advertised or the degree to 
which nurses attached to the dispensary go into homes and interest persons 
to come to the clinic. These efforts, however, are at a disadvantage if an 
attempt is made to bring many persons from considerable 



The public health dispensary lias a militant purpose. It aims to combat 
a definite disease like tuberculosis or a group of diseases such as cause infant 
mortality. It should make no restriction in receiving patients because of 
financial status. Properly conducted, a public health dispensary should in 
no way interfere with the work of private physicians, but tends to send 
patients to them since disease or difficulties are discovered which dispensaries 
will not treat and for which patients will be advised to seek treatment. The 
aim of a public health dispensary is, or ought to be, the reaching of all of the 
cases within a certain district needing its care. It must measure its work 
on a population basis and see how far it is able to reach 100 per cent, of the 
cases of actual or probable tuberculosis in its district, or all the babies or 
expectant mothers. This in practice would require that a public health 
dispensary, with a certain staff, must serve only so large a district as it can 
effectively reach. The time has not yet come when a general statement 
can be made as to the area which a given type of public health dispensary 
can cover, and this must be the subject of further study in Cleveland and 
elsewhere. 

Reference to Table I. shows that twenty-two different sites are utilized 
for public health dispensaries or clinics with a public health purpose, and 
that the purposes srrvrd include four types of work: tuberculosis, infant 
welfare, prenatal care, and dental service. It should be added that the 
three clinics treating the venereal diseases (at Lakeside,' Mount Sinai and 
Charity Hospitals) fall on the border line between the public health dispen- 
sary and the dispensary treating the sick. They have or should have the 
militant purpose of the public health di$i>ensary, but they are largely con- 
cerned with the diagnosis and treatment of definite disease. Since Part V. 
of the Survey report is devoted to venereal diseases only this mention is 
made here. 

Further reference to Table I. indicates that the first two of ths four 
services, tuberculosis and infant w>lf;tre r are under the charge of th<- Division 



902 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

of Health, while the other two, prenatal and dental service, are under private 
agencies. The Survey reports on Child Hygiene (Part III.) and on Nursing 
(Part IX.) have given considerable attention to prenatal as well as to the 
other public health services which involve the nurses' work in the home as 
well as in the clinics, and the report on Tuberculosis (Part IV.) has covered 
that field. Certain administrative aspects may properly be discussed here 



PRENATAL CLINICS 

In prenatal service the function of the clinic is essentially diagnosis. The 
examining physician should, so far as possible, be able to decide what special 
care, if any, each expectant mother requires during pregnancy and at delivery, 
and to advise her accordingly. The diagnostic and administrative work of 
the clinic are of relatively limited value without the home work of the nurse. 
The prenatal clinics also play a certain part in medical and nursing education. 
It should be apparent, however, that the amount of clinical service or the 
number of obstetrical cases, needed for such purposes of education, is only 
a small fraction of the amount of prenatal service needed for the community 
as a whole. In 1919 there were 19,123 registered births in Cleveland, and 
of these 1,251 were delivered in their homes by out-patient teaching services 
connected with the prenatal clinics of Maternity Hospital. This is 6^ per 
cent, of the total. It is certainly true that not over 10 per cent, of the obstet- 
rical cases of Cleveland are required, or could even be directly utilized, for 
teaching purposes in connection with prenatal clinics. Practically every 
expectant mother would benefit by such service as is rendered at a well 
managed prenatal clinic. The need of prenatal care is far broader than the 
need for "educational material." The two purposes are not at all inconsis- 
tent. The one fits into the other. 

The point is of practical importance because of the failure of those respon- 
sible for the University teaching of obstetrics and for the maintenance of 
the prenatal clinics connected therewith, to recognize the community need 
as broader than their own special interest. Four different agencies main- 
tain eight prenatal clinics. There is room for many more than eight prenatal 
clinics and for more than four agencies, provided all were working as part of 
an agreed general program. At present the University agency appears to 
take the attitude of urging the cessation of the activities of such prenatal 
clinics as those of Mount Sinai and the University District. The feeling 
produced on the other side is what may be expected. The effectiveness as 
well as the extent of the work is substantially diminished by such a situation. 
As a reductio ad absurd urn we find two prenatal clinics, next door to one 
another, at 2509 and 2511 East Thirty-fifth Street, one conducted by Ma- 
ternity Hospital, the other by the University District, for the training of its 
students. 

The recommendations made by the Survey in the reports on Child Hygiene 
(Part III.) and Nursing (Part IX.) will remedy this condition if ptit into effect. 
It may be added here, as one detail, that there is no justification for two 



HOSPITALS AM> Di^ri \-\un .- !o:{ 

clinics side by side on Thirty-fifth Street. Although tin- I Diversity District 
prenatal clini<- is aetually under the auspices (if the Division of Health, it, as 
well as the Maternity Hospital prenatal elinie, is used as a teaching field 
by the University, and it is largely the responsibility of the University to 
see that its agents and officers dealing resjwctively with medical and with 
nursing education, work in harmony. The two clinics should l>e combined. 
It is a matter of indifference which plant is retained and which given up. 
The University should, as now, appoint the medical and nursing heads of 
the service; the internal administration of the clinic, for reasons of economy 
and convenience, should continue under Maternity Hospital; the nursing 
teaching should be part of the University District plan and be coordinated 
with the community plan for prenatal and obstetrical nursing service pro- 
posed by the Survey. (See Part III.) 

It is generally helpful for a hospital which lias a considerable maternity 
service in its wards, to maintain a prenatal clinic (which should be used also 
for the supervision of post-partum conditions and be administered as part of 
the general dispensary attached to the hospital). Such hospital clinics should, 
however, work as cooperative parts of the city-wide plan for maternity care. 
There is need for many more prenatal clinics, however, than are or can be 
connected with hospitals. Wherever possible the prenatal clinics should be 
in the same buildings as the Health Centers of the Division of Health. By 
the bringing together of a variety of different health activities within one 
building, each service tends to strengthen the others by increasing the con- 
tact of the neighborhood with the Center, its purposes and personnel; and 
to correlate many det tils of work by the medical, nursing and clerical staffs. 
Such combinations also bring administrative economies in management and 
save such present wastes as renting rooms for prenatal clinics which are used 
only i few hours each week. In advance of the assumption by the city of 
prenatal work as a regular servi -e in its Health Centers, cooperation between 
the city and the private agencies may usefully proceed in this manner. 



DENTAL CLINICS 

Dental service as a branch of public health dispensaries is a recognized 
activity in which Cleveland is singularly deficient. 

The three mouth hygiene dispensaries operated by the Cleveland Mouth 
Hygiene Association at three of the health centers are operated for fifty weeks 
<>f the year five days a week, and three hours at each session. Kach unit in- 
cludes a dentist .md an assistant. The cost of these is met from the Com- 
munity Fund as a part of the budget presented by the Welfare Federation. 

These three Mouth Hygiene dispensaries, operated five half days per 
week, are the only available and acceptable service i except the private dental 
practitioner) for thirty to thirty-five thousand parochial school children. It 
is estimated that fifteen Mouth Hygiene I'nits operated eleven half day- per 
week would serve this group of children quite well; /. r., would provide the 
prophylactic service n< < e ;( ry for eighty-live or ninety ] er cent. <>f these 



904 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

children and would provide for from one-third to one-half of the repair 
service necessary. 

The grave deficiency of dental service in Cleveland is illustrated by the 
fact that the total clinic provision in the city includes only that at the three 
health centers, the six clinics at public schools and the dental clinic at the 
City Hospital, a total of ten dental chairs running 156 hours a week. In 
Boston five institutions offer either free, at or below cost, dental service 
with a total of 247 chairs used for 5,956 hours a week. The present policy 
of the College of Dentistry of Western Reserve University renders it hardly 
possible to class it with public service clinics for dental purposes. (See 
Part VIII. of Survey Report, page 685.) 

Dental care for the poor in Cleveland is limited largely to extraction 
and remedy of gross pathological conditions causing obvious inconvenience 
or pain. Lack of knowledge of the needs and possibilities of oral hygiene is 
responsible for the neglected teeth of most dispensary patients. Dental 
clinics where a small fee is charged are badly needed in the congested dis- 
tricts. 

It is strongly recommended that dental service be developed as an activity 
of all the health centers, including the central downtown dispensary, and 
that each dispensary connected with a hospital should include a dental 
clinic for both adults and children. The Survey has recommended to each 
of the major hospitals that a dental surgeon be a member of its staff, with 
rank as head of a department; and that under his direction a dental clinic 
be conducted, with the necessary dental assistance. Pay dental clinics for 
persons of moderate means would be a great public benefit. 

THE "HEALTH CENTERS" 

The tuberculosis and infant welfare work of the Division of Health may 
be studied from the standpoint of the management of its clinics as well as 
from that of the specialist in the medico-social problems of the diseases 
concerned. Of the eight "Health Centers," seven include tuberculosis 
clinics; all have infant welfare clinics, and there are in addition, six "baby 
prophylactic stations," subsidiary centers for the better covering of more 
neighborhoods. 

As to buildings, three of the Health Centers are located in stores, occu- 
pying the entire ground floor in each case. Two of the stores have light from 
one side only; one of these two has good light from the rear. The third store 
stands on a lot aloae and has excellent light and ventilation on all sides. All 
three have the advantage of unusually good front light. These three cen- 
ters are the ones selected by the Mouth Hygiene Association for the install- 
ment of the dental work. Three other centers, Nos. 1, 3 and 4, are located 
in single dwelling houses. No. 4 has the entire house (allowing a man and 
wife to occupy the upper floor in exchange for the care of the store fronts); 
all the rooms have some daylight, making the total result bettej than in the 
stores. Health Center No. 5 is the most fortunately located of all, being 



lli>-,|'H\l.- \M Dl-IM \-\KII -> 90.1 

in a public bath-house, which is also a gymnasium and social club-house; 
there arc here ample space and a fortunate arrangement of rooms. No. 8, the 
I'niversity District center, is in half of a double house. It is neither very light 
nor roomy and arrangements are poor for the work. The six auxiliary sta- 
tions are: one in a library an excellent room designed for a kindergarten 
room; one in a V. \V. C. A. building; one in a community center; two in 
public bath-houses; and one in a settlement house. One of the public 
schools in the downtown section is used in the summer for an extra station. 

All the clinics are limited to essential equipment. They are all supplied 
with imported scales for weighing the babies in grams. A new dental equip- 
ment was l)eing installed in Center 7 at the time of the visit of the Survey 
investigator. The buildings were not adequately heated in the cases of 
Nos. 7 and 3, where dependence had to be placed on stoves, with no suitable 
place to store coal. Nos. 1 and 4 were heated by gas stoves which markedly 
affected the air. 

There are 35 tuberculosis clinics a week held in the seven main centers. 
University District does the home visiting on tuberculosis cases in its area, 
but gets the cases from the clinics held at Center . These clinics are held 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday afternoons from 2 to 4 P. M., 
and Thursday evenings between 6:30 and 7 p. M. 

In the Child Hygiene Department 46 clinics a week are held. Centers 
6 and 7 each hold six clinics a week. Center 2 and the auxiliary station at 
Alta House hold two each a week. The other ten stations each hold clinics 
weekly. These clinics are held between 9:30 and 10:30 A.M. The nurses 
reported that Saturday was always the least crowded day. 

Two other types of clinics arc held in the Health Centers, but are under 
auspices somewhat different from those of the two above mentioned. The 
district doctors hold visiting hours in three of the clinics from 9 to 10 A. M. 
each day. An average of about six patients come to these" clinics daily for 
dressings, or to get advice for minor ills. The numl>cr is frequently two to 
three and it is not infrequent for the doctor to have not a single caller. 

The three dental clinics maintained by the Mouth Hygiene Association 
in Centers 2, 6 and 7 meet five times a week from 1 to 4 p. M.. and are largely 
used by parochial school children and the families of patients with tulxT- 
culosis. 

It can be easily seen that these clinics do not use nearly all the available 
daily hours. With the exception of Station 5 the rooms are idle during the 
other hours. Stations 6 and 7, both of which have infant clinics six morn- 
ings a week, and dental clinics every afternoon but Saturday, do not waste 
much time, but the other buildings could serve useful purposes at other 
hours. This is true of the evening hours for all stations. 

The patients attending the clinics are derived from different sources. In 
a study made of a series ,,f .-ases attending the Infant Hygiene Clinics. .17 



906 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

per cent, were found to be referred by neighbors, friends or relatives; 37 
per cent, referred by the Health Division and clinic nurses; 2 per cent, by the 
Visiting Nurse Association; and 4 per cent, by physicians. The practical 
value of the work is rather we'll illustrated by the large number of cases 
sent by apparently satisfied clients. In considering this, the use of the clinic 
in providing an inspected milk at lower than market prices must be borne in 
mind. It is not purely the desire for a health inspection for their children 
that brings the mothers. 

In the tuberculosis clinics the largest percentage came in as a result of 
efforts of the Division of Health nurses, 46 per cent, having come in this way. 
14 per cent, were referred by physicians and by friends or relatives; 11 per 
cent, by dispensaries and hospitals, 7 per cent, by the Board of Education 
(referred when there is a health problem in relation to the issue of working 
papers), 3 per cent, by the Associated Charities, and 1 per cent, each from the 
Red Cross, the Juvenile Court and the Visiting Nurse Association. The 
source of reference for the other cases was not stated. These figures do not 
refer to active or positive cases only, but to all patients that came to the 
clinic for purposes of examination. 

There were about three times as many visits to the Infant Hygiene 
clinics as to the tuberculosis clinics in 1918, the last year for which the figures 
have been calculated. This attendance is out of proportion to the number of 
active cases, for there are nearly twice as many active cases of tuberculosis 
under care, as cases in the Infant Hygiene Clinics. This generous attendance 
in the Infant Hygiene Clinics is doubtless due to the insistence on the part 
of the clinic that the baby come in every two weeks in order that its milk 
be continued. 

In the Infant Hygiene work the nurses give much assistance in the clinics. 
They weigh each baby, suggest to the mother regarding clothing and visit 
the cases at home to instruct in milk modification when this seems desirable. 
They also keep the milk book. This is a big job as well as a very large book. 
Each patient has to be graded as to the amount he shall pay for milk. There 
are five grades similar to those adopted at the Babies' Dispensary. The 
nurses have not established quite such hard and fast regulations as at the 
Babies' Dispensary, but are free to exercise some judgment. A milk that 
would retail at 30 cents a quart is sold at the various rates according to the 
family grade: 

Cost per Qt. Cost per Pt. Cost S. M. A.*Qt. 

Rate 1 22c 15c 30c 

Rate 2 17c lie 17c 

Rate 3a lOc 5c lOc 

Rate 36 5c 5c 5c 

Rate 4 000 


Synthetic Milk adapted. 



ll<>->ni AI.- wo Di^i-i \-\KII - 907 

Any families claiming to \H> ill grade 1 who are not reform 1 by the Asso- 
ciated Charities arc cleared through the Social Service Clearing House while 
the patient is >till present. Then if the family is known to some relief agency 
the agency is consulted to sec if the family should receive free milk. The 
majority of families are in rate Sa or 8b. S. M. A. costs 10 cents a quart 
retail. It is a special preparation of fats and oils devised by Doctor (ier- 
stenberger and prepared in the milk laboratories of the Babies' Dispensary. 

The doctors prescribe the milk for two-week ]>eriods. It is delivered by 
the Belle Vernon Farm Company. The child must return in two weeks 
or the milk will be discontinued. 



The work of the Health Centers may l>e divided into medical and nursing 
work. The ty|>e of work for each group must be divided into the four de- 
partments or activities of the clinics. 

Medical Work 



The medical work is under the supervision of the Commissioner of Health 
with a department head in charge of each branch. At present the Bureau of 
Tuberculosis has no chief. The Commissioner of Health is therefore respon- 
sible for its activities. He is not able to give the health centers much de- 
tailed supervision. This is especially unfortunate l>ecause there are no spe- 
cial requirements for the doctors working in the clinics regarding experience 
with tuberculosis. There are eight physicians in the Bureau, each receiving 
a salary of $780 ]>er year for attending five clinic sessions weekly. All the 
cases requiring sanatorium care or hospital admission are passed upon by 
the clinic doctors. The medical records would indicate that the physicians 
made a careful lung examination in each case. Re-examinations are seldom 
recorded. Sputum analysis, though not absolutely routine, is fairly fre- 
quent. Many records showed that the patients neglected to return the 
hottle.s ^ivcn out for collecting sputum specimen.*. The doctors seemed 
interested in the work and there was comparatively little complaint among 
the nurses that the doctors were not punctual. Tonics, cathartics and C<M! 
liver oil are occasionally preseril>cd at the clinics. 

The Chief of the Bureau of Child Hygiene takes an active part in the 
work. He personally conducts one clinic a week at Center 5. He visits 
the other centers rarely, stating that all the doctors on duty have served in 
tin- Babies' I)isj>ensary for at least one year and do not need sujer\ ision. 
Much of the rest of his time is spent in the drawing of charts and collecting 
statistics, \\nrk which might better be undertaken in the Bureau of Vital 
Statistic^. His salary is .x.S.-'JOO it year and he devotes his full time to the 
work. The Chief of this Bureau is also responsible for the infant eye work 
and the inspection of boarding homes for children. These two functions 
have IKHMI so far systematized as to require practically nothing of his atten- 
tion. He is also responsible for the licensing of midwives, but this is not 
associated with the clinic work. 



908 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The work of the physicians in this bureau is excellent in certain respects, 
yet lacks much that would make it of vastly greater value. The babies come 
to the clinic and are undressed and weighed they are then dressed before 
they go to the physician. He discusses food with the mother, writes a pre- 
scription for the milk the child will need for the next two weeks and fills in 
its formula on a printed detailed slip. If the mother complains that the 
child has a cough, she is advised to take it to the Babies' Dispensary where 
it can receive a chest examination. The Survey investigator noted the fol- 
lowing case. A mother brought in a two-year-old child, very thin and under- 
nourished and unable to sleep. A private doctor had told the mother that 
it had worms and had prescribed medicine. At the clinic the mother was 
advised to return to the private doctor, although assured that the child did 
not have worms, and no directions were given regarding diet or general habits, 
which were admittedly bad. The ability to prescribe diet for infants up to 
15 months is highly developed in the clinic physicians, but the giving of 
other health directions and the diagnosing of cases adequately enough to 
relieve the mother from trips to the Babies' Dispensary are not usual. The 
nurses complained of the difficulty in interesting the doctors in the child be- 
tween 3 and 6 years. These little ones are allowed to come to the clinic for 
weighing and health directions, but not much information appears to be 
gained from the doctors which is of aid to the mothers. 

The only other medical work done in the stations is the work of the dis- 
trict physicians who make their headquarters at the dispensaries. They 
are called by the nurses to visit various cases in the district, including con- 
tagious or tuberculosis cases, as occasion may require. They report to the 
center each evening for calls that have been left there during the day. 

Administrative Work 

This is all in the hands of the supervising nurses. There are two clerical 
assistants in each center, but the nurses complained that few of them were 
able to take any responsibility. The nurses do not even trust the care of 
the milk book and the collection and accounting of the money paid for milk 
in the clinics to these helpers, but nurses have to be assigned to these duties. 

Social Work 

There is no social work as such. All cases coming to the tuberculosis 
cliiic are cleared through the Social Service Clearing House. All rate 3 
and 4 cases coming to the child health clinics are cleared. Referring and 
consulting about cases depend on the interest and understanding of the nurse 
carrying the case. All the rating for milk is done by the nurses. The judg- 
ment used varies in wisdom, depending on the nurse doing the work. The 
nurses frequently attempt to make social adjustments in a distinctly amateur 
way. 

Records and Filing 

A system of filing by families has been adopted and has a certain distinct 
advantage. One number is given to the family and each additional member 



HO8PITAI.> \\D 



who comes for -my < a u.se gets tin- same number with an additional letter. 
Thus there are found in the same fold T eases for the tuberculosis clinic, for 
infant hygiene, for acute eye conditions, and possibly for a conta:.' : oi|s condi- 
tion. Hut keeping families in groups this way makes necc-ary a rather 
elaborate daily attendance hook and careful cross indices. It is convenient 
when the nurse writes n^ the record and keeps all the records of each family 
together. Where generil home visiting is so vital a part of the clinic work 
it seems an advisable plan. There is a soei-il family history card filled out 
for each family ut the time of the first visit; this is a form with det tiled 
headings. There are various forms for the different departments. The 
infant hygiene card has a weight ?hart on the hack an 1 is similar in every way 
to the card used at the Babies' Dispensary. There ai'e s]>eeial form: on which 
diet is prescrilxxi which are worthy of notice. There are 'forms for city hos- 
pital admission as well as admission to Warrens viile. All the records seemed 
to be well filled out for the first visit. The routine recording of weight 
causes the dates of all subsequent visits to be noted, but the facts observed 
by the doctors were not always recorded. Each nurse keeps a daily record 
of her work and detailed monthly reports are filed at the Division of Health. 

Financial 

It has not been possible to obtain from the Division of Health an itemized 
expense account of the Health Centers for 1919. It is known that the 
expenses for the year from the three departments using the health centers 
was in 1919 as follows: 

Total Salaries 

Communicable Diseases $ 53,526.97 $ 31,171.84 

Tuberculosis 72,883.22 60,697.99 

Infant Hygiene.... 65,330.05 53,352.09 



$191.740.24 $145,221.92 



The rates of salaries are us follows : 

Phytictan* 

Chiefs of Bureaus $3,300. Full time (2) 

District Physicians 3.300. Full time (7) 

Tuberculosis clinic physicians 780. 5 clinics (8) 

Infant Hygiene clinic physicians 800. 6 clinics (6) 

Infant Hygiene clinic physicians 450. 3 clinics (9) 

N urge * 

Director of field nurses $2 , 400 Full time ( 1 ) 

Assistant director 1.980 " " (1) 

Supervising nurses 1 . 660 

Field nurses 2nd year 1.440 " " }(78) 

" 1st year 1.320 " 



910 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Clerical Workers 

Senior Typists ~ $990 or $1056 Full time (10) 

Junior Typists 792 Full time (7) 

. Almost 76 per cent, of the cost of the work goes to salaries. There is 
some income from the work, and there is another large item of expense not 
included in the foregoing that is the milk, as mentioned above. The milk 
report for one month showed that Rate No. 1 overpaid exact cost $106. 
Rate No. 2, by buying of pints instead of quarts, overpaid $1.83. The other 
grades all underpaid, making the deficit for the month somewhat over $700. 
This is a small deficit; it is usually about twice that. The nurses charge $1 
or 50 cents to teach milk modification at home. The dental work is charged 
for Rate 1 pays 50 cents each time; Rate 2 pays 50 cents at first and 25 
cents thereafter; Rate 3a pays 25 cents first and 25 cents thereafter; Rate 
3b pays 25 cents at first and 15 cents thereafter; and Rate 4 gets free treat- 
ment. These dental collections go to the Mouth Hygiene Association. 

CONCLUSIONS 

In summary, Cleveland has made a real beginning in a public health dis- 
pensary program. Its health centers meet real needs, and their medical and 
nursing organization provides in the main a sound foundation both for im- 
provement in details of service and for future advances in policy and scope. 
Aside from such general recommendations regarding dispensaries as appear 
in the next section of this chapter, the following may be made here: 

1. There should be coordination between the publicly and privately 
supported public health clinics; notably by the utilization of publicly main- 
tained plants (Health Centers) for prenatal clinics (see page 903). This 
would aid in utilizing the Health Centers to their capacity. 

2. The infant hygiene work should include children up to six years. 
The present limitation of work to infants and children under three years 
of age is a great misfortune. With little additional expense better care 
and supervision could be extended to the children up to six. The supply- 
ing of milk, a daily necessity which makes return to the clinic vital, has 
swelled the attendance rather than improved the excellence of the medical 
work or the pertinence of the health directions. This milk plan is doubtless 
wise has surely resulted in preventing much illness among infants, and 
should be continued ; but it should be a relatively smaller part of the clinic 
service. The doctors should develop keener and more intelligent interest 
in the children over 15 months, and should be prepared to write out as accu- 
rate a diet for them as for the younger children. 

3. The division line between the sick and the well child should be ex- 
tended a little in favor of the sick child. That is, the doctors should more 
freely make examinations and give at least health directions to children with 
colds. Skin conditions are another bone of contention, the prophylactic 
center doctor feeling they are "diseases" and should go to the Babies' Dis- 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 911 



pcnsary, and the Dispensary feeling that the mild forms belong in the Health 
Centers. 

4. The Health Centers should utilize clerical service more freely for 
business management and executive details, and require less of these duties 
from the nurses. The recommendations of the Nursing Report should be 
followed in this matter. 

5. The Centers should as soon as possible include in their services the 
examination of the supposedly well, both adults and children. The offer- 
ing of such periodical "health examinations" may perhaps best begin in 
the proposed central dispensary (see discussion of that subject), but is a 
proper function, ultimately, of all health centers. 

6. Increase in the number of dental clinics is urgently needed as recom- 
mende 1 in Part VIII. of the Survey Report. 

7. The Health Centers should include administrative and sanitary activi- 
ties, such as properly belong to a local office of a Health Division under a 
district form of organization. This, as well as the much-needed improve- 
ment in supervision, will be possible only with an advance in efficiency of 
the Division of Health, its better organization, and larger financial sup- 
port. 



91 j HOSPITAL AND HEALTH 

POLICIES AND NEEDS 

A comparison between the amount of dispensary service in New York, 
Boston and Cleveland shows a startling contrast. The 115,000 dispensary 
visits made during last year in Cleveland to the dispensaries treating the sick 
must he compared with some 3,600,000 in New York City and with some 
750,000 in Greater Boston! In proportion to population, Greater Cleveland 
has about 14 dispensary visits per 100 population, New York about 60 per 
100, and Greater Boston about 50 per 100. A further comparison may be 
made with Chicago, w r hich in 1918 had 835,000 dispensary visits recorded, 
or about 35 per 100 of population. It will be seen that Cleveland's provision 
is extremely low. As brought out in the early part of this report, this de- 
ficiency is reflected in many ways in hospital service, and this will be empha- 
sized in the following sections of this chapter; but the shortage of dispensary 
service also means for the community as a whole, deprivation of adequate 
medical care to many needy groups in the population, lack of specialist 
service to many more, failure to diagnose and treat many diseases during 
the early stages, and deprivation of consultant and diagnostic facilities to 
many members of the medical profession. 

Preceding a statement of recommendations for improvements or increase 
of service to meet these deficiencies, a statement is made of certain policies 
regarding dispensary management and administration. 



DISPENSARY POLICIES 
Admission of Patients 

(a) POLICY In determining admission to a dispensary, the needs of the 
patients and the protection of the community must be the primary considera- 
tions. The medical profession has a right to be protected against imposi- 
tion by persons who seek in clinics the unpaid service of physicians, when 
they could afford to pay for the medical care which they need. The public- 
has a right to service. 

(6) STANDARDS In determining the admission of individual cases to a 
dispensary, three points need to be considered: namely, the income of the 
patient or family, the size and responsibilities of the family according to a 
reasonable standard of living, and the character and probable cost of ade- 
quate medical treatment for the disease or condition found. It should be 
added that under certain circumstances public health considerations must be 
the determhiing factor, for example, a case of infectious syphilis may demand 
immediate treatment, irrespective of what later disposition of the case is 
made. When a difficult or obscure condition must be diagnosed, or when 
treatment by a specialist is required, patients might be accepted whose cir- 
cumstances would enable them to pay for the services of a family physician, 
though not for consultation with or care by specialists. 

(c) PROCEDURE The social service department should be responsible 
for the admission of new patients. Certain practical points "connected with 
this matter will be found in the discussion of social service. 



AM) Disi'l N- \i;|l.- Ml;; 



Medical Relations 



(a) POLICY Tin- medical st.-ilf of the di.s|)onsary and also the organ i/ed 
medical profession of the coriim mity have a right to be consulted about 
policies or problems ahYctirg their interests. In the <ase of the general 
profession, this should l>e possible through eonference between represent i- 
lives of the dispensary and representatives of the Academy of Medicine. 
The Central Dispensary Committee hereinafter proposed (page !)40) would 
largely accomplish this purpose. 

(6) COMPENSATION Hospitals and dispensaries cannot expect to secure 
enough of prompt, regular and efficient medical service unless compensation 
is given to the physicians of the staff either in opportunities for study and 
experience, or in financial remuneration, or in both. The generous willing- 
ness of physicians to render humanitarian service is traditional and unques- 
tioned, and should not be unduly exploited. Each dispensary or out-patient 
department, considering its own type of work and the medical facilities 
offered, must determine for itself the manner in which it -can best attract 
and retain an adequate medical staff. The advice of central bodies such as 
the proposed dispensary committee and of the Cleveland Academy of Medi- 
cine would l>e of value in this connection from time to time. 

(c) CONSULTATION A definite function of the dispensary, particularly 
of the major institutions, is to provide consultation facilities for physicians. 

(d) DIVGNOSTIC FACILITIES In addition to opportunities for consulta- 
tion, dispensaries should make the services of their laboratories and X-Ray 
departments available to the private patients of physicians (when referred 
by them) when such patients cannot afford the rates charged by private 
laboratories or by X-Ray specialist*. 



Fees from Patients 

(a) POLICY It is a good policy to charge admission fees and also treat- 
ment and medicine fees; no patient being denied a needed service because of 
inability to pay the stated fee in whole or in part. 

The presence of medical teaching need in no way affect this policy. 

(6) RATES For clinics receiving the gratuitous services of physicians, 
in admission fee of 25 cents per visit is reasonable at the present time. It 
is desirable that through the proposed Central Dispensary Committee, fees 
tie made uniform for similar classes of service. 

For clinics which aim to be self-supporting and which'furnish a more than 
nominal remuneration for the physicians, the fee should be not less than 
50 cents a visit, and may be higher for certain classes of services. The basis 
on which such fees should be adjusted is the cost of service. 



914 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Fees for special treatments, apparatus, eye-glasses and medicines, should 
be fixed at or somewhat above the cost of the materials and immediate 
service provided. 

Definite schedules of all the admission and the more usual treatment and 
medicine fees should be posted in suitable places in every dispensary. 

(c) PAY CLINICS Clinics charging fees of 50 cents or more a visit should 
be regarded as pay clinics and should provide financial remuneration for their 
medical staff. In determining the rates of such remuneration, conference 
with representatives of the Cleveland Academy of Medicine is suggested, 
or the proposed Central Dispensary Committee would serve this purpose. 

Such pay clinics should aim to serve self-supporting families of limited 
means, particularly in the specialties. There is much need for the further 
development of such clinics in Cleveland. 

The admission system in connection with pay clinics should protect the 
interests of the medical profession as well as of the patient by adopting and 
carrying out the standards above outlined. 

(rf) REMISSION OF FEES The admission desk in the smaller dispensaries 
should be responsible for the remission of all fees. In large dispensaries the 
admission desk may be unable to attend to all remissions in the case of old 
patients, and social workers in one or more clinics should be authorized to 
pass on remissions for the appropriate group of cases. 

Adaptation of Clinics to Clientele 

(a) HOURS Evening clinics for working people are desirable in all or 
almost all dispensaries. These clinics may well be pay clinics. 

(6) FOREIGN-SPEAKING PATIENTS Special efforts, as outlined in the 
discussion of the foreign-born, in the section on the "Human Problem of the 
Hospital Patient," should be made to enable persons not speaking English 
to receive effective treatment. 

(c) One important group of the clientele of nearly all dispensaries is that 
of the beneficiaries of other charitable or medical agencies. It is part of the 
duty of a dispensary to serve as the family physician for these. This re- 
quires: (1) examination of patients and families and full reporting of condi- 
tions found to the society interested; (2) treatment of those needing care, 
usually without fee; (3) special arrangement whereby the social service de- 
partment of the dispensary has charge of "steering" these cases and insuring 
that the work is done and the reports are rendered with a minimum of admin- 
istrative demand upon the clinic physician. 

(d) The dispensary should be a main agent in the admission of hospital 
patients to the wards and in the follow-up of those discharged. (See sec- 
tions on Convalescent Care.) 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 915 

Inter-relations of Dispensaries 

(a) DUPLICATION The pursuance of treatment by a patient or the 
members of a family at more than one dispensary at the same time should 
be discouraged and prevented as far as possible by careful admission systems. 
The inquiry at the admission desk should include question as to place or 
agency of previous t/eatment. 

(6) REFERENCE OF PATIENTS Patients recently under treatment it 
one dispensary and not specifically referred to another for consultation, 
should be referred back to their former place of treatment, except when satis- 
factory reason is found to exist for the transfer. The same policy should of 
course be pursued when a patient has been under treatment by a private 
physician. 

The use of printed or written slips of reference is of practical service. 

(c) DISTRICTING The limitation of the work of each dispensary treat- 
ing the sick to a definite area is not practicable, but patients should be en- 
couraged to seek treatment in the section of the city in which they reside or 
have their place of business. Well administered admission systems at each 
dispensary and a common understanding of policy, worked out by the pro- 
posed central committee, should reduce to a minimum problems 'of dupli- 
cation and of overlapping of areas. 



Dispensary Administration 

Essential points of organization are presented in the sections on "Organ- 
ization for Service" and "The Medical Profession and the Hospitals," and 
will be merely recapitulated here: 

An executive head for the dispensary. 

A medical organization which is integrated with that of the hospital. 

A dispensary medical committee. 

A dispensary committee of the board of trustees or, if the board has 
not a sub-committee system, one or more members of the executive com- 
mittee who have special responsibility to be in touch with the dispensary. 

The disj>ensaries of Cleveland would do well to develop carefully worked 
out systems of referring patients from clinic to clinir within the dispensary, 
for consultation purposes; and for transferring patients for treatment from 
one clinic to another, with due report back to the referring or transferring 
clinic. 

The important place of the social service department in dis|K-nsariex is 
outlined in the section devoted to social service. 



!)!(> HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Medical Care of Children in Foster Homes 

This has received little attention from the medical agencies of Cleve- 
land, and the Humane Society itself has not dealt adequately with its re- 
sponsibility in this matter. As Dr. Mac Adam's report shows, in another 
portion of the Survey (Part II.), the physical condition of the children 
boarded out by the Humane Society is far from satisfactory. Moreover, the 
Society's records do not show adequate medical supervision of its children, 
and indeed the system which it pursues would render adequate medical work 
quite unlikely. Even in the case of the children under three years of age, 
which are within the special province of the Babies' Dispensary and which 
are supervised thereby in behalf of the Society, results are not satisfactory. 
This is largely because of the lack of a really intimate affiliation, which is 
required for the successful conduct of any such piece of work. It is essential 
that the physicians of any dispensary \\hich is served in such a capacity 
shall think of the special problems of a p lacing-out society, as well as of the 
physical needs of each individual baby. The social workers and nurses who 
are in touch with the foster home need special explaration of the child's 
needs in terms that they can understand, and the foster mothers need in- 
struction not only from the field workers but also, from time to time, from 
the physician himself. Moreover, the administrative system of the dispen- 
sary must be specially adapted to this work for the placing-out society. 
Delays must be minimized and records and information be readily and 
promptly secured. 

In the case of the older children, present conditions are still less satisfac- 
tory than with the babies. 

Satisfactory results cannot be expected unless the Society has a Medical 
Director, who should be a specialist in pediatrics, and be responsible for the 
medical standards and policies of all children under the care of the Society. 
This director should be a member of the staff of the children's clinic of a dis- 
pensary with which the Society makes a working arrangement for the initial 
examination, re-examination and much of the interim supervision of the 
Children's health. Preferably he should be also on the staff of a hospital 
with a pediatric service so that sick children requiring hospitalization could 
be still under his care. There are substantial advantages in utilizing for 
examination and supervision the equipment, organization and the group 
of specialists of a well managed dispensary, instead of a number of doctors 
in separate private offices. The systems worked out in Boston, by coopera- 
tion between the Children's Aid Society and the Boston Dispensary, and in 
Philadelphia by the Seybert Institution, could be studied to advantage as 
illustrations of method. 

It is important that there shall be not only intimate coordination between 
the medical authority of the Humane Society and the medical agents and 
agencies doing the actual work, but also that the nursing and social service 
staffs be in similarly close touch. Without this, satisfactory results cannot 
be expected. The medical workers and the field workers must understand 
one another and the system under which each group works must be mutually 
adapted to achieve the needed degree of mutual understanding. 



\\l> Dl-l'l \-\Kll.- 917 

It i> recommended that : 

1. A medical director, a pediatrician, be appointed by the Humane 
Society, with a financial honorarium, as the authoritative guide and super- 
visor of the physical condition and development of all its children 

2. This director be a member of the staff of cither the Babies' Dispensary 
or of the proposed central downtown dispensary (Pediatric Clinic), whichever 
the Humane Society decides to be the better organization for such affiliation. 

3. Routine medical examination, re-examination, advice and super- 
vision of health be carried out through the selected clinic, a special salaried 
medical assistant being requisite for the purpose. The Humane Society 
should provide this salary. 

4. Standards for medical examination, hygienic directions, diet, re-visits, 
home care in emergencies, etc., be outlined by the medical director. 

5. Consultation by the specialists in other departments of the selected 
dispensary (eye, dental, throat, ear, skin, orthopedic, etc.) be provided as 
requested by the medical director; treatment also as necessary. 

6. The use of the local doctors and of specialists in private offices be 
reduced to a minimum; that reports from such physicians be required and 
made part of the central medical record. 

7. A special worker be in the selected pediatric clinic, under the adminis- 
trative direction of the clinic, but with salary wholly or largely from the 
Humane Society, to attend to the details of assisting in securing examinations 
and consultations; in effecting transfers; keeping track of needed re-visits; 
and seeing that the necessary information is furnished by the Society to the 
clinic doctors and workers on the one hand, and by the clinic to the field 
workers and foster-mothers on the other. 

8. Periodic conferences between the medical director and his assistant 
or assistants, be held with the clinic worker and the field nurses and social 
workers who deal with the Society's cases. 

9. The records of the clinic concerning each child be regularly furnished 
the Society and the clinic be provided by the Society with such history of 
each case as the medical interests require. Record forms should be espe- 
cially prepared for this purpose. 

10. The present system of utilizing public health nurses for home visit- 
ing of placed-out children be continued and made much more effective through 
(a) the centralized medical direction contemplated in the plan (b) the closer 
medical supervision provided for in recommendations 3, 7 and 8. 

If the Babies' Dispensary will increase its age limit and render its organ- 
ization snfliciently flexible ami adaptable to meet the re<|iiirenients of effi- 
cient serviee to this group of children, it would l>e desirable that the plan IK- 
worked out by the Society in cooperation therewith. The estalili>slinient 



918 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

of some special clinics as well as the general pediatric clinic would be neces- 
sary, as the Survey has recommended in its special report to the trustees of 
this institution. If the requisite conditions -cannot be met at the Babies' 
Dispensary, it is recommended that the central downtown dispensary be 
utilized. 

It should be pointed out, in conclusion, that while the proposed plan 
for adequate medical supervision of placed-out children will cost more than 
the present admittedly inadequate system, the expense of the medical work 
is after all only a small fraction of the total cost of boarding and general super- 
vision of such children. Very little permanent result for the present or the 
future generation can follow from any system of children's aid which does 
not make the thorough arid efficient care of health a primary consideration. 



DISPENSARY NEEDS OF CLEVELAND 

Aside from the public health dispensaries for which recommendations 
were made in the previous section of the report, the dispensaries for the 
treating the sick of Cleveland universally need improvement in various 
respects. Recommendations regarding each institution have been presented 
to its governing body by the Survey. In general, the needs may be sum- 
marized as: (1) more work to be done; (2) better executive direction through 
the assignment of a definite officer to be in charge of the dispensary, under 
the superintendent; (3) representation of the out-patient department so as 
to secure better recognition of it by the hospital authorities; (4) paid assist- 
ants for the medical staff (social workers, nurses, clerks) so as to relieve the 
physicians of non-medical drudgery and improve the grade of service to 
patients; (5) better records which, would largely be accomplished by the 
assistants just mentioned; (6) better plants and equipment. 

The expense involved in the improvement of services lies chiefly in the 
salary of thz paid assistants mentioned, and would be largely met by the 
admission fees recommended. 

An increase in the amount of dispensary service for the people of Cleve- 
land is as greatly needed as is an improvement in the quality of service now 
offered. It may be expected that the work of existing dispensaries will in- 
crease considerably as more attentioa is paid to their needs, and better sup- 
port is provided. But no increase in the work of the six present institutions 
can obviate the necessity of at least the following additional'dispensaries : 

The City Hospital out-patient department is already provided for in 
the tentative plans for the enlarged City Hospital. It should be one of the 
major dispensaries of the city. (See section on "Community Planning"). 

St. John's Hospital should, as soon as possible, develop a good-sized 
out-patient department for the benefit both of the hospital and of the west 
side area which it especially serves and which now has no dispensary. 

When the re-organization and development at St. Alexis Hospital have 
been worked out under the new advisory committee, the establishment of a 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 019 



well -equipped out-patient department should be undertaken and this need 
should be borne in mind by the committee even in the formulation of its 
plans for the immediate future. 

The establishment of an out-patient department, now being built by 
Fairview Park Hospital is approved, although this dispensary will prob- 
ably remain small and its work restricted largely to certain types of cases, 
particularly surgical, corresponding to the work of the hospital. 

The same would probably be true of similar out-patient departments that 
might well grow up in connection with other hospitals of the same type in 
the same section of the city, such as Grace Hospital or Lutheran. 

The plans for the re-location of Lakeside Hospital imply a new dis- 
pensary, attached to its new plant. This should be another of the few 
major dispensaries, as described in the community plan, in the section on 
that subject. 

The proposed new plant of St. Luke's Hospital will require a dispen- 
sary, unless the present buildings or parts thereof, are retained as an indus- 
trial hospital, and a dispensary be operated in connection therewith. The 
latter plan is recommended. 

It is not believed that the proposed new plant of Huron Road Hospital 
on Ambler Heights will require a dispensary for some years to come; but 
Huron Road might with advantage have at least a medical affiliation with 
the proposed central downtown dispensary. (See section on downtown 
dispensary.) 

A new dispensary will be needed downtown, at least as soon as Lake- 
side and Huron Road move out, and meanwhile, certain services for the 
downtown area need immediate development. 

Cleveland, like most other cities, suffers from lack of any general plan 
for dispensary service. The different clinics are not coordinated with one 
another or with the public health and charitable agencies. It is essential to 
have a plan and effective organization whereby the work of existing dispen- 
saries shall IK? improved and the new dispensaries be established in sections 
of the city now unprovided for. But above all, the aim must be to furnish a 
basis upon which dispensary service should be better understood f>y the com- 
munity and better serve the community. The points of vir\\ of the prac- 
titioner of medicine, of business, and of charitable agenries, of the men, 
women and children who need adequate service and cannot j>;ty for it, and 
of the public as a whole, represented by the city government and organized 
agencies for expression, all need to be considered in framing any forward- 
looking project of this character. The preventive and educational work of 
the health centers must be adjusted in conjunction with flic curative medical 
work of the hospital out-patient departments, so as to he mutually helpful 
and to serve as parts of a developing city plan. 



920 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



It is necessary 

(a) To create some group of people or machinery whereby the dis- 
pensary problems of the city can be viewed as a whole, each particular dis- 
pensary or related agency be brought into touch with the larger problems, 
and the larger problems themselves directly and adequately dealt with. 

(6) To have dispensary work rest upon its own financial basis the 
financial support of dispensary service being provided in terms of and in pro- 
portion to such service, and not merely as a part of hospital or medical work 
in general. 

It is therefore proposed: 

1. That there be a Dispensary Section or Committee of the Hospita 
Council this committee or section to include representatives from each of 
the existing out-patient departments of those hospitals which are mem- 
bers of the Council ; and also representatives from the Department of Public 
Welfare, the Cleveland Academy of Medicine, and persons interested in 
visiting nursing and charitable agencies. 

2. That there be a salaried executive officer for this Dispensary Sec- 
tion or Committee of the Hospital Council. Such officer at first might be 
required only for part time and in that case had best be selected from some 
organization other than one of the privately operated out-patient depart- 
ments. 

3. That the Cleveland Welfare Federation require the presentation of 
request for support for the out-patient departments of hospitals to be made 
separately from the request for support for hospital work proper; such re- 
quests to show the work done by the dispensary, the cost thereof (includ- 
ing a fair allowance for overhead) and the income of the dispensary from 
fees paid by patients or from other sources. 

In view of the general importance of dispensaries to the community, 
and of their special service as the "family physicians" of the non-medical 
charities, the Welfare Federation should appropriate monies to dispensaries 
(the out-patient departments of hospitals) on the basis of reports of (1) work 
done, (2) gross expenses incurred, (3) net expense after deducting all dispen- 
sary income from fees, special endowment, etc. This would mean a con- 
sideration of the annual dispensary budgets as separate parts of the budgets 
of the hospitals to which the dispensaries are attached. It would cause ap- 
propriating, supervisory and administrative bodies to give much more atten- 
tion to the dispensaries, which have too often been regarded as merely inci- 
dental elements in a hospital. 

Cleveland ought to have at least three times as much dispensary service 
as it now has. In from three to five years this goal can be attained, through 
the enlargement and improvement of existing dispensaries and the addition 
of new ones at the City Hospital and on the west and south ides. The 
gross cost of adequate dispensary service to Cleveland, at present costs of 



\M> Dl^l'l .N>\l(ll - 



maintenance. would probably In- over s.S()l>,000 annually. The present : 
<->s| is not over s7."i.(MH> (charging in all overhead). Thr difference is dm- 
partly to tin* limited amount of work ami partly to low standard*. It should 
be expected that when proper fee ^ystcms are drvrloprd, ")() pt-r --nt. of the 
-TO-S cost should be met by fees from patients. 

It is thus contemplated that the Dispensary Committee or S<Ttion of 
the Hospital Council should be an expert advisory and planning body, serv- 
ing to improve dispensary standards and administration of the several insti- 
tutions to work out the larger problems of policy and inter-relation, and to 
serve also as an advisory body for the Welfare Federation, as the Hospital 
Council now does. The financial standing given to dispensary work by the 
proposed action of the Welfare Federition would be essential if dispensary 
service is to stand on its own feet. 

No such Dispensary Section or Committee could be effective unless some 
definite salaried executive assistance is provided. 

More and better dispensary service is one of the important medical needs 
of Cleveland. The Hospital Council and the Welfare Federation should 
recognize it as such. 



922 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



THE CENTRAL DOWNTOWN DISPENSARY 

The central downtown district of the city presents needs for medical 
and health service which are now not met, and offers certain unique oppor- 
tunities for rendering many forms of service. Huron Road Dispensary is 
excellently located, but the present dispensary is very small, and is in cramped 
quarters which permit but slight expansion, while the hospital continues as 
at present. Lakeside Dispensary, while not as well located, though still 
fairly accessible to the central downtown area, has far more possibilities, but 
as yet has not measured up to its opportunities. The moving out of both of 
these institutions will require either the retention of one plant vs a central 
downtown dispensary, and the maintenance in this plant of needed forms of 
service not now provided, or the establishment of a new plant. 

In the fin,t place, it is desirable to state the needs to be met. The centril 
downtown district of the city requires dispensary service within its own 
area for at least four reasons: 

(a) Emergency and industrial surgical work arising from the large day- 
time commercial and industrial population of the central area of the city. 

(6) Many special forms of medical services which for the public wel- 
fare should reach as many persons as possible, and which in the downtown 
area can be brought to the attention of the large daytime and evening popu- 
lation which throngs this district for business or recreational purposes. 
Clinics in this district held at certain hours of the day, for instance at luncheon . 
time and in the evenings, would reach large numbers of persons who are prac- 
tically inaccessible otherwise. Tuberculosis Clinics, Venereal Clinics, or 
Mental Hygiene Clinics, are examples. 

(c) General medical and also special services such as are provided by 
general dispensaries, ought to be available to this transient population of 
the central area (as well as to its residents) at hours and under conditions 
which would make it possible to have these services most effectively used by 
those who most need them. 

(</) This dispensary would serve charitable agencies, providing medical 
examination and supervision for the families under care in the central dis- 
trict, or who have to be brought to this district to the society's offices. Cases 
requiring elaborate study or special treatment would be referred to one of 
the major out-patient departments. 

The downtown dispensary is required for a larger reason. If properly 
organized and made a real center of a variety of health and medical activities 
such a downtown dispensary would serve as an important educational center 
along general health lines, assisting the work of many other agencies, not 
only as a point from which patients would be referred but also as a center 
of public health education. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 923 

Such a dispensary would include: 

(a) A clinic for industrial surgery operated throughout the twenty - 
four hours. Such a clinic would require special arrangements for its pro- 
fessional services and be administered so that patients could be admitted 
without delay, although the clinic might be closely related to the other 
dispensary services in the same building. The need for such an industrial 
clinic has been brought out in Part VII. of the Survey Report. 

(6) A Health Center of the City Division of Health maintaining (1) a 
tuberculosis clinic, with a special consultation service at periodical inter- 
vals, (2) venereal clinics, and (3) a division for health education, which should 
include among its activities the conduct of a clinic for the examination of 
well people children and adults. It might perhaps be best to maintain 
the venereal clinics under private auspices. (See Part V.) 

(c) A mental hygiene clinic. 

(</) A general medical clinic for the examination and treatment of sick 
persons. 

(e) Special clinics, such as eye, ear, nose and throat, and surgery, (other 
than industrial surgery). 

(/) The "Orthopedic base" or "center" recommended in the orthopedic 
plan, (Part II of the Survey Report), should be in the same building. Its 
work would assist all the other branches in the downtown dispensary and 
would be assisted by them. This orthopedic center would include, besides 
certain administrative functions relating to the orthopedic plan of the city 
as a whole, a physical treatment center which would be of city-wide value 
and would be especially advantageous if located in this central district. 

(g) The affiliation of this downtown health center with the University 
is highly desirable. 

It has been pointed out elsewhere that there is needed a certain small 
number of hospital beds (20 to 50) in the central downtown area, largely for 
emergency purposes. This emergency hospital or "relief station" could with 
advantage be combined with the central downtown <li.s|>ensary. 

If both Huron Road and Lakeside Hospitals move to their new sites 
within a few years the proposed dispensary and the emergency beds will be 
the more urgently required. The plant of Huron Road Hospital appears to 
be suitable, with relatively slight modifications, for the combined purposes 
of emergency beds (30 to 40 in number) and the downtown dispensary. The 
location is almost ideal. It might be well for Huron Road Hospital, as well 
as for the public good, that there be a medical affiliation betwmi the Huron 
Road staff and the dispensary staff; but the problem of staff for the down- 
town dispensary might !>< solved in other ways. 

The industrial surgical clinic should be fully self-supporting, from the in- 
dustries which it serves and from the workmen's compensation cases. The 



924 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SIRVKV 

staff of this division should be salaried. The senior visiting shift' would pro- 
vide certain supervisory and consultant advantages. 

The public health clinics of the dispensary would constitute an additional 
Health Center of the city Division of Health, and would require the neces- 
sary addition to its budget. The mental disease and mental hygiene clinic 
should be maintained, at least at the start, by the organization especially 
concerned with this interest. The orthopedic clinics and physical treatment 
center should be supported likewise by the orthopedic group referred to else- 
where in the Survey report (Part II.) 

The Community Fund would properly be called on for the financial sup- 
port of the general medical clinics for adults and for children, and for the 
special clinics which are required. Not only as meeting a general public 
need and a broad purpose in health education, but also as assisting charitable 
societies to secure better medical examination, advice and supervision for 
their beneficiaries, the central downtown dispensary has a peculiar demand 
upon the Welfare Federation. This dispensary, among other benefits, 
would make money spent for many other charitable agencies count for more. 

In estimating the cost of this dispensary, it must be borne in mind that 
the medical staff in all clinics should receive financial compensation, except 
for merely consultant or infrequent visiting services. The gross maintenance 
expense of conducting the industrial surgical clinic, public health clinics, 
general medical, pediatric and special clinics, with a used capacity of 50,000 
visits a year, should not exceed $60,000. Deducting the cost of the industrial 
and the public health clinics supported by industry and by the city, respec- 
tively, the gross charge upon private funds would be about $35,000, of which 
some $15,000 might be expected to be returned through fees from patients. 
The net charge should not exceed $20,000 a year. 

It is apparent that the initiative in putting this dispensary under way 
must come from some privately organized group having a special interest in 
the matter. It is recommended that shortly after the proposed Central 
Dispensary Committee has been organized, this committee initiate discus- 
sion of the matter and call together a conference of such individuals and 
interests as may be necessary. Some one committee or organization would 
have to assume definite responsibility for the plant. This committee might 
be a joint body of the organizations providing various services, or a more 
specialized body which made arrangements with the other groups to use the 
plant for certain purposes at specified times. The plan will be restricted in 
its service in proportion as few activities are included, and will be broad and 
far-reaching as the number of activities and interests is increased, always 
assuming their harmonious coordination. The combination of the public- 
health and preventive clinics with the curative clinics, for instance, is of 
vital importance. 

It would not be unnatural that Lakeside or Huron Road, particularly if 
their moving plans are delayed, should suggest that their present dispensary 
be the basis of the proposed central dispensary. Such a plan is not imprac- 
tical, provided there be sufficient flexibility and readiness for cooperative 



II ITALS AM) Dl^l'l-.N-MMI.- 



adaptation in the existing organi/ation which is made the basis. It will be 
well to remember that sucli a central disjMMi^ary represent - a Health Center 
in a somewhat advanced sense of the term; that it might ideally contain 
administrative offices of public and private health agencies, meeting rooms 
and auditoria for public health education; and stand l>eforc the people of 
the city as a visible expression of the communal interest in health. Through 
its own activities, in which curative and preventive functions should be cor- 
related, and through its connections with the Central Dispensary Committee, 
the municipal health work, the business, educational and philanthropic 
interests, the proposed disi>ensary might be a constructive force as well as a 
service to many individual lives. Only by grasping the possibilities of the 
project in the future can any institution or any committee justify an assump- 
tion of responsibility for its leadership in the present. 



IV. Special Problems 

THE CONVALESCENT AND THE HOSPITAL 

By MARY STRONG BURNS, R. N. 

INTRODUCTORY NOTE 

Mrs. Burns, as a member of the staff of the Survey, presents in this chapter a study 
of convalescent patients recently discharged from the hospital. Few if any cities have 
as yet met adequately the need for convalescent care. The most notable work in the 
country is that of the Winifred Masterson Burke Foundation at White Plains, New York, 
under the direction of Dr. Frederic Brush, whose significant contribution as collaborator 
in the Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey will be found in the next chapter. The bulk 
and general bearing of the convalescent problem in Cleveland is discussed in that place. 

Mrs. Burns' contribution is a series of vivid pictures of what may happen to patients 
after they leave the hospital doors, and drives home the point that a sick man's sojourn 
in the hospital is only one stage in the journey between illness and health. Too easily 
does the hospital forget this truth. Too often do hospitals in. Cleveland as elsewhere 
feel or at least act as though they felt that their responsibility ended when "discharged" 
is written on the record and the patient is no longer within the building. 

The care of convalescents is a much larger problem than that of a hospital or insti- 
tution for convalescents. The bulk of convalescence takes place in the home, and parti- 
ticularly in medical cases, the whole course of the illness, from onset through acute stage, 
convalescent stage, and final restoration to health and vigor, may take place within the 
home. From this broader standpoint of the community, the convalescent problem is 
approached in the following chapters. 

In Mrs. Burns' study emphasis is laid upon the hospital patient and his need after 
discharge. Her very practical recommendations should be compared with what has 
been said in the chapter on the Human Problem of the Hospital Patient, with reference to 
hospital provision at the time of discharge and the use of the dispensary therewith. 

A STUDY OF HOSPITAL CONVALESCENTS IN THEIR HOMES 

In attempting this study two things were very quickly apparent: (1) 
that convalescence is as much a state of mind as of body, and that environ- 
ment which does not provide for the needs of both is inadequate; (2) that 
the background of convalescence is laid, the texture of it stretched and 
woven, while the patient is still lying abed in hospital. His mind is a 
sensitive shuttle threading with tireless insistence every impression of the 
hospital ward, whether grave, radiant, trivial, or profound, and coloring 
each with his mood of the moment. On the "date of discharge" (when 
shall we find a more gracious phrase?) the patient takes this mental "sam- 
pler" and during the time that he must "remain inactive" as the house 
physician says, he wonders over it all. If left to himself he makes few 
alterations in this plan of return to health which the hospital has spread 



\M) 



<ut for his interpretative copying. Kvery impression is traced and r<-tra<-l 
and his conception <>f health and of his part in holding it is framed in his 
idea of hospital service and remains pictured as a never-to-be-forgot ten 
experience. 

In seeing over two hundred such "pictures" one could often exult that 
the hospital had l>een interpreted favorably and with gratitude. When the 
interpretation had been distorted through mutual distrust and misunder- 
standing, regret was always followed by the conviction that a broader con- 
ception of the hospital's responsibility was possible, indeed necessary, and 
that it would more and more make the way straight for patient and li > 
pital alike. Two points of view will illustrate: (1) A Polish woman, after 
three weeks in a hospital ward, thus voiced her opinion on the Hospital 
Rond Issue, "She is like a great and wonderful mother who cares for many 
sick children, this City Hospital. If more money she needs let us say yes 
and give." (4) A man sensitive at being temporarily without money bitterly 
resented the hospital's attitude that he should pay his bill there because he 
had hitherto paid his private doctor, "Why would they think I should g> 
to tint place. if I could any longer pay a doctor? Would anyone go who did 
not have to? I burn with shame when I think what questions they ask." 

Thus convalescence is the state of mind and body on which the hos- 
pital may set its stamp as a friend and helj>er or as an autocrat without 
sympathy. The real service to the patient is but half done on the date 
of discharge. The test then conies, to decide whether the final stage of 
convalescence shall be to each of its patients a stimulating, worth-while 
experience or a .lonely and difficult task to be faced against great odds. 

The cases studied were two hundred discharged patients from four of 
the principal hospitals of Cleveland: Charity, City, Lakeside, and Mount 
Sinai. They were nearly all classified as free or part -pay patients. A few- 
had apparently paid the full charge for treatment. They included a variety 
of foreign nationalities, of wliich Cleveland offers many: Armenian, Aus- 
tralian, Bohemian, Chinese, Greek, Italian, Lithuanian, Polish. Slovenian. 
Swedish, etc.. a number of native American whites and a fair proportion 
of Negroes. The environment of patients seen ranged from that of wretched 
housing and extreme poverty to the completely comfortable house of the 
well-to-do. 

The typo of illness from which these patients were convalescing were 
contagions and general diseases, surgical operations and accidents'. There 
were also a few maternity cases. Their length of stay in hospital varied 
from five days to two months. 

Half of the cases were seen within three to four days after discharge. 
The others were seen within ten days after discharge with the exception 
of six surgical cases who had been told not to resume work for four weeks. 

In the homes the reaction of the hospital upon the patient was noted' 
(1) whether the diagnosis and medical advice had been understood, and \\as 
being followed with satisfactory results; J \\liether assistance of any sort 






IK'S 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



would more certainly assure the result for which the hospital had worked. 
In a word, was the best sort of convalescence possible for that particular 
patient in that particular home? 

The convalescents seen were classified as follows: 

Cases with Home Environment Total Cases Total Per cent. 

12.5 



1. Favorable and adequate 

2. Favorable with minor adjustments, eco- 

nomic or personal 

3. Unfavorable but remediable by economic 

or other assistance 

4. Unfavorable and not remediable, needing 

institutional care in convalescent homes 



5. Acutely needing further hospital care 
relapse after return from hospital 



25 
71 
48 
44 

12 
200 



35.5 



>59.5 % 



28.0% 



87.5% 



6.0 



100.0% 



Thus, with only 12.5 per cent, in suroundings favorable and adequate 
for convalescence, the remaining 87.5 per cent, of these cases returned to 
homes which were unfit in varying degrees for their convalescence. With 
proper advice or assistance, conditions could have been remedied in about 
two-thirds of these cases (59.5 per cent, of the total number) while with the 
other third (28 per cent, of the total number) conditions were irremediable 
and the patients required institutional care in convalescent homes or still 
longer care in hospitals. 



Charity Hospital 

Considering the convalescent cases of each individual hospital as a 
group, those of Charity Hospital presented the following distinctive char- 
acteristics : 



Cases with Home Environment 

Favorable and adequate 

Favorable with adjustments 

Unfavorable but remediable 

Unfavorable and not remediable 

Acutely needing further hospital care.... 



Total Cases 

15 
21 

6 

6 

2 



Total Per cent. 

30.0 
42.0 
12.0 
12.0 
4.0 



50 



100.0% 



As permission was given to choose the patients from the complete files 
of those discharged there were by chance more pay or parVpay patients 
and among these were people of intelligence and personal capability who 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENBAKII - 929 

had been able to adjust their homes to provide adequately for convalescence. 
This had sometimes been accomplished by pre-arnmgcment, before going 
to the hospital, with some competent friend of the family who possessed 
the special mental or moral force needed for the situation. (It was notice- 
able that this force was as often absent in the more prosperous homes as 
in those of otherwise discouraging surroundings.) Practically no form of 
social service hud been offered to this prosperous tyi>e of patient, but the 
patient's evident appreciation of the idea as a possibility was impressive. 

The prevalent feeling among the 8 per cent, of operative cases among 
women was that they had had the benefit of wonderful surgery, but were 
no wiser than before the operation as to what had been the matter with 
them or what was to be done to prevent further difficulty. The "head 
doctors" or attending surgeons were described with awe, yet regret, as 
"too important to be bothered"; "he's so busy he can't listen"; "it seems 
he's not the kind of a man to give you much talk." 

A gynecological case returned to her home without instruction from the 
hospital, and within two weeks had housecleaned her tenement, painted 
furniture, papered two rooms, and was doing the cooking under a sloping 
ceiling too low to allow her to stand upright at the stove. The doctor having 
said she was "all right," she did not understand how she felt worse than 
before the operation. Concluding it was all a failure, she had begun treat- 
ing herself with Lydia Pinkham's remedy because the newspapers said it 
would help anyone who felt as she did and she didn't want to waste any 
more money on the hospital. 

Another operative case returned weak and wondering why the old pain 
was just as bad, while all she "could get out of the nurses and doctors was 
that they had gotten what caused the trouble." Still another, in a wretched 
but pathetically neat tenement, lay abed, mystified at feeling worse than 
ever before, while the family questioned her, "What happened? Have we 
paid $86 for this?" The cost in money loomed larger than any visible 
return in health. 

Of the women who were uninformed as to their condition only one had 
not asked to know. At seventy years she was tranquil and not inquisitive. 

The men also had doubts. A neurasthenic, aggrieved at the little atten- 
tion bestowed upon him at the hospital, had gone home to a combination 
of quack electrical treatments and doses of No. 99 at Doctor Simpson's 
Medical Institute. His protest was, "Why didn't the doctor say what 
would do me some good?" 

Another came home to wretched lodgings from a long siege of lead- 
poisoning, pneumonia, and an operation for empyema. While he was ex- 
plaining that the incision had been allowed to close too soon because the 
hospital was short of beds, the doctor who had sent him to Charity Hos- 
pital came to take him to St. Alexis, there being a vacant bed where the 
surgeon who had operated first would open up the incision. 



}).'{() HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

A man, whose money was low after seven weeks in the hospital, was 
travelling a distance of seven miles for dressings because he knew a doctor 
who would not charge much. 

A sturdy Irishman with facial paralysis after a mastoid operation was 
embittering his days with thoughts of sueing the hospital, while his wife 
wailed, "Sure, they have destroyed him entirely. 'Twould draw tears from 
a stone." 

The White Motor employes who after leaving the hospital were cared 
for at the dispensary of their works, seemed well informed except in the 
case of one man. A dressing of his foot had not been changed for four 
days. Having been told that he was "all right now," he had taken this 
literally, until the pain and swelling led him to doubt. He had recently 
been burned out of his home, and as the only support of a wife, mother, 
and five children under twelve years, had gone on a ten-hour night shift 
to get the extra pay of $11.85 a day. He was slowly coming to the conclu- 
sion that his foot, by its delayed recovery, was costing more than his hospital 
bill. 

SUMMARY OF CHARITY HOSPITAL CONVALESCENTS Since hospital service 
dominates convalescence to such a degree that it has no present but only a 
past, these cases have indicated: (1) That more nursing care, if only for its 
educational value, ard better night service, particularly for rcen, should be 
offered. (2) That more time should be given to instructing all types of pa- 
tients as to their part in carrying on convalescence, returning to dispensaries 
or physicians, etc. (3) That after-care in the homes is often indispensable. 

(4) That there should be more real interpretation through Social Service of 
the problems of foreign-born patients, so that "Tony" would not have felt it 
possible to get out of bed and walk off without saying, "By your leave." 

(5) That the cash value of health should be explained to those patients who 
reluctantly offer their fees. With the help of Social Service every patient 
should be made proud to contribute his charity to the common good. 

City Hospital 

City Hospital presents the following showing: 

Cases with Home Environment Total Cases Total Per cent. 

Favorable and adequate _ 5 7.0 

Favorable with minor adjustments 19 26.8 

Unfavorable but remediable 21 29.6 

Unfavorable and not remediable 20 28 . 2 

Acutely needing further hospital care 6 8.4 



71 100.0 



The large portion of those having unfavorable and irremediable sur- 
roundings corroborated the suj erintendent's statement that almost half of 



Di-ri \-\iui - 



their patients have no homes :ml must IH- kept in hospital until ready for 
work, tin- only alternative Ix'ing tin- \Yarrensville Infirmary. 

K\CM a superficial contact with the various types of lodgings, rooming- 
houses, and rooming hotels, with their forlorn attempts at light liou>ei 
ing, brings swift conviction that they can never offer a fair chance to con- 

valescents. The atmosphere of isolation, the indifference as to what hap- 
pens to the lodger after he pays for his room, the long flights of stairs to In 
reckoned with whenever a meal is needed these. aside from the unwhole- 
some living conditions, proclaim the lodging system as "fatiguingly futile" 
for convalescent use. The patients themselves evidently realize this fact 
and many did not return to their given address. Others had never lived at 
the given address, hut had been known to the, owner of the lodging house or 
to some of the lodgers. A few gave an impossible street numl>er selected 
with evident care. The Salvation Army, the City Mission, a corner store. 
or a former saloon will sometimes l>e given as an address where nothing 
definite could IK' remembered of the patient. One man was found on the 
corner near the restaurant which lie had given as his address and explained 
there was "generally some one round that corner who knew where he hung 
out." Such were the frail links to home and the greater reasons for con- 
valescent care in institutions or at least for continued hospital supervision. 


Another tremendous claim for convalescent su|>ervision of the most far 
reaching and efficient sort was made by the fact that many other patients 
came from homes which were totally unfit for convalescence or continued 
health, unfit for the minimum requirement* of normal living on the edge 
of the dump, in gullies thick set with smoke, in leaky shacks the cracks 
stuffed with newspaper and the room reeking with kerosene fumes, in dark 
tenements, four or five of which would open on a court filled with the a< 
cumulated refuse and garbage of the winter, where the convalescent child 

left to "play." 



The hopeful note in many instances was the jxTsistence of the family in 
keeping its tenement clean within in spite of the disheartening mess without. 

In several such homes on Orange Avenue there uas ;is keen an interest 
and sense of personal concern in the Survey of the Ho>pit:d Council as at a 
Chamber of Commerce meeting, thus bearing out the idea of Doctor Frederic 
Brush on convalescence that "health service should be offered where people 
live and work and play.* * * Of abiding value in this period of convales< -em 
is the process of normali-iny in all ways \\hich may hold throughout life." 

It is hard to prove which will finally claim tin- most patients, the influence 
of the hospital or that of the home on the edge of the dump bes< t by every 
health Iri/ard and bereft of every help to s-uiitation. but it is only when 
I Service shall present overwhelming evidence of the limitation of hos- 
pital skill before such handicaps that these entirely eradicable conditions will 
be swept away. 

The surireou. who has conscientiously given his intelligence and skill to 
renew life, should reali/e that the condition of the home to which he is send 



932 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

ing his patient, will play a vital part in the final success of his work. To have 
a mind to insist that dwellings and their surroundings should be fit for the 
minimum requirements of ordinary living would be to open up many possi- 
bilities in home convalescent care which, as yet, are untried, and the import- 
ance of gain in the general health of the community and in health education, 
should not be overlooked. 

Still other types bespeak the follow-up work of the hospital. The drug 
addict, returning to lodgings with little moral support; the child with chorea 
celebrating her home-coming with a "regular meal" of coffee, sausage and 
pie; the heart case who has spent most of his small life in hospitals and 
pleaded, "Oh, Muz, my business is always hospitals! Can't I stay home 
and get well?"; the fourteen-year-old runaway with mumps whose pride 
had thus resented his being put in the "kids' ward" where his feet stuck out 
through the bed-bars; the child of five whose mother had never been able 
to find out from the hospital what its illness had been these and many 
others proclaimed their necessity for further care without which a large part 
of the hospital's work goes for naught. 

SUMMARY OF CITY HOSPITAL CONVALESCENTS These cases present the 
following well-defined needs: (1) Increased institutional convalescent care; 
(2) Instruction of patient at discharge; (3) Social Service, to adapt the homes 
of patients for convalescence therein. 

Lakeside Hospital 

Lakeside Hospital showed: 

Cases with Home Environment Total Cases Total Per cent. 

Favorable and adequate 4 7.0 

Favorable with minor adjustments 21 36.8 

Unfavorable but remediable... 14 24 . 6 

Unfavorable and not remediable... 16 28.1 

Acutely needing further hospital care._ 2 3.5 



57 100.0 

The cases were offered with ample records ,and in the spirit of the fullest 
cooperation. Probably because of this it was more noticeable that the 
instructions to patients by the doctor were most often "none in particular" 
or "return to dispensary." 

The "none in particular" probably indicated that to the doctor the case 
did not stand out in his mind as needing any instructions other than those of 
routine convalescent care after a pneumonia, a laparotomy, or whatever 
else the disease or operation might be. The patient, however, assuming 
this role for the first time, finds everything strange about being "a pneumonia" 
and things stranger still as "a laparotomy. " He is full of interest in himself. 
He wants to make a success of getting well and there are many questions to 



HOSPITALS AND DISPKNHAKII - !>:5:t 

which he wants to know the answers. He is hoping there will he time for 
one of the doctors to have u talk with him about it all l>efore he leaves the 
hospital. Hut often Uie last day comes unexpectedly, his hed lcing needed 
for a more urgent case, and he finds himself at home several miles from the 
hospital, wondering why he managed to find out so little of what the hos- 
pital knew so well. When special instruct ion had been given the patient 
on discharge, the effect was almost magical. To have been instructed to carry 
on what the nurses have l>egun, to have responsibility for one's own treat- 
ment, gave a new zest and importance to convalescence. Particularly was 
this noticeable in patients who were returned to the disj>ensary for the treat- 
ment of syphilis. Alert and intelligent, they were too much in earnest to 
be self-conscious and presented convincing evidence of wise and inspired 
teaching. With the exception of these cases there was little evidence of hos- 
pital Social Service other than visiting nursing among the patients seen from 
Lakeside. 

The ambulance experiences of many held a large share in their convales- 
cent thoughts. The negro who, after an automobile accident, regained 
consciousness in "Hogan's dead wagon," "don't never expect to get over 
that wake up. " He thought he was being taken to the undertaker's estab- 
lishment as dead. Often neighbors have "chipped in" to collect the money 
for an invalid carriage so that the police emergency need not be called, and 
with a naive idea of gradual descent to the mundane, some announced that 
in leaving the hospital, they took a taxi to the nearest car-line and transferred 
to the trolley for the rest of the way home. 

Another impression noted among the women was remembering the fa- 
tigue of that first complete dressing to leave the hospital. Apparently this 
was often done without assistance as the nurses had other duties and the 
friends of the patient were not allowed to come to the ward. (This was also 
noted in patients from other hospitals. An old negro woman with an aortic 
aneurism was being sent home from the City Hospital on the ambulance 
stretcher. She described the fatigue of preparation and added "The head 
lady nurse told them, 'Don't bother if it is a hospital gown let her go while 
the spirit is in her.' I sure was grateful. She certainly had wisdom, that 
lady nurse. ") 

Two other shadows of convalescence were: (1) the long uncertainty and 
final disappointment over the amount of the hospital bill, and (2) the fact 
that patients sometimes came away resentful because they had been the 
"interesting case" used to teach others. They felt that they were being 
detained in hospital for this purpose. 

These may seem minor details in the immense and complex scheme of 
administration which the hospital must embrace, but with the sensitive 
imagination of one half sick "behold, a little cloud ariseth" and the whole 
of his convalescent sky is darkened. 

The amount of the bill could be approximately decided before the day of 
discharge and preferably nearer the day of admission so that this "indeter- 
minate sentence" might be cleared up. If the patient has not been able to 



JI34 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

pay, it is perhaps not the happiest sort of envoi to have "the last one you 
see at the front door saying, 'I hope you will be able to work soon and pay your 
bill.' ' Social service at the front door might perhaps have given the deft 
touch to incentive which would have brought the patient to say its much for 
himself, with gratitude and courage. 

Again, in the matter of the resentful "interesting case" the house phy- 
sician who is a vital influence for energizing convalescence, could in a few 
words, with perhaps a touch of cameraderie, present the idea of an imper- 
sonal yet chivalrous appeal for humanity, and the patient might become at 
once the "interested case," ready and a little grateful to contribute to the 
advancement of clinical medicine and scientific research. 

The foreign-born patients who had had bedside lessons in English in 
the hospital and who had heard their own language understood and trans- 
lated by a sympathetic interpreter, beamed with appreciation at the re- 
membrance. This happy cooperation with the Board of Education can be 
developed so that the often empty hours of convalescence will be brimming 
with interest. 

SUMMARY OF LAKESIDE HOSPITAL CONVALESCENTS Almost without ex- 
ception the Lakeside cases showed that the completion of the hospital's 
work can only be accomplished outside of the hospital and through the ex- 
tension service of social work. 

Whether this is rendered in the guise of institutional convalescent care 
or of home service, there is every indication that the expense would be less 
than a protracted stay in the hospital. The patients are quick to testify 
that after the first urgent need of acute illness the hospital atmosphere is 
not helpful. Its ceaseless movement is too intense and vivid for rest. 

To the patient with a problem waiting at home, institutional convales- 
cence, however luxurious, has little charm "For what good should I go 
away. The worry for the kids would go with me," said a mother amid a 
clutter of babies, washtubs and general disorder. "This is the best for me 
here." Her peace of mind arose triumphant over the scene of distraction, 
for her problem was within her grasp. 

The unanimous opinion among such convalescents was that any help in 
household administration would be welcomed. 



Mt. Sinai Hospital 

The cases referred from Mt Sinai came to the investigator .slowly and 
were possibly a more or less expurgated edition, as there seemed some appre- 
hension lest the hospital's social work should be duplicated. Maternity 
cases were excluded. For this reason the number of cases for consideration 
was smaller than from the other hospitals, only thirty-five being offered. Of 



ll<nr\i.-, \M> Di-i'i \-\IUKS 985 

these thirteen were not seen, leaving the following percentage compiled on a 
basis of the twenty-two cases seen: 

Cases with Home Environment Total Cases Total Per cent 

Favorable and adequate 1 4.5 

Favorable with minor adjustments. 10 45.5 

Unfavorable but remediable 7 31.8 

Unfavorable and not remediable 2 9.1 

Acutely needing further hospital care 2 9.1 



22 100.0 

( )ne characteristic of this group as a whole was that the patients seemed 
to have achieved a definite idea of the hospital's plan for them and their 
repeated trips to the dispensary were playing an important part in their 
convalescence. The majority were looking upon the situation as a business 
proposition without imagination. The evident system and efficient working 
of the ward routine had impressed them and they were ready to do what 
was required. They seemed less susceptible to untoward surroundings at 
home because of the definite goal toward which they were working. Pos- 
sibly this unanimity may have been more evident became of the smaller 
nnml>er. but it was too marked to escape notice. 

The Collected Groups 

Among the patients of all four groups were some who had Ix-en treated at 
two or more different hospitals for the same or different causes the patient, 
not having mentioned this in giving her medical history at the hospital be- 
cause she did not know, or "was not sure how to tell it," and thought "the 
next doctor would find out." In large families the hospital affiliation was 
widespread, several hospitals having been used by three or four members. 
and experience meetings when all talked at once brought out a variety of 
hospital lights and shades. This suggested the possibility of extending the 
scope of the'Social Service Clearing House to include on its registry cards a 
note of any dispensary or hospital care which the patient had received the 
technical details to be furnished by each medical agency as the occasion 
arose, as the patient is often unable to give an accurate account of past 
illness or surgical operations. 

The very prevalent protest of the women patients against being kept in 
ignorance of the nature of their surgical operations deserves a word. The 
patient wants to know how she stands physically, even if she fa< vs a MTJOUS 
handicap, and she can the better adjust herself to meet it if informed. The 
hospital service which shirks, evades, or refuses this after-treatment so neces- 
sary to the peace of mind and progress of convalescence has put the hardest 
part of the operation and its results on the patient, and has missed its best 
chance of rehabilitation. 

\\liy bother at all if the game is not worth the candle if the work is n<>! 
to IM- carried through to eomplcti n and the veal set upon restored health 



936 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

and higher spirit? If the patient is well enough to worry herself about her 
condition she is well enough to know what she has to worry about. She will 
then be more willing to put aside imaginings and prepare to recuperate in 
earnest. 

Those who have had the fertile experience of a perfect convalescence 
have realized that there is much to be learned from contact with pain and 
weakness and returning strength. The convalescent patient should be 
helped to find these values, to lay aside a few worries and to take on a few 
new aspirations for the future. Inspiriting companionship may often be 
found in one's nearest neighbor with a wholesome philosophy to share. 

In becoming acquainted with the convalescent in his own home we must 
let him state the difficulty of convalescence as he sees it, along with his own 
idea of rehabilitation before blocking the way with too many suggestions. 

Often the patient must either resign himself to a reduced "health bank 
account" or remonstrate at untoward conditions; again, the uncertainty as 
to what his depleted strength is equal to, makes any definite undertaking 
precarious. This is no time for platitudes in words or actions. No "re- 
turn to dispensary" slip will fill the need. Advice to "rest and take it 
easy" will not answer. Reinstatement into the type of life to which the 
patient is equal must be wisely planned and the very present helps of com- 
munity life pressed into service, so that the thrill of ambition, the impetus 
to new life which rightfully belong to convalescence may not be entirely 
lost. 



SUMMARY 

Visits to two hundred patients discharged from the wards of Cleveland 
hospitals showed eighty-seven and one-half per cent, in home environment 
unfavorable for convalescence. 

In two-thirds of these homes, conditions were remediable if adequate 
and adaptable Social Service could be supplied. This service is almost 
entirely lacking at present. 

In one-third, conditions were not remediable, and care in a convalescent 
home was needed. With present resources it is impossible to meet this need. 
The hospital faces a choice of evils it must either retain the patient, using a 
bed needed for a case of acute illness, or return the patient to a home un- 
fitted to complete the cure. 

Possible means by which the hospital may assist convalescence in the 
home: 

1. Treatment and instruction in hospital towards securing the patient's 
confidence and cooperation the instruction to include understanding of 
present illness and means of preventing recurrence. 

2. Making with the patient a definite plan for his after-care and rein- 
statement into active life, and enlisting his best effort to carry out such a plan. 



3. The function of the Social Service Clearing Houae might be broad- 
ened so as to include a record of dispensary and hospital treatment received 
by the patient, with names of institutions and dates. This record could 
be used by medical agencies concerned as occasion requires. 

4. The function and value of the Convalescent Home, when suitable 
and available, should be explained to the patient as an opportunity. 

5. Social Service (if a Convalescent Home is not available or desirable) 
should create the same essential values of convalescence in the patient's 
own home. 

6. Teaching the patient while most receptive to suggestions because 
of recent contact with the hospital technic of sanitation how he may fur- 
ther the hospital's work to insure permanent good health. This would 
include the use of dispensary and other hospital resources, as well as of the 
family physician. 

A patient thus successfuly involved becomes a valuable field agent who 
will set forth the work of the hospital in terms of appreciation which his 
neighborhood will not fail to understand. 



938 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

A COMMUNITY PROGRAM FOR CONVALESCENT CARE 

An institution is not the ideal place for convalescence from disease. The 
home, when conditions are satisfactory, is the ideal place. The possibilities 
of home convalescence are only beginning to be dealt with. In the pre- 
ceding chapter home convalescence was touched upon in relation to the hos- 
pitals, with reference to planning the after-care for the patient, instructing 
him or his family properly at the time of discharge, using the dispensary to 
provide medical after-care, and social service. The last-named function 
served either by the social service department of the hospital, or by cooperat- 
ing agencies such as the Visiting Nurse Association or the Associated Chari- 
ties, is a necessity. It should further be borne in mind that the aid of social 
service is not called for merely in homes of poverty. Much work needs to 
be done in middle class homes by the Visiting Nurse Association or by a 
representative of the social service department to give the necessary instruc- 
tion and friendly advice about the details of home management, diet, hy- 
giene, etc., without which the family will usually not carry out the necessary 
routine outlined by the physician. Cooperation with the employer or the 
industrial physician, is not infrequently of great importance. The vast num- 
ber of medical cases which are cared for in their homes by private phy- 
sicians, and which convalesce at home need such advice no less than do 
hospital cases. 

In a word, the broad problem of convalescence involves private medical 
practice, the hospital, the dispensary, the Visiting Nurse Association, and 
social service in many branches. Many individuals and many agencies 
must share in creating better opportunities for both home and institutional 
convalescence than now exist in Cleveland. An essential element to any 
real advance is an adequately maintained convalescent institution. Such an 
institution does much more than provide care for the particular patients 
who can be admitted to it. It would serve to stimulate medical study of 
convalescence, now a field much neglected, and would promote throughout 
the community, interest in the problem of convalescence which will add to 
the efficiency of all kinds of medical care in hospitals, dispensaries and in 
the home. 

For an authoritative picture of the need for convalescent care in a com- 
munity such as Cleveland, and a program for a central representative in- 
stitution for convalescents, the Survey turned to Dr. Frederic Brush, Medical 
Director of the Burke Foundation at White Plains, New York, the leading 
institution in the United States for the efficient treatment and scientific 
study of convalescence. The following memorandum was prepared by 
Doctor Brush : 

CONVALESCENT CARE 

Fou AN AMERICAN CITY OF ONE MILLION POPULATION 

By FREDERIC BRUSH, M. D. 

The Need 

There is a convalescent period in illness, with fairly distinct medical and 
social borders, and now recognized as a particularly favorable time for skilled 



ITALH AND 1 )l ^I'l \ - \ l< 1 1 - 



.ml in rehabilitation. Tin- patient's home is the desired. tin- cheajM'st, and 
best p!a<-e for most convalescence, l>ut institutional convalescence is needed 
for a certain |>ercentage, in large citits. 

Such an institution in its modern conception functions widely beyond mere 
recuperative rest in prevention, education, refinement, and Americaniza- 
tion, occupational adjustment, vocational direction, encouragement, and all- 
round set-up for better living. It complements home care, and notably 
completes and fortih'es social service. It shortens the hospital stay, with 
large increase of product, and with inspiration to the staff. It saves money 
directly (convalescent cost being but little over one-half hospital cost per 
day,) and makes large long term returns to the community in l>ettered j>er- 
Bonne). 



Numbers Needing Country Convalescence 

Various estimates have been attempted based upon the number of hospital 

imtients in the community, plus a small percentage from dispensaries, pri- 
vate physicians, employers, etc. These may be summarized into an ideal 
requirement of convalescent beds for ten per cent, of all hospital patients- 
varying greatly, of course, depending upon each city's conditions. To this 
should be added about one-fifth for dispensaries and other sources (MN at 
present orgatiixed; but this ratio should be increased). Thus a city discharg- 
ing 100,000 hospital patients yearly should provide institutional care for 
1^,000 ronvalc*cents. 

Number of Beds and Apportionment of Patients 

AsMiming that the city in question presents the better living conditions, 
\\c may well take .5,000 hospital patients, plus 1,000 from other source-. M 
a planning has's. About twenty-one days proves to be the average stay in 
convaleseent homes. The requirement for the (5.000 patients is accordingly 

:wo be. Is 

We may base an estimate upon the long and abundant experience* in 
our greater cities, and aopnrtion them as follo\\ - 

1. The Main Institution, for adults 120 beds; men and women -ages, 
from fifteenth birthday upwards to old age, including 15 per cent, plus of 
heart disease, with standard surgical (with dressings), preventive and hold- 
ing (chronic handicapped) convalescence. 

2. Children's Home 100 beds, taking girls from 6 to 15 and boys 
from 6 to 10 years, receiving surgical dressing and orthopedic cases, and 
heart disease up to 20 per cent, of total, along with the standard lines u 
above outlined. 

3. Boys' Place 30 beds, ages 10 to 15; disease classification as in the 
Children's Home (Very important but not to be large). 



940 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

4. Mothers with infants and young children 30 beds, averaging 60 
patients. 

5. Special Heart Institution 40 beds, for the seriously ill, giving bed 
care at first, etc. Age and sex as in Number 2. 

The Plants 

New or expensive buildings are not essential. An old mansion, a large 
farmhouse with its many outbuildings, or a disused hotel adapt readily. 
Tents serve well at times; extensions are happily made; much equipment 
may be improvised. Five acres of land is minimum; the larger areas giving 
considerable advantages. These Hoihes might be conducted upon one 
large plot of 100 acres if the topography, etc., gave essential separation of 
patient's activities. A location well within 20 miles of the city's center should 
be chosen, if possible. 

Costs 

A per day capita cost of $1.75 may be expected, even under post-war 
conditions, giving $225,000.00 yearly operating expense for the 350 beds, as 
approximate. This includes transportation, and maintenance of a City 
Admission Office. 

Selection of Patients, Follow-up, etc. 

Careful selection of patients by one City Officer, given authority and 
support, is of first importance. This officer may be on part-time only. The 
necessary follow-up, including occupational and vocational direction, is 
usually well done by the city organization which sends patients, and the back- 
to-health-and-to-normal-life cycle is only thus completed. 

Convalescent home planning, organization, and procedure are becoming 
fairly well standardized, with detailed information readily available. 



Those of the Staff of the Survey who have been engaged in the local 
study of convalescent institutions and the convalescent problem can only 
add to Doctor Brush's statement some suggestions relating his program more 
in detail to present conditions and probable future development in Cleve- 
land. 

In most cities the convalescent problem, so far as it has been dealt with, 
has been taken up by bits and snatches. Here a group of kindly people 
have taken a large dwelling house and made it into a "convalescent home" 
for some twenty -five men; another committee of the charitable maintain a 
building donated by one of their number, in which sickly and tired mothers 
may recuperate after illness or operation; still another group h#s under its 
wing a small institution for children; and yet another a small "preventorium " 
for the pre-tuberculous child. 



HOSPITALS AND DI-IM \- \KH^ 941 

Our of the great lessons which the Burke Foundation has taught is tin- 
greater efficiency gained through the use of a large hist it ut ion instead of a 
nnml)cr of little ones. The small independently managed convalescent 
home, accepting ten to fifty patients, secures with difficulty expert medical 
service of physicians who are particularly interested in the convalescent 
problem and scientific study of convalescent cases; it cannot jxissibly pro- 
vide elaborate therapeutic equipment or a staff of special workers and teachers. 
In the large institution, therapeutic equipment, personnel and continuous 
service of a medical staff whose members are selected especially localise 
they are interested in convalescence are all possible within reasonable limits 
of expense. 

In a letter transmitting his outline. Doctor Brush remarks: "It may be 
well to bring to the attention of those becoming interested in this branch, 
some of the important points of this proposal: that preventative tubercu- 
eulosis comes in under numbers 1, 2, and 3; convalescent orthopedics, bone 
diseases, etc.. likewise in these three places; that cardiac children well enough 
for reconstructive treatment enter under mini tiers and 3; that adolescents 
(the group most successfully dealt with and most neglected in convales- 
cence) are especially well planned for. * * * 

"Perhaps the most characteristic and radical part of my conclusions is 
the recommendation, based upon definite experience, for the care of many 
different classes and ages, etc., in one Institution (see numbers 1 and 2.)" 

The recommendation to be made regarding the convalescent problem of 
Cleveland is that it be dealt witli not by bits and snatches, but by one central 
and representative group of persons who will study the whole problem and, 
with a long range program in mind, will take each practical step as funds 
are made available. So far as institutions are concerned, there should I w one. 
rather than many, or rather, as Doctor Brush's outline indicates, a L r roup 
of related institutions managed as one. 

At present Cleveland has: 

Rainbow Hospital, with 85 beds, taking children between 2 1 _ and 
14 years of age, mostly orthopedic cases. 

The Children'* Freth Air Camp, with 60 beds (225 in summer), 
receiving weak, anaemic children and some convalescent mothers. 

Holy Cross House, with a capacity of 50 beds, receiving crippled and 
invalid children (chronic rather than convalescent cases). 

For adults a small number of chronic cases arc held at City Hospital, 
but no convalescent cases arc supposed to be there. At Warrensville In- 
firmary are numbers of chronic and incurable cases, but little provision for 
Convalescents. In a few of the private institutions of the proprietary ty]>c 
convalescent cases -ire treated, tint the number of beds available for such is 
very small. 



942 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Taken as a whole, institutional provision for convalescents in Cleveland 
is practically confined to children, and even for them is limited to certain 
tyj>es of cases. The main resources throughout the year are Rainbow Hos- 
pital, and in summer time, the Children's Fresh Air Cam]). 

The major need is that seme one central and representative group should 
assume the responsibility of developing convalescent provisions which will 
be adequate for the needs of the city. It is recommended that the Trustees 
of Rainbow Hospital either assume this responsibility, or at least act as the 
agent through which some larger group might ultimately be organized. 
Rainbow Hospital now provides an excellent service to a limited range of 
patients, but appears to furnish a basis upon which a much more compre- 
hensive and satisfactory development might be made. 

With this in view, it is desirable that Rainbow Hospital should enlarge 
immediately the scope of its work. It should have no exclusive affiliation 
with any one hospital with respect to its medical staff or with respect to the 
reception of patients. It should aim to develop a staff which is especially 
interested in the scientific medical study of convalescence. It should at 
once undertake to- receive a considerable group of cardiac cases from the chil- 
dren's services of the Cleveland hospitals, as well as convalescent orthopedic 
and surgical cases. It should institute studies of the convalescent problem 
in Cleveland, supplementing those made by the Survey, and through its 
members or representatives the Board should study notable developments 
in other cities, particularly the Burke Foundation, as a basis for the formu- 
lation of a program and of the definite steps which should be taken year 
by year towards its execution. Publication of these studies and reports of 
the case work with convalescents of various types are important phases of 
such a program, and are essential to the growth of appreciation of the con- 
valescent problem by the medical profession and the public. Cooperative 
affiliation with related agencies, such as some of those above mentioned, 
would be desirable in the formulation and execution of any such program. 

Provision of a convalescent institution for adults, should be made as soon 
as possible, as a part of this plan, either by Rainbow Hospital or by a group 
of persons organized in cooperation therewith. 

The outline presented by Doctor Brush gives a program which for finan- 
cial reasons alone cannot be realized in a day, yet nothing less than this 
should be accepted as worthy of a progressive city. 

The cost of maintenance of a convalescent institution is about half that 
of a hospital receiving the same number of persons with acute diseases. A 
convalescent home is an institution which no city can afford to omit in 
providing for its sick. Its absence means burdens upon the hospitals, which 
involve undue expense, and burdens upon the community which are less 
easily traced, but which are no less real, being a financial drain upon the 
charitable public and a definite loss to wage earners and to employing in- 
terests. 

When serious illness befalls, the care of the patient in home or hospital 
equires, as it were, an investment on the part of the community in order 



HOSPITALS AND Di^ri.\-\icn - !l:5 

that tin- sick mail shall be restored to health and living efficiency. From 
the financial as well as from tin- huinanitariati standpoint it is to tin- com- 
munity's interest that this restoration shall l>e eoniplete and shall !> ;i- 
prompt as possible. A period of stay in a hospital for acute diseases repre- 
sents a part, often the most ex]>ensive part of the investment, but the su 
quent ]>eriod of <-onvaleseence, either at home or in an institution, requires a 
certain investment of time, skill, and money, also. I'nless this subsidiary 
but important investment in convalescence is made, the value of the whole 
investment may be nil. It is difficult to put such an argument in financial 
terms of actual cases, but it should not be difficult to appreciate the tragedy 
and the waste of insufficient convalescence, and to strike the imagination of 
citizens of Cleveland who have the means, to support a program and develop 
an institution which shall be worthy of their city. 



944 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

CHRONIC ILLNESS AND ITS CA&E 

Through the courtesy of the Visiting Nurse Association and the Division 
of Health, a list was secured by the Survey of all patients who were treated 
in their homes during the month of November, 1919, by the nurses of these 
organizations, who were regarded as chronic, incurable or convalescent 
cases. A list of 2,078 persons was furnished. In the absence of an oppor- 
tunity to make intimate medical study of each case, it was not possible to 
draw a sharp line between the chronic and the convalescent, but only about 
ten per cent, were believed to be of the convalescent class. The remaining 
cases, some 1,800 in number, were chiefly people suffering from chronic 
disorders, living at home, but needing more or less regular nursing or medical 
attention. 

A tabulation of these cases, classified by age and groups of diseases is 
given in the following table: 

CHRONIC AND CONVALESCENT CASES UNDER NURSING CARE 

Diagnoses Cases 

General 142 

Respiratory (except tuberculosis) ~ 63 

Circulatory 37 

Digestive 127 

Nervous System 1 74 

Mental 17 



Total (not including tuberculosis) 560 

Tuberculosis .. 1,518 



Grand Total 2 ,078 

Adults Children 

Total cases (not including tuberculosis) 382 178 

Tuberculosis 1,322 196 



Grand Total ; 1 , 704 374 

Opinions secured from the visiting nurses and checked by conferences 
with their supervisors, lead to the conclusion that such medical attention 
as was needed for these patients in their homes was generally secured by the 
family or on the initiative of the visiting nurse. The medical attention was 
either paid for or when necessary was obtained without charge from an 
interested physician or a district physician. Medical attention in many 
instances was or should have been secured through a dispensary, since many 
patients were able occasionally to go out of the house. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 



Each nurse stated her judgment regarding each patient, as to whether 
home care was practicable or whether institutional care was necessary. In 
887, or 42.66 per cent, of the cases, institutional care was believed desirable. 
In the remaining 1,191 cases, or 57.33 per cent., it was believed that home care 
would be adequate. If we omit for a moment the tul>erculosis cases, and con- 
sider the 560 patients with other diseases, we may estimate that !<>> than half 
of these, or about 250, needed institutional care, and that the remaining 
number, or about 300, could be cared for in their home 

In the special report of the Survey on tuberculosis, much attention is 
given to the shortage of sanatorium facilities, and the need for additional 
provision in order that at least all active cases of tul>erculosis shall receive 
prompt and adequate institutional care. 

This census of the chronic and convalescent cases in their homes is of 
course only a very imperfect picture. Only a fraction of the total number of 
cases would be known to any one agency, even to the visiting nurses, yet, 
taking these figures simply as they stand, it is apparent there were as many 
as two hundred persons, actually known to a responsible medical organiza- 
tion like the Visiting Nurse Association, who it is l>elieved needed care in an 
institution for chronic patients, and who could not be proj>erly attended to 
in their homes. 

It would be highly desirable that at least once a year the Visiting Nurse 
Association should make a similar canvass and classification of its patients 
in order that the directors, and through them the whole public, shall be 
informed of these needs. 

The problem of chronic illness must be clearly distinguished from that 
of convalescence. The convalescent patient is in the process of restoration to 
health. If institutional care is needed, the period of stay in a convalescent 
home is as a rule comparatively short. Two to four weeks after the usual 
acute illness or surgical operation is generally sufficient. The medical atten- 
tion required is of quite a different nature from that needed in a case of 
chronic illness, where a definite disease process exists or there is a definite 
disturbance of bodily function which ought to receive close medical super- 
vision and systematic treatment. Another important practical difference 
arises from the fact that the chronic case is usually a man or woman in middle 
or late life. To provide convalescent care for children is an important prob- 
lem, whereas chronic illness among young persons is comparatively rare. 
Furthermore, cases of chronic disease which cannot be cared for at home are 
largely among the poor or those of very limited mean*, and with very unsatis- 
factory home conditions. 



946 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Considering all these points, it may be said that a very large proportion 
of the cases of chronic illness which require institutional care should be the re- 
sponsibility of the city, rather than of a private agency. There is, indeed, 
room for a special hospital to care for the chronic and incurable which would 
devote particular attention to the interesting but as yet comparatively un- 
studied medical problems of these cases and which should provide for part- 
pay and pay patients, though having a certain number of low priced or free 
beds. The need for such an institution is at present met in Cleveland only 
by the inconsiderable provision of a few sanatoria or "homes "and hospitals 
of the proprietary type. 

Eloquent testimony to the lack of present provision in Cleveland for 
the chronic case is derived from many of the leading hospitals of the city in 
which the Survey found large numbers of patients who had been in the hos- 
pitals a long period of time. On the two days, December 3, 1919, and Jan- 
uary 15, 1920, on which a census was taken in the institutions of the Cleve- 
land Hospital Council, a tabulation was made of the length of time the pa- 
tients had been in the hospitals. For this tabulation, Warrensville Tuber- 
culosis Sanatorium, Rainbow Hospital, St. Ann's Maternity Hospital, and 
Cleveland Maternity Hospital were omitted. The first two of these make 
special provision for long term cases and cannot be compared with a general 
hospital, while the latter two accept maternity cases only and for this reason 
should be omitted. 

On December 3rd, there were 2,016 hospital patients in the group con- 
sidered, and of these 243, or 12.5 per cent, had been in the hospital for over 
two months. On January 15th the number of cases in these hospitals was 
2,029, and the number who had been in the hospital over two months was 
giving again a proportion of 14.1 per cent. 



The wide variation among the individual hospitals is shown in Table 
VIII, in the Appendix in which the figures for the two census days have 
been averaged for the sake of simplicity 

It is not necessarily true that a patient who is in a hospital over sixty 
days is a chronic case, because some patients with obscure diseases or who 
are slowly recovering from illness or operation, may properly remain in a 
hospital for several months, but the great bulk of these long-term patients 
are cases of chronic illness. Some of these patients are private cases and are 
paying their way, but the great majority do not pay even the cost of their 
care. Aside from the matter of payment, it is a serious waste of service in a 
hospital designed for acute diseases to have to care for chronic patients. 
It must also be remembered that the cost of giving adequate care for chronic 
patients in a suitable institution is only from one-half to two-lhirds of the 
average cost of maintenance in a hospital for acute diseases. 



lln-IM I \l.- \M) I>IMM.\->\KII - 947 

From the figures secured in the hospitals ;in,| presented in tin- table, it is 
probable that -J.IO chronic cases arc usually in Cleveland hospital*, in | M -i|s 
which arc designed for acute cases ;.n<] for which there is great demand. 

The individual hospital is only in part to Maine for these conditions. 
It is important to see just where the responsibility lies and what >t.-ps ,-an be 
taken toward remedy. A few long term eases arc retained in acute hospitals 
because they pay for the privilege, but these are not the majority. No hos- 
pital however should permit such patients to stay if there is demand, as there 
frequently is, for beds for acute cases. There is a much larger proportion of the 
long term cases who could \w sent to their homes and suitably cared for 
therein if sufficient trouble were taken to make the necessary arrangements 
for medical supervision and for attention at home. Adequate home care 
of such chronic cases would require the hospital to have a social service de- 
partment. An active social service department in a hospital would study 
out the home problems of the long term patients, finding just what would \te 
necessary in the way of home provision, securing financial aid where this 
would be required and where the cost would be within reason, and enlist- 
ing the cooperation of the Visiting Nurse Association, the district physician, 
or other agencies. 

When it is recognized that the cost of maintaining a chronic ca.se in the 
bed of an acute hospital for a year is almost equivalent at present to the 
salary of a social worker during the year, and that a social worker would lie 
able to work out the problems of a large number of such chronic patients 
so they could be cared for at home, it is seen that the present hospital policy 
is "penny wise and pound foolish." From the standpoint of individual 
hospitals, this statement may \ye controverted, since the hospital would have 
to maintain the bed anyway, and add the salary of the social worker in ad- 
dition. But from the standpoint of the community and of the Welfare 
Federation as representing the community, it would be an actual saving to 
introduce a social worker and let the l>ed occupied by one or two chronic 
cases in the course of a year l>e occupied by twenty or more acute cases. 

There are also a very large numl>er of chronic patients who do not require 
the a mount of care given in a hospital and who are not ill enough to lie in 
l>ed all the time. These patients are suitable for treatment in a doctor's 
office, or, in the case of many, dispensary care is all that is necessary. The 
importance of disj>cnsary care in chronic illness requires emphasis for the 
n ,1-nn that a great many chronic patients are suffering from disorders which 
need very < ireful medical study to arrive at an accurate diagnosis, and there- 
fore successful treatment; and such medical study often involves tin- s t -r\ 
of one or more specialists, laboratory tests, the use of the \-Kay, etc. The 
c\i>ciisr of such diagnosis is beyond the resources of many people who can 
afford to pay a doctor an I who usually have a family physician. The develop- 
ment of dispensary service in Cleveland is an important means of providing 
consultant and diagnostic aid. Thoe patients, generally through their family 



948 . HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

physician, could thus secure the special study and diagnosis necessary. An 
enormous amount of physical distress and suffering and of habitual living at 
fifty per cent, efficiency, exists because of the failure to study out conditions 
of a chronic nature, to arrive at a definite medical analysis of the character 
of the disorder and to outline a plan of treatment, hygiene and living con- 
ditions which will restore the patient to health or will maintain him at the 
highest physical grade possible for him. This class of ambulatory chronic 
patients represents a very large number, of which no census anywhere has 
yet been made. 

After putting aside (1) the ambulatory chronic cases, (2) patients who are 
entirely able to pay for whatever care they need in an institution or elsewhere, 
(3) the patients who could be cared for in their homes with social service 
supervision, and (4) the tuberculosis cases whose needs are studied elsewhere, 
there remain those who definitely must receive care in a special institution 
for the chronic or the incurable, and who can pay little or nothing for what 
they receive. 

To meet this need is the responsibility of the municipality. Warrens- 
ville Infirmary is the obvious institution which should play this part in behalf 
of the city. 



The Infirmary occupies a well-constructed building, built in 1906, and 
placed in an excellent location. It operates a car to meet the Chagrin Falls 
street car line. About one hour is required to reach Warrenville from the 
Cleveland Public Square. Unfortunately, however, no other provision than 
street cars is made for transporting patients; there is no ambulance service. 
If a case of contagious disease develops at Warrenville, the patient must be 
taken to City Hospital in a truck. 

The capacity of the Infirmary is approximately 900 beds. In March, 
1920, there were 634 inmates. Of these 147 were insane. A further report 
stated that there were 46 cripples, 41 paralyzed, and 25 blind, who had been 
in the institution two or more years. Hardly more than half of the inmates 
in 1918 were American-born. There are no interpreters. 

The personnel in charge of the institution consists of a Superintendent, 
non-resident, appointed by the Director of Public Welfare; a Medical Di- 
rector (also in charge of the Workhouse and the Girls' Home), appointed by 
the Director of Public Welfare and responsible to the Superintendent; a 
Matron, appointed by the Mayor; and, at the time of the study, twenty-two 
attendants, not all trained inmates being used where possible. The General 
Superintendent of the City Farms has some administrative control over the 
Infirmary. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSAKII - 



From this account it is obvious that the Infirmary has not recently used 
its capacity, and that there has not been sufficient service to provide satis- 
factory care for even those who are there. ()n one day on which the institu- 
tion was visited, there was but one attendant for three women's wards on 
three different floors, in which there were HO patients, 40 of whom were 
semi-invalid. One nurse is assigned to make dressing-,. fifteen or twenty 
being the daily average. The Medical Director is so crowded with work*. 
as he also has charge of the medical service at the Workhouse and the (iirU 1 
Home, that he can attend to only the most urgent needs. He is unable to 
follow up complaints or to answer letters which come to him complaining of 
the care of patients. 

It was stated by the Outdoor Relief Department that a physical examina- 
tion was part of the admission routine, the applicants being sent to district 
doctors or hospital dispensaries. There is no provision for a record.of exam- 
ination on the card, unless the diagnosis and condition should be mentioned 
in the investigator's report on the reverse of the card. No medical examina- 
tion is made on entry to the institution, either for venereal diseases or for 
any other complaint; neither is a physical examination made afterwards. 

It is decidedly unfortunate that in spite of the urgent need for more facili- 
ties for the care of chronic cases in Cleveland, only those patients who are 
physically able to care for themselves are considered suitable for Warrens- 
ville Infirmary. Bed-ridden cases and those which require more or less 
medical and nursing care appear to be regarded as undesirable. 

With the present shortage of help and attendants this point of view on 
the part of the officials can readily be understood, but such a condition is not 
permanently tolerable. Here is a well located plant with 900 beds. In 
Cleveland are large numbers of chronic patients who are cared for in acute 
hospitals at undue expense, and with serious deprivation of service to the 
acutely sick. The city of Cleveland should meet its elementary respon- 
sibility in providing enough money to pay for medical, nursing and house- 
hold service required to run Warrensville Infirmary to its capacity, so far as 
there is really demand for it. 

In extenuation of the present policy it is fair to state that conditions dur- 
ing and since the war have made it difficult to secure sufficient personnel, 
yet the officials in charge do not appear to have made any such determined 
effort as the situation requires, to impress upon the city administration and 
also upon the public at large, the need of providing more funds for Warrens- 
ville, so that it could care for its inmates proj>erly and so that it could be 
open to all the classes of patients who urgently require such care as this 
institution ought to render. 

The institution provides practically no therapeutic facilities , such as 
massage, mechanical exercisers, electro-therapy or hydro-therapy. On the 
advice of a committee of the Cleveland Welfare Federation studying the 



950 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

welfare of cripples, a trained occupational worker was employed, and in 
October, 1918, a workshop was opened for the men. Work for the women 
consists mainly of sewing and knitting. The provision of therapeutic facili- 
ties would be a great comfort to a large number of patients. Further develop- 
ment of the occupational work is highly desirable. 

It is apparent that particularly under present conditions, the problem of 
securing sufficient nursing and attendant service is a difficult one, as is the 
related problem of household help. The distance of Warrensville from the 
city renders it less desirable from the standpoint of many employes than a 
more accessible institution. Higher wages will be generally necessary as a 
result, but even higher wages will not themselves usually prove a sufficient 
inducement, particularly when employment can be secured readily by people 
who are even moderately trained at any definite occupation. The living 
conditions must be made not only comfortable but pleasurable. The de- 
velopment of recreational facilities for those residing at Warrensville is a 
practical step which would be of much service and which would justify the 
necessary expenditure by the city. It would render possible the retention of 
a larger and certainly of a more stable staff, and would save more money 
than it would cost. 

From the standpoint of the patients, entertainment and recreation are a 
very obvious measure of humanity, while from the standpoint of the attend- 
ants and the help, they are a practical measure of economical and efficient 
administration. The management of the Infirmary could doubtless secure 
considerable assistance from various Cleveland agencies interested in recre- 
ation. 

A certain amount of music and other entertainment can be secured on 
special occasions with little or no expense. There is need for some person 
who will be definitely in charge of the recreation and social life of the insti- 
tution, both for the patients and for the staff of nurses, attendants and help. 
Such a person would develop many resources within the personnel itself, and 
would organize social and recreational activities. With a little cooperation 
from the administration and some expenditure for equipment, music, etc., 
a great deal could be done. 

Steps should be taken in making up the next annual budget for utilizing 
the Infirmary to a larger percentage of its capacity, in order to provide for 
the large number of persons in Cleveland who now need institutional care 
as chronic patients. There are at least two hundred such patients now 
occupying beds in acute hospitals in Cleveland, to the detriment of these 
hospitals' service, while really acute cases must moreover be turned away 
for lack of beds. If Warrensville can be provided with sufficient staff to 
make care satisfactory for the inmates, it would undoubtedly be possible to 
keep it full up to nearly if not quite all its capacity of nine hundred beds. 

To sum up the situation in Cleveland regarding chronic illness and its 
care, it may be stated that: 




\\D DlM'l. \-\IUKS 951 



1. There are at present at all times several hundred patients in the hospitals of Cleve- 
land, designed for acute cases, who are chronic cases and should not be in these hospitals 
at all. 

2. As a result, hospital service is rendered less available, and the acutely sick must 
often be denied needed care because beds are taken. 

3. There are very large numbers of ambulatory chronic cases who require study by 
specialists, the aid of laboratories and of other diagnostic apparatus in order that they may 
receive sufficient medical study to be properly treated. The shortage of dispensary and 
consultant service for the physicians of Cleveland at present renders it impracticable for 
many of these patients to secure what they need. 

4. The lack of a sufficient number of privately supported institutions furnishing a 
high grade of care for chronic cases who can pay, forces the acute hospitals to retain a 
number of such patients and leaves the remainder to be inadequately cared for at home 
or in the few small proprietary institutions who seek such work. There is undoubtedly 
place for a well-managed institution for chronics, which could be largely or wholly self- 
supporting. 

5. Adequate social service departments would enable a considerable number of chronic 
cases now in acute hospitals to be cared for properly in their homes. A definite economy 
to the community would result. This is an additional reason for the increase of hospital 
social service in Cleveland, the need for which is more fully discussed in the next chapter. 

6. Provision for those chronically ill who cannot be cared for at home and who cannot 
pay their way in an institution, is a primary responsibility of the municipaltiy. War- 
rensville Infirmary has the space and needs the additional personnel with which to meet 
this responsibility. There should be unremitting effort by the Department of Public 
Welfare until funds are provided for this purpose. Such chronic cases should not be 
retained in any considerable numbers at City Hospital, whereas as many as 300 beds 
could well be used at Warrensville, not including in this number those who are crippled 
or merely infirm from age. 

7. The large number of tuberculosis patients found in their homes by the Survey 
emphasizes the need, brought out in the special report on tuberculosis, for increase in 
sanatorium provision. 



952 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



SOCIAL SERVICE IN HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 

It is only fourteen years since the first hospital social service department 
in the United States was established in Boston. Today over three hundred 
hospitals have taken on this new and important adjunct to their medical 
service. It is curious that a community so advanced as is Cleveland in many 
respects should have made only a slight development in the social service 
activities of its hospitals and dispensaries. 

Three hospitals in Cleveland have organized social service departments. 
Four other institutions have each one person who is devoting some atten- 
tion to social and financial relationships connected with patients. The 
Lakeside Hospital Social Service Department has been in existence seven 
years, that at Mt. Sinai three years, and that at St. Vincent's Charity Hos- 
pital one year. Each of these social service departments began with one 
worker. Lakeside had six workers at the beginning of 1920; Mt. Sinai four 
and Charity five. These departments have developed independently and 
there has been no uniformity in policy. 

At Lakeside, the social service department appears to be an outgrowth of 
the visiting nursing service. For a number of years its activities have been 
almost entirely confined to the dispensary, and its head w r orker was prac- 
tically responsible for admission of patients and for many details of dispen- 
sary administration. It is unfortunate that for a number of years this de- 
partment has maintained a policy of medical secrecy which has prevented 
its meeting the needs of agencies such as the Associated Charities or making 
a contribution to the community health problem. To furnish to a charitable 
agency information regarding the medical condition and the health needs of 
patients in whom the agency is interested is part of the responsibility of a 
hospital or dispensary. To effectuate this relationship between the hos- 
pital and the outside non-medical charity is part of the duty of the social 
service department. Lack of records in the social service department at 
Lakeside has rendered it impossible to study the social conditions which 
cause disease or which render its successful treatment impracticable unless 
they are altered. Although Lakeside Dispensary is a teaching clinic of 
Western Reserve University Medical School, the social work is not so con- 
nected with the organization as to bring the medical students in contact 
with it and enable them to learn something of the relationship between the 
medical and social problems. This has been done in a number of other 
leading medical schools, notably in that of Indiana University. 

At Mt. Sinai Hospital, the social service department was organized as a 
definite part of the dispensary, and has been much more intimately related 
to the medical service on the one side, and to the social and charitable agencies 
on the other. As at Lakeside, a considerable part of the time of the social 
service staff has been spent in assisting in the administration of the dis- 
pensary. As at Lakeside, a lack of clerical assistance has made adequate 
records impracticable, so that much of the research value of the work has 
been lost. 



Di-i-i. \-\KII s 953 

The recently developed department at St. Vincent's Hospital is like the 

others, largely concerned with the dispensary rather than with tin- hospital 

Lack of dearly defined policy other than to do kindly and friendly 

things for patients is apparent here as often elsewhere in this new branch of 

service. 

. In the prenatal clinic at St. Luke's Hospital a nurse sj>cnds half her time 
admitting dispensary patients and in making financial investigations for the 
hospital, and this is called social service. 

At the Babies' Dispensary a graduate nurse, called a "social service 
nurse," is responsible for the admitting of new patients, and classifies them 
according to their ability to pay the various grades of fees in this institu- 
tion admitting them or referring them elsewhere according to her judg- 
ment. 

At City Hospital there has been a single worker, who without any definite 
policy or guidance, has endeavored to mitigate personal or other problems 
for those few patients she could reach among the thousands passing through 
that institution yearly. 

At Rainbow Hospital is a "social service mirse, " who does follow-up 
work for the children who are discharged. 

In addition to the activities of these seven institutions, the Association 
for the Crippled and Disabled maintains a social service department of a dis- 
tinctive and efficient sort. While not properly speaking a hospital social 
service department, its work is of very similar character. A description and 
evaluation of this will l>e found in the portion of Part II. which deals with 
the care of cripples. 

The most striking fact about hospital and dispensary social service in 
Cleveland is the lack of any definite conception of the policy which a social 
service department should pursue and of its relationship to the organi/ation 
of the institution in which it works. In no department does there appear 
to be a clear recognition that the prime basis of social service in a hospital 
or dispensary is the assistance of medical treatment. Social service is not 
or rather should not be in a medical institution for the sake of being kind to 
patients, or for the sake of finding out what patients can pay the hospital 
fees, or for the sake of helping to run the dispensary. 

Kindness is a general function of a hospital organization not an attri- 
bute of social service in particular. The fixing of fees or finding out whether 
patients can pay is an administrative function, to be |>crformed by a financial 
investigator. It i> a serious interference to any really constructive social 
service to patients if the worker who is supposed to render such service is 
placet! in the position of an inquisitor into the details of personal income. 



954 HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 

Helping to admit patients to a hospital or dispensary or to administer a 
dispensary is a useful and necessary service which social workers have often 
been called upon to do since no other trained persons have been available, 
particularly in a dispensary. Social workers have been rendering such ad- 
ministrative assistance in several dispensaries of Cleveland as in other cities, 
and have been of substantial value to their institution and to the patients 
by doing so. It is quite true that assistance in many phases of administra- 
tive work in hospitals and dispensaries falls naturally to social service. When 
these pieces of administration involve personal dealings with patients (as in 
admissions or in the management of clinics) the training and practical ex- 
perience of the social worker is of distinct value. 

Physicians in a hospital do various things which a layman might do, 
such as making records or assisting in administration; so also nurses do 
many things for which their special training as nurses is not a pre-requisite, 
but the essential reason which brings a doctor to a hospital is the activity 
which he alone is trained to perform medical diagnosis and treatment. 
The reason why nurses are in hospitals is because there are certain duties 
which only trained nurses can perform the bodily care of patients and 
assistance of physicians during operations and in therapy. The distinctive 
function of social service which brings the social worker in the hospital and 
dispensary is the contribution which she can make to medical treatment, 
assisting the physician in securing those facts about the patient's personality 
and environment which will bear upon the cause and characteristics of his 
disease, and aiding the physician in planning and carrying out the details of 
treatment which under the conditions of the patient's character, family, and 
finances, are necessary to secure the best results. 

In the hospitals and dispensaries of Cleveland, social service has been 
largely introduced as a measure of kindness and as a helpful agent in adminis- 
tration. There has nowhere been recognition of any definite policy or of the 
essential relationships between hospital social service and medical treat- 
ment. 

A trained social worker is one who has learned to make critical but 
sympathetic judgments of the human problems usually presented, and who 
has also learned how these can be dealt with effectively in practice. As an 
example of the questions which face medical and social workers and which 
need trained social judgment for their answer, we may cite: 

Shall material relief be obtained for a family for the three or four 
months during which the father will be in an institution because of sick- 
ness, or shall the five children and mother be placed in four different homes 
of willing relatives during that period a course to which the mother strenu- 
ously objects? 

Shall a delicate child with kind-hearted but quarrelsome and unedu- 
cated parents, be placed in a country home for six months; or shall an at- 
tempt be made, through the parents' love for the child, to reconstitute 
family life sufficiently to enable the girl to get well at home? 



MM>IM i \r- \\n Di-ri \-\KII - 955 

Shall an unmarried pregnant girl of 21 be urged to marry the father 
of her child if the man is willing, although the girl has lost her confidence in 
him. or shall she be helped to fight her battle of life alone?* 

The answer l<> such questions requires in the first instance, careful study 
by the social worker of tin- patient's personality and family circumstances. 
reporting to the physician and deciding in conjunction with him the proper 
course to pursue, having both medical and social facts in mind. 

There is very little indication from the studies made of the work of Un- 
social service departments in Cleveland that this tyj>e of analysis is prac- 
tised in its definite relations to the medical problem of each case. The 
character of the disease is of vital influence in determining what treatment 
is necessary, but how the treatment shall l>e applied defends in a large 
measure upon the patient's personality and environment. 

In addition to the study and analysis of the case necessary to form judg- 
ment as to the social causes of the disease and of the conditions which will 
affect its treatment, the social worker in the hospital or dispensary must also 
endeavor to help in the accomplishment of the treatment, as by finding a 
job for a man witlr a damaged heart, getting food or money for an under- 
nourished family with three sickly children, or by securing a vacation, a 
friendly visitor, or the help of a relative so that a woman will consent to have 
an o|>enition in the hospital, knowing that her children are properly cared 
for meanwhile. In these types of practical service, where the problem is 
rather obvious, persistence and resourcefulness are often shown among the c;t Kfl 
studied in the Cleveland social service departments, but because of the com- 
bination of lack of definite policy and of pressure of administrative work, 
there has been little real study of cases so as to bring out relationships be- 
tween disease and social conditions, thus enabling a really definite and well 
rounded plan to be made for combined medical and social treatment. 

It must be apparent that in many cases where Uie personality of pa- 
tients or family difficulties or lack of funds are involved, medical treatment 
is largely or wholly wasted unless adequate social service goes with it. The 
primary and fundamental recommendation therefore for the social service 
departments of Cleveland is a definite aim a clear-cut policy. 

The need for sufficient medical social service in the Cleveland City Hos- 
pital is the outstanding requirement when individual institutions are con- 
sidered. In a large municipal institution of this sort the great majority of 
the patients come from home conditions which render convalescence difficult 
(as has been shown in the section on "The Convalescent and the Hospital") 
or the hospital's care is of greatly diminished value in restoring the individual 
or family to health unless something more is done than simply to provide 
the surgical oj>eration or bed care during an acute illness. 

Davit fl Warner. "Oispenarie." 1918. Page 114. 



956 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Waste of human energy, increase of human suffering, and fruitless ex- 
penditure of public funds goes on at any large municipal hospital without 
social service the institution can merely render medical attention during 
the acute stage of an individual's illness, and passes by related conditions in 
the man or in his home or his occupation. 

Re-occurrence of illness, re-admission to the hospital, lowered efficiency of 
the patient and family, further illness, and family deterioration, make a 
vicious circle which the most skilled surgeon and finest diagnostic equipment 
cannot break alone. 

In New York, Bellevue Hospital, with 1,300 beds, has a social service de- 
partment with 30 workers. In Boston, the City Hospital, an institution 
only a little larger than the City Hospital of Cleveland, and much smaller 
than the enlarged City Hospital which Cleveland will soon possess, has 17 
social workers. At the Cook County Hospital, Chicago, there is a social 
service department with 8 workers, and in the social service department of 
Cincinnati General Hospital, there are 4 workers. 

The larger the institution, moreover, the greater is the need that the head 
worker be a person of unusual personality and previous definite experience 
in hospital social service. The Cleveland City Hospital needs an adequate 
social service department with a strong, well-trained woman at its head. 
She should be responsible to the superintendent of the hospital, but there 
should be a social service advisory committee appointed by the Director of 
Public Welfare (or by the board of trustees if such a board is formed for the 
City Hospital). The duties of such social service committees are touched 
upon later in this chapter. This committee would be of particular impor- 
tance to City Hospital during the first years of development of adequate 
social service there. 

It may be mentioned that some years ago a social service department 
was started in the Boston City Hospital on the initiative of a number of 
private citizens, including some of those closely associated with the institu- 
tion by medical interests. Private funds supported the original staff, but 
the city soon entered and paid a share as the department enlarged. While 
at present some of the staff of workers are still supported by private funds, 
the outcome will undoubtedly be complete municipal support. At no time, 
however, has there been any question of division of responsibility for im- 
mediate control by the hospital. In a municipality with the active civic- 
spirit of Cleveland such initial sharing of the burden of hospital social service 
by private funds ought not to be necessary; but it is not at all undesirable. 

The Welfare Federation has certain special reasons for supporting social 
service in hospitals and dispensaries. A very large proportion of poverty is 
caused by sickness or is accompanied by sickness, making it useless to attempt 
to restore the family to self-support until the illness has been successfully 
treated. Studies in a number of cities indicate that sickness is one of the 
conditions accompanying poverty in from 60 to 80 per cent, of the families 
known to such an agency as an Associated Charities. Since the members of 
such families obviously cannot afford a private doctor, it may be said that 



Di>ri N- \idi - 957 

the hospital and dispensary must he their family physician. The charitable 
agency must look to the hospital and <lisj>ensary for medical diagnosis, 
advice and treatment, and the agency requires the constant cooperation of 
the hospital and dispensary. Without the social service department this 
cooperation generally proceeds with halting steps. The social service de- 
partment is the link between the highly organ i/ed, sj>cciali/ed medical insti- 
tution and the community agency which deals with the family in its home. 
Without such a link, much money and much time arc \\astcd by these agen- 
< ies. Thus it is not only in behalf of the intrinsic service to the patients of 
hospitals and dispensaries that social service has a claim to support, Iwt also 
because the work of other charitable agencies which are meml>ers of tin- 
Welfare Federation will l>e very substantially assisted thereby. 

The special need of hospital social service in connection with the con- 
valescent and the chronic case has been brought out in the preceding chapters. 

The section dealing with the plan of hospital organization includes a brief 
statement concerning social service. A social service department should be 
part of the hospital organization, not maintained by any outside agen< \ . 
Social service needs to work intimately within the hospital and hence to be 
an integral part of its administration. The head worker of the social 
service department should, like the heads of other departments, l>e respon- 
sible to the superintendent, but it is advisable, particularly during the 
formative stages of social service, to have a social service committee, includ- 
ing a few members of the board of trustees, one or more memlxrs of the 
medical statF, the superintendent ex-officio and other persons who are 
familiar with general philanthropic work and whose advice regarding the 
policy and problems of the department will be of value. Such a committee 
should be advisory, like others suggested in the scheme of organization. 

The personality of the head worker and the quality of her training and 
experience are of vital importance to a social service department. There 
has been in Cleveland, as in a few other cities, much discussion as to the 
training necessary for a hospital social worker, and in particular of her rela- 
tion to nursing. A nurse's training does not provide one of the essential 
elements for a hospital social worker, nor can this l>e gained by a brief |x>riod 
of observation of social service or by a two or three months' "course." Not 
l< -ss than one year's study of social work and an additional year of practical 
experience under educational supervision is necessary to render any person 
a competent worker in so difficult and complex a field as this. The training 
of a nurse provides important knowledge of medical matters and a familiar- 
ity with the point of view of physicians and patients, and with the conduct 
and administration of hospitals and dispensaries. Actual experience in many 
social service departments throughout the country has proved that, as a 
matter of fact, some successful workers are nurses and that some of them 
are not nurse-, and that to debate as to whether a hospital social service 
worker must be a nurse or must not be a nurse is merely a waste of time. 
Personality implying effectiveness in dealing with people, a certain degree 
of administrative and executive ability, and a definite training in the analysis 
of social problems and familiarity with the methods of dealing with them. 



958 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



are essential elements, as well as certain subject-matter concerning partic- 
ular diseases or medical problems to be dealt with. During the present form- 
ative period of social service, too much care cannot be taken in selecting 
the right quality of head worker, and then leaving it largely to her to nomi- 
nate and appoint her assistants. 

Social service in the hospital and dispensary must be viewed primarily 
as'an adjunct of medical treatment. It is usually desirable that social serv- 
ice shall assist in various administrative activities, as in connection with the 
admission of hospital patients, the admissions to the dispensary or the 
management of dispensary clinics. 

It is not desirable, however, that a member of the social service depart- 
ment should be used as the financial investigator of the hospital. The utiliza- 
tion of social workers at the admission desk of a dispensary is desirable, but 
the financial grading of patients should not be her primary responsibility, 
nor should financial grading be of such rigidity as exists at the Babies' Dis- 
pensary, or existed until recently, at Mount Sinai. Such rigid grading tends 
to develop arbitrary standards of dealing with patients, on an entirely super- 
ficial basis, establishing a wrong relationship with a patient by emphasizing 
his financial rather than his physical need. It is well that Mount Sinai has 
discarded the custom. 

It may be added that it is not desirable to have any person kept continu- 
ously at the desk admitting patients to hospital or dispensary without being 
assigned a portion of her time to other phases of social service, particularly 
the study of families in their homes. The admission of patients requires a 
series of "snap judgments," based necessarily on slight information. In 
order to keep any person from becoming "routinized," losing freshness and 
flexibility, the effect of making necessarily hasty judgments in the admission 
of patients must be counteracted by giving the worker some, even if only a 
small amount, of time for intensive observation and service with a few pa- 
tients in their homes. 

In a dispensary the social worker can be of value not only at the admis- 
sion desk, but in various phases of dispensary administration, notably in 
the detailed executive management of clinics. The routine of the clinic 
needs adaptation to the needs of each patient. The doctors' time should 
not be taken up with executive detail but should be given to medical work. 
The social worker, as clinic executive, is a great aid alike to physician and 
patient. 

The Social Sen -ice Clearing House supported by the Associated Charities 
provides (a) registration of families known to charitable agencies. By means 
of this there is at the office of the Clearing House a list of families or "cases" 
known to any agency using the Clearing House, and with the name of each 
case or family is a list of the agencies which have been interested in this case. 
The Clearing House also provides for (b) answering inquiries from agencies 
about families and telling them whether any other charitable agencies are 
interested in the family, and if so, what agencies. By this means a charit- 



HOSPITALS AND Di-n. \-\KII ^ 



able agency ui;iy find out the names of those who have previously known 
a family ami then, l>y calling these agencies, learn what has been or is Iwing 
done for the family. 

The Clearing House is very largely used by hospitals and disj>ensaries of 
Cleveland. During U)lf) a total of .'iO.ott!) inquiries were made, and of this 
total of i.'i. !)(>(> or 4.'J |MT cent, were from medical agencies, chiefly disjMMisaries. 
Such registration takes place largely through the social service departments of 
the dispensaries ;m<l through the nurses in the health center-. 

Registration of dispensary cases in the Social Service Clearing House, 
however, is not accompanied by full use of the information thus secured. 
When the dispensary registers a case it learns automatically by the reply 
slip, sent from the Clearing House, the names of the agencies who have 
formerly known the family. If the social service department of the dis- 
pensary does nothing further the time sjient in registering the family is prac- 
tically wasted. It is found that in a large numl>er of cases no use of the in- 
formation secured from the Clearing House is made. 



The Social Service Clearing House is a most important means of promot- 
ing team work among agencies and of avoiding overlapping in dealing with 
families. Its use should be increased in every way, but it is a question how 
far mere registration without making use of the information is worth while. 

It is recommended that a conference be held of representatives of the 
Associated Charities maintaining the Clearing House and of a number of 
representatives from medical agencies, particularly the large dis]>ensarics 
and henlth centers, and that the following questions of policy l>e discussed 
and, if possible, decided. 

1. Shall it be the policy of the agency to register all cases, or only cases 
in which it is likely that they will make use of the information secured from 
the Clearing House? 

2. If the latter, decision should be reached by each agency as to what 
types of cases, classified in medical or in other ways, they will register, and 
the Clearing House should be informed of this policy and of changes from 
time to time. 

It is desirable that as large a number of cases be registered as possible, 
but mere waste of effort in futile registration should be avoided. It is IK 
sary to draw the line at the right point, given a certain sized social service 
and clerical staff in each medical organization. 

It is not deemed advisable that a routine social history be taken of every 
patient, as is done in some clinics, notably at Mount Sinai. Many facts of 
value are found through conference between social worker ami patient, but 
unless there are enough social workers to take up these rases and deal with 
the needs found, the time taken in getting a thorough social history is largely 



960 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

or wholly wasted in many instances. Unless a dispensary has a very unusual 
number of social workers, such as no dispensary in Cleveland has at the 
present time or is likely to have in the near future, it is advisable that detailed 
social histories be taken only on selected cases, the social worker at the 
admission desk or in the clinic determining (on necessarily brief judgment) 
which cases shall be selected. 

Social service departments have generally suffered from lack of sufficient 
clerical assistance to keep adequate records which are required in social serv- 
ice as in medicine, for good work. Furthermore, it is not economical to 
take a large part of the time of a social worker for clerical tasks. 

Finally, it is urged that a definite portion of the time of the head social 
worker or of one of her best assistants be devoted to the constant study of 
the social problems of the hospital and dispensary, and their interpretation 
to the staff and the administrative authorities of the institution. Periodical 
studies of the social problems of selected groups of patients are practicable 
even in a small social service department, if the groups selected are small, 
but judiciously chosen so as to be medically and otherwise significant. Such 
studies and reports on the social problems of these patients outline to the 
staff and the administration the social conditions influencing some of the 
chief diseases treated in the hospital and dispensary. Only in that way can 
the policy of the social service department be expected to grow, and the 
hospital and dispensary steadily advance in a broad policy of prevention as 
well as cure, and of widening service to the community. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSAHU - 961 



AMBULANCE SERVICE 

To understand what the ambulance system of Cleveland ought to be it 
is necessary first to outline the present situation. 

There are three different agencies in Cleveland which may be called 
upon for ambulance service. The Police Department has "Police Emer- 
gency" cars, used for the sick or for the law-breaker, as the need may be. 
City Hospital owns three ambulances (two Atlas cars and one Ford) but 
has only one in commission.* The Survey was informed that each of the 
local undertakers, of which there are over 100, has one or more "combination- 
wagons" (combination "dead-wagon" and invalid carriage). 

From January to November, 1919, the |>olice answered a total of 
ambulance calls. The City Hospital ambulance was out of repair for five 
months of 1919, but during the other seven months made 937 calls. The 
number of calls answered by the undertakers could not be estimated. 

In contrast with these provisions may be cited the provisions found in 
several other leading cities. In New York City the ten public hospitals 
operate 31 ambulances, and in addition, 3.5 private hospitals provide a total 
of 70 ambulances. . The City Hospital in Providence, Rhode Island, has 
three ambulances. In Jersey City the City Hospital has six ambulances. 
In Philadelphia about 35 private hospitals own ambulances and their serv- 
ices for emergency work are recognized by an annual appropriation of $300 
to each hospital from the city. 

The distribution of ambulances has an important bearing ii|x>n their 
availability and promptness in answering calls. A police ambulance is sta- 
tioned at each of the fifteen police precinct stations of Cleveland except at 
Precincts I, 10 and 15. The City Hospital ambulance is ex]>ected to serve 
the entire city, and the service of the ambulances provided by the undertaken 
is not districted. Calls for the Police Emergency are supposed always to be 
sent to the Police Information Bureau, and then to be relayed to the nearest 
precinct station, although they may be received directly at the precinct sta- 
tion itself. If the emergency patrol at the nearest precinct station is not 
available, the call is transferred to another district office. So far as could 
be ascertained, there is nothing to prevent a IXTSOII from calling the police 
emergency. City Hospital ambulance and an undertaker's car, for the same 
emergency case. 

In a matter where a few minutes time may be of such vital significance, 
the promptness with which ambulance calls are answered is of decided im- 
portance. The consensus of local opinion seemed to be that the police 
emergency cars were prompt in arriving, hut there was universal criticism 
of the utter unreliability of the City Hospital ambulance in answering rails. 
Delays of many hours often occur and it has not l>een at all unusual for the 
ambulance not to arrive until the next day after the call was sent in. One of 

Note It it understood that a new ambulance ha* recently been purchased for City Hospital. 



962 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

the hospitals reported a case of pneumonia, for whirl) the City Hospital was 
asked to send an ambulance on the 18th of the month. The ambulance 
was promised for the 20th but never came at all. In the case of contagious 
diseases, which can only be received at City Hospital, and for which the City 
Hospital ambulance is the only logical and suitable means of transportation 
available, such a delay means unnecessary exposure of other persons, espe- 
cially dangerous in the crowded homes and lodging houses from which the 
City Hospital patients arc apt to come. It is our opinion that at least two 
more ambulances should be. provided for transporting contagious cases, so 
that all these cases may be cared for by the City Hospital's own ambulances. 
It is also felt that twenty-four hour service should be provided by the City 
Hospital for contagious cases. With the transportation of contagious pa- 
tients concentrated under the control of City Hospital, the hazard of poorly 
disinfected ambulances, such as at present exists, could be obviated. 

Inasmuch as a patient for whom an ambulance is called is often seriously 
ill or injured, ambulance service must mean more than mere transportation 
from one place to another. An injured man may have to be carried from 
his house to the ambulance. A person hurt in a street accident may need 
some form of first aid in order to save his life. A case of acute illness needs 
to be made comfortable for the ride to the hospital, and in winter needs to 
be sheltered adequately from the cold. In case of contagious disease, the 
ambulance must be disinfected in order to protect the next patient usingjt. 

These requisites of efficient ambulance service are met, when met at all 
in Cleveland, in varying degrees. 

The Police Emergency cars carry the driver and one other policeman' 
The City Hospital ambulance sends someone with the driver, if the patient 
must be carried. One undertaking firm which cares for many of this class 
of cases sends only the driver of the car. 

Training of the ambulance crews of the police force in first aid and the 
proper care of patients on their way to the hospital, has not been so com- 
plete and adequate as is desirable. A lecture on first aid is given by a physi- 
cian at each district, and instruction is given in the use of the pulmotor. A 
few years ago lectures and demonstrations were given by a representative of 
the Life Saving Corps of the Red Cross. Comment has come to the Survey 
of the kindness of the police who serve with the ambulances, but more than 
kindness is needed to give first aid treatment in case of sun-stroke or suffo- 
cation. Skill and definite training are necessary. The policemen assigned 
to ambulance service should be required to pass a thorough course in first 
aid, consisting of both theory and practice. The provision of an adequate 
emergency kit for each ambulance would seem imperative, yet the police 
patrols are provided with only tourniquets, rubber gloves and handcuffs, 
and the City Hospital ambulance had no first aid equipment at all. This 
absence of first aid equipment is not excusable, and should be remedied with- 
out delay. 



HOSPITAL* \M> DI-IM \-\mi - ;u;:; 

At present then- is no continuous assignment of members of the police 
force to the ambulance service, so that a man with proficiency gained by 
experience (in lieu of training) may he replaced l.y one to whom the simplest 
matters of emergency treatment are unknown. 

No matter what the ailment of the patient may he. the ride to the hos- 
pital needs to IK- made as comfortable as possible. The following incident, 
similar to many which have come to the at lent ion of the Survey, uas reported 
from the personal observation of a meinl>er of the Survey statF, on one day 
during the winter. The Police Emergency was drawn up in front of a store 
on lower KIK lid Avenue, and a shivering, pallid woman in a semi-conscious 
state was carried out and placed on the hard, unpillowed leather shelf of the 
ambulance. There was no blanket to protect the woman from the cold 
northeast wind, and her husband covered her with his coat. 

The type of ambulance used by the police department is uncovered at 
the end and the cars are very unsuitable for cases of serious illness, especially 
for patients with respiratory disease. The City Hospital ambulance, how- 
ever, is a closed car with a stretcher. 

The Animal Protective league oj>erates two ambulance trucks for the 
transportation of dogs, and was at the time of the study having another 
one made. Their ambulances are fitted with adjustable cages. The 
interiors of the cars are painted, and the cars are washed out with hot 
water to keep them in a clean and sanitary condition. In winter the exterior 
wire sides are covered with regulation side curtains. The humane care 
of dogs is a matter which should be of concern to every person, but it is cer- 
tainly only reasonable to insist that at least the same degree of humane < arc 
be rendered to human patients who through illness or accident are forced to 
use an ambulance. 

The matter of disinfecting an ambulance which has carried a patient suf- 
fering from contagious disease, is one of importance. Some provision is 
made for disinfecting the police emergency cars by formaldehyde spray, but 
conference with the policemen in charge of these cars convinced the investi- 
gator that very little real disinfection was done. Disinfection of tin- City 
Hospital ambulance by wiping out with cloths moistened in creoliu solution, 
and change of pillow case and blankets, is carried out on return from trans- 
porting a case of contagious disease only when the case next to lx> called for 
is one of a different contagious disease. From numerous complaints by phy- 
sicians it would seem that undertakers often fail to make any provision for 
disinfection, although no data on this matter wen- obtained. 

One thing which has impressed itself most forcibly upon the Survey staff 
is the general unwillingness of the dejM-ndent sick to use the Police Kmer- 
gancy ambulance. Well-to-do patients can of course, afford to |>ay the fee 
charged for the use of undertakers' cars. Innumerable cases were found 
however. \\ here patients who could ill afford the five or ten dollars, summoned 
the private ambulance rather than endure the stigma of riding in the police 
emergency. It must be remembered that to all practical appearances there 



964 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

is no distinction between the sick man in the police emergency and the man 
who has been engaged in a street fight or some less commendable pursuit. 
Natural pride and self-respect resent such a method of transportation in 
case of sickness or injury, and this feeling of resentment is justifiable. Cer- 
tainly a more dignified and considerate method of conveying a patient to 
the hospital needs to be provided. On the other hand, it seems just as 
unfortunate that an undertaker's wagon should be used for carrying patients. 

No ambulance service is provided for taking patients to Warrensville 
Infirmary or, in case a contagious disease develops there, for removing the 
patient to City Hospital. In the latter case a delivery truck is used, an 
arrangement hardly to the credit of the city of Cleveland. 

It is believed by the Survey that at least the Cleveland hospitals main- 
taining over 200 beds should provide their own ambulances, and that the 
smaller hospitals might combine in some manner under the Hospital Coun- 
cil. In order to maintain such a system of ambulance service in a satisfac- 
tory manner, it is necessary to have some central organization. In Cleve- 
land, so long as the present police emergency ambulances will doubtless 
remain in use for some time, even though individual hospital ambulances are 
provided, it would doubtless be best to retain the present central call bureau 
under the jurisdiction of the police department, assigning an emergency dis- 
trict to each hospital providing such service. The method of handling ambu- 
lance calls used in New York City may be taken as the basis of a system for 
Cleveland. In New York the city is districted for emergency ambulance 
service and there is a central bureau to which all emergency calls are made. 
This central bureau is at all times informed of the movements of each ambu- 
lance, whether it has gone for a patient, or whether it is available for use on 
a call. When an emergency call is received it is relayed to the proper district 
office. With a little modification the present central call bureau of the 
Cleveland Police Department could be adapted for the use of an efficient 
city-wide ambulance system. 

The following recommendations are considered essential to the improve- 
ment of the ambulance service of Cleveland: 



RECOMMEND A TIONS 

The police patrol wagons should be replaced by ambulances for use in emergency 
work, and the use of police patrol wagons for ambulance transportation should be dis- 
continued as rapidly as possible. 

Each ambulance should be provided with a stretcher, blankets and ordinary first aid 
equipment, including a Thomas splint. 

At least four such cars should be provided and stationed in appropriate sections of 
the city. 

The policemen assigned to ambulance service should be required to pass a thorough 
course in first aid, consisting of both theory and practice. This instruction should be 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 965 

under the direction of the Division of Health. Assignment to the ambulance branch 
of the police service should be continuous. 

At least two more ambulances should be provided at the City Hospital to be used 
for transportation of contagious cases from all parts of the city to the City Hospital, and 
for transferring cases to and from Warrensville Infirmary and Sanatorium. 

Twenty-four hour service should be provided by the City Hospital for the trans- 
portation of contagious cases. 

Hospitals of over 200 beds should provide their own ambulance service, smaller hos- 
pitals combining with one another under the Hospital Council to provide such service. 
The larger hospitals also might find it advantageous to come into some such joint scheme. 

As ambulance service is provided by individual hospitals, an agreement should be 
reached with the Chief of Police by which an emergency district would be assigned to each 
hospital providing such service. 

The existing centralized system of calling for ambulances at the Police Information 
Bureau should be continued for all emergency work. 

The hospitals and public health agencies should discontinue the use of undertakers' 
invalid carriages for ambulance service. 



966 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

V. Hospital and Dispensary Planning 
COMMUNITY PLANNING 

From the standpoint of the community, hospitals and dispensaries in 
Cleveland have been planted, rather than planned planted each by itself 
instead of being planned as part of a community scheme for organized medi- 
cal service. 

The hospitals thus planted have grown, but have not grown fast enough 
to keep pace with the development of the city. This is even more true of 
the dispensaries, the starved children of the hospitals. The outstanding, 
almost tragic, fact in the situation of Cleveland is the shortage of 1,500 beds 
below present community needs, and the deficiency in dispensary service, 
which at present is not more than one-third of the needed amount. 

These major needs are a challenge to the courage and resources of a pro- 
gressive, self-confident city such as Cleveland. The passage of the City 
Hospital Bond Issue during the spring of 1920 for $3,500,000 gives assurance 
that when the necessary steps of making plans, selling bonds and putting up 
buildings have been taken, at least one-third, or possibly half, of the needed 
1,500 beds will be provided. 

It was originally expected that the $3,500,000 would be sufficient to con- 
struct 900 beds and a dispensary, tearing down the present psychopathic 
building of 200 beds, which is unfit for hospital use; and thus making a net 
addition of 700 beds. The City Hospital would then have practically 1,500 
beds, and it should have this number as soon as possible. Since the figure 
$3,500,000 was decided upon by the authorities, building costs have continued 
to rise, and (while the future course of prices cannot safely be predicted) it 
is probable that the sum will be insufficient to build any such number as 900 
beds, besides a dispensary and necessary enlargements or improvements in 
nurses' home, power plant, kitchen, etc. The present city administration 
should proceed as rapidly as possible with plans and construction, making 
the $3,500,000 go as far as it can, and all public officials and private persons 
who have the hospital interest of the city at heart should continue their efforts 
until the City Hospital has reached the needed size. 

Privately supported hospitals must expect to provide 750 to 900 beds of 
the needed 1,500, as soon as possible, and also the dispensaries, as outlined 
in the discussion of that subject. An expenditure of probably $12,000,000 
for buildings must be faced by the people of greater Cleveland during the next 
few years.* This figure does not include such special provisions for research 
and medical teaching as may be provided in connection with the University 
Hospital. Of the $12,000,000 it may be expected that two-thirds, or a little 
less, will have to be provided by private gifts, and about one-third, or some- 
what more, by the municipality. 



This sum includes $3,500,000 bond issue. At the time of concluding the Survey the bonds had been 
authorized but not marketed. 



HOSPITALS AND DnpEMBABne !><;? 

In one of the striking financial "campaigns" of remit years, the Jewish 
Community of New York City, with a population only slightly more than 
the total population of (Jreater Cleveland, raised more than $7,(X)0,000 for 
building funds for its various institutions. Cleveland has let its population 
grow faster than it has |>ermitted its hospitals to grow. Atonement for the 
ne^leet of yesterday can only be made by dipping more deeply into the pocket 
today. Delay means only the incurring of still heavier future obligations. 

It is greatly to be desired that in securing these building funds Cleveland 
shall pursue the policy already so finely established through the Welfare 
Federation in raising annual expenses. Joint campaigns for hospital building 
funds sire the desirable method. Otherwise Cleveland will be weary with 
one hospital "campaign" following another, with the almost inevitable 
result that those which happen to have been unable to make campaigns first 
will suffer, and the response will be influenced more largely by chance than 
by relative need or merit. What is of even more importance is that balanced 
development will be less likely, l>ecause joint campaigning implies in a con- 
siderable measure joint planning, the mutual adjustment of plans to the 
broader needs of the community. 

It is true that the present year, 1920, does not seem a propitious one for 
a large financial "drive" such as this building fund campaign would have 
to be. There are just two practical recommendations for those who ought 
to voice the need and lead the campaign to meet it : conviction and courage. 
There must be profound belief in the urgency of the need for more hospital 
beds and more dispensaries, and firm determination to meet this need at 
the earliest possible date. 

PROJECTED ENLARGEMENT 

The Survey found that a number of Cleveland hospitals had made plans 
for expansion. Three notable examples are the following: 

The project of Lakeside Hospital to move from its present site near 
East Twelfth Street and Lakeside Avenue, to Wade Park, enlarging its 
capacity from 289 beds to 500 beds. In connection with this is to be men- 
tioned the desire to move Maternity Hospital to the same area, and to enlarge 
it to 100 beds, as a part of the University Hospital group; and, the building 
of a hospital of 150 beds for babies and children, as part of the same group. 
The total for the group is 750 beds, making a net increase over present pro- 
visions in the same group of institutions of 400 beds. 

The project of St. Luke's, to move from its present site on Carnegie 
Avenue to Ambler Heights, and to enlarge from its present capacity of 139 
beds to 300 beds, a net addition of 161 beds, or, if the present hospital were 
retained and used for an enlarged dispensary and an industrial hospital of 
perhaps 100 beds, a net addition of about 250 beds. 

The project of Huron Road Hospital to move from its present site on 
Huron Road, to Ansel Road and Wade Park, enlarging its present capacity 
of 84 beds to 250 beds, a net addition of 166 beds. 



968 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The plan of Lutheran Hospital to enlarge from 50 to 100 beds has already 
been put before the public in a campaign for the needed funds. 

A number of other hospitals have stated to the Survey in more or less 
specific form their desires or projects for expansion. It will be observed 
that on the minimum basis of calculation the projects of Lakeside, Maternity, 
the new Babies' and Children's Hospital, Huron Road and St. Luke's would 
together bring a net increase of 727 beds minimum, or 816 beds maximum. 
In other words, these projects alone, if carried out, would provide most of 
the 900 beds which must come from private funds. It is to be desired, how- 
ever, if a joint campaign for building can be organized and successfully 
accomplished, that the legitimate desires of some of the small institutions be 
recognized. It is particularly important that if funds cannot be asked for or 
secured sufficient to provide for the total amount required for the needs of 
all the institutions, that some of the smaller hospitals whose present buildings 
and equipment are now notably inadequate, shall be allotted sufficient amounts 
to enable them to make needed changes or improvements of a permanent or 
semi-permanent nature, even if their substantial program of enlargement 
must be postponed, and if the plans for the three largest hospitals have to 
be somewhat curtailed. For example, the improvement of the nurses' home 
at St. Vincent's or the provision of a dispensary at St. John's, are urgently 
required by present needs for better service, irrespective of increase in the 
number of beds. 

In the rounding out of Cleveland's hospital facilities througli the develop- 
ment of specialties, the increase of service to children is the most urgent 
need in both hospitals and dispensaries. The building of the proposed Babies' 
and Children's Hospital is perhaps the most greatly needed of Cleveland's 
hospital facilities, after the enlargement of the City Hospital. 

There is need of enlargement of facilities for maternity care, and the pro- 
gram of Maternity Hospital to increase its size from 60 to 100 beds is approved. 
This, however, is not so urgent as a number of other needs, such as for chil- 
dren's beds, for an eye and ear hospital, or for the improvement in the plants 
and nurses' homes of several other institutions, such as St. Vincent's, St. 
Alexis, etc. 

In the case of diseases of the eye, ear, nose, and throat, the deficiencies 
in Cleveland, as pointed out in the early part of this Report, are unusually 
serious. Many other cities have found it desirable to establish eye and ear 
hospitals. New York provides 608 beds; Boston, 219; Baltimore, 153; 
Portland, Maine, 100; Washington, 94; Philadelphia, 58; Pittsburgh, 40; and 
Chicago, 32. In Cleveland one hospital only (Lakeside) makes any special 
reservation of beds for eye cases. Six hospitals maintain an ear, nose, and 
throat service. There is no throat ward in the city. There are cared for in 
hospitals and dispensaries a relatively small portion of the eye, ear, nose, 
and throat work required by a population as large as that of Cleveland and 
its vicinity. No center exists for the training of physicians and nurses in 
these specialties. There are exceedingly numerous industrial eye injuries. 
All but one of the twelve oculists who responded to the Survey's letter of 



\M) DlM'l \-\IUK8 !Mi!t 

inquiry stated that industrial eye injnric^ came to them with evidences of 
having been miahandled. 

Of tin- ">45 persons in the city known as totally blind, 306 cases may be 
considered as due to preventable diseases or injuries. In addition to this 
ntimlxT, HI cases are to IK* classed as curable. 

It is therefore recommended that Inxls to Uie numl>er of 100 IM- established 
for eye, ear, nose, and throat cases; these l>eds to l>e maintained preferably 
as a branch of an existing general hospital, or, if established as a separate 
hospital, to be in close cooperation with a general hospital, in order to secure 
the most economical administration and the mutual advantages of coopera- 
tion between the staff of the general hospital and the specialists in eye, ear, 
nose, and throat. It is essential that there be such freedom and independ- 
ence for the eye, ear, nose, and throat staff a.> to enable the fullest develop- 
ment of the special facilities, technic, and educational opportunities, and if 
these conditions cannot be met were the beds to be part of a general hospital, 
the beds should be established as a separate hospital, with the affiliation 
indicated. 

It is desirable that the hundred beds be divided between the ear, nose, 
and throat service, and the eye service, in the proportion of three to two; 
and that there be maintained a dispensary eye clinic and a dispensary ear, 
nose, and throat clinic, in connection with these bed.?. The clinics had best 
be parts of a general dispensary, but in any case the hospital staff should 
have direct medical control. It is of course highly important that the eye, 
ear, nose, and throat beds and clinics lx> used for medical teaching purposes, 
under-graduate and post-graduate, and for nurses. It would be well that 
there be provision among the institutions affiliated with these special beds 
for an exchange of visiting physicians and surgeons, and of nurses in training. 

Provision for all other sj>ecialties, such as orthopedics, and laryngology, 
should be made by the development of services in general hospitals, with an 
assigned number of beds and with possibly the addition of more beds or 
pavilions at a future date, rather than by the construction of new important 
specialized hospitals. The special hospital has a place during the period of 
development of the technic of a specialty; but the permanent pro vision of 
hospital facilities in special branches is better and more economically made 
by divisions of general hospitals. 

LOCATIONS AND RE-LOCATIONS 

The study made by the Survey of the locations and inter-relations of 
hospitals in Cleveland has led to approval of the plans of Lakeside, Huron 
Road, and St. Luke's hospitals to move from downtown locations to sites 
in the eastern part of the city, in or near Wade Park. Prevailing winds in 
Cleveland are from the west, and sites in the eastern part of the city will 
continue to be dirtier than locations on the western edge, until Cleveland 
deals effectively with its obnoxious coal smoke. It must be pointed out, 
however, that the moving-out of these hospitals and the closing of St. ('lair 



970 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Hospital, which the Survey has recommended, will leave the central portion 
of the city practically unprovided with local hospital facilities. With ade- 
quate ambulance service, such as Cleveland should demand and secure (see 
discussion of this subject), location will be rendered a secondary factor in a 
large proportion of hospital cases, yet the tremendous volume of hospital 
cases arising out of the downtown area cannot but require some local pro- 
vision. 

It will be necessary to retain either at Huron Road or at Lakeside, or in 
perhaps a new hospital, from thirty to fifty beds, preferably affiliated with a 
larger out-lying institution so as to secure the advantages of lowered cost 
and better medical service. It would be more economical if the present 
site and part of the present buildings of Lakeside or Huron Road were utilized 
for this purpose instead of requiring new construction. 

As outlined in the section on the downtown dispensary, this downtown 
hospital should be part of the same plant as the new proposed downtown 
dispensary. 

. In the chapter on dispensaries and in the chapters just preceding, the 
need for the development of several additional dispensaries, particularly on 
the west and south sides was pointed out, and the particular institutions 
named. 

All of these points regarding the location of hospitals and dispensaries 
and their inter-relation need to be thought out as part of a comprehensive 
plan for providing general service to the city as a whole, and also local facili- 
ties of various kinds, readily accessible to each district. In previous sections 
of the report it has been brought out that certain of the larger hospitals have 
a wide range, drawing patients from all over the city and from outside the 
Kmits of Cleveland; that other hospitals are largely local in their clientele. 
The same is true of dispensaries, some being city-wide in their range, others 
serving few patients outside of one general section of the city, while the health 
centers are definitely restricted to a certain comparatively small area, as 
preventive work must be in order to be effective. Certain principles under- 
lying community planning of the number and location of hospitals and dis- 
pensaries may be formulated as follows, as the conclusion of this section. 

PRINCIPLES OF COMMUNITY PLAN 

There should be a small number of what may be called major hospitals 
and dispensaries, equipped with everything in the way of modern diagnostic 
and therapeutic equipment. These major hospitals and dispensaries are 
expected to be city-wide in their range, and to serve particularly for receiving 
difficult cases from within and outside the city, for consultation purposes 
and for diagnosis. In Cleveland the new City Hospital with its dispensary 
should serve as such an institution for the west side. Lakeside, in its present 
location or in its enlargement as part of the University group, would serve 
in this capacity also. Mount Sinai and St. Vincent's may be mentioned 
also, and a few other hospitals, such as St. Luke's, may develop on a similar 



II. ^ni M.-S \\n l>i-si'K\-s\i<u.s 971 

grade, although the teaching hospitals and dis|xMisaries should IM- the dis- 
tinctive institutions of this ,-iass .-md every effort should IM- made to render 
them capable of measuring ii|> to Iliis responsibility fully. 

What 'may IK- called the district hospital, with its district disj^nsary or 
OUt-patient department, may next le mentioned. In this group may IM- in- 
cluded the bulk of the hospitals of Cleveland, the range of which is not strictly 
confined to a given district hut which are more local in character and \\hich 
may not usually expect any large consultant or diagnostic .service such as 
would go with the teaching institutions. Somewhat less elaborate and ex- 
pensive equipment and a less high degree of specialization in medical organi- 
zation may lx> expected in this group of institutions. It may be pointed out 
that such institutions fill a necessary and most worthy place in the scheme 
of hospital and dispensary care to the i>eople of large cities. 

Finally come the health centers, primarily preventive in their activities. 
More and more as the years go on, various therapeutic services of the simpler 
kind need to be located in as many neighborhoods as possible, because the 
more localized is their range, the more intensively and effectively can they 
reach 100 per cent, of the population with a message of hygiene, with ]>eriod- 
ical examinations for the detection and prevention of disease, with service 
for the prevention of infant and maternal mortality, the discovery and 
control of tuberculosis, and the detection of remediable physical defects of 
school children. 

The health center should aim to reach the entire population of its district 
for preventive purposes, sending cases in which defect or disease is discovered, 
either to the family physician or to an appropriate disj>ensary or hospital, or 
in the case of difficult problems, directly to the major institutions for diag- 
nosis. The combination of some of the simpler forms of curative work with 
the educational and preventive services is a necessary development of the 
health centers of the future. It may IK* |K>inted out that the projxxsed down- 
town dispensary and emergency hospital which will l>e permanently needed 
in the downtown section after Lakeside and Huron Road move, will In 1 largely 
a reference center for preventive as well as for diagnostic and curative pur 
poses. Particularly in a city like Cleveland, with its important medical 
school, the institutions doing the teaching must l>ear the primary responsi- 
bility, in hospitals and in out-patient clinics, for diagnostic service for the 
patients of private physicians as well as for the patients who cannot afford to 
pay a physician. The medical profession should reap the l>enefit of the de- 
velopment of more extensive services in the health centers and in the dis- 
trict hospitals and dispensaries. Appointments therein as >taff or auxiliary 
members and the benefits of their facilities for consultation and diagnosis, 
should supply the most serious present deficiencies in what the local prac- 
titioner has to offer his patients. 

It is evident that the danger of a "community plan" is that it leads us 
to glittering generalities merely. But it ought to be obvious that the ab- 
sence of a community plan leads to anarchy. Cleveland has taken a long 
step away from the state of anarchy which characterizes the medical institu 



972 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

tions of most large cities, through its Hospital Council and its Welfare Federa- 
tion. Any community plan which exists not merely on paper but which is 
a living thing with muscles and teeth, requires that individual institutions 
must adapt their policies and programs accordingly. 

Sacrifices of policies or programs which seem desirable and legitimate 
from the standpoint of an individual institution may be called for by its 
proper adjustment to larger community needs. It seems hard, at times, 
to expect a worthy institution to say "no" to the eager desire of its staff for 
a program of expansion which a community Survey shows is more than is 
required by the institution's district or by the particular kind of need which it 
serves; yet at times such negative prescriptions are wise and necessary, and 
should be self-imposed. It is not too much to expect of the hospitals and 
dispensaries of Cleveland that they have a community plan. It is not too 
much to expect that they abide by it, living not as bachelors and spinsters 
who have only themselves to consider, but as members of a family each of 
whom shares, nourishes, and is nourished by the life of the whole. 



Mo-I'lTA!.- \M> DlM'l \s\|<ll.^ 



INDIVIDUAL HOSPITAL PLANM\. 

The wise planning of a hospital's policy involves at least four clement- 

/. Adaptation of the work, ax to kinds of service offered, rates charged, etc., 
to the community, the district and the hospital's tpteim clientele. 

This adaptation should IMJ based on knowledge, perhaps requiring s]>ccial 
study of the social as well as the medical character of the hospital clientele, 
as outlined in the section on "The Human Problem of the Hospital Pa- 
tient". The Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey has rendered to tin- 
governing authority of each hospital in the Council a report, the recom- 
mendations of which, as to policy and administration, are the result of such 
a study. Each hospital has thus had a cross section of the situation and 
demands of 1920, as judged by the Survey. 

2. Periodical Self -Surveys, baaed on continuous critical observation of the 
institution's work, by its trustees, staff and executive officers, and fortified by 
annual reports and special studies. As urged below, annual reports should 
not be the basis for annual self-contemplation, but for a critical review and 
a vigorous effort toward better service. 

3. Long-range planning of program. Each hospital should look as far 
ahead as possible, studying out its present and future needs, (a) as to kinds of 
service which it should render and (6) as to the building, equipment, organ i~<i 
/ton, and personnel which it needs to have in order to render these service*. 

Not a few hospitals of Cleveland are suffering today because no com- 
prehensive plan was made in the past, and additions have been made to hos- 
pital buildings which now make a badly balanced plant. Often the service 
buildings, the nurses' home, or the power plant were not provided for suffi- 
ciently when additions were made to bed capacity, or were not planned 
with a view to easy enlargement when the number of beds should be in- 
creased. A comprehensive ,)lan which may be many years in realization 
will prevent one-sided and ill-judged extensions either in plant or in brancha 
of service. Expert advice and assistance could lie provided for many in- 
stitutions by the Hospital Council or the Welfare Federation in connection 
with this long range planning of each hospital, although of course in case of 
large institutions, or where extensive future building plans are involved, the 
special aid of a hospital architect or consultant nriy be desirable. 

4. Annual Reports to th*' Welfare Federation and to the I'ublii: 

Until recently, each h.xpital in Cleveland as elsewhere, depended mi its 
own particular list of financial supporters. Ea.-h hospital IIMI illv prepared 
its annual report mor- or less especially designed to express that iprility of 
gratitude which has been descril>od as a "lively expectation of favors yet t. 
come." The situation was radically changed when there came about joint 
financing through the Community Fund. The individual hospital no longer 
makes a direct puhli.- appeal for its own support. Sin h j.iint financing i> 
highly desirable on the whole, but certain minor defects or difficulties must 



974 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

be guarded against. One of these is , diminished incentive t;> prepare an 
annual report. It is true that under such a system as thit of the Welfare 
Federation, each institution must present its budget and the financial and 
service data required by the Welfare Federation so that the appropriating 
committee shall be in a position to reach a wise decision. Nevertheless, 
there is no longer the same sense of direct relationship with the public, and a 
more or less definite public at that. After all one of the great values of 
periodical reports ought to be the stimulus to the people who make them 
(which mere compilations of financial and statistical data do not provide). 
Preparation of a report ought to mean the formulation of fairly definite 
ideas about the work and needs of the matter reported on. It will mean 
this if the basal scheme of the report is properly designed. 

Recognizing this, the Welfare Fedention and the Hospital Council 
should expect their member institutions to render not only the necessary 
statistical and financial data but also real reports to the public. The future 
of joint financing depends upon maintaining active public interest in the 
work to be financed. There must be meat upon which this interest may 
feed. Concrete facts are the basis. 

The.-e should be three types of reports furnished to the public either di- 
rectly or through the Welfare Federation or the Hospital Council : 

1. Summary report of hospital and dispensary work in Cleveland, taken as 
a whole, including the elementary data showing bulk and general types of service 
rendered, income and expenses. 

This should be prepared under the auspices of the Hospital Council and 
published by the Welfare Federation. A form for such a report is suggested 
and may be found in the appendix, Table IX. This may well be compared 
with the Summary Annual Report of the United Hospital Fund of New York 
City, the pioneer undertaking of its kind in this country. 

2. A report from each hospital to the Hospital Council and the Welfare 
Federation, giving the technical figures not only of bulk and general types of work 
but the details of service and results; of cost in relation to units of service: and 
of income and its various sources. 

The monthly and annual report forms prepared by the Hospital Council 
for the use of its members have served a highly useful purpose. They may 
be slightly developed further to advantage, and should be made uniform 
with the reports required by the Welfare Federation. The Hospital Council 
annual report form is believed to furnish so desirable a basis that no other 
form will be outlined here. It is suggested that the form might be somewhat 
smaller and easier to use if some of the items which are extended over many 
lines were put into more condensed and tabular form. These and other de- 
tails should be adjusted so far as possible in order that this form shall be 
comparable with that required by the State Department of Health. Thus 
the labor of filling out two forms will be reduced to a minimum. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 



It is recommended that the following items be included in the report 
form: 

Percentage of bed days care given in comparison with total possible 
number of days care in each division of the hospital, and for the hospital as 
a whole (monthly and annual) The extent to which it is pOLsib'e to sub- 
<livide the different sections of the hospital will depend on the digree to 
which the hospital is itself sub-divided into buildings or separate units, and 
the degree to which groups of wards or rooms are definitely assigned to p ir- 
ticular services or classes of patients. 

The number of visits fand number of new patients in each clinic or 
division of the dispensary should be shown as well as the figures for the dis- 
pensary as a whole; the average number of visits per patient for each, and 
the average attendance per clinic day. Thus in tabular form: 

('LJNIC REPORT FOR MONTH (OR YEAR) FOR DISPENSARY OF ....... 



Name of No. of No. of New Av. No. of Visits No. of Av. No. of 

Clinic Visits Patients per Patient Clinic Day* Visits per Day 



Medical 

Surgical 

Pediatric _ 

Eye 

Dermatological 

Etc 

Total 



If evening clinics are conducted on a different financial basis (pay clinics) 
from the corresponding day clinic these should be shown separately. 

The cost of the dispensary and the income from its operation in relation 
to'cost should be shown. Income from operation may well be classified into 
admission fees, treatment fees, fees for medicines. 

As soon as the accountant service of the Welfare Federation (as recom- 
mended in the sections on administration) is in effective operation, all hos- 
pitals would be in a position to show the costs for the main divisions of 
their work, a well as for the hospital as a whole (average daily per capita) 
and for the average daily cost for provisions per capita. In so far as it is pos- 
sible to state relative costs for private room and for ward service, this should 
be done. 

As soon a^ possible a report on results of serviec should l>e developed. 
The usual report of "condition on discharge" as "cured," "improved", 
"unimproved", "died", is definite only in the last item; lias practically no 
medical or social value and is not worth including in hospital reports. Real 



976 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

reports of results of care of patients can develop only as the outcome of a 
real follow-up system. As individual hospitals develop these, a summary 
report of results of care should be included in the annual report form. It 
would be well at once to include the following items in the form under the 
heading : 

"DISPOSITION OF PATIENTS AT DISCHARGE." 

Total patients discharged -.. 

Of these, patients died to the number of. 

Remainder , 

Disposition of these as follows: 

Private Ward or Staff 

Patients Patients 

No. Per cent. No. Per cent. 

1. Referred to home under care of private physician 

2. Referred to another hospital , 

3. Referred to convalescent home 

4. Referred to dispensary supervision 

5. Referred to patient's home without arrangement as to care 

6. Other reference 

7. Left against advice 

8. Unknown or no record 

Total 



The use of such data showing, administrative action at the time of dis- 
charge will be a definite stimulus toward better follow-up and convalescent 
care. 

3. The third form of report from the hospitals should be not statistical but 
interpretative; a statement of progress and of problems, of accomplishment and 
of needs. 

The traditional annual report has done this in a measure but has often 
been written by committee members who had little first-hand contact with 
the facts, or very slight conception of what should be said except thanks to 
other committee members and to staff and supporters, so that it largely 
failed to accomplish any real purpose. An annual report shopld be built 
from the ground up. The medical executive committee and the head of 
each main administrative department should be asked to turn in a report 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES !>7? 

for their several fields six weeks before the report is to be issued. It should 
be expected that besides certain statistical or other facts relative to the 
work of the dejxartment, these reports shall contain a summary of (a) accom- 
plishments of the year items felt to be indications of progress; (6) present 
problems and needs; (c) definite requests and recommendations for action. 
In some hospitals, each chief of a medical, surgical, or special division, the 
head of the laboratory, and the head of the X-Ray department will be asknl 
to render reports as well as the medical executive committee. 

The reports from the head of the nursing, and from the head of social 
M rviee, should pass through the training school committee or the social ser- 
vice committee, respectively, before coming to the superintendent and to 
the trustees. The committee may write its own report if desired, but in any 
case should state its comment upon the recommendations presented by the 
executive. 

It is recognized that securing reports from many medical and depart- 
mental heads \ not always easy and that the reports are not always well 
prepared or to the point. Much of this difficulty has been due to failure on 
the part of the Superintendent or trustees to give to those writing reports a 
definite idea as to what was expected. 

The superintendent's report to the trustees should be a real survey of 
the hospital, its accomplishments, problems and needs, and should include 
recommendations. Trustees who do not receive that type of report either 
do not know how to get, or do not get, the best out of the man or woman 
whom they employ as superintendent. 

On the basis of such reports from their executive officer and their depart- 
ments, and of conference with them, the trustees should be in a position to 
know what they need to know to plan the coming year's policy and program, 
and the amount of money they need to secure. The reports should be the 
basis of the presentation of the hospital's needs to the Welfare Federation 
and should be accessible to those having a basis for definite interest therein. 

The trustees ought not to have to prepare a detailed report, but merely 
a brief statement of decisions or recommendations for which the other re- 
ports are the foundation. A group of reports thus prepared should con- 
stitute a real annual self-survey. This need rarely be printed as a whole. 
There is required something less technical for a published report. 



INTERPRETING HOSPITAL TO PUBLIC 

It is essential from the standpoint of maintaining the interest of the pub- 
lic in a hospital and dispensary and of stimulating boards of trustees of the 
institution itself, that technical facts of such reports be interpreted in terms 
of ordinary items of interest and of every-day human standards of health 
and well-being. This is not usually within the capacity of the hospital ad- 
ministrator or trustee. 



978 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The hospital needs, and the Welfare Federation should furnish each hos- 
pital, the service of a publicity expert, just as it provides the service of an 
accountant for the technical data. The publicity man would help the hos- 
pital to put its technical facts in common terms, to connect them with ideas 
and interests which the average man readily understands and appreciates. 

The use of such a statement, put into form with the advice of the pub- 
licity man, would be partly for those particularly interested in the hospital, 
and partly for other hospitals and the general public, reached through the 
Welfare Federation and the press. The custom of presenting reports at an 
annual public meeting of the trustees or members of the hospital corporation 
is useful if only that it gives to reports a certain news value. 

Under present conditions in Cleveland, the trustees of hospitals are 
freed from the necessity of the continuous pursuit of the vocation of honor- 
able begging, the most characteristic occupation of trustees in most com- 
munities. They may ordinarily concentrate their financial efforts within a 
brief period of the year, and be free at other times to give their attention to 
administration, and planning for the hospital. It is above all, important 
that in working out and planning the present and future policy of individual 
hospitals, the trustees, the staffs, and the executive officers keep always be- 
fore them the conception that the hospital is an agent for service to the com- 
munity, and not an institution with all its roots in its own soil. There is 
marked danger that those who work within the four walls of an institution 
lose touch with outside interests and agencies, and develop- the ingrowing 
rather than the outlooking mind. This danger is particularly apparent in 
such a highly specialized technical service as that of a hospital. A well- 
managed dispensary tends to assist hospital trustees, staffs, and adminis- 
trators to keep in touch with the community, because a dispensary is less 
rigid, less walled-in than a hospital proper, and helps in achieving a prac- 
tical combination of administrative efficiency with human adaptability. 
Hospitals closely connected with a church organization appear in some cities 
particularly prone to be over-institutionalized. The public spirit and com- 
munity interest manifested by such hospitals as St. Vincent's and St. John's 
should be mentioned as notable illustrations of a different point of view in 
Cleveland. Such a cooperative organization as the Cleveland Hospital 
Council has undoubtedly assisted all hospitals to think in terms of larger 
units than themselves. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 



ORGANIZATION TO CARRY OUT PLANS 

Planning for individual hospitals and planning for the hospitals^and 
dispensaries of a community as a whole will yield little practical result unless 
there is community organization of the right sort. In Cleveland we may 
classify the community functions and organization in two groups, those 
under public auspices (municipal or state) and those under private auspices, 
affiliated as members of the Welfare Federation and the Cleveland Hospital 
Council. 

An institution dealing with so serious a matter as treatment of illness 
has a responsibility to the public which should be recognized by a certain 
degree of public supervision. By a recent law, the Department of Health 
of the State of Ohio was empowered to register, define, and classify all hos- 
pitals and dispensaries, to require hospital reports, and to license maternity 
hospitals. It is deemed desirable that these public supervisory powers be 
extended as follows: 

(a) Every hospital and dispensary should be required to obtain a license . 
to operate from the State Department of Health.* 

(b) Such license should be issued for a term of one year, renewable by 
the Department. 

(c) Licenses should be revocable for cause, provided that notice of 
reasons shall be given in advance to the institution and also an opportunity 
for a public hearing when requested. 

(d) Hospitals and dispensaries incorporated as chanties should be 
licensed without fee and a small license fee should be charged to institutions 
which are incorporated for profit. 

(e) Inspection by the State Department of Health should be provided 
for and appropriation made for a staff to perform this work. 

The State Department of Health should be empowered to outline and 
prescribe requirements or standards under which licenses should be issued 
and under which hospitals and dis{>ensaries may oj>erate. 

The administrative powers of the State Department of Health should be 
exercised by this Depart incut throughout the State, except in chartered 
cities. SiK-h rities should l>c authorised to pass laws or ordinances (the con- 
stitution provides that they shall not be inconsistent with the existing stat 
laws) and to administer the licensing and inspecting powers alxwe provided 
for under its own local authority. 

It is the opinion of Doctor Babcock, who hat collaborated on this study, that this is an undesirable 
administrative responsibility to place on state authorities. 



980 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The State Department should administer the law directly in those cities 
or other political subdivisions which do not maintain their local administra- 
tion under their own auspices. The State Department of Health should in 
all cases continue to receive annual reports from hospitals and dispensaries 
and to maintain a register of all licensed institutions. No chartered city 
should be permitted to prescribe or tolerate standards for the maintenance 
or licensing of hospitals or dispensaries which fall below those prescribed by 
the State Department of Health. 

If there were no other reason than the existence in Cleveland of a num- 
ber of commercial hospitals, this would be sufficient for the extension of the 
powers of the state and the administration of these powers in Cleveland 
by the municipal government. The inspection made by the Survey of the 
sixteen institutions not members of the Cleveland Hospital Council revealed 
the fact that while a few are of the public-service class and a few others are 
well conducted proprietary institutions giving a fair standard of care to their 
patients, the remainder are utterly unworthy of existence. In six cases no 
graduate nursing service whatever was provided for the sick patients. In 
more than one instance, the buildings were dirty and the patients appeared 
to be physically uncared for. 

Proprietary hospitals have a legitimate place, but making a profitable 
business out of the improper care of the sick is intolerable, and can be pre- 
vented only by public authority. The State, utilizing as proposed the ma- 
chinery of the city government in the larger communities, has the right and 
duty to set minimum standards to which every institution treating the sick 
shall conform, and to enforce such standards through appropriate agents. 
Such a policy does not mean interference in hospital management by the 
state or city, or public regulation of hospitals in any detailed sense of the 
term. It means the securing of such facts as shall enable the public to be 
protected against an unworthy and improper class of institution leaving the 
majority, which are far above this class, free to conduct themselves as they 
will. 

It is important in a community program for dealing with hospitals and 
dispensaries, that the municipal agencies caring for the sick shall be properly 
related to the private agencies, and this has been notably achieved in Cleve- 
land through the Hospital Council. The City Hospital is a member, as well 
as the privately supported institutions. 

The broader interests of the city in public health (in which the hospitals 
are also concerned) should be brought into closer touch with private agencies 
interested in such subjects, through some such means as the proposed Cleve- 
land Public Health Association (see Part II.). In the opinion of the Survey, 
the relations between the Welfare Federation, the Cleveland Hospital Coun- 
cil, and the individual institutions should be somewhat as follows: 

OUTLINES OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION 

1. It is the function of the Welfare Federation to deal with questions of 
general policies in relation to large groups of welfare agencies and in particu- 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 981 

lar to provide machinery for joint financing and suitable apportionment of 
funds raised. 

It is highly desirable and has been elsewhere recommended by the Survey 
(Part II.) that the Welfare Federation have on its executive staff an assistant 
to its general director, who will be an expert in the health field, and who 
will be able to advise the director on the many problems in this field to which 
the Federation devotes over one million of the four million dollars raised 
.in nually by the Community Fund. 

. Within the hospital and dispensary field, the Hospital Council should 
outline standards for hospitals and dispensaries, covering minimum require- 
ments in : 

(a) Organization (board of trustees, superintendent, staff, nursing, etc.) 
for hospitals and dispensaries. 

(b) Medical work (examinations, use of laboratories, records, internes, 
private and ward patients). 

(c) Finance and accounting. 

3. Only hospitals complying with these standards should be admitted or 
retained as members of the Council. 

4. Only hospitals in the Council should be assisted by the Federation. 

5. Financial support by the Federation should be on the basis of chari- 
table work, which should be taken to include free service and also part-pay 
service, rendered in hospital beds or in dispensary clinics. 

6. Appropriations for the support of dispensary work should be separated 
from those of hospital work, since the units of service are different. 

7. Municipal hospitals, and also hospitals not doing charitable work as 
above defined but complying with the standards, may be members of the 
Council and the Federation, and receive the benefits of such membership 
(they will not of course need financial aid). 

PLACE OF HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

The Cleveland Hospital Council has been of such great value to Cleve- 
land and indeed to the state and the country that too much emphasis cannot 
be laid upon the importance of its adequate maintenance and development. 
It has brought the hospitals of the city together for cooperative work, and 
for mutual improvement in many respects. Advantageous legislation in 
connection with hospital service and public health work has been promoted 
by the influence of the Council and by the activities of its executive secre- 
tary. Certain of the technical standards, forms of report, etc., as outlined 
by the Council have been made use of by institutions and by official bodies 
in other parts of the United States. 



882 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The Central Purchasing Department of the Council has been and is a 
valuable contribution to the economy of hospital administration. The 
amount of purchasing done (for hospitals alone) for the first half of the year 
1919 was $90,890.89; for the entire year of 1919, $268,503.07; and for the 
first six months of 1920, $222,278.97. It will be noticed that the purchases 
for the first half of 1920 almost equal the purchases for the entire year of 
1919. It is estimated by the Department that there has been a saving on 
the large purchases for the first half of 1920 to the amount of $10,000.00, 
and that there was also considerable saving on the small purchases, although 
no definite estimate can be furnished of this. 

Consideration should be given to the transfer of the Purchasing Depart- 
ment from the auspices of the Hospital Council to those of the Welfare Fed- 
eration, in order that the range of service of the Department may be widened; 
or the Council might offer the services of the Department to Federation 
organizations which are not members of the Council. 

The opportunities for service by the Council to the hospitals of Cleve- 
land are increasing steadily in proportion as the hospitals appreciate more 
and more the advantages of cooperative activity in administrative direc- 
tions, for the sake of economy and efficiency, and of conferences and discus- 
sion for more effective formulation of policies concerning hospital service. 

The development of a dispensary section of the Hospital Council for 
purposes of improvement of dispensary service which is recognized as an 
urgent need throughout the city, is now an important activity which natur- 
ally belongs within the general scope of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

Almost endless opportunities exist for service to hospitals through the 
expert services of the executive staff of the Council, which should assist the 
members in an advisory way through their own efforts and through as- 
sembling information, arranging conferences, securing expert advice from other 
sources, etc. Many of the recommendations made by the Survey to indi- 
vidual hospitals, particularly those of moderate or small size, will doubtless 
'cause these hospitals to appeal to the Hospital Council for advice in helping 
them to work out details of such recommendations as are approved in gen- 
eral by the hospital trustees. The interest of the hospitals in legislation 
will continue to call for some activity in this direction on their part each 
season. 

The organization and staff of the Hospital Council does not appear ade- 
quate at present to meet these demands, but it is of the highest importance 
to the best advancement of hospital and dispensary service in Cleveland 
that the Council equip itself to carry its increasing responsibilities. It may 
be noted that the time has probably arrived when a substantial share of the 
work in initiating . and promoting legislation, in which the Courcil has 
achieved so much success, may be taken over by the Ohio State Hospital 
Association. This would seem a logical development. 

It is recommended that the proposed Central Dispensary Committee be 
made part of the activities of the Hospital Council as soon as the Council 
staff is able to carrv the additional work. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENBAHIKK 



HOSPITAL STANDARDS 

Membership in the Hospital Council should mean to other hospitals and 
to the public, the acceptability of the hospital according to standards of good 
organization and management. The chief present deficiency of the Council 
is due to the fact that hospitals have been accepted as members whose stand- 
ards have been too far below those of the average maintained by the Council, 
and not as high, in one or two institutions, as a few hospitals not members 
of the Council. It is recognized, however, that in the initial formation of the 
Cleveland Hospital Council, it was not practicable to define or enforce 
standards very definitely. The time has now come, however, when definite 
minimum standards of admission should be publicly known as well as pro- 
fessionally enforced. The Council, through its committees, officers, and 
executive staff, should be the democratic professional agent of the hospitals 
and dispensaries, themselves, for their own improvement; and should be the 
advisor of the Welfare Federation on technical questions concerning hos- 
pital and dispensary functions and standards. 

The state and city governments, through the regulative acts proposed, 
should set minimum standards and an institution which does not comply 
with these should not be allowed to operate at all. Between the minimum 
standards and the desirable hospital standards is a considerable zone. The 
Hospital Council should not take in this twilight zone, but should always 
encourage and assist institutions which arc wit In i its shadow to move as 
rapidly as possible up into the light. 

With such relations between the state and city governments, the 
municipal hospital, the Welfare Federation, and the Cleveland Hospital 
Council with its hospital and dispensary experts, it is believed there will 
exist in Cleveland the machinery for the continued advance of hospital and 
dispensary standards of administration. If such progress is suitably reported 
to the public through the individual hospitals and through the general ac- 
tivities of the Council and Federation, growing interest and backing for hos- 
pital and dispensary work should be annually manifested, expressing itself 
in more intelligent policies, fuller cooperation, and larger funds for main- 
tenance and for permanent improvement. 

But organization after all is only machinery. It is the ideals and spirit 
of individuals and of small coherent groups working together, which pro- 
vide the motive power that drives institutions and communities onward. 
The schemes of organizers, publicity men, and financiers, can make the path 
easier and lessen friction during the forward movement, but the goal-posts, 
guides, and impelling forces, for community and institution alike, depend 
upon the intangible elements of the individual soul and the civic spi it 
Cleveland impresses every investigator with its eager readiness for cooper- 
ative activity. With such a community spirit, there is indeed the danger 
that attainment shall be measured too easily in terms of catch-words and 
externals, and not enough by the more abstract but more fundamental tests 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



of technic. It is for the development of a high degree of well-founded pro- 
fessional achievement with no loss of its present splendid tradition of com- 
munity endeavor that every lover of Cleveland must hope. 



TABLE I 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES IN CLEVELAND 



Institutions Members of Cleveland Hospital Council 



Dis- 
pensary 

Hospital Visits, 
Beds 1919 

Babies' Dispensary and 
Hospital 2500 East 

Thirty-fifth Street 34* 14,977 

Cleveland City Hospital 

Scranton Road 785 

Cleveland Maternity Hos- 
pital 3735 Cedar Ave 60 3,688 

Fairview Park Hospital 

3305 Franklin Avenue 85 

Glenville Hospital 701 

Parkwood Drive 74 

Grace Hospital 2307 W. 

Fourteenth Street 35 

Huron Road Hospital 748 

Huron Road 84 5,864 

Lakeside Hospital East 

Twelfth and Lakeside Av. 289 59,891 
Lakewood Hospital 14519 

Detroit Avenue 53 

Lutheran Hospital 2605 

Franklin Avenue 50 

Mount Sinai Hospital 

1800 East 105th Street... 225 19,324 



Dis- 
pensary 

Hospital Visits, 
Beds 1919 

Provident Hospital 624 
East 103rd Street 29 

Rainbow Hospital South 
Euclid, Ohio 85 

St. Alexis Hospital -5163 
Broadway 250 

St. Ann's Maternity Hos- 
pital 3409 Woodland Av. 55 

St. Clair Hospital 4422 
St. Clair Avenue 43 

St. John's Hospital 7911 
Detroit Avenue 150 

St. Luke's Hospital 6606 
Carnegie Avenue 139 13,313 

St. Vincent's Charity Hos- 
pital Central and East 
Twenty-second Street 290 21,863 

Warrensville Tuberculcsis 
Sanitarium, Warrensville, 
Ohio 2 70 

Woman's Hospital 1948 
East 101st Street.... . 37 



*In summer only. 



HOSPITALS AND DIBPENBABIEB 



IS-i 



Institutions Not Members of the Cleveland Hospital Council 



Dis- 
pensary 

Hospital Visits, 
Beds 1919 

fCarnegie Avenue Hospital 

8714 Carnegie Avenue.. Unknown 
fClass Mineral Fumes Treat- 
ments 8101 Hough A ve.. Unknown 

Cleveland Emergency Hos- 
pital 1780 East Fifty- 
fifth Street 22 

Cleveland Home Hospital 

5107 Prospect Avenue 10 
fDelmont Hospital and Sana 
tor turn 1770 Delmont 
Avenue Unknown 

Dorcas Invalids' Home 
1380 Addison Road 46 

East Cleveland Hospital 
14420 Euclid Avenue 31 

East Fifty-fifth Street Hos- 
pital 2415 East Fifty- 
fifth Street 60 

East Seventy-ninth Street 
Hospital 1873 East Sev 
enty -ninth Street 24 

Eliza Jennings Home for 
Incurables 10603 Detroit 

Avenue 26 

tEuclid Avenue Hospital and 
Sanatorium 9810 Euclid 
Avenue Unknown 

Florence Crittenden Home 
523 Eddy Road 12 

Mrs. Hitchcock's Private 
Hospital 5013 Prospect 
Avenue 15 



Eh. 



Hospital 

Hr.l* 



Visits. 
1919 



Holy Cross House- 9014 
Cedar Avenue 50 

Joanna Private Hospital 
933 East Seventy-eighth 
Street - 9 

Kate Castle Rhodes Babies' 
Dispensary 12611 Madi- 
son Avenue, Lakewood 

fNsal Institute Company 

3920 Euclid Avenue Unknown 

fOhio Sanitariums Com- 
pany 14822 Terrace 

Road Unknown 

fOrthopedic Institute 1936 

East Sixty-sixth Street Unknown 

fReliable Invalid Home 
2222 East Eighty-ninth 
Street Unknown 

Rest-Cure Hospital and 
Sanatorium 2453 East 
Fifty-fifth Street 16 (in use) 

St. Mark's Hospital 629 
Eddy Road 45 

Salvation Army Rescue 
Home 5905 Kinsman 
Road 54 

U. S. Marine Hospital- 
1041 Lakeside Avenue 86 4.493 

Windsor Sanatorium 4415 
Windsor Avenue 38 

Wright's Hospital 18902 
Nottingham Road 10 

Y. W. C. A. Retreat 4916 
St. Clair Avenue Temporarily 

Closed 



tlnst itutions not reported as registered with the State Department of Health up to June. 1920. 



986 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUEVEY 



Public Health 

Health Center No. 1 1510 East Forty- 
ninth Street. 

Health Center No. 2 502 Central Ave. 

Health Center No. 32810 Seymour 
Avenue. 

Health Center No. 4 5825 Cable Ave. 

Health Center No. 59206 Woodland 
Avenue. 

Health Center No. 610126 St. Clair 
Avenue. 

Health Center No 7 6100 Pear Avenue. 

University Health Center 2739 Orange 
Avenue. 

Prophylactic Baby Stations 

5706 Clark Avenue. 
7654 Broadway. 
12510 Mayfield Road. 



Dispensaries 

4247 Pearl Road. 
833 East 152d Street. 
3008 Bridge Avenue. 
2511 East Thirty-fifth Street. 
Prenatal Clinics 

Maternity Hospital Dispensary 2509 
East Thirty-fifth Street. 

(Sub-stations) 
2749 Woodhill Road. 
Alta House, 12510 Mayfield Road. 
2317 Lorain Avenue. 
Goodrich House, 1420 East Thirty- 
first Street. 

East Forty-ninth and Fleet Street. 
Mount Sinai Hospital 1800 East 105th 
Street 

St. Luke's Hospital 6606 Carnegie 
Avenue. 



TABLE II 
PERCENTAGE OF OCCUPANCY 



OF HOSPITAL BEDS 



HOSPITAL 



City..- 

Fairview Park. 

Glenville 

Grace 

Huron Road 

Lakeside 

Lakewood 

Lutheran 

Maternity 

Mount Sinai 

Provident 

St. Alexis 

St. Ann's 

St. Clair 

St. John's 

St. Luke's 

St. Vincent's.. . 
Woman's 



Beds* 
1919 

785 

85 

74 

35 

84 
289 

53 

50 

60* 
225f 

29 
250 

55** 

43 

150 

.139 

290 

37 



Per Cent. 
Occupied 
1919 

60.3 


Per Cent. 
Occupied 
1918 

82.2 


Per Cent. 
Occupied 
Census Days 
Averaged 

70.0 


60.4 


62.3 


67.6 


66.3 


72.3 


69.0 


66.8 


52.7 


94.3 


75.0 


68.2 


86.9 


90.8 


82.6 


72.9 


45.9 


40.7 


68.0 


80.9 


70.5 


93.0 


79.9 


70.3 


71.7 


72.4 


81.7 


84.2 


40.5 


49.4 


65. 5t 


78.1 


78.0 


97.8 


Unknown 


75.0 


93.7 


40.2 


58.6 


33.7 


Unknown 


79.0 


90.1 


75.8 


71.6 


95.3 


66.9 


58.1 


73.0 


76.0 


Unknown ft 


Unknown 



For maternity cases, adult beds only were included, except for Maternity Hospital for 1919, which 
was figured on a basis of 60 mothers and 33 cribs, as the bed days reported included both mothers and 
babies. 

tMt. Sinai for 1918 was figured on a 155-bed basis; for 1919 on a basis of 155 beds for February 
and March, and 225 for the remaining ten months. 

tProvident furnished data for the first Survey Census day only. 

**St. Ann's figures 1 for 1919 were not furnished. 

ttNo definite information was available regarding beds at Woman's for 1918. 

HCity was figured on basis of 650 beds until December, 1918, and 785 beds thereafter. Since the 
field work of the Survey was completed, figures were furnished by the City Hospital Administration, 
based on 725 beds which were available for 1919, instead of 785. This gives the percentage occupied for 
the year in the hospital as a whole, as 66.5 per cent. Further details of importance regarding City Hos- 
pital will be found in the foot-note, page 834. 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSARIES 



TABLE III 
HOSPITAL BEDS ACCORDING TO HEALTH DISTRICTS' 



District Type of District 
I Factory 



Pl.plllil 

tion 
of 

District 

82,185 



Hospitals 

in 
District 



Total 

Hotpital 

Beds in 

Diitrict 



Beds to Hospital CMC* 
1000 of to 1000 of Pop- 
Population illation of 
of Diitrict Di strict 
(Census I) (Census I) 



II _. 

IIL. 

IV 



.Factory , Congested 42 , 1 59 

.Near Congested 130,775 

Factory, Congested 164,094 



Lakeside 429 

St. Clair 
Cleveland 

Emergency 

Huron Road 84 

City 820 

Grace 

St. Alexis 293 

East 79th 
Florence Critten- 
den 
Joanna Private 



V Part Congested 136,294 

Part Residential 



VI Industrial 176,836 

Residential 

Congested 

VII Semi-congested 90.766 

Residential 

VIII Congested . 72,168 



5.2 



2.0 
6.3 

1.8 



2.1 



27 



35 
1.2 

12 



19 



St. Luke's ......... ._. 280 

Holy Cross 
Salvation Army 
Rescue Home 
Woman's 

Glenville ....... _ ......... 373 2.1 21 

Mount Sinai .......... 

Provident 
St. Mark's 

Fairview Park ..... 285 3.1 2.1 

Lutheran 

St. John's 

Maternity 490 6.8 4.1 

St. Ann's 
St. Vincent's 
East 55th Street 
Cleveland Home 
Mrs. Hitchcock's 
Private 

Outside Lakewood .............. 53 

City Rainbow .............. 85 

Limits Warrensville Tu- 

berculosis Sana- 

torium ................. 270 

Wright's 10 

East Cleveland ... 31 

It will be observed that the population figure* are those which were furnished the Survey from loca 
estimates, and are higher than those gwen -n th- 1920 census For the sake of umfo. 
mated population fijrures have been used throughout this table since its purpoae is Pnmanly 
parison of different districts, and census figures for anything except the city as a whole were not avail 
at the time of writing this report. 



988 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE FV 

PERCENTAGE OF HOSPITAL PATIENTS COMING FROM HEALTH 
DISTRICT IN WHICH HOSPITAL IS LOCATED 
(First Survey Census Day) 

Cleveland City 4 . 6 Mount Sinai 31 . 2 

Cleveland Maternity 13 . 7 Provident 78 . 9 

Fairview Park 36 . 7 St. Alexis 35 . 9 

Glenville 46 . 7 St. Ann's 59 . 8 

Grace 32 .3 St Clair..._ _ 28 6 

Huron Road 6.6 St John'st 

Lakeside* St. Luke's 15 . 6 

Lakewoodf St. Vincent's 0.0 

Lutheran _ 44 . 2 Woman's 26 

* Address not furnished for 52 per cent, of patients. 
t Hospital outside city limits of Cleveland. 
JAddress not furnished for 59 per cent, of patients. 



TABLE V 

PERCENTAGE OF CASES, CLASSIFIED ACCORDING TO COMPENSATION 
FOR CARE, ADMITTED THROUGH VARIOUS SOURCES TO 

THREE LARGE GENERAL HOSPITALS 

Patients Admitted to Hospital No. I., Classified According to Compensation for 
Care, and Source of Reference 

Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage 

of total referred by referred by referred by Percentage 

admissions staff non-staff by charitable not 

physicians physicians agencies classified 

Patients paying full cost of 

care 41.9 53.0 43.2 22 1.6 100% 

Patients paying part of pM 

cost of care 20.8 39.3 40.5 20.2 0.0 100% 

Patients paying nothing 

for care 30.1 14.8 45.8 35.7 3.7 100^ 

Patients not classified 7.2 0.4 34.4 65.2 00 100^ 

100% 

Percentage of total admis- 
sions 37.9 443 15 6 2.1 100', 

(excepting patients not 
classified as to compen- 
sation) 



HOSPITALS AND DISPENSAHU - !>s;> 



TABLE V Continued 

PERCENTAGE OF CASES, CLASSIFIED ACCORDING TO COMPENSATION, 

FOR CARE, ADMITTED THROUGH VARIOUS SOURCES TO 

THREE LARGE GENERAL HOSPITALS 

Patients Admitted to Hospital No. II, Classified According to Compensation for 

Care, and Source of Reference 

Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage 

of total referred referred by referred by Percentage 

admissions by staff non-staff charitable not 

physicians physicians agencies 



Patients paying full cost 

of care .... 27.9 67.5 32.5 0.0 0.0 100% 

Patients paying part of . 

cost of care _.. 40.9 680 30.9 1.1 0.0 100% 

Patients paying nothing 

for care..... 15.5 47.7 29.2 20.0 3.1 100% 

Patients not classified 15.7 77.3 22.7 0.0 0.0 100% 

100% 

Percentage of total admis- 
sions 59.0 35.5 4.2 1.3 100% 

(excepting patients not 
classified as to compen- 
sation) 



Patients Admitted to Hospital No. Ill, Classified According to Compensation for 

Care, and Source of Reference 



Patients paying full cost 

of rar* , ,,,.,,., 


Percentage 
of total 
admissions 

30.5 


Percentage 
referred 
by staff 
physicians 

56.4 


Percent age 
referred by 
non-staff 
physicians 

43.6 


Percentage 
referred by 
charitable 
agencies 

0.0 


Pero 

r 
clas 

0.0 


rnt.gc 
lOt 

sified 
100% 


Patients paying part of 
cost of care 


49 3 


50.0 


50.0 


0.0 


0.0 


100% 


Patients paying nothing 
for care 


20.2 


73.5 


26.5 


0.0 


0.0 


100% 


Patients not classified 


0.0 


0.0 


00 


0.0 


00 


0.0 



100% 

Percentage of total admis- 
sions 68.9 31.1 0.0 00 

(excepting patients not 
classified as to compen- 
sation) 



990 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Municipal 

Total Expense Total Earnings Percentage Ex- 
for Hospital from Operation pcnscs are of Total 

Earnings 



Cleveland City Hospital _ $428 , 636 . 77 

Warrensville Tuberculosis Sanatorium 197 , 020 . 15 



Total Municipal $625 , 656 . 92 

Non-Municipal 

*Babies' Dispensary 67,305 $ 7,000 10.4% 

*Cleveland Maternity 90,435 58,802 65 

*Fairview Park 85,000 65,000 76.5 

JGlenville , 

*Grace 33 , 000 33 ,000 1 00 . 

"Huron Road 117,600 83,800 71.3 

"Lakeside 480,000 264,000 55 

*Lakewood .' 58,000 52,000 89.7 

JLutheran ,.... 

fMount Sinai 332,000 200,000 60.4 

*Provident 14,000 13,000 92.9 

*Rainbow 63,445 12,910 20.4 

*St. Alexis _ 1 08 , 800 70 , 000 64 . 3 

*St. Ann's 107,125 84,888 79.2 

*St. Clair 36,975 28,390 76.7 

*St. John's 169,342 120,200 709 

*St. Luke's i 207,120 1 76, 820 85.4 

*St. Vincent's 249,350 204,800 82.1 

*Woman's 50,083 39,600 79 2 



Total Non-Municipal $2 , 269 , 580 . 00 

Grand Total $2 , 895 , 236 .92 $1 , 514 , 210 

Summary for Non-Municipal Hospitals (so far as calculable) 

Subtotal, Expense for Hospitals $1 ,927,993 .00 

Subtotal, Earnings from Operation 1 , 296 , 214 . 00 

Bed Days Care, 1919 .. 439,700 

Average Cost per Day of Care $4.39 

Average Earnings per Day of Care $2 .95 

Percentage of Average Cost per Day of Care Earned from 

Operation 67 . 2 

Budget for these institutions covers the year from October 1, 1919, to September 30, 1920. 

tBudget for this institution covers the year from January 1, 1920, to December 31, 1920. 

*In order to estimate the average cost and average earnings per day of care for non-municipal hos- 
pitals, it is necessary to omit the following hospitals from the calculation: Glenville and Lutheran, as at 
the time of preparing the table, the total cost and total earnings of these institutions for 1919 could not be 
ascertained; and also Rainbow, St. Ann's, and St. John's, as at the time of preparing the table, the num- 
ber of bed days care for the year 1919 could not be ascertained. The figures in the summary therefore do 
not make a total as large as in the non-municipal group in the table. 



llo-l'ITALK AND DlSPKNSAKI I - 991 

TABLE VII 
SUMMARY OF CONVALESCENT CASKS 

Chanty City Lakeside Mt. Sinai 

Cases with Home Environment Caws. Per ct. Cam. Per ct. Cam. Per ct. Cam Per ct. 

Favorable and Adequate 15 30.0 5 70 4 7.0 1 4.5 

Favorable with minor adjustments 21 420 19 268 21 368 10 45.5 

Unfavorable but remediable 6 12.0 21 296 14 24 6 7 31.8 

Unfavorable and not remediable 6 12.0 20 28.2 16 281 2 9.1 

Acutely needing further hospital care.... 2 4.0 6 8.4 2 3.5 2 9.1 



50 100.0 71 100.0 57 100.0 22 100.0 

Cases with Home Environment Total cases Total Per ct. 

Favorable and Adequate 25 12.5 

Favorable with minor adjustments 71 35.5 

Unfavorable but remediable 48 24.0 

Unfavorable and not remediable _ 44 22.0 

Acutely needing further hospital care 12 6.0 



200 100 



TABLE VIII 

PATIENTS REMAINING IN HOSPITAL OVER TWO MONTHS 

Number of patient* Percentage of patient* 

Number of patient* remaining over two remaining over two 

HOSPITAL on Survey census month* on census months on census 

days, averaged fff fc days, averaged days, averaged 

Cleveland City 549.5 162.5 29.6% 

Cleveland Maternity _ 43.0 0.0 0.0 

FairviewPark 57.5 25 4.3 

Glenville > 51.0 10 2.0 

Grace _ _ 33.0 2.0 0.6 

Huron Road 73.0 6.5 8.9 

Lakeside 215.5 260 12 1 

Lakewood 36 3.0 8.3 

Lutheran 46.5 0.5 0.1 

Mt. Sinai 160.0 8.0 5.0 

Provident 19.0* 0.0 0.0 

St. Alexis 244.5 22.5 9.2 

St. Ann's 51.5 0.5 0.9 

St. Clair 14.5 1.0 6.9 

St. John's 137.0 9.5 6.9 

St. Luke's 132.5 4.5 3.4 

St. Vincent 1 *. 210.0 150 7.1 

Woman's 43.0 0.0 0.0 



Totals ... 2,117.0 265 7.9 

Information was received from Provident Hospital for th first Survey census day only. 



992 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



TABLE IX. 

PROPOSED FORM FOR SHOWING 

HOSPITAL AND DISPENSARY SERVICE OF CLEVELAND 
As Rendered by the Members of the Cleveland Hospital Council During 19 



Hospital 

Number of Beds 
Total Hospital Days Care 
Percentage of Possible Days Care 
Classes of Patients 
Pay Patients 
Number 
Days Care 
Part-pay Patients 
Number 
Days Care 
Free Patients 
Number 
Days Care 

Percentages of Days Care 
Pay 

Part-pay 
Free 

Equivalent Free Days 
Sex and Age of Patients 
Men 
Women 

Children under 15 
Average Days Stay per Patient 
Total Number of Patients 
Income 

From Operation 
From Endowment 
From Community Fund 
From Other Sources 
Percentage from Operation 
Percentage from Community Fund 
Expenditures 

Total for Hospital 
Average per Days Care 
Average per Day for Food Only 

Dispensary 

Total Visits 
New Patients 

Men 

Women 

Children under 15 

Total 
Average Visits per Day 



Name of 
Hospital 



Name of 
Hospital 



Total for 

Cleveland 

Hospital 

Council 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 



The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



t 



Printed by 

THB PBEUIER PBESX 

Cleveland. O. 



Method of Survey 
lithography of Surveys 
Index 



PART ELEVEN 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Method of Survey 
Bibliography of Surveys 
Index 



PART ELEVEN 



Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 




Copyright, 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 
Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 
308 AnisBeld Hldg 
Cleveland - Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be^ directly responsible ror the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBRiDE, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUGHLIN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCKWOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 

and the following collaborators : 
GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the [Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director^ the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D., Director of Tuberculosis Survey; 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

I. MKTHOD OF MAKING A COMMUNITY DIAGNOSIS 

Page 
Introduction Why a Survey is Necessary 1003 

Preliminary Steps: 

Realization of the Need loot 

Cost to be Considered 1004 

Committee I no l 

Choosing the Group of Diagnosticians 1005 

Scope: 

History of Survey 1005 

Factors Influencing Scope 1007 

Aims and Methods: 

Interpretation of Results 100!> 

Education of the Patient ... 1009 

Community History Taking .... 1010 

Quantitative Estimate of Needs ... . 1010 

Law and Law Enforcement... .... 1010 

Coordination and Functional Control 1011 

The Associated Health Professions and Their Training 1012 

Quantitative I ^'terminations of Functions .... 1012 

Quality of Function 1013 

Resources for Prevention 1015 

Checking ii]) the facts for Diagnosis 1015 

Conclusion: 

Treatment and Follow-up 101(5 

Appendix: 

Form Letters and Questionnaires 1018 

II. BlHI.KXiHAI'IIV <>K Si UYKYS 

Health Administration Survey- 1038 

Mental Hygiene Surveys ion 

Infant Mortality Survey-. . 1049 

S( ci;il Survc\ - . 1052 

Industrial Hygiene Surveys 1054 

Surveys 1057 

Sur\eys 10.19 

Unclassified . 1060 

III. [HDD . 1061 



MetHod of Making a Community Diagnosis 

/>'// II AVI A KMKU-ON. M. I)., AND (iKiniM PI: K. Sri K(,I -. M. I). 
IN IHODl (TION: WHY A Sl'KVKY IS NKCKSSAKV 

WHAT is ;i survey, and why does Cleveland or any other city need the 
luxury of a diagnosis;' A diagnosis implies the presence of ill health. 
Is Cleveland sick? Kven as the careful and thrifty owner lias his car 
overhauled to prevent delay upon the road or accident under strain, and as 
the young husband looks far into the future and insures his life, so a city 
may well indulge in community insurance by a periodical searching for weak 
joints in its organization, loose bolts, missing parts, proof of wear and tear. 
need of replacement and reinforcement of its structure. 

While all the world is clamoring for production, it is worthy of great praise 
that a community should determine that, in one place at least, the producer 
shall rank ahead of the produce in their thoughts and plans. 

Property will always have its protectors and promoters. It is persons 
who are chiefly neglected, and for these the community health diagnosis 
takes thought. How may their sickness be prevented, their lives made 
longer and happier and if sickness overtakes them, how may skill and gentlc- 
xx be put quickly at their service!' 



To survey is to view with attention as from a height to prospect, to 
examine, and in so doing to make a review and retrospect, to nse history 
and present experience as a basis for programs for the future to insure prog- 

The community physician should detect the presence of all factors affect- 
ing health and formulate all practical and economical measures to decrease 
disease and increase comfort. 

The public, as investors in the Community Fund, are stockholders in the 
various institutions supported by this fund, and as stockholders, are entitled 
to a statement of results as to the per capita costs as well as the quality 
and quantity of the output. The contributing public and more Particularly 
the boards of trustees of the various institutions, have a definite respon- 
sibility also in seeing that the funds which are provided are made to serve 
the best interests of the community. They should make sure that the high- 
est degree of professional service is rendered through the institutions for 
which they are responsible and that the same principles of organi/ation 
and efficiency are carried out as in up-to-date business enterprises. To this 
end it is essential that both the character of professional service and the type 
of business administration receive the thorough investigation of experts from 
time to time. 

It is also pertinent for tin- investors to know whether then- is any over- 
lapping of effort or duplication of function by existing institutions that could 



1(K)4 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

be obviated by more clearly defined policies or by a division of the territory 
to be covered by each institution. What preventive or curative needs are 
not being provided for adequately: i e., measured by the estimated service 
required for prenatal care, for dispensary service, for hospitalization, etc., 
what failures to meet the need are apparent? What services are not being 
rendered at all? In an extensive view of all the city's activities for preven- 
tion and treatment of disease, for education of physicians and members of 
the allied professions, what distinct gaps exist in the service? Is there an 
understanding of the precise problems to be solved and of the ways and 
means by which they may be solved? Are all modern information and experi- 
ence in the prevention as well as the treatment of sickness, sufficiently under- 
stood by each agency serving the public? Until every doctor, nurse and 
health visitor working among the sick is aware of the resources and applica- 
tion of preventive medicine to health protection, no possible increase in 
hospitalization of the sick will meet the needs of the city. Each case of sick- 
ness presents a problem of prevention as well as of relief, of education as 
well as of treatment, of the family and the home as well as of the individual 
patient. And, finally, is there adequate provision made for coordinating 
the activities of the private health agencies to the end that they may provide 
the maximum service with the minimum of effort and of overhead expense? 



With some of the problems in mind to be answered by the community 
diagnostician, what are the preliminary steps to be taken? 

REALIZATION OF THE NEED 

First the patient must realize that he needs the services of a physician 
and must be prepared to render him every assistance. Without not only the 
patient's consent but his eager and willing assistance, no physician can get 
all the facts needed before prescribing. A community differs in this respect 
chiefly in quantity, not in elements for diagnosis, from the individual patient. 

COST TO BE CONSIDERED 

Sufficient financial support must be assured to "pay the doctor's bill." 
In Cleveland adequate provision for financing the Survey was made from the 
Community Fund, at the request of the Cleveland Hospital Council through 
the medium of the Welfare Federation. A sum of $53,000 was appropriated 
for this purpose of which $52,668.98 was spent.* It is interesting to note 
in this connection that service, conservatively estimated to be worth over 
$10,000, has been given to the Cleveland Survey by cooperating national 
and local organizations. 

THE COMMITTEE IN CHARGE 

The organization or committee under whose auspices the community 
study is to be conducted is another matter for preliminary consideration. In 

This amount was estimated at the time of going to press. 



MKTHOD __ 1005 

<>nler flint every institution may feel itself an integral part of the group con- 
duct ing the Survey, the committee should be as representative as possible 
and, that good feeling may be assured, men and women known to be broad 
in their judgments >hould be chosen. 

In ( 'Icvclaud the Survey has been conducted under the direct supervision 
of a special committee of the Hospital Council, consisting of public-spirited 
business men, a woman representing the nursing interests, the Commissioner 
of Health and the secretary of the Hospital Council. The Hospital Coun- 
cil itself is a cooperative organization consisting of representatives of the 
boards of trustees and suj)erintendents of the public and private hospitals 
in the city. The committee must be able, as this one was, to open all the 
doors of the city. By the position, character, professional, business and 
social standing of its members, it must be able to give access for the sur- 
veyors to all important public and private groups who can give information 
or spread it. The editorial offices of the daily papers, the offices of city gov- 
ernment, the clubs, churches, professional, business and social groups must 
be readily accessible and hospitable to the inquiries that lead into the in- 
timacies of community history, and willing to take trouble to see that needs 
and recommendations are frankly discussed and acknowledged. 

THE GROUP OF DIAGNOSTICIANS 

Choosing the doctor and his colleagues is the first problem with which 
the committee is confronted. The group of diagnosticians should possess 
not only knowledge of the field to be studied, but wide experience with 
conditions in other cities, in order that they may have a background for 
,'naging local problems. Impartiality will generally be better assured by 
-electing the entire Survey staff from outside the city. 

The Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey has been particularly fortu- 
nate in securing the cooperation of many national agencies which, because of 
the wealth of their exj>erienee, are in an ideal position to survey any locality. 

SCOPE 

The scope of a survey may be either intensive or extensive; either an 
analysis of one phase or agency of health service or a general health survey: 
i.e., the examination of a single part of the body, one of the special senses 
or a general medical examination. 



It i- interesting in this connection to study briefly the range of previous 
surveys. A study of available literature at the Russell Sage and medical 
libraries brought out the fact that surveys of health administration and allied 
subjects are numerous. (See bibliography of surveys). These are the case 
histories of community patients. Kighty such surveys have been made in 
thirty different st.-itc- .several covering more than one state and also in 



1006' HOSPITAL AND HEALTH St i<\ \.\ 

two foreign countries. New York, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Min- 
nesota ranked in that order in the number of public health studies that had 
been made upon various of their communities. These investigations have 
been conducted chiefly by the United States Public Health Service, by state 
or local health departments, by the New York or local bureaus of municipal 
research, by the Russell Sage Foundation and by local Chambers of Com- 
merce. 

Mental hygiene was the subject next in order of attractiveness to the 
surveying mind. Results of sixty-three studies of this subject were found. 
Many of these. have been made by the National Committee for Mental 
Hygiene and several by state or local charitable organizations. 

Search brought to light thirty-eight infant mortality and child health 
studies. The largest number of these had been prepared by the United 
States Children's Bureau, although the Russell Sage Foundation and the 
National Child Labor Committee had each conducted several studies of this 
type. 

Thirty-four social surveysnvere found, made by a wide variety of groups. 
This number includes only the most important contributions along this line. 
The list could be greatly increased, no doubt, by the addition of all the 
local social studies that have been made, reports of which were not sought 
for particularly in this review of the litarature. 

There were records of twenty-nine industrial hygiene investigations, hah* 
of which were made in New York City, six by the New York City Depart- 
ment of Health. Many studies of industrial hazards have also been made 
by the United States Public Health Service and by the United States De- 
partment of Labor. 

There were records of twenty-five tuberculosis surveys, many of them 
made under the auspices of the national or local anti-tuberculosis societies. 
The effect of industry on the incidence of tuberculosis is the subject of many 
of these investigations. The influence of housing and economic conditions, 
nationality and race were some other main points covered in these studies, 

The amount and character of sickness in various communities have been 
the object of twelve investigations most of them conducted by the Metro- 
politan Life Insurance Company. 

The most comprehensive surveys that have been made are: the Pittsburgh 
Survey, the record of which is published in six volumes, embracing the fol- 
lowing among its major topics civic improvements, industrial hygiene, 
housing, schools, playgrounds, libraries, social agencies and The Spring- 
field, Illinois, Survey which includes studies of schools, mental hygiene, rec- 
reation, housing, charities, industrial conditions, city and county ad- 
ministration, public health and the correctional system. 

One hundred and eighty-four authors were responsible for the two hun- 
dred and eighty-one investigations above summarized. There "are many 



M : i lion 1007 

autli \eral nurveya L. K. Frankcl and L. I. Dublin, studies of sick* 

ncs> incident . < \'.. A \Vinslow. Carrol Fox ;uxl Fran/ Schneider. Jr., 
health administration ;md sanitation; Thomas \V. Salmon, T. II. Haines. 
M. (). Lumber-,'. W. L. Treadway and S. I). Wil^us, studies in the field of 
mental hygiene; .1. \V.Sclieresclie\vsky and L. I. llanos, surveys of industrial 
hygiene: Shelby M. Harrison, social surveys; \\ . II. Slintforland, studies in 
prevention of infant mortality. 

The report of a study made by the Northeastern Hospital Association, of 
the hospital facilities in an area of about 4,000 square miles with a population 
of -i./iOO.OOO in the North of Kn^land, comes nearer to incjudin^ many of 
the points upon which the Cleveland Hospital Council wished information 
than any survey reported in the I'nited States. This English study which 
\\as summarized in the Edinburgh Medical Journal in December, !!)!!), did 
not. however, enter the field of health administration or deal with the social 
and medical problems of a lar^o industrial city such as Cleveland. This 
study is well worth reading hy hospital associations in this country, especially 
such a> have to do with rural and small town community services for the sick. 



FA<TI> : ;S I>KTKH.MI\IX<; SCOPK 

The >cope of a survey will lie decided l>y many factors, particularly by 
the extent of previous surveys. Cleveland, for instance, had adequate cur- 
rent information on recreation, education and housing and it was iimn 
sary to elaborate upon these accessory features of a health survey. Sick- 
ness Mirveya had been made in other cities by the Metropolitan Life Insur- 
ance Company, the results of which were applicable to Cleveland, and so it 
\\as not thought necessary to collect duplicate data in this field. The scope 
of a survey will also be determined to some extent by the aims of the -jroup 
conducting it, by the special problems that are immediately facing the 
community, and by the financial resources of the sponsors of the investi- 
gation. 

In general, it may lie said that, since many separate agencies both pri- 
vate and public are involved in protecting or serving the city's health, all 
must be coordinated in an attack upon disease. As many of them as pos- 
sible must be analyzed and described in order to arrive at a community 
picture. The general scope of the Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey, 
as outlined in the letter of authori/ation. included: 

1 . Study of education in medicine and in the allied professions. 

2. Study of the facilities for the treatment of the sick. 

3. Study of measures for the prevention of disease. 

The scope of the individual parts of the survey will lie decided aiiaiu by 
the special community problems involved, as well as by the nature of the 
instituti >r .service. AS the chief problems brought to the attention of 



1008 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKYM 

the present survey lay along the line of hospital and dispensary treatment 
these services received a large share of attention. 

Detailed plans of the ground to be covered and the character of the re- 
port should, as far as possible, be worked out before the survey is far ad- 
vanced for the sake of economy in time and money. 



M K THOD 1009 

MM- \\D METHODS OF DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT 

Tin- aim of the community physician should l>e not only to arrive at a 
diagnosis and preseril>e H course of treatment hut to explain thoroughly both 
diagnosis mid treatment to the patient, and where possible to assure avoid- 
ance of rcjH'tition of the difficulty. In general, the Cleveland survey has 
heen undertaken in a spirit of practical application rather than as a tech- 
nical, statistical or research problem. That is, every effort was made to ex- 
plain all criticisms and recommendations to the governing bodies and execu- 
tives of each institution concerned, as by |>ersonal conference with these 
groups the community physician had his best opportunity for influencing the 
family of the patient to assist in carrying out the treatment prescribed. 
Often the executives themselves were able to point out deficiencies that were 
not apparent to our investigators. On the other hand, they frequently 
made situations clear that might, without interpretation, have given rise to 
undeserved criticism. Besides numerous more or less informal and in- 
complete conferences on details of the work during the year, a week was 
devoted to formal conferences with groups of trustees of hospitals, to present 
and discuss the survey findings after they had been formulated and ma- 
tured. The preliminary recommendations and constructive criticisms were 
M. well received that many recommendations of the survey had already l>een 
put into effect before the findings were published. 

The diagnostic procedures employed by the community physician are 
similar to those used by the regular medical practitioner, i. e., history tak- 
ing, physical examination, laboratory analysis. 

EDUCATION OF THE PATIENT 

It will he necessary to make use of educational methods, first, last and 
always, to win the confidence of the patient's family and friends. The 
methods employed in community education are those of publicity, i. e., 
newspaj>er and magazine articles, circular letters and addresses and lectures 
by memlxTs of the staff. It is essential that the public recognize the pur- 
pose and scope of the investigation and by personal contact with the diag- 
nostic group develop confidence in those who are conducting it, so that 
when the findings are ready, an educated and receptive public opinion will 
have l>een prepared. 

The Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey was fortunate in obtaining 
the services of the publicity experts on the staff of the Welfare Federation, 
who have been most useful in making contacts with the public through the 
local press. 

During the first month, the Survey sent form letters to various groups 
(medical practitioners, social agencies, hospitals, labor unions, industries, 
men's and women's clubs, and fraternal organizations), to obtain their in- 
terest and cooperation. In some cases, specific information was asked for 
so that the letter- served two purposes. (For two typical letters, one to 
physic -ians and one to social agencies. s-<- Appendix 1 and 2.) 



1010 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SIKYKY 

During the course of the Survey members of the staff addressed over 
sixty meetings of various sizes, including the Academy of Medicine, the 
Men's and Women's City Clubs, the Chamber of Commerce, church congre- 
gations and groups of physicians, nurses and dentists. 

COMMUNITY HISTORY TAKING 

In order that the community diagnosis may be based on all the facts, 
and present problems understood in the light of the past,' the personal his- 
tory of the patient must be secured. Facts as to the history of public health 
in Cleveland were obtained by conferences with those who have been inter- 
ested in this work for many years. 

A conception of the special problems of the community which relate to 
public health, or a knowledge of the history of the present illness, must be 
formulated from rather intangible material obtained in personal conferences, 
or questionnaires which ask specifically for criticisms of institutions which 
are not serving the public in a satisfactory manner. The information so 
obtained, although inconclusive, will often serve to suggest avenues of study 
that might otherwise be overlooked. Also an institution's relations with 
the public are an important index of the effectiveness of its service. In 
analyzing such information it is important to differentiate criticism stimu- 
lated by personal animosity, from that which is confirmed by similar obser- 
vations from other and varied sources, pointing towards a real undermining 
of health or at least a defective structure or function. 



QUANTITATIVE ESTIMATE OF NEEDS 

It is necessary to gauge the extent as well as the quality of service needed 
along various lines. That is, an estimate must be made, based on local figures 
compared with those from other cities, of the number of women who need 
prenatal care, out-patient delivery or institutional confinement, the number 
of children of pre-school age who need free medical supervision, the number 
of tuberculous who should be under observation at health centers, the num- 
ber and character of those who need dispensary service, the proper propor- 
tion of hospital beds to the population, and so forth. It is obvious that no 
final answers to these questions can be made, but in order to decide the need 
for extension of the various preventive and treatment facilities the extent of 
the problem must be measured and recorded. 

LAWS AND LAW ENFORCEMENT 

Study of the adequacy of state and local laws relating to the professions 
and dealing with public health agencies, and the efficacy of their enforce- 
ment, is essential. In connection with the mental hygiene and, social hy- 
giene studies investigations were made also of the provisions for detention 



Mi ii ..... 



of individuals and their treatment in the court .. Does the sanitary code of 

the city contain all modern provisions for health protection? An- the laws 

adequate which regulate conditions in industry affecting health? Compar- 

ing the existing la us with modcJ laws in other states and cities, it will he 

Me to recommend additions to or changes in the existing statutes. 

Some of the <|iicstions of law enforeetnent that are fundamental to health 
protection follow: Are physicians and inidwives practising without a license; 
do they report births, deaths, contagions and infectious disease as the law 
re<|iiires; are housing and sanitary regulations u])held: are children allowed to 
work on streets and in factories in violation of the Child Labor laws; is the 
ordinance aiMJnst dense smoke commonly observed? 

A birth registration check was made at the Division of .Health covering 
about HOO children under two years of age. who had been born in Cleveland. 
to see if their births had been recorded. The form on which the information 
for cheeking was collected will be found in the Appendix (3). 



COORDINATION AND FUNCTIONAL CONTROL 

The actual analysis of the organization and accomplishments of the 
different institutions may well be compared to the physical examination of 
the patient. It is quite obvious that it is impossible to differentiate sharply 
the various methods of procedure, as they often overlap or are combined. 
In studying any institution attention must first be given to its type of or- 
gani/ation and functional control (the nervous system). Of whom is the 
board of trustees composed;' Do the trustees lake a personal interest inthe 
details of hospital administration? Do they see that the same principles of 
efficiency on which they pride themselves in their private enterprises are 
carried out in the public institutions under their supervision? Is the execu- 
tive authority of the institution divided? 

The organization of the medical staffs of hospitals and dispensaries also 
wa studied in detail. How is the medical staff nominated? How are the 
members appointed? How often are staff meetings held and what is the 
purpose of these meetings? Has the staff an executive committee? Is there 
an auxiliary stall'? These and similar questions were put, and special recom- 
mendations as to hospital organi/ation were made when the answers were 

obtained. 

The administrative procedure of private philanthropic institutions is 
very often their weakest spot. Methods of efficiency and practical economy 
are often lost sight of in well meaning attempts to render service. 

Are purchases made in large quantities? Are stoTage facilities ample? 
Arc cash discounts taken? Are accounting and bookkeeping methods 
standardised? Are all reasonable time->aving devices in use? These are 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



some of the questions which interest the investigator. Questionnaires used 
in 

1. Study of organization and administration of private and public health 
nursing agencies 

and 

2. Study of hospital administration 
are reproduced in the Appendix (4 and 5). 

THE ASSOCIATED HEALTH PROFESSIONS AND THEIR TRAINING 

The brain needs here as in the case of the individual patient the most 
delicate and tactful approach, and the psychology of professional groups 
must be studied, as well as the crude facts of their numbers and accomplish- 
ments. As the entire undertaking of preventive medicine and all the care 
of the sick depend upon the quality of licensed practitioners of medicine, 
nursing, dentistry and pharmacy, full knowledge of the limitations in the 
education of students both before and after graduation must be sought and 
described. If one element rather than another in the examination of the 
community has been incomplete, it is the study of professional training of 
physicians, dentists and pharmacists. For the nurses the information is 
quite complete. 

QUANTITATIVE DETERMINATIONS OF FUNCTIONS 

It is necessary to ascertain the number and the size of the different types 
of institutions and to decide whether the available service is sufficient to 
meet the actual and potential demand. Are there enough hospital beds to 
care for the community sick? The answer to this question was sought in 
various ways. The hospitals were asked to keep for two months a record 
of the cases to which they refused admission. Printed pads were furnished 
the hospitals on which to record this information (Appendix 6). The re- 
sults of this investigation were tabulated as follows : 

Type of service medical, surgical, etc. 

Economic status of patient pay, part-pay, or free. 

By whom request for hospitalization was made self, agency, doctor or family. 

Whether or not patient was placed on waiting list. 

The public health agencies were asked to furnish statistics as to the 
number of patients under their care during a certain month, who were 
properly hospital cases. Social agencies and district physicians were asked 
whether they were able to obtain hospital care for their patients promptly. 
Questionnaires, sent to physicians, inquired whether they found it difficult 
to obtain hospftalization and if so for what class of patients. The number of 
available beds was compared with the estimated population to be served, 
and comparison was made also with the ratio of hospital beds to'population 



METHOD 1013 

in other cities. The number of existing beds for various special services. 

orthopedics. tuberculosis ;ni<l maternity was ascertained .-OH! u compari- 
son made \\itli tin- estimated need in Cleveland and with tin- number of 

available for similar ser\ ices elsewhere. 



A special investigation to determine the need, if any, for an institution 
to care for convalescents, \vas made by visiting the homes of 200 patients 
recently discharged from four leading hospitals to see if conditions were proper 
for their prompt convalescence. 

Is there enough social service work provided by hospitals and dispen- 
saries to make the medical service most effective? Is the ambulance service 
ample so that the location of hospitals in the outskirts of the city is feasible? 
Are there enough dispensaries and are they properly located? Are the 
special dispensary services, /. <., prenatal, prophylactic, babies', ortho|>edic, 
industrial, tuberculosis, venereal, and so forth, adequate? Is sufficient 
medical service provided by child-caring institutions, by schools and by 
industrial plants? Are there enough diagnostic laboratory facilities, both 
public and private? 

The method of investigation to determine the answers to these questions 
was in each case somewhat similar to that described above for determining 
the needs in hospitalization. That is, a study was made of the number, 
location and amount of service of the existing institutions. The question- 
naire that was used in determining the amount and character of medical 
service in industry is given in the Appendix (7). All reasonable avenues of 
inquiry were followed to learn whether the local need was being adequately 
met. The amount of service was compared with the estimated number of 
people to be cared for and with the extent of similar service provided by 
cities of approximately the same size. Hospital superintendents, physicians, 
representatives of nursing and social agencies were asked by questionnaire 
and in conference, whether their needs for ambulance transportation were 
being promptly and satisfactorily met. Inquiries were sent to other cities 
for facts as to the number of ambulances provided by the city hospital, by 
the police and by private hospitals; as to the number of dental chairs for 
free service and the hours they were in use; as to the number of hours of 
medical service provided weekly in free clinics for the treatment of tuber- 
culosis; and so forth. The amount of potential dispensary service and of 
medical .service in schools and industry is obviously determined not by the 
number of dispensaries Imt hy the number of physicians and nurses and the 
amount of time devoted by each to this service. The actual amount of 
service rendered is shown by such records as the number of patients cared 
for annually and the number of different treatments given. Again the 
value of the service is not measured by the amount but rather by its charac- 
ter which is a less tangible factor to analyze. 

Qi \i.rn OF FUNCTION 

The output of a hospital or dispensary cannot be measured by exact 
standards. | M it there arc certain recognized methods by which medical and 



1014 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

nursing procedure may be analyzed as to quality. These are: a study of 
personnel and equipment, an analysis of the records of patients, a personal 
observation of technic and a statistical analysis of results. 

Upon the character as well as the training and experience of the personnel 
in charge of any service depends the quality of the product. Personality is, 
of course, an intangible factor to evaluate, but the training and experience 
of the workers are or should be a matter of record, available to the investi- 
gator. In the nursing survey, and the study of the health department 
especially, particular attention was given to these factors (Appendix 8). 
The employment of trained persons is essential to assure standard service in 
the professional lines. Inquiry was therefore made as to whether anaes- 
thetist, dietitian and laboratory technicians were employed in hospitals. 

In some instances the character of service must depend largely upon the 
adequacy of equipment. Laboratory and hospital nursing technic, for in- 
stance, require certain minimum equipment to produce a high grade of 
service. In measuring these services observation was made to see if standard 
equipment was available. (Appendix 9.) 

In order to determine whether the physical defects of children in insti- 
tutions were being detected and corrected, several hundred children, some 
taken from each institution, received both physical examinations and mental 
tests. For the form used for recording physical examinations see Appendix 
10. 

As the records of patients constitute the only means by which an ob- 
jective presentation of medical work can be accomplished, the analysis of a 
considerable number of the records of an institution gives a fairly accurate 
picture of the clinical procedure obtaining there. Therefore, in evaluating 
the quality of various professional services, the study of records received 
considerable attention. Fifty records from each of twenty hospitals were 
analyzed to find whether they contained the following items: personal his- 
tory, physical examination, working diagnosis, laboratory findings, operation 
or treatment, progress notes, final diagnosis and condition on discharge. One 
hundred records were studied in each of the dispensaries with the above 
points in mind and also to ascertain the nationality of the patients, the 
number of revisits, and so forth. Several hundred health records of school 
children were analyzed to find the proportion of corrections that had been 
made to the number of defects found, and the average number of nurses' 
home visits and parents' consultations on each case. Health center records 
were analyzed to find the average number of patients' visits to the clinic and 
of nursing visits to the home; the records of nurses' time were studied to 
find the relative proportion spent in clerical and other duties. Prenatal 
records were analyzed to find the month of pregnancy during which the 
patient was brought under care, as well as the number of patients' visits to 
the dispensary, and of nurses' visits to the home. A comparative analysis 
of the records of the school census, of the work certificate office and of the 
state industrial commission to learn the number of children employed in 
industry, was made. Data were secured from a census of 100 'newsboys 



\l i i 



attending a down-town school as to their age, health. mental capacity as 
stated ly their teachers and the number of hours they worked at night. 
An investigation \ v; ,s made of the content of industrial health records and 
the method of compiling and analy/ing the data recorded. The method of 
filing and indexing hospital and dis|>ensary records was also investigated, 
and inquiry made as to the means of assuring compliance with the hospital 
rules for the completion of histories. 

F.xteiisive jHTsonal observation was made of nursing service both in hos- 
pitals, dis|x'nsarics and in public health nursing districts, and of the work 
of school medical inspectors. 

In the Division of Health also the method of evaluating the quality of 
service by personal observations was found useful. Members of the Survey 
>fatf accompanied sanitary and dairy inspectors and collectors of laboratory 
samples in their trips, and made observation of routine laboratory examina- 
and other functions at the central office. 



RESOURCES FOR PREVENTION 

In studying the adequacy of health protection and the prevention of 
disease the following questions must be faced. Are sanitary conditions in 
child-caring institutions, schools and industrial establishments such that the 
health of children and employes is safeguarded? Is the city water supply 
from a safe source and protected from contamination? Are sewage and gar- 
bage disposal satisfactory? Does the method of control of communicable 
diseases minimize the danger of their spread? Does the inspection of food 
products an(J drugs protect the public against adulterated or contaminated 
products? Are nuisances controlled and the contamination of the air pre- 
vented? Is the community being constantly educated in the methods of 
health protection, both public and private? 

The methods of ventilation and cleaning, of adjustment of blackboards 
and seats, the general construction, lighting, cubic air capacity and toilets 
of public school buildings were investigated. The temperature was read in 
a series of rooms and the force of the drinking fountains in many buildings 
was noted by the investigator. Investigation of working conditions was 
made in several hundred industrial establishments. (For the questionnaire 
used in studying working conditions for women, see Appendix 11.) 

A study of the amount and character of health education was made 
(for questionnaire, see Appendix 12.) 

CUM MM. UP THE FACTS FOR DIAGNOSIS 

Statistical study may well be compared with the laboratory method of 
diagnosis the methods of investigation are more exact and the findings 
more definite. If the processes are accurate the results permit certain de- 
ductions to be drawn with precision. 



1016 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Some of the statistical studies made by the Survey were as follows: A 
study of data regarding age and sex distribution and nationality of the popu- 
lation; a study of general mortality and mortality from the chief causes for 
a period of years; a comparison of mortality and morbidity rates, as well 
as hospital and dispensary attendance, by health districts; a study of tuber- 
culosis mortality by age, sex, form and occupation; a comparison of the 
death rate under one month, the maternal death rate and the stillbirth rate 
of a series of cases under prenatal care with that for the city as a whole; a 
study of the records of The Industrial Commission of Ohio relating to 
accident frequency and accident severity rates in industry and to the em- 
ployment of women and children in industry; the preparation of pin maps 
locating the various types and sizes of industrial establishments; a study of 
milk consumption in connection with the tuberculosis survey (for the form 
used in collecting the material, see Appendix 13). The records of 1,000 
families were tabulated as to types of illness, amount of milk consumed, the 
kind of milk purchased and how milk is cared for. 

In order to obtain statistical information, a census was taken on Decem- 
ber 3, 1919, and again on January 15, 1920, of the patients in the hospitals 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council and in four other institutions which were 
willing to furnish the necessary information. These results were averaged 
and tabulated as follows: (Census blank, Appendix 14). 

Percentage of beds in use. 

Type of service, i. e., medical, surgical, etc. 

Length of stay of patients in hospital. 

Location of residence of patients. 

Economic itatus of patients. 

Percentage of cases admitted by staff and non-staff physicians. 

Percentage of free, part-pay and pay cases admitted by staff and non- 
staff physicians. 

Age of patients. 

Nativity of patients. 

Economic status of patients according to nativity. 

CONCLUSION 

TREATMENT AND FOLLOW-UP 

When the community diagnosis has been made and, after a consultation 
of specialists, the method of treatment is outlined, how shall the prescrip- 
tion be prepared, by whom the operation be performed, and who shall be 
the victim? A detailed report of a survey is of much more than local interest. 
Communities of comparable size have much the same problems to face as 
has Cleveland. Study of the results of a survey in one city will often serve 
to suggest the answer to problems in another community. 



METHOD _ ' _ 1017 

It was thought useful to have the Cleveland Survey printed in the present 
iiH-xpoisivr form in order that copies might, at small expense, be made 

la Mo to state and local health departments, to medical and general 
libraries. to hospitals and nursing organizations, to medical and other prac- 
iii the allied professions, to public health societies and others. 



The final action of the survey staff is to prepare their report for publi- 
cation. It is left to the patient the public to do the rest. The survey 
will prove of no avail unless the community is ready to carry out the plan 
proposed. If, as in Cleveland, there is no permanent organization extant to 
which a follow-up of the community's case may be left, it will be necessary 
to recommend, as the Cleveland Survey has done, the formation of a cooper- 
ative group composed of representatives of all organizations interested in 
public health, to which with their other duties will be left the task of 
seeing that the community takes its medicine. The proposed Cleveland 
Public Health Association must provide follow-up and convalescent care for 
the community patient, the great city of Cleveland! 



1018 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

APPENDIX 

FORM LETTERS AND QUESTIONNAIRES 
(10 

November 28, 1919. 

Dear Doctor: 

t 

We are at your service and we need your counsel and support. 

Take a moment to answer the queries below and we can assist your patients through 
you to better service. 

1. Have you found difficulty in obtaining hospital care for your own 
patients? 

2. If so, for what kinds of patients, i. e.: 

Surgical or medical. 
Pediatric or orthopedic. 
Neurological or mental. 
Obstetrical or gynecological. 

3. What solution have you to suggest for remedying the hospital sit- 
uation from the point of view of the patients or of the medical profession? 

4. During the past 12 months, approximately how many patients with 
venereal disease have you had, under your private care (syphilis gonorrhea 
chancroid)? 

5. How many of these patients discontinued the treatment you advised 
without your consent, and why? 

These reports will be kept confidential and no names quoted in reporting the totals 
received in the answers. 

Come in and watch the process of taking the family and personal history of Cleve- 
land, making the physical examination of the city and trying out laboratory methods for 
a Community Diagnosis. It is your community and the treatment will be in your hands 
in any event. 

Give us the "once-over". It does us good to' be criticized. 

Yours cordially, 



Director. 

(2.) 

November 20, 1919. 
Dear Sir: 

The Hospital and Health Survey wants to look at the medical and health service of 
Cleveland from the outside as well as the inside. We need very much to have the infor- 
mation and opinion of the Social Agencies. As you call upon the hospitals, dispensaries 
and Health Department for medical aid in behalf of your people, you can therefore give 
us many practical points which are most important. 

On a separate sheet we have put a few questions or topics. We should Hke very much 
to have your answers or comments on any or all of these. 



M i i u i> i> 1019 

In case you prefer to go over the matter personally with a member of the staff of the 
Survey, will you kindly cal' us so we can arrange for a conference? 

Any information given by you as to names, quotations, etc., will be treated as con- 
fidential by the Survey. 

Very truly yours, 



GS JHS Assistant Director. 

1. Patients refused admission to hospital. Do you find many patients in whom you 
are interested who cannot be admitted to hospitals? Among what classes are these the 
more frequent? We would be glad to have comments, reasons, etc., for refusal or other 
conditions, which might help to bring out the nature or extent of the shortage of hospital 
beds if such exists. 

2. Have you felt there is inadequate dispensary service? If so, along what lines of 
work or in what parts of the city? 

3. Do your agents find it difficult to secure answers to inquiries for medical informa- 
tion concerning hospital and dispensary cases in which you are interested? Are the diffi- 
culties uniform among different hospitals or dispensaries? 

4. The work of the City District Doctors. Are they prompt in answering calls? 
Do they give continuous care on your cases? Can you secure medical information from 
them when needed? Do you distinguish between* the type of patient you refer to City 
Physicians and to the other medical relief agencies, such as dispensaries and private doc- 
tors, as to whether they are ambulatory or bed ridden, contagious or non-contagious, etc.? 
Do you think that patients who can afford to pay anything for medical care should be 
referred to City Physicians? 

5. What patients feel or say about hospitals. Any "stories" or examples of experi- 
ences that patients in hospitals have had which would serve to bring out the real difficul- 
ties, needs or deficiencies, would be welcome. 

6. What policy exists between the Social Service Department of the hospitals and 
your agency with regard to furnishing material relief? What points do the Social Service 
Departments turn over to your agency for general work with the family or how far do they 
carry this themselves or do you both handle this phase of the work at th? same time? 



(3.) 

BIRTH REGISTRATION SURVEY 

Fill out only for children under 2 years of age born in Cleveland. 
Name of child (Family name) (Given name) 

Date of birth: Month .Day Year 

Place of birth (address of residence or institution). 

Name and address of attending physician or midwife, 

Signed by person making report 



1020 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(4.) 

COMMITTEE FOR PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING EDUCATION 

OFFICE REPORT: PRIVATE AGENCIES 

A. I. Name of Association 

Address .' Year founded 

B. Organization 

I. Types of work. 

1. General visiting nursing. 

r 
(a) Specify what kinds of work are included 



(b) What types of sickness are refused or referred to another organization 
for nursing care? 

2. Specialized Services 

(a) Infant or child welfare; up to what age? 

Specify what kinds of work are included 



(b) Anti-tuberculosis work.. Supervision Instruction 

Placement Bedside care 

(c) Industrial nursing 

II. 1. Total number of visits made during last fiscal year 

1. Total number of cases 

3. Cost of a visit 

4. Average number of visits per day per nurse 

5. Number of patients paying: 

(a) Full cost 

(b) Part cost 

(c) Nothing 



III. Personnel 

1. Board of Managers: Title 

(a) How many are men? 

(b) How many are women? 

(c) How often does the board meet? 

(d) Does the nurse superintendent meet with the board?. 

2. Nursing Committee 

(a) How many members? 

(b) How often does it meet? 



M i. i HOD 1031 

3. What committee determines policies? 

4. What committee controls the budget? _ 



5. Staff: 

(a) Superintendent: Name and title 

(b) Assistant superintendents, how many?.... 

(c) Supervisors, 

(d) Staff nurses, " " .... 

(e) Student nurses, (graduate) 

(f) " (undergraduate) " " .... 

(g) Attendants or practical nurses, 
(h) Nurses employed in clerical 

work (full time), " " .... 
(i) Dietitians 



6. By whom are the following engaged and dismissed? 

(a) Supervisors 

(b) Staff nurses 

(c) Clerical workers 

7. What are the minimum professional and educational requirements for a Staff 

position? 

8. Are staff nurses assigned to special services? Describe: 

C. Administration 
I. Supervision 

1. Number of s^aff nurses to a field supervisor: minimum maximum 

2. How often do staff nurses report to the supervisor in the main or branch office 



or station?. 



3. Do;s the supervisor visit in homes, (a) with the staff nurse?.. 

(b) without" " " .. 

4. Are printed or written standard practice instructions used? 



II. Conferences 

1. Are meetings of entire staff held regularly? (a) How often? 

(b) Who calls the meeting? (c) Who presides? 

(d) Who attends? 

2. Are case conferences held regularly? (a) How often? 

(b) Who presides? A (c) Who attends? 

3. What conference of other organizations are regularly attended by members 

of the staff?.. .. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



III. Efficiency 

1. What methods are used to judge efficiency of nurses? 



2. (a) Are efficiency records kept? (b) Has the nurse access to her 

record? ~ 

(c) If not, how is the nurse informed of her standard? 

IV Salaries 

1. Staff nurses: Minimum Maximum Rate of increase 

2. Supervisors: 

3. What is the length of vacation on salary? 

4. Are the following furnished in addition to salary?: 

(a) Uniforms (b) Board (c) Lodging 

(d) Other Allowance 



V. Hours of work 

1. What are the hours of work daily? .(a) Sunday? _ 

2. Is time spent in record keeping included in working day? 

3. Is there one complete day of rest in seven? 

4. Is there a weekly half-holiday in addition? 

5. Overtime work: average per week per individual during last month 

6. Is night work expected? (a) For what cases? 

... (b) Is time off allowed for night work?. 

VI. Recording 

1. How many hours weekly are spent in recording, (a) by supervisor? 

(b) by staff nurse? 

2. How many clerical workers (not nurses) are employed? 



D. What is the superintendent's conception of the function of the Association in regard 

to the education of 

(a) Patients and families? 

(b) Nurses? 

E. Comment by superintendent on education, training, and persona'ity of staff nurses? 



F. Obtain two copies of the following: 

1. All record forms. 

2. Practice instructions. 

3. Efficiency record. 

4. Annual report for last two years. 

5. Publicity material published within the last year. 



METHOD LOW 



G. Remarks: 



Name of Investigator 
Date 



(5.) 

SURVEY OF ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS OF CLEVELAND GENERAL 

HOSPITALS 

FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION 
(a) Per capita per diem cost of administration 1918? 1919? 

Do you charge all expenditures for current repairs, new equipment and betterments 
to expense account so that it will appear in your per capita per diem cost of main- 
tenance? 

Do you charge off annually a percentage for depreciation? 



(b) Do you discount certain bills for cash? 

Total earnings from cash discounts for 1919? 



(c) Have you an income from endowments? 

(d) What rate charged for private rooms? Ward beds? 

(e) Do you charge extra for the following? 

Blood transfusion? Rate? 

Large surgical dressings? . .Rate? 

X-Ray plates and stereoscopic examinations? Rate? 

Nurses' board? ... Rate? 

Surgical dressings, such as perineal, abdominal and prostatic pads, plaster 
bandages, etc.? Rate? 

Plaster casts? Rate? 

Services of anesthetist? Rate? 

All laboratory examinations? Rate? 

Fancy foods, such as squabs, broilers, frog legs, etc.? Rate? 

First aid services in emergency cases? Rate? 

Salvarsan administration? Rate?. 

Drugs and prescriptions? Rate? 

Splints and surgical appliances? Rate? 

Ambulance services? Rate? 

Meals and cots for relatives and friends of patient? Rate? 

(f) Do you collect board and room accounts one week in advance? 
Do you bill patient's responsible relative weekly thereafter? 



(g) Have you an office clerk, investigator or credit man for investigating financial stand- 
ing of patients? 



1024 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



(h) Do you admit county or city patients at regular rates? 

(i) Do you use a budget system in estimating your expenses for the ensuing year? 

(j) Do you have an annual accounting by a firm of accountants? 

Have you installed a modern bookkeeping system adapted to hospitals? 

If a standardized system of hospital bookkeeping and financial reports were recom- 
mended, would you endeavor to have same carried out in your hospital? 

Have you an accounting system in use in your hospital? 



PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES 

(a) Are all purchases made by or with the personal approval of the superintendent?. 

Have you a steward who makes purchases? 

Are heads of departments permitted to make purchases? 



(b) Have you saved money through the purchasing bureau of the Cleveland Hospita 

Council? _ 

(c) Do you obtain quotations or ask assistance of the purchasing bureau of the Cleveland 

Hospital Council when about to make purchases of any size? 

Can you increase the amount of your purchases through the bureau to advantage? 

(d) Have you sufficient store room capacity for 

One year supply of canned goods? 

Three to six months of gauze and cotton? 

Three to six months soap supply? 

Three to six months supply of dry goods? 

(e) Do you store fresh eggs or fresh butter in public refrigerator storage house in April or 

May for use during the period of maximum high prices? (November, December, 
January) 

(f) Have you contracts for the purchase of coal? .Electric lamps? 

Milk from producers? 

(g) Would you cooperate with the Cleveland Hospital Council and the American Hospital 

Association in a standardization of hospital supplies? 

HOSPITAL ECONOMICS, SALVAGING, ETC. 

(a) Have you a house carpenter? Steamfitter? 

Painter? 



(b) Have you a surgical appliance or instrument repair shop? 

Do you salvage, wash, and reclaim, gauze and bandages? 

Do you bail and sell waste paper? 

Grease? Garbage? Barrels? Old Rubber?. 

Old metal?.... ....Rags? Bottles?.... 



M i i -ii OD 1025 

(c) Do you make soft soap from grease? From soap chips? 

(d) Do you utilize labor-saving devices? 

Vacuum cleaner? 

Electric floor scrubber? 

Electric dough mixers, meat cutters, etc.? : 

Dish washing machines? 

(e) Do you maintain a sewing room and manufacture part of your dry goods? 



DEPARTMENTAL EXPENSES 
Engineering Department 

(a) Do you manufacture your own electric current? 

(b) Is your boiler plant and machinery up-to-date? 

(c) Do you maintain a refrigerating plant? 

And are your ward and corridor ice boxes refrigerated therefrom?. 

(d) Do you manufacture ice? 



Laundry 

(a) Is your laundry machinery in good order and modern in type? 

(b) Have you a steam tumbler? Steam presses? 

(c) Have you a trained laundry man or woman in charge? 

(d) Do you manufacture your laundry soap from soap chips or grease and alkali? 

Ambulance 

(a) Do you maintain a hospital ambulance service? 

If not, what ambulance do you utilize?...- 

(b) Do you consider the Cleveland ambulance service satisfactory? 

(c) Should a central ambulance service be managed 

By the municipality? 

By private ownership? .. ... 

By the Cleveland Hospital Council?.... 



Dietetic Department 

(a) Have you a dietitian? 

(b) Does she arrange all menus for patients, nurses and employes?. 

(c) Does she have general supervision of all cooking and food service in the hospital?. 



1026 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



(d) Does your dietitian purchase food supplies? 



Professional and Staff Service 

(a) Have you an organized Attending Staff? 

(b) Has the Attending Staff an Executive Committee with authority in professional mat- 

ters? 

(c) Is the Superintendent a. member of the Executive Committee? 

(d) Do you furnish rubber gloves for your attending surgeons for use on private cases? 

If so, why? 

(e) Do you purchase manufactured catgut, or do you prepare your plain and chromic 

catgut from raw gut? 

(f) Has any member of your Attending Staff authority to purchase equipment or sup- 

plies? ; 



(6.) 

APPLICANTS FOR HOSPITAL CARE NOT ADMITTED 

Name of Hospital 

Date 

Sex Age 

Nature of disease (or diagnosis) 

Address (or location in city) : 



Was applicant for Free Part Pay ..Pay 

f (Check) 

Was request for admission made by Patient's self. 

Family of patient 



Agency in behalf of patient.. 
(Check) 



If request by agency, please state name of agency- 
Was applicant put on waiting list 

Name of organization giving information 



(7.) 

MEDICAL SERVICE IN INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS 

1. Firm name Date 

' 

2. Address.... 



M . i n o 



3. Nature of product 

4. Total number of employes Male Female Children, 15-18 

5. Medical Service 

Dispensary Location in plant No. rooms Size 

Plant hospital No. beds Personnel 

Physicians, full time, during service Part time 

Names and addresses 

Nurses, trained, male, female 

No on dressings, visiting, other, mixed 

Type of medical service.^ 

First aid Kits where? 

Average no. dispensary visits daily 

Total no. accident cases per month Surgical, n. o. s Medical 

Accessibility of disp. Verbal, written permission of foreman 

Noon visits? After working hours On company time? ... 

Physical examination, required, optional, applicants, employss, periodic, transfers? 



Causes and percentage rejections 

No. handicapped employed Own employes? 

Medical records, day sheet 

Permanent individual record 

Daily individual record 

Special services 

Dental service Limits Cost 

Laboratory X-Ray..._ 

Visiting nursing 

Absence follow-up Sickness 

Dressing assistants Clerks 

Interpreters 

Ambulance service, own equipment, personnel. . 

Hospital for severe cases 

Service satisfactory? Why? 

Contract? Supplementary compensation? 

Complaints? 

Do you favor establishment of industrial wards? 

Of industrial clinics? 

Care of eye injuries? 

No. cases tuberculosis yearly Disposal. 

Disposal communicable discs 
Venereal disease program 



1028 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

6. Relations of medical department. 

To whom is chief surgeon responsible? 

To whom are nurses responsible? 

Relation to employment 

Relation to safety 

Relation to other employes' services 

7. Personal Service Activities 

Mutual benefit fund .'. Control 

Self insurance Sick benefit _ 

Sick absences Accident absences 

Rest rooms Equipment 

Lockers ..Location 

Lunch room Food sold, heated 

Recreation 

Education, health, general 



8. Health hazards of operation. 



9. Labor unions 

Shop committees 

10. Cost of medical service .Salaries. Equipment. 

Maintenance 

Does it pay? How? 

11. Information from.... ....Position.... 



12. Statistical reports. 

Record forms 

Photographs 

Blue prints , 



Ml I II O D 



(8.) 

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING EDUCATION; INDUSTRIAL 

NURSING SERIES 

PERSONAL HISTORY 
A. 1. Name and Address of Employer 



2 Name of Nurse 3. Age .... 4. M. S. W 

5. Are you registered? 6. If so, give state and year , ..... 

7. Name of present position (specify staff nurse, supervisor, head nurse, assistant, etc.) 



8. Length of service in present position years. months. 



B. 1. Did you hold a paid position before beginning nurses' training?. 
(Describe last two positions only) 



Nature of Work* 


Length of Service 





Years 


Months 







































Specify exact petition held, e. g., teaching, clerical work; employment in store or factory other than 
clerical; personal service, such at caring for children, social work, etc. 

2. Paid positions held after completing nurses' training 

Have you done private nursing? If so, for how long? years 

months. 
Positions other than private nursing 



1030 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Name of Employer 


Place 


Nature of Work* 


Length of Service 


Association, Company 
or Individual 


City or Town 
and State 




Yrs. 


Mos. 


(a) 










(b) . . 










(c) 










(d) 










(e) 










(f) 





















*Give name of position and kind of work , e. g., head nurse; operating room; staff nurse; infant wel- 
fare work, etc . 



C. 1. General Education 



NAME 


City or Town 
and State 


Year of 
graduation 


If not grad- 
uate No. of 
yrs. attended 


Grammar or Par- 
ochial School 








High School 








College . 








Other Schools Not 
Nurses' Training 
Schools 




i 













2. Hospital Training (Undergraduate): 

Name and Address of Nurses' Training School. 



Year of Graduation Length of Course.. 

Number of Hospital beds at time you graduated 



M i i ii o 



1031 



Were pupils sent out of hospital to do private nursing? 

If so, for how long were you thus employed? _ 

Did your training include work with the following: 

(a) Men (b) Women (c) Children _ 

(d) Sick Infants under 2 yrs (e) Medical Cases 

(f) Surgical Cases (g) Obstetrical Cases 

(h) Nervous and Mental Cases (i) Venereal Diseases. 

(j) Tuberculosis _ (k) Other Communicable Dis.ases (specify 

which) 



3. Postgraduate Courses: 



School or College 


City and State 


Length of 
Time 
Attended 


Year 


Subjects Studied 












































Nurses' organizations of which you are a member: 



Date. 



1032 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(9.) 

WARD EQUIPMENT 

Service Rooms 

1. Bathroom: (a) Is it clean? (b) Adequate facilities? 

2. Utility Room: Are the following present and adequate? 

Slop hopper Instrument sterilizer 

Utensil sterilizer If not, what is done in usual cases? 

Bedpan and stool sterilizer 

If not, what is done in usual cases?.... In infectious cases?.... 



In infectious cases? Gas burner 

Cans for rubbish 

Sink.. Linen hampers Chests 

Bedpan hopper '. Table Shelf...- 

Care of infectious linen 

3. Portable Equipment Is it adequate? 



Basins: Cleaning Thermometers..... 

Bathing Tray treatment system 

Hot water bags 

Ice caps... Provision for medication 

Rubber rings 

4. Diet Kitchen: 

Sink Gas or electric plate 

Ice chest I Dish sterilizer 

Steam table Trays and equipment of same: 

Excellent Good Fair Poor 

5. Linen Closet: 

Supply of linen Arrangement Cleanliness 

6. Broom or Maids' Closet: Hopper Condition of brooms and mops. 



M K i ii o D 1033 

(10.) 

MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF CHILDREN IN INSTITUTIONS 

Institution 

Address ......... 

Name .Age._ _ 

Date of Admission.... 



Date Height Weight 

1 . Vision : OD _ 

OS 

2. Hearing 

3. Defective Teeth: Primary .' 

Permanent 

4. Defective Nasal Breathing 

5. Hypertrophied Tonsils 

6. Defective Nutrition- 

7. Cardiac Disease: Functional 

Organic 

8. Pulmonary 

9. Orthopedic Defect.. 

10. Nervous Disease. 

11. Miscellaneous 



(11.) 

INDUSTRIAL DIVISION 
Women and Industry Questionnaire 

Firm Address 

Product 

1. Number Employes (on production) 

Male 

Female 

Boys 15 to 16 

Girls 16 to 18 

2. Regularity of employment 

3. Transportation 



4. Hours: to Lunch to Saturday.. to 



1034 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Maximum daily Total weekly Overtime 

5. Night work 

6. Women first employed 

7. Operations found unsuitable for women and why 

8. List of operations now performed by women. Check those on which women replace 
men. 

Operation No. Employes Wage rate Piece or Time Work Wkly. earnings 

9. Comparison with men or boys on same work as to wage and efficiency 

10. Minimum or guaranteed wage 

11. Work, how learned Training school, forelady, other workers 

1 2 . Opportunities for advancement 

13. Types of women workers nationality, color, age, civil state _ 

Educational requirement 

Male Female 

14. Absences .'. 

Lates ' 

15. Length of service . .'. 

Transfers 

16. Accident incidence 

Sickness incidence 

17. Medical service 

Hospital used 

Home visits 

18. Supervision of women by Extent 

Employment woman 

Doctor (M. F. full, part time) Hours 

Nurse 

Service worker ' 

Forelady 

19. Working conditions 

(a) Type of building 

(b) Ventilation 

(c) Cleanliness 

(d) Sanitation 

(e) Light 

(f) Distribution of women Crowding.- 

(g) Standing Chairs 



M i i 11 OD 1035 



(h) Lifting 

(i) Fatiguing movements 

(j) Special health hazards 

(k) Lockers, dressing room 

(1) Uniforms, optional, required, provided laundered type... 

(m) Couches 

(n) Lunch room Food sold, heated 

(Rest Periods) 

20. Physical examination, partial, complete, applicants, employes, periodic, transfers 
Care of pregnant V.'D 

21. Health education vs. special hazards 

Safety instruction 

22. Vacations 

23. Recreation 

24. Benefit association 

25. Shop committee. Union 



Information from _ By Date. 



(12.) 

PUBLIC HEALTH EDUCATION 

Name of Organization ____. 

Type of education given Anti-tuberculosis 

Social Hygiene 

Etc 

Way information given 

Literature 

Lectures 

Etc. 

How many people reached? 

What age and sex reached? 

Any racial adaptation? 

Consistent or spasmodic effort? 

Conception of future activity along this line? .... 
Samples of literature 



(13.) 

MILK CONSUMPTION SURVEY 

Date of visit 

Nationality (7) No Street Agency visiting (1) 

Family receiving relief (2) yes no Kind of relief (3).... 

No. in family: (4) Adults (15 and over) Lodgers 

Children (6-14 incl.) Children under 6 
Illness in family at time of visit (8) 



1036 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Members (6) Nature of Illness 



Milk: Daily amount (qts.) Bottle Bulk Canned (5) Otherwise. 

Check 

Kept cold Covered 



Is it pasteurized: by dealer or at home is it certified?. 

Check 



Remarks: 



Investigator. 



1. Initials only. 

2. Other than home nursing care. 

3. Financial, clothing, food, medical care, etc. 

4. Include any relative living in family as adults or children as case may be. 

5. Condensed evaporated, etc. 

6. Mother, lodger, etc., call all persons 14 and under, children. 

7. Be particular to specify negroes. 

8. Include (a) Sickness requiring the attention of physician, (b) Sickness requiring treatment! at 
hospital or dispensary, (c) Sickness preventing work, (d) Sickness preventing attendance at school. 



METHOD 



1037 































2 


*** 






























"*' M 


pt 






























A 



















. 














( 
































1 












i 




















i 

































































}( ? 


1 






























Type of ward 
(medical, sur- 
gical, etc.) 


5 

o 
































S 
































a 






























B 


2 






























1 


2 






























z 


1 






























2, 
































S 
































3 
































X 
































1 

































Doctor 
or Agency 
referring Case 





1038 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Bibliography of Surveys 

By JULIA T. EMERSON 

HEALTH ADMINISTRATION SURVEYS 

UN/TED STATES 

Harmon, G. E. A comparison of the relative healthfulness of certain cities in the 
United States based upon the study of their vital statistics. American Statistical 
Association, Quarterly Publication v. 15 no.114 p!57-174 June 1916. 

Lumsden, L. L. Rural sanitation; a report made in 15 counties in 1914, 1915, 1916. 
Treasury Department, U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Bulletin no.94, 
1918. 336p. 

Schneider, Franz, jr. A survey of the activities of municipal health departments in 
the United States. (Begun August 1913) Russell Sage Foundation. Reprinted 
American Journal Public Health v.6 no.l January 1916. 

Warren, B. S. and Sydenstricker, Edgar. Statistics of disability; a compilation of 
some of the data available in the United States. U. S. Public Health Service 
Public Health Reports v. 31 no. 16 p989-999 April 1916. 

ALASKA 

Haines Craig, H. M. and Lambie, J. M. Medical survey of an Indian village. 
Military Surgeon, July 1914 pi 1-1 6. 

COLORADO 

Fox, Carrol. Public health administration in Colorado. Reprint 383, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, December 1916, p3485-3520. 

CONNECTICUT 

Middletown Greenberg, David and Joel, I. D. Health survey, under direction of 
C-E. A. Winslow, 1918. 73p. 

New Haven Fisher, Irving. Health of New Haven. New Haven Civic Federation 
1913. 8p. 

FLORIDA 

Fox, Carrol. Public Health administration in Florida. Reprint 340, U. S. Public 
Health Service, Public Health Reports, June 2, 1916, p!359-1407. 

GEORGIA 

Atlanta Lindholm, S. G. Report of survey of the Department of Health. New 
York Bureau of Municipal Research, 1912. 44p. 

Atlanta Schneider, Franz, jr. Survey of the public health situation. Atlanta 
Chamber of Commerce, 1913. 22p. 



1089 



ILLINOIS 

Grubbs, S. B. Public health administration in Illinois. Reprint 275, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, May 21, 1912. 

Mathews, J. M. Report on public health administration. State Efficiency and 
Economy Committee, Springfield, Illinois, 1914. 54p. 

Chicago Perry, J. C. Public health administration in Chicago. U. S. Public 
Health Service, Public Health Reports v.30 p2536-2561 August 27, 1915. 

Freeport Sanitary and health survey of the city of Freeport ; conducted by Depart- 
ment of Public Health in cooperation with civic organizations of Freeport. Super- 
vised by P. L. Skoog. Illinois Health News v.4 n. s. no. 5 p75-106 May 1918. 

Quincy Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Quincy. Reprint 428, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, October 5, 1917, p!665-1679. 

Springfield Palmer, G. T. Sanitary and health survey. Reprint from Academy 
of Political Science Publications v.2 no.4 1912. 50p. 

Springfield Schneider, Franz, jr. Public health in Springfield. Russell Sage 
Foundation, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, 1915. 159p. 

White County Foster, I. A. and Fulmer, Harriet Health survey of White County; 
made under auspices of Illinois State Board of Health and Illinois State Associa- 
tion for the Prevention of Tuberculosis. Springfield Board of Health, 1915. 23p. 

INDIANA 

Eatt Chicago Hendrich, A. W. Public health in East Chicago. East Chicago 
Department of Health, 1916. 42p. 

South Bend Fox, Carrol Public health administration in South Bend. U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports v.32 p776-805 March 25, 1917. 

KANSAS 

Sumner County Sumner County sanitary and social survey. Kansas State 
Board of Health Bulletin v.9 no. 5 May 1915. 

Topeka Schneider, Franz, jr. Public health survey of Topeka. Russell Sage Foun- 
dation, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, 1914. 98p. 

KENTUCKY 

Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) Sanitary conditions and needs of Kentucky. Kentucky 
Medical Journal v.7 no. 13 August 1, 1909. 44p. 

MAINE 

Lewitton and Auburn Pratt, A. P. Public health administration in Lewiston 
and Auburn; a report of a survey made under direction of the State Department 
of Health for Public Health District Health Officer, Augusta. State Department of 
Health Bulletin v.l n. s. nos.10-11 pl51-170 October- November. 



1040 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Portland Pratt, A. P. Public health administration in Portland; a report of a 
survey made under the direction of the State Department of Health. State De- 
partment of Health Bulletin, v.l n. s. no.3 p58-75 March 1918. 

MAR YLAND 

Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Maryland. Reprint 166, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, January 30, 1914. 80p. 

Baltimore Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Baltimore. Reprint 201, 
U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, June 12, 1914. 80p. 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Springfield McCombs, C. E. Organization and administration of the health de- 
partment of Springfield. Springfield, Bureau of Municipal Research, 1914. 48p. 
(o. p.) 

Taunton and Quincy Horowitz, M. P. A synoptic report on a comparative 
sanitary survey of two Massachusetts cities. Reprint, American Journal of 
Public Health v.7 no.8 p698-711. Sanitary Research Laboratory of Massachu- 
setts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

MICHIGAN 

Ann Arbor Folin, J. W. Health survey. U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health 
Reports v.4 n. s. p536-539 October 1916. 

Saginaw Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) Sanitary survey of Saginaw. 1911. Kalamazoo, 
Michigan. The author. 42p. 

MINNESOTA 

Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) Report on a campaign to awaken public interest in sani- 
tary and sociologic problems in the state of Minnesota. State Board of Health, 
1911. 239p. 

Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Minnesota. Reprint 223, U. S. 
Public* Health Service, Public Health Records, October 2, 1914. 

Minneapolis Biggs, H. M. and Winslow, C-E. A. Ideal health department. 
Minneapolis, Civic and Commerce Association, 1912. 36p. (o. p.) 

St. Paul Efficiency and next needs of St. Paul's Health Department. New York 
Bureau of Municipal Research, 1913. 48p. 

St. Paul Flint, E. M. and Aronovici, Carrol Health conditions and health service 
in St. Paul. Amherst H. Wilde Charity, 1919. lOp. 

St. Paul Young, G. B. Public health administration in St. Paul. U. S. Public 
Health Service, Public Health Reports v.32 no.2 p41-71 January 12, 1917; and 
2d U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports v.32 no.3 p99-138 January 
19, 1917. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 1041 

MISSOURI 

St. Joseph White, J. H. Report of a sanitary survey of St. Joseph. Reprint 185, 
U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, August 24, 1914. 

NEBRASKA 

Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Nebraska. Reprint 348, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports v.31 no.27 pi 750-1 775 July 1916. 

NEVADA 

Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Nevada. Reprint 317, U. S. Public 
Health Service, Public Health Reports, December 31, 1915, p3802-3823. 

NEW JERSEY 

Glen Ridge Horowitz, M. P. Sanitary survey of the Borough of Glen Ridge. 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Department of Biology and Public Health, 
1916. 41p. 

Hoboken Sanitary survey of Hoboken. New York Bureau of Municipal Research, 
1913. 31p 

NEW MEXICO 

Kerr, J. W. Public health administration in New Mexico. U. S. Public Health 
Service, Public Health Reports v.33 no.46 p!976-1995 November 15, 1918. 

NEW YORK 

Report of special public health commission, Albany, New York, 1913. 36p. 

Durbea, C. J. Preliminary inquiry into the health needs of rural people of the 
state of New York. 36th Annual Report of State Department of Health v.3 
p79-138 December 31, 1915. 

Amsterdam Terry, C. E. and Schneider, Franz, jr. Report of health inventory of 
the city of Amsterdam, 1917. lip. (Delineator 7th Baby Campaign) 

Ithaca Schneider, Franz, jr. Survey of the public health situation. Russell Sage 
Foundation, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, 1914. 34p. 

New York City Baker, S. J. Classroom ventilation and respiratory diseases 
among school children. Reprint Series 68, New York City Department of Health, 
February 1918. lOp. 

New York City Neal, J. B. Work of the meningitis division of the Bureau Labora- 
tories; illness census taken in Health District no.l. New York City Department 
of Health Bulletin v.6 no.3, p67-86 March 1916. 

Onondaga Sears, F. W. Study of sanitary conditions on the Onondaga Indian 
Reservation. Health News, Indian Conference number v.14 no.4 April 1919. 

Rochester Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) Sanitary survey of Rochester, 1911. Kalama- 
zoo, Michigan. The author. 119p. 



1042 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Syracuse Shipley, A. E. Report on Syracuse Board of Health. New York Bureau 
of Municipal Research, 1912. 12p. 

NORTH CAROLINA 

Brooker, W. H. Teaching health by motion pictures. North Carolina State 
Board of Health Bulletin v.31 no. 2 April 1916. "How public health is being 
taught in rural districts by means of traveling motion pictures." 

Raleigh Terry, C. E. Health survey of Raleigh. Wake' County of National De- 
fense, Child Welfare Department, 1918. 29p. 

NORTH DAKOTA 

Fox, Carrol Public health administration in North Dakota. Reprint 315, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, December 1915, p3658-3688. 

OHIO 

Dayton Organization and administration of the Department of Health. Dayton, 
Bureau of Municipal Research, 1913. 

Piqua Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Piqua. U. S. Public Health 
Service, Public Health Reports v.32 no.25 p974-986. June 22, 1917. 

Portsmouth Southmayd, H. J. Health survey. Ohio Public Health Journal v.8 
p398^11 September 1917. 

Springfield Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Springfield. Reprint 
417, U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, August 10, 1917, p!255- 
1278. 

Toledo Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Toledo. Reprint 284, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, June 25, 1915. 

Youngstown Fox, Carrol Public health administration in Youngstown. U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports v.31 no.39 p2653-2685 Septem- 
ber 29, 1916- 

OKLAHOMA 

Norman Mahr, J. C. and Ellison, Gayfree, comp. Report of the sanitary survey 

of the town of Norman, made in September 1914. State Board of Health. 37p. 

* 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Erie Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) General sanitary survey of Erie, 1910. Kalamazoo, 
Michigan. The author. 22p. 

Pittsburgh Report of a survey of the Department of Public Health, . Bureau of 
Municipal Research. Pittsburgh City Council 1913. 62p. (o.p.) 

Reading Report on Department of Health. New York Bureau of Municipal Re- 
search. Reading Chamber of Commerce, 1913. 46p. 



BIHI.KM.K \i-in 1043 

Uniontown Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) Sanitary survey of Uniontown. Women's 
Civic League, Uniontown, 1914. Sip. 

RHODE ISLAND 

Gilbert, R. W. A study of a typical mill village from the standpoint of health. 
Rhode Island Anti-Tuberculosis Association Report, 1910. 15p. 

Pawtucket Gunn, S. M. Report on the public health activities of the city of 
Pawtucket, Pawtucket Business Men's Association, 1913. 18p. 

TENNESSEE 

Nashville Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) General sanitary survey of Nashville, 1910. 
Kalamazoo, Michigan. The author. 24p. 

TEXAS 

El Paso Rich, J. P. and Arms, B. L. Preliminary report of the health survey of 
El Paso; and, Grossman, J. H. Housing health survey. El Paso Chamber of 
Commerce, 1915. 8p. 

Galveston Report of a sanitary survey of Galveston. Galveston Commercial Asso- 
ciation, n.d. 30p. 

WASHINGTON 

Crane, Mrs. C. J. (B) Report of sanitary conditions of cities of Washington. 
State Board of Health Quarterly Bulletin v.4 no.l pl-36. January, February, 
March 1914, incomplete. 

Fox, Carrol Public health administration in the state of Washington. Reprint 
255, U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, February 5, 1915. 56p. 

WEST VIRGINIA 

Clark, T. Public health administration in West Virginia. Reprint 252, U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, January 22, 1915. 

Charleston Tolman, Mayo Survey commission of sanitary survey, 1917. 168p. 

WISCONSIN 

Milwaukee Gunn, S. M. Health department, Milwaukee. Milwaukee Bureau of 
Economy and Efficiency, 1912. Bulletins 13, 15, 18. 

Milwaukee New York Bureau of Municipal Research. April 1913. 131 p. Health 
part 13p. 

ITALY 

Traveling dispensaries of Italy. The Public Health Nurse. November 1918. 
p261-262. Three illustrations of trucks used for dental and dispensary purposes. 

RUSSIA 

Winslow, C-E. A. Public health administration in Russia in 1917. Reprint 445, 
U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, December 28, 1917, p2191- 
2219. 



1044 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

MENTAL HYGIENE SURVEYS 

GENERAL 

Fernald, W. E. What is a practical way for prevention of mental defect? Na 
tional Conference of Social Work. Proceedings, 1915. p289-297. 

Fernald, W. E. Standardized fields of inquiry for clinical studies of borderline 
defectives. National Committee for Mental Hygiene. Reprint 8, 24p. Mental 
Hygiene, April 1917. 

Wallin, J. E. W. Scheme for the clinical study of mentally and educationally 
unusual children. Yale University Press, 1914. 20p. Mental" Health of the 
School Child, Chapter 19 p429-450. 

UNITED STATES 

Bowen, A. L. Legislative provision for the feeble-minded; what should it be? 
A study made of the plans and ideas of public and private organizations in Massa- 
chusetts, New York and Indiana for better provision for the feeble-minded. Spring- 
field, Illinois, Public Charity Service of Illinois, Institutional Quarterly v.7 p66- 
78 December 31, 1916. 

Davenport, C. B. Feebly inhibited, violent temper and its inheritance. Eu- 
genics Record Office, Bulletin no.12 September 1915. Reprint, Journal of Nervous 
and Mental Disease v.42 no.9 p593-628 1915. 

ALABAMA 

Haines, T. H. Report, December 1918. (not published) 

ARKANSAS 

Treadway, W. L. Feeble-minded, their prevalence and needs in the school 
population of Arkansas. Reprint 379, U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health 
Reports, November 1916, p3231-3247. 

CALIFORNIA 

Bridgman, Olga Experimental study of abnormal children with special refer- 
ence to the problems of dependency and delinquency. Berkeley University, Cali- 
fornia. Publication in Psychology v.3 no.l March 30, 1918. 59p. 

Terman, L. M., Williams, J. H., Fernald, G. M. Surveys in mental deviation in 
prisons, public schools and orphanages in California; brief description of local 
conditions and need for custodial care and training of dependent, defective and 
delinquent classes. California State Board of Charities and Corrections, 1918. 
87p. 

COLORADO 

Hamilton, S. W. Care and treatment of the insane in Colorado. Report to Na- 
tional Committee for Mental Hygiene, December 1916-January 1917. (not 
published) 

CONNECTICUT 

Wilgus, S. D. Survey of Connecticut. Report made to National Committee for 
Mental Hygiene, (not published) 



BIHI.KM.K \i-in 101.1 

DELAWARE 

Richardson, C. S. Dependent, delinquent and defective children of Delaware. 
Russell Sage Foundation, 1918. 88p. 

New Cattle County Lundberg, E. O. Social study of mental defectives in New 
Castle County. U. S. Children's Bureau, Dependent, Defective and Delinquent 
Classes Series no.3 Bureau Publication no. 24, 1917. 38p. 

New Cattle County Mullan, E. H. Mental status of rural school children. Re- 
print 377, U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, November 1916, 
P3174-3187. 

Sussex County Treadway, W. L. and Lundberg, E. O. Mental defect in a rural 
county; a medico-psychological and social study of mentally defective children in 
Sussex County. U. S. Public Health Service and U. S. Department of Labor, 
Children's Bureau, Dependent, Defective and Delinquent Classes Series no.7 
Bureau Publication no. 48. 96p. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

Lundberg, E. O. Mental defectives in District of Columbia. U. S. Children's 
Bureau Publication no. 13, 1915. 39p. 

GEORGIA 

Anderson, V. V. Mental defectives in a Southern state September 1918-Decem- 
ber 1919; report of the Georgia Commission on feeble-mindedness and the survey 
of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene; studies made mostly in institu- 
tions and schools. 38p. Reprint from Mental Hygiene v.3 p52 7-565 October 
1919. 

Hutchings, R. H. Care and treatment of the insane in Georgia; report based on 
survey of the state in September-November 1916 for National Committee for 
Mental Hygiene, 161 typew. pages, (not published) 

ILLINOIS 

Chicago Ransom, J. E. Study of mentally defective children in Chicago; an 
investigation made by the Juvenile Protective Association, Chicago Association, 
1915. 72p. 

Cook County Adler, H. M. And the mentally handicapped; a study of the pro- 
visions for dealing with mental problems in Cook County. Report of survey 
1916-1917. National Committee for Mental Hygiene Publication no.13, 1918. 
224p. 

Springfield Treadway, W. L. Care of mental defectives, the insane and alcoholics 
in Springfield. Russell Sage Foundation, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, 
1915. 46p. (Springfield Survey) 

INDIANA 

Butler, A. W. Mental Defectives in Indiana; second report of the Indiana Com- 
mittee on mental defectives to the Governor; a survey of 8 counties. Indianapolis, 
1918. 56p. 



1046 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Wilgus, S. D. Survey of public care of the mentally diseased and defective in 
Indiana, October 1916-December 1917. National Committee for Mental Hy- 
giene. 186p. (not published) 

Porter Counfjy Clark, Taliaferro, Collins, G. L. and Treadway, W. L. Mental 
studies of rural school children of Porter County. Reprint, U. S. Public Health 
Service, Public Health Bulletin no.77 1916. 127p. 

KANSAS 

The Kallikaks of Kansas; report of the Commission on provision for the feeble- 
minded. Topeka, 1919. 31p. 

KENTUCKY 

Haines, T. H. Report on the condition of the feeble-minded in Kentucky to the 
State Commission on Provision for the Feeble-minded. Frankfort, 1916. 23p. 

LOUISIANA 

Haines, T. H. 1920. (under way) 

MAINE 

Report of the Maine commission for the feeble-minded and of the Survey by the 
National Committee for Mental Hygiene. September 1917-September 1918. 
95p. 

MAR YLAND 

Anderson, V. V. 1920. (under way) 

Baltimore Campbell, C. M. Subnormal child; a survey of the school children pop- 
ulation in the Locust Point District of Baltimore. National Committee for Mental 
Hygiene, Mental Hygiene v.l p96-147 January 1917. 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Community supervision of the feeble-minded ; an analysis of 300 families in which 
there is mental defect, by welfare agencies, members of the League for Preventive 
Work. Boston, 1918. J4p. 

Report of the commission to investigate the question of the increase of criminals, 

mental defectives and degenerates. Boston, 1911. 50p. 

t 

The mental defective and the public schools of Massachusetts; a study of special 
classes for mental defectives in the public schools of Massachusetts. League for 
Preventive Work, Publication no.2, 1917. 16p. 

MICHIGAN 

Report of the commission to investigate the extent of feeble-mindedness, epilepsy 
and insanity, and other conditions of mental defectiveness in Michigan. Lans- 
ing, 1915. 175p. 

MISSISSIPPI 

Haines, T. H. Mississippi mental deficiency survey, February-May 1920. 
Jackson. 45p. 



HU? 



MISSOURI 

Hamilton, S. W. October 1919-April 1920. (to be published by State Board 
of Charities) 

NEW JERSEY 

Wilgus, S. D. 1920. (under way) 

NEW YORK 

Defective delinquents; facts about defective delinquents, nature, prevalence, 
institutional and legislative needs in the state of New York. Memorandum 
submitted to the Hospital Development Commission by the New York Committee 
on Feeble-mindedness and the Mental Hygiene Committee, State Charities Aid 
Association, 1917. 15p. 

Moore, Anne Feeble-minded in New York; a report prepared for the Public 
Education Association of New York. New York State Charities Aid Association, 
1911. lllp. 

Nassau County Rosanoff, A. J. Survey of mental disorders in Nassau County. 
National Committee for Mental Hygiene Publication no.9 1916. 125p. 

New York City Irwin, E. A. Study of the feeble-minded in a west side school in 
New York City. Public Education Association Bulletin no. 21 December 8,'l913. 
15p. 

New York City Kirby, G. H. Classification and treatment of mental defectives; 
a preliminary report with recommendations to the Mayor. September-October 
1916. 41 typew. pages. 

New York City Toas, E. M. A report of a survey of the children in the ungraded 
classes of the Borough of the Bronx. Ungraded Teachers' Association of New 
York City, "Ungraded" no.3 p75-82 104-107. January-February 1918. 

Oneida County Carlisle, C. L. Causes of dependency; based on a survey of Oneida 
County. State Board of Charities, Division on Mental Defect and Delinquency, 
1918. Eugenics and Social Welfare Bulletin, no.15. 465p. 

NORTH CAROLINA 

MacDonald, S. D. February -May 1920. (under way) 

OHIO 

Sessions, M. A. Feeble-minded in a rural county of Ohio. Bureau of Juvenile 
Research, Bulletin no.6, Publication no.12 February 1918. 69p. 

PENNS YLVANIA 

Finlayson, A. W. Dack family; a study in hereditary lack of emotional control. 
Eugenics Record Office Bulletin no.15 May 1916. 46p. 

Haviland, C. F. Treatment and care of the insane in Pennsylvania. Philadel- 
phia Public Charities Association, 1915. 94p. 



1048 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Key, W. E. Feeble-minded citizens in Pennsylvania. Philadelphia Public 
Charities Association, 1915. 63p. 

Philadelphia Three pamphlets: 1 Fate of the friendless feeble-minded women, 
8p; 2 Number of the feeble-minded, 13p; 3 Public provision for the feeble- 
minded, a symposium, 16p. Philadelphia Department of Health and Charities. 
J. S. Neff, Director. 

Philadelphia Salmon, T. W. June 1920. (under way) 

Scran ton Salmon, T. W. Treatment of the insane in the Scranton poor district. 
1916. 

SOUTH CAROLINA 

Report on the State Hospital for the Insane at Columbia. January 1915. A. P. 
Herring, investigator. 20p. 

Columbia Report sent to Hon. Richard I. Manning, Governor of South Carolina, 
on the State Hospital for the Insane at Columbia, with recommendations by A. P. 
Herring, 1915. 20p. 

TENNESSEE 

Haines, T. H. Department of State Charities and Tennessee Society for Mental 
Hygiene, January-April 1919. 

Wilgus, S. D. Report to National Committee for Mental Hygiene, October- 
December 1915. (330 typew. pages, not published) 

TEXAS 

Salmon, T. W. Most urgent needs of the insane in Texas; an address, February 
1916. 

Grayson County Salmon, T. W. Insane in a country poor farm. National Com- 
mittee for Mental Hygiene. 9p. Reprint, Mental Hygiene v.l no.l p25-33. Jan- 
uary 1917. 

WISCONSIN 

Anderson, V. V. 1920. (under way) 

Hart, H. H. Wisconsin system of county asylums for the insane proposed for 
adoption in Oklahoma; a special report. Racine. The author. 1908. 12p. 

Haviland, C. F. County care. September-October 1913. 

Gillen, J. L. Some aspects of feeble-mindedness in Wisconsin. University of 
Wisconsin Bulletin Serial no.940, General Series no.727, June 1918. 30p. 

/ 

CANADA 

Ontario MacMurchy, Helen The feeble-minded in Ontario. Toronto, 1913. 52p. 



HlHI.KM.UAI'IIY 1049 



INFANT MORTALITY AND CHILD WELFARE SURVEYS 

GENERAL 

Mcigs, G. L. Infant welfare in wartime. American Medical Association. Re- 
print from the American Journal of Diseases of Children v.14 p80 97 August 
1917. 

UNITED STATES 

Baby-saving campaigns; a preliminary report on what American cities are doing 
to prevent infant mortality, 1913. U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, 
Infant Mortality Series no.l, Bureau Publication no. 3. 93p. 

Infant mortality and its relation to the employment of mothers, prepared under 
the direction of C. P. Neill v.13 174p. Report on condition of women and child 
workers in the United States, U. S. Senate 61st Congress Second Session, Docu- 
ment 645. 19 vols. 

Infant mortality and milk stations; special report dealing with the problem of re- 
ducing infant mortality; work carried on in ten cities in the United States together 
with details of administration of public and private agencies in New York State 
during 1911 to determine the value of milk station work as a direct means of re- 
ducing infant mortality. New York City, Milk Committee, 1912. 176p. 

Hibbs, H. H. jr. Infant mortality; its relation to social and industrial conditions. 
Russell Sage Foundation, 1916. 127p. 

Phelps, E. B. Statistical survey of infant mortality's urgent call for action. 
American Statistical Association, Quarterly Publication, v.12 no.92 p341-359 De- 
cember 1910. 

Van Ingen, Philip Recent progress in infant welfare work. American Medical 
Association, 1914. 23p. Reprint from the American Journal of Diseases of 
Children v.7 p471^*93 June 1914. 

ALABAMA 

Child welfare in Alabama; an inquiry by the National Child Labor Committee 
under the auspices and with the cooperation of the University of Alabama, E. N. 
Clopper, director. New York City. The committee. 1918. 249p. 

CONNECTICUT 

Waterbury Hunter, E. B. Infant mortality; results of field study in Waterbury, 
based on births. U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, Infant Mor- 
tality Series no.7, Bureau Publication no.29 157p. 

ILLINOIS 

Chicago Guild, A. A. Baby farms in Chicago; an investigation made for the Ju- 
venile Protective Association. Chicago. The association. 1917. p27-34. 

Chicago Kingsley, S. C. Steps in the evaluation of baby welfare work in Chicago. 
Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, 1914 32p. 



1050 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Springfield Geister, Janet The child welfare special; description of child welfare 
special of Children's Bureau and its tour. Springfield, Institution Quarterly, 
December 31, 1919. p!20-125. 

KANSAS 

Moore, Elizabeth Maternity and infant care in a rural county in Kansas. 
U. S. Children's Bureau, Rural Child Welfare Series, no.l, Bureau Publication no. 
26, 1917. 50p. 

KENTUCKY 

Slingerland, W. H. Child welfare work in Louisville; a study of conditions, 
agents and institutions. Louisville Welfare League, 1919. 152p. 

LOUIS/ANA 

New Orleans and Louisiana Slingerland, W. H. Constructive program of organ- 
ized child welfare work for New Orleans and Louisiana. An address delivered 
before the Social Workers' Section Southern Sociological Congress at New Orleans, 
April 1916. Russell Sage Foundation, 1916. Reprint from proceedings of the 
Congress for the Department of Child Helping, Russell Sage Foundation, July 
1915. 36p. 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Phelps, E. B. Infant mortality and its relation to women's employment; a 
study of Massachusetts statistics. Women and Child Wage Earners in the United 
States v.12 part 1 pl-121 1911. 

Safford, M. V. Influence of occupation on health during adolescence. U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Bulletin no.78, August 1916. 51p. 

Brockton Dempsey, M. V. Infant mortality; results of a field study in Brockton, 
based on births in one year. U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, In- 
fant Mortality Series no. 6, Bureau Publication no. 37, 1919. 82p. 

Fall River Dublin, L. I. Infant mortality in Fall River; a survey of the mortality 
among 833 infants born in June, July and August 1913. American Statistical 
Association, Quarterly Publication v.14 p505-520 June 1915. 

Fall River Keisker, L. M. Infant mortality and its' relation to the employment of 
mothers in Fall River. Women and Child Wage Earners in the United States 
v.12 part 2 p75-174 1911. 

MONTANA 

Paradise, V. I. Maternity care and the welfare of young children in a home- 
steading county in Montana. U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, 
Rural Child Welfare Series no.3, Bureau Publication no.34, 1919. 98p. 

NEW HAMPSHIRE 

Young, A. A. Birth rate in New Hampshire. American Statistical Association, 
Quarterly Publication v.9 p263-281 jff&UJfcr 1905. 




1051 



NEW JERSEY 

Ettex County Infant mortality report of the Public Welfare Committee of Essex 
County. Newark. The committee. 1912. 32p. 

Montclair Infant mortality; a study of infant mortality in a suburban community. 
U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, Infant Mortality Series no. 4, 
Bureau Publication no.ll, 1915. 36p. 

NEW YORK 

New York City Boarded-out babies, L. D. Wald, director. The Association of 
Neighborhood Workers of the City of New York, n. d. 7p. 

New York City Infant mortality and the milk situation; special report of the Com- 
mittee for the reduction of infant mortality of the New York Milk Committee, New 
York City Milk Committee, 1912. 176p. 

Ogdeniburg Wakeman, B. R. Survey of the infant mortality and stillbirths of 
the city of Ogdensburg, for the year 1915. 36th Annual Report of the New York 
State Department of Health v.3 p44-73 1915. 

NORTH CAROLINA 

Bradley, F. S. and Williamson, Margaretta Rural children in selected 'coun- 
ties of North Carolina. U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau.^Rural 
Child Welfare Series no.2, Bureau Publication no.33, 1918. 118p. 

Child welfare in North Carolina; an inquiry by the National Child Labor Com- 
mittee for the North Carolina conference for social service. W. H Swift, director. 
New York City. The committee. 1918. 314p. 

OKLAHOMA 

Child welfare in Oklahoma; an inquiry by the National Child Labor Committee 
for the University of Oklahoma. E. N. Clopper, director. New York City. The 
committee. 1917. 285p. 

OREGON 

Slingerland, W. H. Child welfare work in Oregon; a study of public and private 
agencies and institutions for the care of dependent delinquents and defective chil- 
dren for the Oregon Child Welfare Commission. University of Oregon Extension 
Division Bulletin, July 1918. 131p. 

PENNS YLVANIA 

Child welfare symposium ; 25 special papers contributed by leading Pennsylvanians, 
supplement to Child Welfare Work in Pennsylvania. Russell Sage Foundation, 
1915. 138p. 

Hart, H. H. Summary of child welfare work in Pennsylvania. Russell Sage 
Foundation, 1915. 34p. 

Slingerland, W. H. Child welfare work in Pennsylvania; a cooperative study of 
child helping agencies and institutions. Russell Sage Foundation, 1915. 352p. 



1052 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



RHODE ISLAND 

Aronovici, Carrol Some nativity and race factors in Rhode Island. Provi- 
dence, 1910. Reprint from Annual Report of the Commission of Industrial Sta- 
tistics of Rhode Island, 1909. p219-423. 

WISCONSIN 

Brown, F B. and Moore, Elizabeth Maternity and infant care in two rural 
counties in Wisconsin. U. S. Children's Bureau, Rural Child Welfare Series no. 
4, Bureau Publication no.46, 1919. 92p. 

CANADA 

Ottawa Traveling baby clinic; Ottawa trucks used as clinics. Conservation of 
Life, July 1919. p60-62. 

ENGLAND 

Unwin, T. F. Second report on infant and child mortality in London. 42nd 
Annual Report of the Local Government Board, 1912-1913. 411p. Supplement 
in continuation of the report of the medical officer of the board for 1912-1913. 

SOCIAL SURVEYS 

UNITED STATES 

Taylor, G. R. Satellite cities. New York, Appleton, 1915. 333p. 

ALABAMA 

Birmingham Kellogg, P. U., Harrison, S. M. and others. Smelting iron ore and 
civics. Survey v.27 p!451-1556 January 6, 1913. 

CALIFORNIA 

Los Angeles Bartlett, D. W. Better city; a sociological study of a modern city. 
Los Angeles, 1907. 248p. 

San Diego King, E. S. and F. A. Pathfinder social survey of San Diego. San 
Diego College Women's Club, 1914. 48p. 

CONNECTICUT 

Bridgeport 'Report on welfare work in Bridgeport and elsewhere. Committee of 
Manufacturers' Association, 1918. 

New Haven Documents of the civic federation. 15 pamphlets. The Federation, 
1909-1915. 

ILLINOIS 

Chicago Reports of the Bureau of Social Surveys. Chicago Department of Public 
Welfare, semi-annual report, 1914-1915. 

Springfield Springfield survey. S. M. Harrison, director. 10 pamphlets. Russell 
Sage Foundation, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, 1915. Trqadway, W. L. 
Care of mental defectives, the insane and alcoholics. 46p. Schneider, Franz, 
jr., Public health. 159p. 



BlHI.HM.K \IM1Y 1053 

KANSAS 

Belleville Burgess, E. W. and Sippy, J. J. Belleville social survey. University of 
Kansas, n. d. 70p. 

Lawrence Blackmar, F. W. and Burgess, E. W. Social survey of Lawrence, 1917. 
122p. 

Minneapolis Elmer, M. C. Survey by, 1918. 39p. 

Topeka Topeka improvement survey. S. M. Harrison, director. 4 pamphlets. 
Russell Sage Foundation, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, 1914. Schneider, 
Franz, jr., 3rd part Public health. 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Lawrence Todd, R. E. and Sanborn, F. B. Report of the Lawrence survey. Trus- 
tees of the White Fund, 1912. 262p. Covers milk supply and housing. 

Lowell Kengott, George Record of a city. New York, Macmillan, 1912 257p. 

MISSOURI 

Kantat City Reports of public welfare board. 1913. 104p. 

Springfield Springfield social survey, W. T. Cross, director, R. H. Leavell, field 
worker. Springfield Social Survey Council n. d. 33p. 

NEW JERSEY 

Montclair Burns, A. T. Need and scope of a social survey. Montclair. Survey 
committee, 1912. 23p. 

NEW YORK 

Albany Hun, M. V. Some facts about Albany. Albany. The author. 1912. 30p. 

Buffalo Daniels, John Americanizing 80,000 Poles. Survey v.24 p373-385 June 
4, 1910. 

Newburgh Newburgh survey. Z. L. Potter, director of field work. Russell Sage 
Foundation, Department of Surveys and Exhibits, 1913. 104p. 

NORTH DAKOTA 

Fargo Social survey of Fargo, by Social Science Department, Fargo College, under 
M. C. Elmer. Fargo Associated Charities, 1915. 46p. 

PENNS YLVANIA 

Cooper burg Morrison, T. M. Coopersburg survey. Easton, Moravian Country 
Church Association, 1915. 34p. 

Pit ttburgh Holdsworth, J. T. Economic survey of Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh. The 
author. 1912. 229p. 

Pittiburgh Kellogg, P. U., editor Pittsburgh survey. New York Charities Pub- 
lishing Committee, 1909-1914. 6 vols. Russell Sage Foundation publication 6 
parts. 



1054 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Reading Report on a survey of the municipal departments and the school dis- 
trict. New York Bureau of Municipal Research, 8 pamphlets. Reading Chamber 
of Commerce, 1913. 1 Department of Health. 46p. 

Scranton Harrison, S. M. and others. Scranton in quick review. Scranton Cen- 
tury Club, 1913. 31p. 

RHODE ISLAND 

Newport Aronovici, Carrol Newport survey of social problems, Newport Sur- 
vey Committee, 1911. 59p. 

Providence Kirk, William Modern city. University of Chicago Press, 1909. 
363p. 

TEXAS 

Austin Hamilton, B. Social survey of Austin. 1913. Bulletin University of Texas, 
Humanistic Series no.15. 

Austin Terry, C. E. and Schneider, Franz, jr. Social survey of the city of Austin. 
40p. (Delineator 7th Baby Campaign, 1917.). 

WISCONSIN 

Milwaukee Bureau of Economy and Efficiency. Bulletins 1-19. 1911-1912. (o. p.) 

CANADA 

London Riddell, W. A. and Myers, A. J. W. Survey. Toronto Board of Social 
Service and Evangelism, Presbyterian Church, 1913. 99p. 

Regina Woodsworth, J. S. Report of a preliminary and general social survey of 
Regina. Toronto Board of Social Service and Evangelism, 1913. 48p. 

Sydney Stewart, B. M. Preliminary and general social survey of Sydney. To- 
ronto Board of Social Service and Evangelism, Presbyterian Church, 1913. 29p. 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE SURVEYS 

UNITED STATES 

Danger to workers from dusts and fumes, and methods of precaution. U. S. 
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bulletin Industrial Accidents and 
Hygiene Series no.3 whole no.127 August 12, 1913. 22p. 

Eye hazards in industrial occupations; a report of typical cases and conditions 
with recommendations for safe practice. National Committee for Prevention of 
Blindness no.12, 1917. 145p. 

Hygiene of the painters' trade. U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, Bulletin Industrial Conditions and Hygiene Series no.2, whole no. 120 
May 13, 1913. 68p. 

Lead poisoning in the manufacture of storage batteries. U. S. Department of 
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bulletin Industrial Accidents and Hygiene 
Series no.6 whole no.165 December 15, 1914. 38p. 



BnUOGBAPBl . 1055 

Lead poisoning in potteries, tile works and porcelain enamelled sanitary ware 
factories. U. S. Department Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
Bulletin Industrial Accidents and Hygiene Series no.l whole no. 104 August 7, 
1912. 95p. 

Lead poisoning in the smelting and refining of lead. U. S. Department of Labor, 
Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bulletin Industrial Accidents and Hygiene Series no. 4 
whole no. 141 February 17, 1914. 97p. 

Schroeder, M. C. and Southcrland, S. G. Laundries and the public health. U. S. 
Public Health Service, Public Health Reports v.32 p225-246 February 9, 1917. 

Boston, New York City, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Chicago, St. 
Louit Hamilton, Alice and Verrill, C. H. Hygiene of the printing trades. U. S. 
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics Bulletin Industrial Accidents 
and Hygiene Series no. 12 whole no. 2 09. 118p. 

Orange Valley, Newark, Danbury, Philadelphia, Fall River Sanitary standards 
for the felt hatting industry. Trenton. The state. 1915 

INDIANA 

White, M. J. Sanitary survey of Indiana industries employing women labor. 
U.S. Public Health Service, Supplement 17 to Public Health Reports, July 17, 1914. 
44p. 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Hygiene of the boot and shoe industry in Massachusetts. Boston. The state. 
1912. 31p. 7 plates. 

Report of the State Board of Health upon the sanitary condition of factories, 
workshops and other establishments where persons are employed. Boston. 
The state. 1907. 144p. 

NEW YORK 

New York City Goldmark, Pauline. Notes on an industrial survey of a selected 
area in New York City, with respect to sanitary conditions in the factories. 
1917. Reprint of appendix 5 to preliminary report of the New York State 
Factory Investigating Commission. Submitted to Legislature March 1, 1912. 
p29 7-363. 

New York City Guilfoy, W. H. and Wynne, S. W. Illness census taken in Health 
District no.l. New York City Department of Health Bulletin v. 6 no.2 p71-80 
March 1916. 

New York City Harris, L. I. Clinical and sanitary study of the fur and hatters 
fur trade. New York City Department of Health Bulletin v.5 no.10 p267-298. 
October 1915. 

New York City Harris, L. I. Clinical study of the frequency of lead, turpentine 
and benzine poisoning in 400 painters. New York City Department of Health 
reprint, surveys no. 65, August 1918. 



1056 . HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

New York City Harris. L. I. Health of workers in garages; a preliminary study. 
New York City Department of Health Bulletin v.8 no.l 1 . November 1918. 

New York City Harris, L. I. and Swartz, Nelle Cost of clean clothes in terms 
of health; a study of laundries and laundry workers in New York City, 1916. 96p. 

New York City McMillan, M. B. Sanitary survey of a "Trial" city block. New 
York City Department of Health Bulletin v.6 no.8 p215-220. August 1916. 

New York City Pratt, E. E. Occupational diseases; a preliminary report on lead 
poisoning in the City of New York with an appendix on arsenical poisoning. 1912. 
Reprint of appendix 6 to preliminary report of the New York State Factory Investi- 
gating Commission. Submitted to Legislature March 1, 1912. p365-596. 

New York City Price, G. M. General survey of the sanitary conditions of the 
shops in the cloak industry. Reprint from 1st Annual Report of the Joint Board 
of Sanitary Control in the cloak, suit and skirt industry of Greater New York, 
1911. 40p. 

New York City Price, G. M. Special report on sanitary conditions in the shops 
of the dress and waist industry; a preliminary report made by the Joint Board 
of Sanitary Control in the dress and waist industry, 1913. 23p. 

New York City Report on the sanitation of bakeries in New York City. New 
York Commissioner of Sanitation of Bakeries, 1911. 16p. 

New York City Schereschewsky, J. W. Health of garment workers. U. S. Pub- 
lic Health Service, Public Health Reports v.31 no.21 p!298-1305 May 26, 
1916. 

New York City Schroeder, M. C. and Southerland, S. C. Laundries and the public 
health. U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports v.32 no.6 p225-246 
February 9, 1917. 

New York City Studies in vocational disease: Schereschewsky, J. W., Health of 
garment workers; and, Schereschewsky, J. W. and Tuck, D. H., Hygienic con- 
ditions of illumination in workshops of the women's garment industry. U. S. 
Public Health Service Bulletin no.71, 1915. 

New York City Wynne, S. W. Second illness census in the experimental health 
district. New York City Department of Health Bulletin v.6 no.ll p289-314 
November 1916. 

OHIO 

Hayhurst, E. R. Industrial health hazards and occupational diseases in Ohio. 
Columbus State Board of Health, 1915. 438p. 

GREAT BRITAIN 

Hours, fatigue and health in British munition factories. U. S. Department of 
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics Bulletin Industrial Accident and Hygiene Series 
no.15 whole no.221 April 1917. 147p. 



BlBLKXJRAl'in 



TUBERCULOSIS SURVEYS 

GENERAL 

Homan, J. Instruction of the public in anti-tuberculosis measures by a traveling 
exhibit. Journal American Medical Association v.55 p!072-1073. September 24, 
1910. 

Ransome, Arthur International researches in tuberculosis. The Weber-Parkes 
Prize Essay, 1897. London, England, 1898. 84p. 

ALASKA 

Michel, H. C. Tuberculosis survey of an Alaskan Eskimo village, using children 
under the age of 15 years as an index. Reprint 90, Medical Record, October 14, 
1916, p663-666. Wm. Wood & Co. 

GEORGIA 

Anti-tuberculosis activities in Georgia. Atlanta Raoul Foundation, 1916. Folder 
no.3. (unpublished) 

ILLINOIS 

Chicago O'Neill, E. J. School survey as observed at Stock Yards dispensary. 
Municipal Tuberculosis Sanitarium Monthly, Bulletin no.l p!3 15 March 1918. 

Chicago Robertson, J. D. Tuberculosis problem in the city of Chicago. Reprint, 
American Journal of Public Health, April 1918. lip. 

INDIANA 

Richmond Perry, J. C. Report of a survey to determine an incident of tubercu- 
losis. U. S Public Health Service, Supplement 26 to Public Health Reports, 
October 8, 1915. 62p. 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Barnstable County Billings, B. W. Tuberculosis survey. Boston State Depart- 
ment, Health in Commonwealth v.5 p207-210 August 1918. 

Boston Locke, E. A. and Floyd, Cleaveland Economic study of 500 consump- 
tives treated in the Boston Consumptive Hospital, 1911. Reprint, Transactions 
of the New York Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis. 9p. 

Framingham Armstrong, D. B. Community health and tuberculosis demon- 
stration; a series of pamphlets Monograph 1 The program, Medical series 1 The 
sickness census, 2 Medical examination campaign, 3 Tuberculosis findings. 
1917-1918. 

MICHIGAN 

Report of the tuberculosis survey of the State Board of Health for the 1 2 months 
from October 1915 to October 1916. Lansing. The state, 1917. 89p. 

MINNESOTA 

Minneapolis Lampson, H. L. Study of the spread of tuberculosis in families. 
University of Minnesota studies in Public Health Bulletin no.l, December 1913. 
50p. 



1058 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



MISSOURI 

Joplin Lanza, A. J. and Higgins, Edwin Pulmonary disease among miners in 
the Joplin district and its relation to rock dust in the mines; a preliminary re- 
port. Department of Interior, Bureau of Mines, Educational paper 105, 1915. 
47p. 

NEW JERSEY 

Tuberculosis survey of New Jersey and report. Newark, New Jersey, Anti- 
Tuberculosis League, 1917. 48p. 

NEW YORK 

Amsterdam Brown, U. D. Houses of Amsterdam with some notes on the prev- 
alence of tuberculosis. State Charities Aid Association, 1917. 61p. 

Clinton County Smith, J. A. A tuberculosis survey of Clinton County. New 
York State Department of Health, Health News, March 1919, p56-62. 

New York City Dispensary control of tuberculosis in New York City, llth Annual 
Report of the Association of Tuberculosis Clinics of the City of New York, 1918. 
35p. 

Saranac Lake Ames, F. B. A tuberculosis survey of the residents of Saranac 
Lake. National Tuberculosis Journal, American Review of Tuberculosis v.2 no.4 
p207-236 June 1918. 

OHIO 

Survey of the tuberculosis situation in the state of Ohio; prepared by the Ohio 
State Society for the Prevention of Tuberculosis. State Board of Health, 1912. 
49p. 

Cincinnati Nelson, N. A. Study of tuberculosis mortality, 1910-1917, with 
special reference to the Negro. Anti-Tuberculosis League allied drive for Public 
Health, p!8-29. 

Cincinnati Robinson, D. E. and Wilson, J. G. Tuberculosis among industrial 
workers. U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Bulletin no.73, 1916. 143p. 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Pittsburgh Steward, A. E. and Simmonds, V. S. Tuberculosis League; first sur- 
vey report of Dispensary Aid Society on tuberculosis and infant welfare; a study 
of 8-city squares, 1916. 65p. 

RHODE ISLAND 

Gilbert, R. W. A study of a typical mill village from the standpoint of health. 
Rhode Island Anti-Tuberculosis Association report, 1910. 15p. 

VERMONT 

New features in the anti-tuberculosis campaign. Vermont State Board of 
Health Bulletin v.13 no.3 p71-75 March 1, 1913. 



1059 



GERMANY 

Care of tuberculosis wage earners in Germany. U. S. Department of Commerce 
and Labor, Bureau of Labor Bulletin Workman's Insurance and Compensation 
Series no.l, whole no.101 July 1912. 183p. 

SICKNESS SURVEYS 

MASSACHUSETTS 

Host on Franlcel, L. K. and Dublin, L. I. Sickness survey of Boston. New York 
City, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1916. 23p. 

MISSOURI 

Kansas City Frankel, L. K. and Dublin, L. I. Health census of Kansas City. 
New York City, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1917. lip. 

NEW YORK 

Dutches* County A sickness survey in Dutchess County. New York, State Chari- 
ties Aid Association, Publication no.136, 1915. 102p. 

Dutches* County Weber, J. J. A county at work on its health problems; a 
statement of accomplishment by the Dutchess County Health Association during 
the 16 months from August 1916 to December 1917, inclusive. New York, 
State Charities Aid Association. 27p. 

New York City Health census of Chelsea neighborhood by Metropolitan Life 
Insurance Company and Chelsea Neighborhood Association. New York City, 
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1917. 16p. 

Rochester Frankel, L. K. and Dublin, L. I. Community sickness survey. New 
York City, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1917. 22p. 

NORTH CAROLINA 

Frankel, L. K., and Dublin, L. I. Sickness survey of North Carolina. U. S. Public 
Health Service, Public Health Reports v.31 no.41 p2820-2844 October 1916. 

OHIO 

O'Grady, John Public care of sick and diseased; a survey of hospital care in 
Ohio infirmaries. Board of State Charities, Ohio Bulletin of Charities and Cor- 
rection v.24 no.4 December 1918. 19p. 

PENNSYLVANIA AND WEST VIRGINIA 

Frankel, L. K. and Dublin, L. I. Sickness survey of the principal cities in Penn- 
sylvania and West Virginia. New York City, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 
1917. 78p. 

PENNS YLVANIA 

Pittsburgh Frankel, L. K. and Dublin. L. I. Sickness survey of Pittsburgh. 
New York City, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1917. 22p. 



1060 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

SOUTH CAROLINA 

Sydenstricker, Edgar, Wheeler, G. A. and Goldberger, Joseph Disabling sick- 
ness among the population of seven cotton mill villages of South Carolina, in re- 
lation to family income. U. S. Public Health Service, Public Health Reports, 
v.33 no.47. November 22, 1918. 14p. 

WEST VIRGINIA 

Frankel, L. K. and Dublin, L. I. Sickness survey of West Virginia cities. New 
York City, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1917. lip. 

WEST VIRGINIA AND PENNSYLVANIA 

Frankel, L. K. and Dublin, L. I. Sickness survey of the principal cities in Penn- 
sylvania and West Virginia. New York City, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 
1917. 78p. 

UNCLASSIFIED 

Armstrong, D. B. Methods of investigation in social and health problems; necessity of 
health standards, 1917. 24p. 

Aronovici, Carrol Suggestions for social surveys of small towns and cities. 1913. 77p. 

Aronovici, Carrol The social survey. 1916. 255p. Health 228-230, bibliography. 

Bannington, B. G. English public health administration. 1915. 330p. 

Dublin, L. I. The application of the statistical method to public health research. 

Fisher, Irving National vitality. 1910. 130p. 

Harrison, S. M. Community action through surveys. Russell Sage Foundation, Sep- 
tember 1916. 29p. 

Peabody, S. W. Historical study of legislation regarding public health in the states 
of New York and Massachusetts. Journal of Infectious Diseases, 
1909. 

Schneider, Franz, jr. Some shortcomings of socio-sanitary investigations. 



Index* 

l]l Kl.I/.AHKTH K. (Y.MMK:< 



Absenteeism due to sickness, 541-42 

Accident and health hazard, construction 
trades, 535; department stores, 593; 
domestic service, 603; metal trades, 
560; printing, 592; telephone work, 
571, 594; textile and knitting mills, 
561 

Accident incidence, see Industrial acci- 
dent and sickness statistics 

Academy of Medicine, 136-37, 141, 214, 
401, 403, 413; history and activities, 
664-65; suggested cooperation with 
Dispensary Committee, 899-900, 913 

Administrative areas, 42, 46 

Agricultural and domestic service, for . 
children, 602-3 

Ambulance service, in industry, 533; 
necessity for adequate, 458; no pro- 
vision for City Infirmary, 964; plan 
for city- wide, 964; present facilities, 
961; promptness, 961-62; provisions 
in other cities, 961 ; recommendations, 
964-65; requisites for efficient, 962-63 

American habit of mind or work, from 
practical to theoretical, 25 

American Medical Association, pamphlets 
on nostrums and quackery, 677 

American Society for Control of Cancer, 
program for prevention and cure, 
221-25 

Animal Protective League, factor in con- 
trol of rabies, 137; provisions for 
transportation of dogs, 963 

Anti-spitting ordinance, enforcement, 332, 
354 



Anti- Tuberculosis League, 193; activities, 
362 ; development of educational work 
in industry, 363; extension of pro- 
gram, 369; follow-up of cases, 367 

Arsphenamine, provision by state, 885 
Artificial feeding, see Infant care 

Associated Charities, activities, 196-97; 
cooperation with health centers, 363; 
families with mental disorders under 
care of, 498; mental test registry, 500; 
psychological approach to problems of 
individuals, 497-98 

Association for the Crippled and Disabled, 
193; organization and functions, 204-6; 
responsibility for adequate follow-up 
work, 208; social service, 204-5, 953. 
See also Care of cripples 

Association for Prevention and Relief of 
Heart Disease, cooperation in prepar- 
ing program, 213 

Autopsies, importance, 864; number in 
hospitals, 1919, 667,864; percentage, 
668,865 

Autopsy, use not appreciated, 667; 
means for increasing use, 669 

Babies' Dispensary, building, 893; clinic 
training for University District stu- 
dents, 751; cooperation with Humane 
Society, 917-18; extension of scope, 
897; fees and finances. 894; location, 
892; medical supervision of boarded - 
out children, 177; medical work, 895; 
organization, 892-93; orthopedic fa- 
cilities, 203; .patients, 893; social 
service, 895-96, 953; visits, 1919, 890. 
See also University Hospital Group 

Baby prophylactic stations, 826, 986. See 
also Health Centers 



The subjects listed in the Index are given for the report as a whole and are not classified by the 
various Parts. The paces of the report are numbered consecutively throughout the eleven Parts: Part I, 
1-96; Part II. 97-260; Part III. 261-324; Part IV. 325 388: Part V, 389-436; Part VI. 437-516; Part 
VII. 517-644; Part VIII. 645-700; Part IX. 701 to 812; Part X. 813-996; Part XI. 997 1082. 



loo* 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Bar Association, Americanization Com- 
mittee, 677 

Bathing beach waters, pollution by sew- 
age, 62 

Bellevue Hospital, 956 

Benjamin Rose Institute, provision of 
funds for care of crippled children, 204 

Birth registration, check of, 167; in- 
adequacy of, 276-77; method of secur- 
ing 100%, 278; relative number of 
births reported by midwives and 
physicians, 277. See also Bureau of 
Vital Statistics 

Births, 1919, 275-76 

Blindness, see Prevention of blindness; 
Board of Education, special classes; 
Society for Blind 

Board of Education, cooperation in pre- 
vention of heart disease, 214, 218,305; 
cooperation with Division of Health, 
272; physical training, 296-97, 312-13; 
provision for crippled children, 206; 
provision for tuberculous children, 362 ; 
psychological clinic, 462, 486, 488; sani- 
tary supervision, 297-301, 315-18; 
special classes: cardiac, 295; for 
blind, 294; for cripples, 206, 294-95; 
for deaf, 294; for mentally defective, 
295, 488-90; nutrition, 295; open-air, 
293-94; speech defects, 295, 494-95 
See also Department of Medical In- 
spection; Health education 

Boarding homes, dental work for children, 
178; medical supervision of children, 
177-78; supervision, 178, 287, 762-63; 
suggested procedure for placing-out of 
children, 178-80 

Bodily mechanics, need for community 
education in, 198 

Boston, City Hospital, 956; hospital 

service per 1,000 population, 830 
Boys' School, 486 

Brace shop, present, 203; proposed cen- 
tral, 200-1 

Bratenahl Village, school nursing service, 
778 



Breast feeding, see Infant care 

Bureau of Child Hygiene, 143; activities, 
280-86. See also Prenatal care; Ma- 
ternity care; Infant care 

Bureau of Communicable Disease, 122-38; 
cards used, 124-25; Charter provi- 
sions for, 122; control of rabies, 137; 
culturing in diphtheria, 125; disinfec- 
tion after smallpox, 127; disinfection 
of library books, 126; duties of chief, 
122; extension of scope, 122; im- 
munization against diphtheria, 126; 
need for skilled intubator, 136; per- 
sonnel, 122; quarantine, 125, 137-38; 
regulations of Sanitary Code, 123-24; 
reporting by physicians, 124; results 
of control measures, 127; supervision 
of district physicians, 140; vaccination, 
126-27 

Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection, 
148-54, 357; classification of milk 
dealers, 1 53 ; control of communicable 
diseases in animals, 122; control of 
rabies, 149-50, dairy inspection, 151; 
defects in milk control, 150-1; organ- 
ization, 148; appointment of person- 
nel, 154; present separation of food 
inspection service, 154; recommenda- 
tions for milk and dairy inspection, 
154; summary of work for 1919, 148- 
50; supervision of slaughtering and 
sale of meat, 150 

Bureau of Industrial Hygiene, need, 554; 
proposed activity for Division of 
Health, 185 

Bureau of Juvenile Research, see State 
Bureau of Juvenile Research 

Bureau of Laboratories, 155-61; chief 
criticisms of bacteriological laboratory, 
157; duties of chief, 155; functions, 
155-56; inspection work, 160-61; main 
distributing stations for outfits, 157-59; 
microscopic and serological examina- 
tions for venereal diseases, 400; milk 
examinations, 155-56; organization, 
155; patent medicines, 161; summary 
of results of examination of city water, 
1919, 159; work of bacteriological lab- 



I \ l> I \ 



1 1 M;:{ 



oratory, 156-57; work of chemical lab- 
oratory, 160-61 

Bureau of Preventable Diseases, scope of 
such a bureau, 122-23 

Bureau of Sanitation, 144-47, 357; activi- 
ties, 144-45; actual work, 146-47; 
excuse for lodging house conditions, 
53; indifference to enforcement of 
tenement ordinances, 48-49; lack of 
constructive and preventive work, 
144, 145; method of receiving com- 
plaints, 144; organization, 144; re- 
sponsible for abatement of nuisances 
relating to dumps, 74; control of fly- 
breeding places, 83; study of field 
work, 145; supervision of field force, 
144; tenement house code, 145-46 

Bureau of Tuberculosis, closer relations 
with Medical School, 369; need for 
full-time chief, 368; organization and 
activities, 355-56 

Bureau of Vital Statistics, 165-72; ap- 
propriation, equipment and personnel, 
166; cooperation with Bureau of Com- 
municable Disease, 168; duties of 
registrar, 168-69, 171; three elements of 
a reorganized service, 167; formulation 
of new system, 167-72; inadequacy of 
present records, 165; lack of enforce- 
ment of birth registration, 276-77; 
nature of data for tuberculosis, 357; 
need for improved statistical work, 
369; need for intelligent supervision, 
168; present methods of operation, 

166; recommendations, 172 



Candy factories, employment of women, 
562 ; employment of children, 590 

Cancer, prevention and cure, 221-25 
Cardiac disease, see Heart disease 

Care of convalescents, study of 200 dis- 
charged hospital cases, 927-37; com- 
munity program for, 938-43 

Care of cripples, 197-212; funds provided 
by Benjamin Rose Institute, 204; lack 
of orthopedic supervision in schools, 
197; points considered in problem, 



201: present needs, 207-8: program, 
208-9; recommendations, 209-12; re- 
habilitation of industrial cripples, 198, 
547, 550; vocational therapy, 205; 
facilities: brace-making, 203; con* 
valescent, 203; coordination by Asso- 
ciation for Crippled and Disabled, 
204-6; dispensary, 202-3; educational, 
206; hospital, 202, 832; hydrotherapy, 
202; physiotherapy, 202-3; social 
service, 203-4 

Care of chronic illness, at City Infirmary, 
948-50; lack of provision for, 946-48; 
medical service, 944; need for institu- 
tion for, 945; nursing service, 944; 
problem distinguished from that of 
canvalescence, 945; responsibility of 
city, 946, 948; summary, 951 

Care of sick, factors determining choice of 
resources, 820-21; resources, 27, 820 

Census tracts, see Sanitary areas 

Central Child Hygiene Council, Commit- 
tee on Infant Care, 283; Committee 
on Maternity Care, 278; Committee 
on Prenatal Care, 274; functions, 
270, 272; membership, 270 

Central Committee on Public Health 
Nursing, activities, 757; composition 
and activities, 112-13; organization, 
756; recommendations, 757-58; sug- 
gested inclusion of industrial nursing 
representative, 807; plan for factory 
service, 777; valuable asset to public 
health nursing, 756 

Central downtown dispensary, estimated 
cost, 924; financing, 923-24; industri- 
al clinic in connection with, 553; initia- 
tive for starting. 924-25; needs to be 
met by, 922; suggested connection 
with orthopedic center, 200; sug- 
gested site and services, 923 

Chamber of Commerce, housing survey, 
353; quotation from report on 
Housing Conditions of War Workers, 
43; smoke prevention, 85 

Charity Hospital, see St. Vincent's Char- 
ity 



10(54 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Child-caring institutions, licensing, 287; 
medical survey, 287; number and 
capacity, 287; number planning new 
buildings, 175; objdcts of study of, 
174-75; problems of delinquency, 487; 
recommendations, 176-77, 287; sani- 
tary survey, 287; summary of medical 
service, 175-76 

Child health work, four great features of 
present program, 268; lack of pre- 
ventive health functions, 267-68; 
measure of its effectiveness, 319-20; 
need of central control, 267-270; pres- 
ent organization, 267-68; proposed 
organization, 270-73; recommenda- 
tions, 274-75, 278-80, 283-84, 285-87, 
287-88, 301-18; summary of problem, 
269-70; summary of report on, 29-30; 
two fundamental bases, 268. See also 
Central Child Hygiene Council; Pre- 
natal care; Maternity care; Infant 
care; Pre-school age care 

Child Labor Laws, age and educational 
requirements, 582-83; enforcement, 
583, 585-86; health requirements, 583; 
reasons for evasion, 586-87; reasons 
for inadequate enforcement, 586; rem- 
edy for lack of enforcement, 587; spe- 
cial vacation certificate, 583; street 
trades, 583 

Childhood, importance of adolescent 
period, 580 

Children and industry, brief outline of 
study, 581 ; education's responsibility, 
613-18; need for junior vocational 
department, 596-97, 615; reasons for 
including study in survey, 579; recom- 
mendations, 619-21; summary of re- 
port, 31-32; three general 'considera- 
tions involved in health study, 579-80 
statistics: sources of information, 
583-84; number of children at work, 
584; ages and number of children ap- 
plying for work, 585; occupations 
employing children, 588 
See also Occupations employing chil- 
dren; Street trades; Agricultural 
work and domestic service; Child 
Labor Laws 



Children's Fresh Air Camp, dental serv- 
ice, 687; preventorium advantages, 
361; provisions for convalescents, 941 

Children's Placement Bureau, proposed 
new activity for the Division of Health, 
178-80 

Chronic cases, classification, 947-48 

City Charter, provisions, 106-9; suggested 
changes, 119, 654, 839-40 

City Farm, description, 465 

City Hospital, admission procedure for 
tuberculosis cases, 356; ambulance 
service, 961 ; approval of bond issue 
for, 458, 966; charter changes sug- 
gested, 654, 839-40; deficiency of 
nursing service, 838; number of beds, 
828; out-patient department needed, 
918; plans for expansion, 966; pro- 
posed psychopathic department and 
"outposts", 458, 462, 479, 481, 486; 
social service, 953, 955; study of con- 
valescent -cases from, 930-32; sug- 
gested plan for a venereal disease 
service, 410; 

facilities: contagious cases, 832; 
dental surgery, 684-85, 687; mental 
cases, 446-47, 458; tuberculosis cases, 
360; venereal diseases, 402, 410, 832 

training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 717-18, 724; in- 
struction in nursing procedures, 724- 
27; instruction in sciences, 728-32; 
instruction in. other subjects, 732-35; 
ratio of nurses to patients, 735; day 
duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; vaca- 
tion, 738; living conditions, 740-41 

City Infirmary, insufficient service, 839, 
949; location and capacity, 948; per- 
sonnel, 948; provision for mental 
cases, 465-66; utilization for chronic 
cases, 949 

City Plan Commission, 48, 353 
Climate, 46-47 

Clinics, cardiac, 215, 2f9, 897; dental, 
293, 684-86, 903-4; industtial 553, 



I N II I . \ 



KM;.-, 



923; need for psychiatric, 462, 479, 
481. 486; prenatal, 274, 826, 902-3, 
986; psychological, 462, 486. 488; 
venereal disease, 401, 404, 885. See 
a/ao Dispensaries 

College of Dentistry, see Dental School 

Commissioner of Health, appointment, 
111; part-time office, 111; powers 
and duties, 109 

Commissioner of Publicity and Research, 
duties, 108; reasons why position 
should be filled, 110 

Commissioner of Smoke Prevention, 88-89 

Committee for Prevention and Relief of 
Heart Disease, 214 

Committee for vice investigations, 426-27 

Committee on Nursing Education, studies 
of hospital training schools, 712 

Community, attitude toward hospitals 
and dispensaries, 820-21; complaints 
regarding provisions for mental cases, 
444.45; interest of, 576-77; planning 
of hospitals and dispensaries, 966-72; 
spirit, 377, 983-84; supervision of 
mentally defective, 495-96 

Construction trades, accident and health 
hazards, 535-36; accident incidence, 
542 

Consultation service, establishment of, 366 

Consumers' League, campaign for en- 
forcement of street trades ordinance, 
598 ; cooperation in study of Children 
and Industry, 581 ; investigation of 
milk situation, 347; program for in- 
creasing use of milk, 352 

Consumption, see Tuberculosis 

Contagious diseases, estimated number of 
hospital beds needed, 832 

Control of drug addiction, new activity 
proposed for Division of Health, 189-90 

Control of tuberculosis, see Tuberculosis 

Control of venereal diseases, see Venereal 
diseases 



Convalescence, two things apparent in 
study, 926-27; problem of, 938: in- 
stitution needed for some cases, 938-39; 
methods of dealing with problem, 940- 
41 

Coroner system, recommendations, 191 
Correctional agencies. 482-87 

Cost accounting, in hospitals, 870-71, 877- 
79 

County commissioners, 872 

County jail, provision for mental cases, 
464-65 

Courts, 476-82; relation to problem of 
mental diseases. 476 

Cripple School, 206, 294-95 

Day nurs;iies ; admission procedure, 181- 
82; attendance, 181, 285; discussion 
of social worth, 574-75; licensing, 181; 
medical service, 182-83; number, 180- 
81, 285; ordinances regulating. 181; 
recommendations, 184-85; summary 
of conditions found, 184; supervision 
of, 181 

Dental hygienists, licensing, 810; train- 
ing and legalization, 689 

Dental Research Laboratory, 689 

Dental School, graduate education. 689; 
present needs, 688-89; public dental 
clinic, 685; wor.k for boarded-out 
children, 178 

Dental service, dispensary facilities, 293, 
684-86; inadequacy, 686; in hospitals, 
686-88; in industry, 545, 688; in 
schools, 293, 684, 685; need for pay 
clinics, 685; need for supervision in 
dispensary, 686; surgical, 684-85, 
685-86 

Dental Society, 689 

Dentistry, Ohio Dental Practice Act, 683 ; 
private practice of, 683-84; recom- 
mendations, 690; summary of report, 
32; two movements important in ad- 
vancing, 683 



10(5(5 



Dentists, education, 688-89; number 
registered, 683 

Department of Buildings, responsible for 
school sanitation, 297-301; recom- 
mendations, 315-18 

Department of Health, see Division of 
Health 

Department of Medical Inspection, clin- 
ical facilities, 293; conferences, 295; 
correction of physical defects, 290-92 ; 
examination for and issuance of work 
permits, 605-7; examination of teach- 
ers, 297; health records, 295-96; 
medical personnel, 289-90; organiza- 
tion, 289; school dispensaries, 295; 
supervision of control of communi- 
cable diseases, 296; recommendations, 
302-15 

nursing service: analysis of activi- 
ties, 783-86; conferences, 788; duties, 
290-92; field nurses, 292-93, 786-87; 
junior health workers, 293, 787; scope 
of work, 782-83; staff, 783; staff 
nurses, 787; supervisor, 786 

Department of Physical Training, activi- 
ties, 296-97; recommendations, 312-13 

Department of Public Welfare, Charter 
provisions for, 108-9; divisions, 110 

Detention Home, 481-82, 484 
Detention Hospital, 476 

Diphtheria, reasons for high death rate, 
136-37' 

Director of Public Service, plans for 
changes in organization, 81 ; respon- 
sible for cleanliness of city, 67 

Director of Public Welfare, general powers 
and duties, 108; appointment, 111 

Dispensaries, adaptation of clinics to 
clientele, 914; administration, 915; 
admission of patients, 912; buildings, 
893; classes of disease treated, 892; 
classification, 826, 890; clinic manage- 
ment, 899; deficiencies, 897; fees and 
finances, 894, 913-14; for mental 
diseases, 462; in industry, 533, 536; 
in schools, 295, 311-12; location, 890, 



892; inter-relations, 915; means of ad- 
mission to hospital wards, 852 ; means 
of providing after-care for hospital 
patients, 856; medical organization, 
846; medical relations, 899-900, 913; 
medical work and records, 895; need 
for general plan, 919-21; need for en- 
largement of service, 862-63; needed 
improvements in service, 918; organ- 
ization and executive control, 892-93; 
patients, 893; public health, 901-2, 
986; relation to hospitals, 897, 899; 
reports and tests of service, 896-97; 
shortage of service, 912; social serv- 
ice, 895-96; supervision, 417-18. See 
also Central downtown dispensary; 
Clinics; Health centers; Hospitals 
and dispensaries 

Dispensary, definition of term, 826 

District physicians, duties, 139; method 
of receiving calls, 139; offices, 139; 
organization, 138-39; recommenda- 
tions, 141-42; records, 140; summary 
of complaints of service, 141 ; super- 
vision, 140; volume of work, 140 

Division of Health, administrative dis- 
tricts, 114-16; appointment of per- 
sonnel, 111, 112-13; appropriation for 
1920, 113; board or advisory com- 
mission lacking, 110; bureaus, 112; 
conferences, 116; cooperation with 
Board of Education in child health 
matters, 272; educational campaign 
for control of venereal disease, 410-11; 
filing, 119; hours of service, 1 1 1 ; legal 
action, 119; library, 116-19; morale, 
121; need for full-time executive, 111; 
number of employes, 114; organiza- 
tion, 355-57; per capita cost 1884- 
1920, 113-14; per capita cost com- 
pared with Detroit's, 114; rules for 
regulation of laboratories, 416-17; 
Sanitary Code, 119; services not 
offered, 112; supervision of dispen- 
saries, 417-18; supply system, 111 

activities proposed: 173, 214; con- 
trol of drug addiction, 189-90; exten- 
sion district, 769; industrial hygiene, 
185; institutional inspection, 173-85; 



I \ 1) K X 



107 



licensing of child-caring institutions, 
287; medical examination for city 
employes, 185-86; public health edu- 
cation, 186-89; supervision of board- 
ing-out homes, 287; Venereal Disease 
Bureau, 413-14 

nursing service: appointments of 
field nurses, 112-13; chronic illness, 
944; communicable diseases, 759-60; 
child hygiene, 281-83, 761-62; instruc- 
tion of new nurses, 768; midwife 
supervision, 277, 762; organization, 
764; proposed extension district, 769, 
803; parochial schools, 763; prenatal, 
763-64; prevention of blindness, 762; 
recommendations, 769-73; scope of 
work, 758-59; staff, 759, 764, 767-68; 
summary, 768-69; supervision of 
boarding homes, 762-63; tuberculosis, 
356-57, 760-61; uniforms, 768 
See also Bureau of Child Hygiene; 
Bureau of Communicable Diseases; 
Bureau of Food and Dairy Inspection ; 
Bureau of Laboratories; Bureau of 
Sanitation; Bureau of Tuberculosis; 
Bureau of Vital Statistics; Health 
centers 

Division of Police, ambulance service, 
961 ; modern conception of functions, 
426; proposed Women's Bureau, 424- 
26; test of efficiency in controlling 
vice conditions, 427-28 

Downtown dispensary, see Central down- 
town dispensary 

Draft boards, figures for venereal disease, 
398; findings of medical examiners, 
541-42 

Education and practice in medicine, sum- 
mary of report, 32 

Endemic Index, 127 

Epileptics, laws relating to, 469; state 
hospital for, 473 

Extension district, 769, 803 

Fairview Park Hospital, number of beds, 
828; out-patient department, 919; 
provisions for mental cases, 461 ; 



training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 723; teaching of 
nursing procedures, 724-27; teaching 
of fundamental sciences, 728-32; in- 
struction in other subjects, 732-35; 
ratio of nurses to patients, 735-36; 
day duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; 
vacation, 738; living conditions, 740- 
41 

Farm School, 484 

Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, 540 

Federal Census Bureau, census units or 
sanitary areas, 42 

Federal Children's Bureau, summary of 
standards of physical fitness for work- 
ing children, 611-13 

Federal Fraud Order Law, scope and limita- 
tions, 676; suggested means for more 
aggressive use, 677 

Feeble-minded, see Mentally defective 
Feeding of infants, see Infant care 

First aid, training necessary for ambu- 
lance crews, 962 
Flies, 83-84 

Foreign-language press, advertisements of 
quacks, 672-75; income from quack 
and patent medicine advertisements, 
678; opportunities for Americaniza- 
tion of immigrant, 678; patent medi- 
cine advertisements, 675 

Garbage collection and disposal, 67-73, 
75, 80-82 

Garment trades, earnings of employes, 
562; number of women employed, 
561 ; regularization of employment, 
561-62; type of women in, 562 

General environment and sanitation, 
summary of report, 28 

Generalized public health nursing, 115; 
definition, 281. 334, 366-67, 754; dis- 
cussion, 357, 754; need for change in 
organization, distribution and super- 
vision of nurses' work, 283; need for 



1068 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



specialized supervision, 367; neglect 
of infant hygiene work under, 282-83; 
prenatal and postnatal work, 801-2; 
standard ratio of nurses to population, 
375, 755; success of system, 754; 
prime requisite of, 755; some causes 
of failure, 755-56; used in University 
public health nursing course, 746 

Girls' Home, 484-85 

Glenville Hospital, number of beds, 828; 
training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 723, 724; teach- 
ing of nursing procedures, 724-27; 
teaching of fundamental sciences, 728- 
32; instruction in other subjects, 732- 
35; day duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; 
vacation, 738; living conditions, 740- 
41 

Goiter, detection and abatement, 291-92; 
endemic, 46 

Gonorrhea, see Venereal diseases 
Government Diagnostic Clinic, 400-1 
Grace Hospital, number of beds, 828 

Griswold Act, authorization of institu- 
tional inspection, 173; reference to, 
124 

Health administration surveys, aims and 
methods, 1009-17; factors determining 
scope, 1007-8; history of, 1005-7; 
preliminary steps, 1004-5; reasons for 
making, 1003 

Health centers, administrative work, 908; 
case classification, 343-44; dental 
work, 684; description, 115; districts, 
114; extension, 283-84, 971; facilities 
for tuberculosis work, 355; financial 
administration, 909-10; infant welfare 
work, 280-83, 761-62; location and 
clinics, 904-5, 986; medical work, 280- 
81, 907-8; method of referring babies 
to, 282; nursing service, 765-66; pa- 
tients, 905-6; personnel, 907; pre- 
ventive rather than curative, 826; 
provision of milk by, 906-7; really 



branch offices, 115; reasons for de- 
crease in number of new tuberculosis 
cases, 344; records, 119, 767, 908-9; 
recommendations, 190, 910-11; social 
work, 908; supervision of children of 
pre-school age, 285-86; supplementary 
equipment needed, 366; tuberculosis 
attendance, 344; tuberculosis nursing, 
356-57, 760-61 

Health Department, see Division of Health 

Health districts, location of hospitals, 835; 
proposed use of one as extension dis- 
trict, 769 ; facilities for prevention and 
treatment of sick, 116; statistics for 
report based on, 42 

Health education, anti-tuberculosis, 346, 
363, 368; function of a downtown dis- 
pensary, 922; importance in training 
for industrial life, 614-15; important 
part of industrial nursing, 805-6; in 
industry, 363; in the public schools, 
297; means of combating quackery 
and patent medicines, 677; for pre- 
vention of heart disease, 218; recom- 
mendations, 189, 313-14; resume of 
present services, 186-89; under Divi- 
sion of Health, 108, 110, 112, 188; 
views of International Red Cross in 
regard to, 188-89; weapon against 
disease and disability, 26-27. See also 
Sex education; Mental hygiene 

Health hazards, see Accident and health 
hazards 

Health services, recommendations, 226-28; 
summary of report, 28-29 

Health supervision in industry, see Medi- 
cal service in industry 

Health supervision in schools, see School 
health supervision 

Health supervision of children at work, 
medical examination for work permit, 
603-7; suggested content of Ohio law 
re health certificate, 607; subnormal 
children, 608-10; summary of stand- 
ards of normal development and physi- 
cal fitness, 611-13. 
See also Work permits 



I \ I) I \ 

Heart disease, prevention and relief, 213- 
21 

Holy Cross House, facilities for care of 
non- pulmonary tuberculosis, 361 ; pro- 
visions for convalescents, 941 

Home conditions of working people, rela- 
tion to health, 557 

Home work, a method used by factories to 
increase output, 573; advantages in 
special cases, 574; various kinds, 573 

Hospital beds, for children, 831-32; for 
contagious diseases, 832; for eye, ear, 
nose and throat cases, 831; for ob- 
stetrical cases, 275, 831 ; for orthopedic 
cases, 202, 832; for tuberculosis, 361- 
62, 366; for venereal diseases, 402, 
832; shortage, 832-33, 836; total 
number available, 828-29; utilization, 
833-35, 836 

Hospital census, economic status of 
patient according to nativity, 851; 
length of stay of patients, 844, 946; 
location of residence of patients, 829; 
nativity of patients, 850; percentage 
of bed occupancy, 833; sources of 
admission of patients, 852-53, 858; 
type of service, 831-32 

Hospital Council, 193, 214; activities, 
872, 981-82; membership in, 981, 983; 
number of beds in hospitals of, 828; 
opportunities for service, 982; pro- 
posed Dispensary Section, 406, 920-21, 
982; Purchasing Bureau, 874-75, 882- 
84; recommended interest in increase 
of post-mortem examinations, 671; 
report forms, 974; suggested coopera- 
tion with Academy of Medicine, 899- 
900 

Hospital hygiene, milk supply, 888-89; 
ventilation, 889; water supply, 889 

Hospital statistics, autopsies, 667-68, 
864-65; compilation thro a central 
office, 169-71; number of beds per 
1,000 population, 829; service per 
1,000 population in other cities. 830. 
See also Hospital census 



IOM 

Hospital survey, in northern England, 
1007 

Hospital training schools, capacity of hos- 
pitals and services offered, 716-24; 
conditions of work, 735-38; cost ac- 
counting, 714; extent of study, 709; 
general characteristics, 709; instruc- 
tion, 724-35; living conditions, 740-41; 
minimum entrance requirements, 715- 
16; money allowance to students, 714; 
organization, 713-14, 842; provision 
of ward helpers, 738-40; recommenda- 
tions, 742-45 

Hospitals, assistance in home conva- 
lescence, 936-37; attitude toward non- 
staff physicians, 858-60; authority of 
superintendent, 843; autopsies per- 
formed in 1919, 864-65; days of care, 
833; deficient in provision for special 
classes of cases, 831; democratization 
of facilities. 862-63 ; difficulty in secur- 
ing admission for venereal disease 
cases, 402; distribution, 835, 837; 
facilities for mental cases, 446-47, 458- 
62; basis of organization, 838-40; 
principles of organization, 845-48; pre- 
dominantly devoted to surgery, 831; 
planning of policy, 973; rate for in- 
dustrial cases, 872; reimbursement by 
county or city for public charges, 
872-74; reports, 973-77; services of pub- 
licity expert needed, 977-78; shortage 
of beds, 830-31; social service depart- 
ment, 843, 855; 

administration: economics and sal- 
vaging, 886-87; financial, 869-71, 
877-82; general recommendations, 
887-888; purchasing, 874-75, 882-86; 

board of trustees: breadth of vision 
needed, 978; complete authority of, 
841; composition, 840. 841-42; duties, 
843-45, 871; 

classification: by diseases treated, 
822; by relation to community, 822, 
824; by quality of service, 824-26; 
by range of service, 835-36; 

medical staffs: foreign-born physi- 
cians, 863; functions, 861; member- 
ship, 664, 858, 860; necessity for, 861; 



1070 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



negro physicians, 863; organization, 
846-47, 862, 865-67; 

relation to community: admission 
procedure, 852; giving information 
about patients, 851-52; problem of 
the foreign-born patient, 850-51, 853- 
54; problem of after-care, 854-56; 
cooperation with charitable organiza- 
tions, 852-53; cooperation with in- 
dustrial establishments, 853; financial 
support dependent upon, 857; human 
problem of the patient, 849-50; serv- 
ice for middle classes, 871-72 
See also Detention Hospital; Indus- 
trial hospitals; State Hospital for In- 
sane 

Hospitals and dispensaries, attitude of 
community toward, 820-21; classifica- 
tion of, 822; cost of maintenance, 
.868-69; educational function, 863-65; 
method of approach to study of, 820; 
primary purpose, 819; problem of in- 
terpreting to community, 827; sum- 
mary of report on, 33-34; unit for 
measurement of service, 826-27; 

planning by community: 971-72; 
building fund campaign, 966-67; ex- 
tension of health centers, 971; loca- 
tions and re-locations, 969-70; pro- 
jected enlargements, 967-68; special 
services needed, 968-69; 

social service departments: coopera- 
tion with charitable agencies, 956-57; 
development, 952; functions, 954, 
958, 959-60; importance of person- 
ality and training of head worker, 
957-58; lack of definite policy, 953-54; 
organization, 843, 848, 957; recom- 
mendation, 955 

Hotels, earnings of women employes, 570; 
present method of employment, 570; 
supervision of, 570 

House of Correction, 482-84 
House of Good Shepherd, 485-86 

Housing, advantages of zoning, 48; char- 
acteristics of residential districts, 42, 
43; conditions in lodging houses, 53- 
55; conditions in tenements, 48-49, 



53; legislation, 346-47; proximity of 
home to industry, 43; recommenda- 
tions, 55-56; records of Division of 
Buildings, 353-54; results of over- 
crowding, 48; survey by Chamber of 
Commerce, 48, 353; violation of ordi- 
nances, 53 

Housing Conditions of War Workers, quo- 
tation from report by Chamber of 
Commerce and U. S. Home Registra- 
tion Service, 43 

Humane Society, child placement work, 
178; intelligence tests, 499; medical 
supervision of boarded-out children, 
916-18 

Huron Road Hospital, number of beds, 
828; plans for expansion, 967; 

dispensary: building, 893; classes 
of disease treated, 892; deficiencies, 
897; fees and finances, 894; location, 
890; medical work, 895; organiza- 
tion, 892; records, 895; visits, 1919, 
890 

training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 723-24; teaching 
of nursing procedures, 724-27; teach- 
ing of fundamental sciences, 728-32; 
instruction in other subjects, 732-35; 
ratio of nurses to patients, 735-36; 
day duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; 
vacation, 738; provision of ward 
helpers, 738-40; living conditions, 
740-41 

Hydrotherapy, 202 



Industrial accident and sickness statistics, 
analysis of reportable accidents, 540; 
computation of frequency and severity 
rates, 540; importance, 539; investi- 
gation of absenteeism due to sickness 
and non-industrial accidents, 541-42; 
tabulation of, 540; time loss in small 
industrial establishments, 550-51 

Industrial clinic, advantages' of associat- 
ing with * department of industrial 



I N D 1 \ 

hygiene, 553; proposed in connection 
with central dispensary, 553, 923 

Industrial cripples, 198, 547, 550 
Industrial dental service, 545, 688 

Industrial establishments, number and 
size, 525-26; 

employing women: 558-59; acci- 
dent and health hazards, 560, 561; 
benefits, 564-65; earnings of employes, 

561, 562, 564; hours of work, 561, 
563; nature of women's work, 560; 
number of women employes, 559, 561, 

562, 563; physical conditions of work, 
567-68; physical examinations, 560; 
regularization of employment, 561-62; 
supervision, 562, 565-66; type of 
worker, 561, 562, 563; uniforms, 560 
See also Medical service in industry; 
Small industrial establishments 

Industrial health supervision, see Medical 
service in industry 

Industrial hospitals, 552 

Industrial hygiene survey, purpose and 
methods, 525 

Industrial medical records, forms used, 
538-39; lack of essential data, 537; 
standards for, 537-38; value in pre- 
paring accurate reports and tables, 
539 

Industrial nurses, administration of medi- 
cation by, 530; contribution to in- 
dustrial hygiene, 529-30; home visit- 
ing by, 53 1 ; need for counsel and 
technical assistance, 531; number, 803; 
some causes of failure, 806-7; training, 
529, 553; type of service, 804-6; used 
for absence follow-up, 531-32 

Industrial Nurses' Club, value of, 531 

Industrial ocular service, importance, 
545-46; need for eye hospital, 546 

Industrial physicians, inadvisability of 
combining official and personal prac- 
tice among employes, 528; special 
training, 553; types, 527 

Industrial psychiatry, value, 544-45 



1071 

Industrial unrest, 544-45 
Industrial visiting nursing, 531, 777 

Industry, its interest in health of employes, 
557, 558 

Infant care, carried on thro 14 health 
centers, 280, 761-62; committee on, 
283; field not covered by health cen- 
ters, 281; "generalized" [nursing un- 
fortunate type in, 281; great value of 
home visiting by nurses, 282-83; im- 
portance of breast feeding, 282 ; meas- 
ure of its effectiveness, 319; need 
for agency to supply wet nurses, 283; 
number of children in need of, 281; 
recommendations, 283-84; too great 
emphasis placed on artificial feeding, 
282. See also Bureau of Child Hy- 
giene; Health Centers 

Infant mortality, reduction in, 273, 282 
Institute of School Hygiene, 752 
Institutional deliveries, in 1919, 275-76 

Institutional inspection, proposed activity 
for Division of Health, 173, 287 

Institutions, study of, 174-85 

International Red Cross, views in regard 
to health education, 188-89. See also, 
Red Cross 

Insanity, see Mental diseases and de- 
ficiency 

Jewish Orphan Asylum, dental service, 687 

Juvenile Court, Detention Home, 481-82; 
management of delinquency, 480; 
method of disposal of cases, 480-81 ; 
need for psychiatric clinic, 481 ; sources 
of information regarding cases, 480 

Laboratories supervision, 400, 416-417. 
See also Bureau of Laboratories 

Lakeside Hospital, dental service, 688; 
number of beds, 828; orthopedic facili- 
ties, 202; provisions for mental cases, 
460-61; social service department, 952; 
study of convalescent cases, 932-34; 



1072 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



dispensary: building, 893; classes 
of disease treated, 892; deficiencies, 
897; fees and finances, 894; location, 
890; medical work, 895; future plans, 
919; organization, 892; orthopedic 
facilities, 202; patients, 893; proposed 
psychiatric clinic, 461; records, 895; 
venereal disease clinic, 401, 406-7; 
visits, 1919, 890; 

training school for nurses: organi- 
zation, 714; minimum entrance re- 
quirements, 715-16; capacity of hos- 
pital and services offered, 718-24; 
teaching of nursing procedures, 724-27, 
728; teaching of fundamental sciences, 
728-32; instruction in other subjects, 
732-35; ratio of nurses to patients, 
735-36; day duty, 736; night duty, 
737-38; vacation, 738; living condi- 
tions, 740-41 
See also University Hospital Group 

Lakewood Hospital, number of beds, 828; 
provisions for mental cases, 461 ; 

training school for nurses: organi- 
zation, 714; minimum entrance re- 
quirements, 715-16; capacity of hos- 
pital and services offered, 723; teaching 
of nursing procedures, 724-27; teach- 
ing of fundamental sciences, 728-32; 
instruction in other subjects, 732-35; 
day duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; 
vacation, 738; living conditions, 740- 
41 

Lakewood Visiting Nurse Association, 
affiliation, 778 

Laundries, earnings of employes, 570; ob- 
jectional features of work, 569; scarcity 
of female labor in, 569; working hours, 
570 

Legislation, anti - tuberculosis, 346-47; 
housing, 346-47; milk, 346; relating 
to Bureau of Juvenile Research, 473- 
74; relating to insane, 468-69; re- 
lating to mentally defective and epi- 
leptic, 469; sex delinquency, 419-24. 
See also Child Labor Laws; Pharmacy 
Laws 

Lutheran Hospital, number of beds, 828; 
plans for expansion, 968 



Manufacture of hosiery and knit goods, 
employment of children, 590-91; 

Massachusetts General Hospital, ortho- 
pedic social service, 199 

Maternity care, committee on, 278; hos- 
pital facilities, 275, 279, 831; measure 
of its effectiveness, 319; out-patient 
service, 276; recommendations, 278- 
80. See also Prenatal and maternity 
nursing service 

Maternity Center Association of New 
York City, accomplishments, 274 

Maternity Hospital, number of beds, 828; 
nursing service, 799-801 ; prenatal 
clinics, 902-3; 

training school for nurses: instruc- 
tion, 727-28; day duty, 736; night 
duty, 737-38; vacation, 738 
See also University Hospital Group 

Maternal mortality, see Mortality sta- 
tistics 

"Medical boarding house", services offered 
by, 825 

Medical education, see School of Medicine 

Medical examination, see Physical exami- 
nations 

Medical Journal, 666 

Medical Library Association, history and 
activities, 665-66 

Medical practice, institutional, 822. See 
also Physicians 

Medical School, see School of Medicine 

Medical service in industry, administra- 
tive relations, 534-35; ambulance serv- 
ice, 533; beyond the plant, 536-37; 
clerical personnel, 532; cost of service, 
533-34; dispensary equipment, 533; 
needed in small establishments, 550; 
number of firms offering, 526; oppor- 
tunities for health education, 547; 
physical examinations, 542-44; present 
inadequacy, 363; purpose and methods 



I N I) I \ 



107.5 



of survey, 525; quality, 526; recom- 
mendations, 554-5$; special services, 
544-47; summary of report on, 31. 
See also Industrial medical records; In- 
dustrial nurses; Industrial physicians; 
Small industrial establishments 

Medical service in non- industrial estab- 
lishments, 535-36 

Medical service in schools, sec School 
health supervision 

Medical social service, 895-96; assistance 
in cases of chronic illness, 947; for 
cardiac patients, 218-19; at City 
Hospitals elsewhere, 956; City Hos- 
pital, 953, 955; cooperation with 
charitable agencies, 956,-57; develop- 
ment, 952; functions, 954, 958, 959-60; 
lack of definite policy, 953-54; Lake- 
side Hospital, 952; for orthopedic 
cases, 203-6, 207; Mt. Sinai Hospital, 
952; needed foe convalescent care, 930, 
932; problems, 954-55; recommenda- 
tion, 955; St. Vincent's, 952, 953; 
value in orthopedic departments, 199 

Medical staff appointments, see Hospitals 

Medico-social service, contribution to 
study of, 25 

Mental diseases, need for local society for 
prevention of, 225 

Mental diseases and deficiency, com- 
plaints in regard to provisions for, 444- 
45; methods of dealing with problems 
presented, 443; part played in prob- 
lems of social agencies, 497; preven- 
tion, 501-2; recommendations, 503-11; 
scope of survey, 444; summary of re- 
port on, 31; 

city facilities for care: dispensaries, 
462; hospitals, 446-47, 458-62; infirm- 
ary, 465-66; jail, 464-65; private 
sanitaria, 462-64 

state facilities for care: Board of 
Administration, 467-68; Bureau of 
Juvenile Research, 473-75; Hospital 
for Epileptics, 473; hospitals for in- 
sane, 469-71; Institution for Feeble- 
minded. 471-73; laws, 468-69 



See also Courts; Correctional agencies; 
Red Cross; Associated Charities; 
Humane Society; Women's Protec- 
tive Association 

Mental hygiene, 501-2 

Mental medicine, facilities for teaching 
460-61 ; lack of attention given to 
problem of, 460 

Mentally atypical children, in schools, 
488-96 

Mentally defective, estimated number in 
state and city, 471-72; laws relating to, 
469; need for supervision, 472, 495-96; 
need for increased institutional pro- 
vision, 472; special classes, 488-90; 
state institution for, 471; two out- 
standing needs in care of, 473; work 
permits, 490-93 

Mercantile establishments, earnings of em- 
ployes, 568, 569; educational depart- 
ments, 568; employment of children, 
59293; health departments, 568; 
hours of work, 568; number of women 
employed, 568 

Metal trades, accident hazard, 560; acci- 
dent incidence, 542; employment of 
boys, 591; number of children em- 
ployed, 591; 

women employes: earnings, 561; 
hours of work, 561; nature of [work, 
560; number, 559; physical examina- 
tion, 560; type, 561; uniforms, 560 

Midwifery, comparison of courses in, 277 

Midwifery control, evils of present system, 
277-78; suggested program, 279-80 

Midwives, inadequate supervision, 277; 
number, 277; social need filled by, 277; 
stringency of regulations for licensing, 
277; supervision, 762 

Milk, dietary and nutritional value, 348, 
351-52; results from study of its con- 
sumption, 348-51; the problem in 
Cleveland, 347. See a/so Legislation 



1074 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Milk supply, control, 148-49, 150-51; in 
hospitals, 888-89; reasons for unsatis- 
factory condition, 154; results of bac- 
teriological examinations in March and 
June, 1920, 151-53 

Modern hospital, services offered, 825 

Morbidity statistics, compilation, 169; 
contagious diseases of children, 284- 
85; ratio of active tuberculosis cases 
to deaths, 345; reporting of tuber- 
culosis, 343, 345; venereal diseases, 398 

Mortality statistics, general death rates, 
1910-19, city, 338; heart disease death 
rate for state and city, 213; leading 
causes of death in city and state, 339; 
maternal, 274 

tuberculosis: at Division of Health, 
357; distribution of deaths by age, sex, 
occupation and form, 342-43; death 
rates, 1865-1914, 339; residence factor 
in figures, 343 

Mosquitoes, 83-84 

Mothers' pensions, inadequacy, 575 

Mount Sinai Hospital, number of beds, 
828; orthopedic facilities, 202; pro- 
visions for mental cases, 461; social 
service departments, 952; study of 
convalescent cases, 934-35; 

dispensary: building, 893; classes of 
disease treated, 892; deficiencies, 897; 
dental clinic, 686-87; fees and finances, 
894; location, 890; medical work and 
records, 895; organization, 892; ortho- 
pedic facilities, 202; patients, 893; 
social service, 895-96; venereal disease 
clinic, 401, 408; 

training school for nurses: organi- 
zation, 714; minimum entrance re- 
quirements, 715-16; capacity of hos- 
pital and services offered, 718-24; 
teaching of nursing procedure, 724-27, 
728; teaching of fundamental sciences, 
728-32; instruction in other subjects, 
732-35; ratio of nurses to patients, 
735-36; day duty, 736; night duty, 
737-38; vacation, 738; provision of 



ward helpers, 738-40; living condi- 
tions, 740-41 

Mouth hygiene, need, 686; value, 685 

Mouth Hygiene Association, activities, 
689; clinics at Health Centers, 684, 
903-4; extension of dental service 
needed, 685 

Municipal Court, need for psychiatric 
clinic, 478-79; Parole Board, 479-80; 
work of Probation Officer, 479 



New York City, hospital service per 1000 
population, 830 

New York State, provisions for licensing 
and inspecting private institutions for 
mental cases, 463 

Night work, its problem, 571-73 

Northern Ohio Druggists' Association, co- 
operation with Division of Health, 694 

Nursing, summary of report, 32-33. See 
also Nursing education; Public health 
nursing; Private duty nursing 

Nursing education, recommendations, 741- 
45; standards of comparison for study, 
709-10; study by Committee on Nurs- 
ing Education, 712. See also Univer- 
sity School of Nursing; Hospital 
training schools; University course in 
public health nursing; Institute of 
School Hygiene- 
Nutrition classes, 295, 362 

Occupations employing children, 588-89; 
comments of employers, 596; educa- 
tional requirements, 595-96; functions 
of medical service, 591; health haz- 
ards, 592, 593-94, 596-97; hours of 
work, 589; nature of work and oppor- 
tunity for advancement, 590-95; wages, 
589 

Ophthalmia neonatorum, see Prevention of 
blindness 

Open-air classes, 293-94, 362 



I N It I \ 



1075 



Orthopedic center, association with down- 
town clinic, 200, 923; central brace 
shop, 200- 1 ; main physiotherapeutic 
plant, 200; organization, 208-9. 

Orthopedic Council, responsibility for all 
medical and social follow-up work, 208 

Orthopedic organization, functions and 
essentials for fulfillment, 198-99 

Orthopedic surgery, at Medical School, 
197, 201-2, 207-8; convalescent beds 
needed, 199-200; hospital beds, 832; 
departments in general hospitals, 199; 
field, 197-98; functional rehabilitation 
of injured wage-earners, 198; need for 
children's service, 199; number of 
specialists, 197, 663; possibilities, 197; 
value of social service in clinics, 199 

Outdoor Relief Department, admission 
routine for Infirmary, 949 

Out-patient departments, see Dispensaries 

Parochial schools, dental service, 685; 
medical inspection, 288, 301 ; nursing 
service, 763 

Patent medicines, advertisement, 675; 
capital invested in manufacture and 
sale, 161-62; cooperation of druggists 
and City Chemist regarding, 694; 
distribution and sale, 162-63; manu- 
facture, 162; need for classification, 
162; recommendations, 164, 682; 
local situation, 163-64 

Per capita per diem cost, in hospitals, 
869-70, 878-79 

Pharmacists, indispensable auxiliaries to 
physicians, 691; number registered, 
691 

Pharmacy, recommendations, 697-98; 
summary of report, 32 

Pharmacy laws, 691-94 

Physical defects, correction, 290-92, 784- 
85; emphasis on prevention, 308; in- 
cidence in school children by age 
periods and sex, 304 



Physical examinations, for hospital per- 
sonnel, 888; in industry, 542-44; for 
city employes, 185-86, 544; for oper- 
ators of conveyances, 544; for food- 
handlers, 543. See also School health 
supervision 

Physiotherapy, care provided by Associa- 
tion for Crippled and Disabled, 206; 
main and branch plants, 200; present 
facilities, 202-3, 207 

Physicians, diagnostic training for, 366; 
foreign-born, 863; hospital staff ap- 
pointments, 664, 858, 860; negro, 
863; number and classification by 
specialty, 663; professional oppor- 
tunities, 664, 666-67; professional or- 
ganization, 664-66 

Pilgrim Church, nursing service, 777-78 

Playgrounds, streets used as, 67 

Police Department, see Division of Police 

"Police Emergency", method of sending 
in calls, 961 ; provisions for ambulance 
service, 962-63; stigma attached to 
use of, 963-64; used as ambulance, 961 

Population, history of city's growth, 39 

Population statistics, age and race distri- 
bution, 41 ; city and county subdivi- 
sions, 1.V/.V, 44-45; city and suburbs, 
1900-18, 41-42; density, 42-43 

Post-mortem examination, see Autopsies 

Prenatal and maternity nursing service, 
901-3 ; present facilities, 797; types of 
cases in need of, 797-98; types of care 
needed, 798; agencies considered for 
city-wide, 798-803; recommendations, 
803 

Prenatal care, clinics, 274, 826, 902-3, 
986; committee on, 274; measure of 
effectiveness, 319; need for increase 
of facilities, 274; number of mothers 
provided for in 1919, 273; object, 273; 
plan for city-wide service, 274-75; 
797-803, 902-3; present provisions, 



1076 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SIKVKY 



273; recommendations, 274-75; re- 
duction in death rate from puerperal 
sepsis, 274; reduction in infant mor- 
tality, 273; reduction in stillbirth 
rate, 274. See also, University District; 
Division of Health, nursing service; 
Visiting Nurse Association 

Pre-school age care, gap in child health 
program, 285; lack of facilities, 285; 
measure of its effectiveness, 319; need 
for, 284-85; recommendations, 285-87 

Prevention of blindness, 793; activity of 
Division of Health, 762 ; program pre- 
pared by the national committee, 
195-96; results from follow-up of 
ophthalmia neonatorum cases, 278 

Prevention of disease, devices for, 26-27 

Printing and publishing, employment of 
children, 592 

Private duty nursing, study of unneces- 
sary employment of full-time graduate 
nurses, 808-9; employment of trained 
attendants, 809-10 

Probate Court, cost of committing mental 
cases, 477-78; function in regard to 
mental cases, 476; method of com- 
mitment of mental cases, 476-77 

Provident Hospital, number of beds, 828 

Psychiatric clinics, in general hospitals, 
461-62; needed in connection with 
courts, 479, 481, 486; proposed uni- 
versity, 461, 462; of Red Cross, 497 

Psychiatry, definition of, 545. See also, 
Industrial psychiatry; Mental medi- 



Psychological clinic, 462, 486, 488 
Psychology, definition of, 544-45 

Psychopathic hospitals, see City Hospital; 
State Psychopathic Hospitals 

Public Health Association, 980; recom- 
mendation for creation, 104; section 
on Child Hygiene, 270 



Public health education, see Health educa- 
tion 

Public health nurses, present number in- 
adequate, 366 

Public health nursing, elements of success, 
753, 754; scope of survey, 753. 
See also Division of Health; Depart- 
ment of Medical Inspection; Visiting 
Nurse Association; University Dis- 
trict; Industrial nurses; Generalized 
public health nursing; Central Com- 
mittee on Public Health Nursing; 
Pre-natal and Maternity service; Uni- 
versity course in public health nursing 



Public health organization, additional 
non-official agencies needed, 212; : ~ 
portance, 25; official and - 
103 



im- 
non-official, 



Public service organizations, employing 
women, 569-71 

Public utilities, employing women, 571 
Pure Food Law, provisions of, 675 

Quacks, dental, 683-84; 

medical: peril to immigrant, 672; 
advertisements in foreign-language 
newspapers, 672-73, 679-82; expert 
psychologists, 678; methods of evad- 
ing the law, 673; methods of appeal, 
674-75; instrument for detection of, 
676; recommendations, 682 

Rabies, control, 137; 149-50 

Rainbow Hospital, convalescent care, 
203, 941 ; enlargement of scope of 
work suggested, 942; facilities for 
care of non-pulmonary tuberculosis, 
361; limited in field of action, 207; 
number of beds, 828 

Rapid Transit Company, quotation from 
report, 43 

Recommendations, 55-56, 59, 66, 81-82, 
83-84, 90, 104, 141-42, 164, 172, 176- 
77, 184-85, 189, 190, 191, 209-12, 219- 



1 \ I. I \ 



1077 



20. 226-28. 274-75. 27880. 28384. 
285-87. 287-88. 301-18. 334 35, 370-76. 
401. 403-4. 404. 406. 407-8. 409. 412, 
421-22, 503-11, 554-56. 575-76, 619-21. 
669-71. 682. 690. 697-98. 741 45. 751- 
52, 757-58, 769-73. 781-82. 788-89. 
796-97. 803. 887-88, 910-11, 917, 964- 
65; summary, 35-38 

Recreation, employment of a director, 429; 
importance in venereal disease cam- 
paign, 395, 429; suggested improve- 
ment of facilities, 396 

Red Cross, health education, 314, 363; 
neuro- psychiatric clinic, 497. See also 
International Red Cross 

Restaurants, earnings and hours of work 
of waitresses, 571 

Rubbish and ashes, 73-75, 80-81; recom- 
mendations, 81-82 

St. Alexis Hospital, number of beds, 828; 
orthopedic facilities, 202, 203; out- 
patient department needed, 918-19; 

training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 718-23; teaching 
727; day duty, 736; night duty, 737- 
38; vacation, 738; living conditions, 
740-41 

St. Ann's Maternity Hospital, number of 
beds, 828; 

training school for nurses: teaching 
of nursing procedures, 727-28; day 
duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; vaca- 
tion, 738; 

St. Clair Hospital, number of beds, 828 

St. John's Hospital, number of beds, 828; 
orthopedic facilities, 202; out-patient 
department needed, 918; provisions 
for mental cases, 461 ; 

training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 718-23; teaching 
of nursing procedure, 724-27; teaching 



of fundamental sciences, 728-32; in- 
struction in other subjects, 732-35; 
ratio of nurses to patients, 735-36; 
day duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; 
vacation, 738; living conditions, 740- 
41 

St. Luke's Hospital, dental service, 687; 
number of beds, 828; orthopedic facili- 
ties, 202; plans for expansion, 967; 

dispensary: building, 893; classes 
of disease treated, 892; deficiencies, 
897; fees and finances, 894; future 
plans, 919; location, 892; medical 
work and records, 895; organization, 
892; patients, 893; social service, 
895-96; visits, lltlH, 890; 

training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 718-24; teaching 
of nursing procedures, 724-28; teaching 
of fundamental sciences, 728-32; in- 
struction in other subjects, 732-35; 
ratio of nurses to patients, 735-36; 
day duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; 
vacation, 738; living conditions, 740-41 

/ 

St. Vincent's Charity Hospital, dental 
service, 688; number of beds, 828: 
social service department, 952, 953; 
study of convalescent cases, 928-30; 

dispensary: building, 893; classes 
of disease treated, 892; deficiencies. 
897; fees and finances, 894; location, 
890; medical work and records, 895; 
organization, 892; orthopedic facili- 
ties, 202 ; patients, 893 ; social service, 
895-96; venereal disease clinic, 401, 
408, 409; visits, 1919, 890; 

training school for nurses: organiza- 
tion, 714; minimum entrance require- 
ments, 715-16; capacity of hospital 
and services offered, 718-23; teaching 
of nursing procedure, 724-27; teaching 
of fundamental sciences, 728-32; in- 
struction in other subjects, 732-35; 
ratio of nurses to patients, 735-36; 
day duty, 736; night duty, 737-38; 
vacation, 738; living conditions, 740- 
41 



1078 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Sanitaria, for mental cases, 462-64 

Sanitary areas, definition, 42; number, 46; 
reasons for adoption, 114-15 

Sanitary Code, 119; authority for control 
of acute communicable disease, 122; 
regulations in regard to communicable 
diseases, 123-24; suggested section 
about laboratory and dispensary super- 
vision, 416-18 

Sanitary Index, 127 

Sanitation, see Collection and disposal of 
garbage; Collection of rubbish and 
refuse; Flies; Housing; Mosquitoes; 
Smoke; Water supply; Milk supply 

Schick test, used in institutions, 126 
School attendance department, 583, 586. 

School doctors, see Department of Medical 
Inspection 

School for deaf, 294 

School health supervision, measure of its 
effectiveness, 319; parochial schools, 
288, 301, 763; private schools, 301; 
recommendations, 301-18; 

public schools: health education, 
297; lack of coordination of different 
types of health work, 301-2; medical 
inspections, 288-96; physical training, 
296-97, 312-13; sanitary supervision, 
297-301; nursing service, 782-88 

School hygiene, see Department of Build- 
ings 

School nursing, see Department of Medical 
Inspection 

School df Medicine, community relations, 
655-56; curriculum and instruction, 
656-59; Dean, 659; deficient recogni- 
tion of many specialties, 651; depart- 
mental distribution of teaching staff, 
660; distribution of graduates, 660-61; 
educational value of hospital and dis- 
pensary, 863-65; facilities for clinical 
teaching, 653; faculty organization, 
657-58; graduates on hospital staffs, 



860; history, 659; hours of work re- 
quired, 660; inadequacy of educa- 
tional facilities in orthopedics, 207-8; 
lack of recognition of orthopedics, 197; 
post-graduate instruction, 662; facili- 
ties for teaching mental medicine, 
460-61 ; problems of construction and 
endowment, 653-55; proposed depart- 
ment of industrial hygiene, 553, 656; 
recommendations, 669-71; statistics, 
661-62; suggested activities in re- 
search and teaching, 368 

School of Pharmacy, faculty, 695; 
finances, 695; history, 694-95; hos- 
pital service offered by, 696-97, 875- 
76, 885; needs, 695-96; standard, 697 

Sewage disposal, 60-66; recommendations, 
66 

Sex delinquency, institutional care of 
offenders, 430; laws and machinery 
for enforcement, 419-27; preventive 
work, 429; probation work, 425, 429; 
protective work, 425, 429-30 

Sex education, method for control of 
venereal disease, 396; for children, 
431-32; for young men and women, 
432; permanent measures for, 432-33; 
social hygiene information for parents 
and leaders of public opinion, 432 

Shortage of labor, reasons, 559 

Sickness, cost, 26; relation to dependency, 
26; three services necessary for care 
and prevention, 26; studies of, 819 

Sickness incidence, see Industrial accident 
and sickness statistics 

Small industrial establishments, 550-51 
Smallpox, problem, 126-27 

Smoke, effect of air pollution on health, 
88; effect on climate, 47; necessity 
for prevention, 85; present expendi- 
tures for prevention, 89; present or- 
ganization for prevention, 88-89; rec- 
ommendations, 90; soot-fall studies, 
85-87 



1 \ It I \ 



1079 



Smoke investigation of Pittsburgh, quota- 
tion from Bulletin X. 85 

Social hygiene, see Venereal diseases; Sex 
education 

Social service, see Medical social service 

Social Service Clearing House, functions, 
958-59; suggested extension of scope, 
935; use, 959 

Society for the Blind, 193-95 

Soot-fall studies, analyses, 86-87; appa- 
ratus used, 86; extent, 86; purpose of, 
86 

State Board of Administration, direction 
of care of insane, 467-68 

State Board of Pharmacy, lack of in- 
spectors, 693 

State Bureau of Juvenile Research, 473- 
74 

State Dental Practice Act, need for 
amendment, 683 

State Department of Health, registration 
of hospitals and dispensaries, 822; 
suggested extension of supervisory 
powers, 979-80 

State Fire Marshal, control over sanitaria, 
463 ; responsible for health among food 
handlers, 544, 570 

State Hospital for Epileptics, 473 

State Hospital for Insane, dental service, 
688; description, 470-71; facilities for 
care of tuberculosis cases, 360 

State Industrial Commission, analysis of 
reportable accidents, 540, 550; Depart- 
ment of Factory Inspection, 583, 586, 
587; hospital rates for accident cases 
872; powers to safeguard health and 
safety of working -people, 553; statis- 
tics for eye injuries, 546 

State Institution for Feeble - minded^ 
capacity, 471 



State Medical Board, detection of quacks, 
676 

State Psychopathic Hospitals, description 
of one located in city, 470-71 ; need for 
second in city, 470; number, 469-70. 
See also State Hospital for Insane 

State Sanatorium, 360 

Statistics, health districts used as basis 
in* report, 42; list of statistical tables, 
19-20; list of graphs, 21-22; wastage 
from sickness and premature death, 
25-26. See also Children and industry; 
Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics; 
Hospital statistics; Industrial acci- 
dent and sickness statistics; Popula- 
tion statistics; Vital statistics 

Statistical analysis, importance, 338 
Street cleaning, 78-82 

Street trades, extent and general charac- 
ter of newsboy trade, 599-601; ordi- 
nance, 597-98; reasons for non- 
enforcement of ordinance, 598; recom- 
mendations, 601-2; undesirable nature 
of work for children, 598-99 

Surveys, child! health, 1006; industrial 
hygiene, 1006; mental hygiene, 1006; 
Pittsburgh, 1006; sickness, 1006; 
social, 1006; Springfield (Illinois), 
1006; '< tuberculosis, 1006. See also 
Health administration surveys 

Syphilis, see Venereal diseases 



Telegraph work, employment of children, 
595; number of women employed, 571 

Telephone work, employment of girls 
under 18, 593; earnings, 571; health 
hazard, 571, 594; hours of work. 571; 
scarcity of operators, 571 

Textile and knitting mills, health and 
accident hazards, 561 ; number of 
women employed, 561 



1080 



AND HKAI.TII SIKYI.Y 



Tobacco factories, difficulty of learning 
trade, 563; number of women em- 
ployed, 563 

Topography, 46 

Tuberculosis, detection, 365-66; equip- 
ment for control, 331, 346; expert 
consultation service needed in indus- 
try, 547; follow-up of cases, 367; im- 
mediate needs for prevention and 
control, 332-34; importance of ma- 
terial relief in treatment, 367; impor- 
tance of nursing in treatment, 366; 
institutional care, 357, 360-62; means 
of prevention, 364-65; past accom- 
plishments in control, 331-32; preva- 
lence in industry, 546; recommenda- 
tions, 334-35, 370-76; research and 
teaching, 368; summary of report, 30; 
treatment, 366-67; work at health 
centers, 344, 355. See also Health edu- 
cation; Legislation; Morbidity sta- 
tistics; Mortality statistics 

Tuberculosis nursing, 356-57; 366-67; 
760-61; 775; 791-92 

Tuberculosis survey, methods, 336-37; 
primary objects, 336 



Undertakers, ambulance service, 961 

United States Home Registration Service, 
quotation from report on Housing 
Conditions of War Workers, 43 

United States Marine Hospital, provisions 
for mental cases, 461-62 

United States Public Health Service, ac- 
tivity in combating venereal diseases, 
547 

University course in public health nursing, 
field work, 748-51; finances, 746; in- 
struction, 748; measure of success 
achieved by, 751; organization, 745- 
46; origin, 745; staff, 746-47; stu- 
dents, 747-48; recommendations, 751- 
52 



University District, a community service, 
789-90; description, 115-16; factor in 
success of public health nursing course, 
746; plan of administration, 790; prac- 
tice field for public health nursing 
course, 745; recommendations, 796-97; 
results of prenatal care in, 273, 274; 
staff, 790; summary of work, 795-96; 
supervision, 795; supervision of work 
of students in University course, 747, 
749-50; 

activities: visiting nursing, 790-91; 
child hygiene, 791; tuberculosis, 791- 
92; communicable disease control, 
793; prevention of blindness, 793; 
supervision of boarding homes, 793; 
prenatal nursing, 793-94; school nurs- 
ing, 794; clinics, 794-95, 902-3 

University Hospital Group, 967; order of 
precedence in erection, 654-55 

University psychiatric clinic, 461, 462 

University School of Nursing, a shorter 
basic training for nurses, 712; im- 
portant contribution to solution of 
problem of nursing education, 710; 
recommendations, 741-42; some bene- 
fits, 710-11; special function, 711-12 



Vaccination, 126-27 

Venereal diseases, diagnosis, 400- 1 ; draft 
board figures for, 398; follow-up of 
treatment, 414-16; hospital beds for 
care of, 401-2, 410, 832; method of 
combating in industry, 547; preva- 
lence, 398-99; prevention, 411-12; 
recommendations, 401, 403-4, 406, 
407-8, 409, 412, 421-22; summary of 
report, 30; treatment by private 
physicians, 402-3; treatment in dis- 
pensaries, 401, 404, 406-9; 

control: campaign for, 410-11; 
methods, 396-97, 429-30; needs, 225, 
395-96; past accomplishments, 395; 
present facilities, 395 
See also, Sex delinquency; Sex educa- 
tion ; Recreation 



I \ I. I \ 



11)81 



Venereal Disease Bureau, proposed or- 
ganization, 413-14 

Ventilation, in hospitals, 889; in schools, 
298 

Vice conditions, investigation, 427-28 

Vice investigation, proposed committee 
for, 426-27 

Visiting Nurse Association, 193, 214; ad- 
ministration, 778-81 ; agency for city- 
wide prenatal service, 802-3; care of 
chronic illness, 944; experience with 
trained attendant service, 810; pres- 
ent equipment, 774; recommendations, 
781-2; scope of work, 773-74; sug- 
gested annual classification of patients, 
945; 

activities: care of sick, 774-76; 
prenatal nursing, 776; maternity serv- 
ice, 776-77; industrial nursing, 777; 
out-patient maternity affiliation, 777; 
Pilgrim Church service, 777-78; serv- 
ice outside city, 778 

Vital statistics, definition, 165; state law 
regarding, 167; suggestion for institu- 
tion of a system, 167-72. See also 
Birth registration, Morbidity statistics; 
Mortality statistics 

Vocational guidance, advantage of bu- 
reaus connected with schools, 616; 
development in England and the 
United States, 615; need, 596-97; 
outline for department, 617-19 

Vocational therapy, facilities, 205 
Vocational tiaining, 614 



Warrensville Children's Camp, 361 

Warrensville Tuberculosis Sanatorium, 
case bookkeeping, 368; living condi- 
tions, 367; location and equipment, 
357, 360; method of admission, 366; 
number of beds, 361, 828; per cent of 
cases leaving, 367-68 



Water supply, 57 59; in hospitals, 889; 
recommendations, 59; summary of 
results of examination of city water, 

/'</;>, 159 

Welfare Federation, 197, 499; appropria- 
tion of money to dispensaries, 920; 
establishment of expert accountant 
service, 870-71; functions, 980-81; 
history, 104-6; present equipment for 
public health service, 104; proposed 
organization for health service, 104; 
publicity service, 876, 978 

Western Reserve University, education 
subject to three main limitations, 651; 
feeling of public for, 652; lack of in- 
struction in bodily mechanics, 198; 
material resources for teaching and 
research, 652; only local institution 
preparing physicians, dentists and 
pharmacists, 651; trustees, 652. See 
also University School of Nursing 

Wet nurses, see Infant care 

Wholesale and retail trade, see Mercantile 
establishments 

Woman's Court, 424-25; establishment, 
427 

Woman's Hospital, number of beds, 828 

Woman's Police Bureau, 424-25; func- 
tions, 429 

Women's Protective Association, 425, 429; 
need for facilities for n.ental examina- 
tions, 499; social investigations fen- 
Probate Court, 476 

Women's work, method of surveying, 558 

Wcn-.en and industry, day nurseries, 574- 
75; home work, 573-74; mothers' 
pensions, 575; night work, 571-73; 
recommendations, 575-76; summary 
of report, 31. See also, Industrial es- 
tablishments; Mercantile establish- 
ments; Public service organizations; 
Public utilities 



1082 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Work permits, examination made by De- 
partment of Medical Inspection, 605-6; 
Federal Children's Bureau health 
standards for children entering in- 
dustry, 603-4; information as to 
mental deficiencies, 608 : 9; issuance 
by Department of Medical Inspection, 
606-7; for the mentally defective, 
490-93 



Working environment of women, reasons 
for safeguarding, 557 

Workmen's Compensation Act, 543 
Year Book, suggested publication, 171 

Zone, definition of term as used in Child 
Health report, 272 

Zoning ordinance, advantages, 48 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 

The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 

THE PBEMIER PRES* 

Cleveland, O. 



. 

s 



enerea 



IDi 



isease 



PART FIVE 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Venereal Di 



nereal Disease 



PART FIVE 



Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 




Copyright. 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 
Cleveland, Ohio 






Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 
308 Anisfield Bldg. 
Cleveland - Ohio 



Pref 



retace 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBraDE, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUGHLJN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCK WOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 

and the following collaborators : 
GERTRUDE E. STUROES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D., Director of Tuberculosis Survey; 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the.Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
I. GENERAL STATEMENT 

Present Facilities 395 

Past Accomplishments 395 

Present Needs 395 

Recommendations 39(5 

II. MEDICAL PHASES 

Introduction Prevalence Size of Problem.... 398 

Diagnosis 400 

Treatment 401 

Dispensaries and City Hospital 404 

Division of Health 410 

III. LEGAL ASPECTS 

Introduction Relation of Law Enforcement 

to the Medical Problem 419 

Existing Laws _ 421 

Amendments Suggested 421 

Administration : 

Women's Police Bureau 444 

Citizens' Committee 426 

Women's Court 427 

Finger-Print System 427 

Vice Conditions 427 

IV. PROTECTIVE SOCIAL MEASUIU- 

Recreation 429 

Preventive Work for Women and Girls 

Women Police 429 

Probation 429 

Institutional Care of Sex Delinquents 430 

\ . Si.x EDUCATION 

Sex Education for Children 131 

Sex Instruction for Young Men and Women 

432 

Social Hygiene Information for Parents and 

Leaders of Public Opinion 432 

Ways and Means of Promoting Educational 
Measures... 



Venereal Disease 
By 

ALEC N. THOMSON, M.D. 
MR. BASCOMB JOHNSON 
MRS. MARTHA P. FALCONER 
F. O. NICHOLS 



I. General Statement 

PRESENT facilities in Cleveland for the control of the venereal diseases 
are, generally speaking, as satisfactory as those in the more advanced 
cities throughout the United States. There are three dispensaries 
treating cases of gonorrhea and syphilis, and one clinic serving as a diagnostic 
and advisory center. Facilities for treating cases that require hospital care 
exist only at the City Hospital. The present laws for the prevention of 
infection through sexual promiscuity are in the main adequate. The official 
machinery for the enforcement of these laws exists, but in certain instances 
is practically inoperative. The institutions that are a necessary corollary 
to the proper functioning of this machinery are in part lacking, and, where 
existent, need rearrangement or reorganization to fulfill their greatest 
usefulno-. 

Other facilities that are distinctly of value as preventive measures (such 
as recreation, amusements, playgrounds and the like) have not been thor- 
oughly appreciated as factors tending to reduce or control the venereal 
diseases, nor have they been correlated with the latter. Facilities for the 
social hygiene education of the general public, of special groups (such as 
teachers, parents, nurses, doctors, etc.) and of community leaders may be 
said to be non-existent. 

Past accomplishments of the City of Cleveland in the combating and 
control of the venereal diseases may be summed up by saying that, aside 
from such treatment facilities as have been available through the dispen- 
saries. the City Hospital and the general medical profession, no appreciable 
amount of continuous, constructive work has been done. In this respect 
Cleveland does not differ from many other cities of the same si/e; but, with 
its remarkable community spirit, one is surprised to find that it has not 
forged ahead in this field during the past few years. The Division of 
Health has made some ^poradic attempts under great handicaps to educate 
the public, and the clinics have grown steadily, but no concerted effort can 
be said to have developed. 

The present need- of Cleveland are the present needs of the country at 
large a L'reater .Appreciation ly the leaders of the community of the serious- 
ness and prevalence of the venereal disease^, a- well as a greater under- 
^tanding on the part of the general public of the practical and comprehensive 
program of social and medical measures that must IK- carried out. Perhaps 

The services of the investigator* were contributed by the American Social Hygiene Association 



396 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

the compelling need of the moment is a complete community understanding 
of the importance of promptly availing itself of competent, adequate treat- 
ment for the infected, and, as a corollary to this, of the necessity of provid- 
ing adequate treatment facilities. It is, of course, self-evident that the 
utilization of all measures which may be brought to bear against the further 
spread of gonorrhea and syphilis must be promoted simultaneously if any 
great reduction in the number of cases is to be secured. Equally urgent, 
then, is the present need for planning a general educational campaign through 
every available channel to reach the many groups that make up the com- 
munity. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

UJ$ The methods of demonstrated value in cojnbating and controlling the 
venerealfdiseases which should be considered in determining a plan for a 
city suchjas Cleveland may be divided into: 

/. Protecting Individuals from Exposure. 

(a) An educational program for the purpose of character building, through 
the home, schools, churches, associations and business and fraternal 
organizations. 

(b) Instruction of the public regarding public health and hygiene and the 
need for adaptation of the natural but controllable instinct of sex to the 
environmental conditions resulting from our present manner of com- 
munal living. 

(c) Enlightenment of the general public upon the prevalence, method of 
spread, economic and social loss, serious consequences to the individual 
and damaging effects upon posterity, of the venereal diseases. This 
should be accomplished through the appropriate use of all the civic 
agencies for education and promotion of social relations; and is the 
peculiar obligation of the medical profession, through the medium of 
its membership, supporting the efforts of the Division of Health and 
the Academy of Medicine. 

(d) Improvement and regulation of amusement, entertainment and recrea- 
tion facilities through playgrounds, clubs, theaters and literary, musical 
and athletic organizations, by appealing to and developing individual 
tastes and activities, in addition to stimulating group activities. 

(e) Safeguarding and bettering home surroundings and influences by meas- 
ures tending to increase home comforts and attractions and better hous- 
ing and living conditions. Particular stress should be placed upon the 
encouragement of early marriage and upon such social measures as may 
be developed to protect and aid children and parents in securing the 
normal satisfactions of family life. The proper care of the feeblp-minded 
and the discouraging of unwise mating of individuals bear upon the 
lessening of the number of exposures to infection. 

(f ) Warnings to individuals regarding specific sources of infection ; and per- 
sonal instruction to applicants for information concerning the use of 



\ L DISEASE 397 

mechanical and antiseptic methods of preventing infection either extra- 
genital or genital. Measures properly included under this heading are 
discussed in Section II below, devoted to medical phases. 

2. Elimination of Environmental Condition* Favoring Dissemination of 
Venereal Diseases. 

(a) Elimination of the commercialized aspects of prostitution. 

1. Its advertisement The best advertisement of prostitution is the red 
light district or tolerated house open to the public. 

2. Its protection Such districts or tolerated houses operate in violation of 
law and cannot exist without official protection, which means corrupt 
'officials. 

3. Its exploitation The exploiter is the go-between or middleman whose 
interest it is to stimulate both the supply of and demand for prostitution. 
Under this head come the illicit activities of procurers, panderers, chauf- 
feurs, bell boys, keepers of hotels, rooming houses and apartments, man- 
agers of dance halls, cabarets and other forms of commercialized amuse- 
ments, who cater to prostitution. 

(o) Repression of the individual activities of men to purchase sexual grati- 
fication and of women to sell themselves for this purpose. 

1. Prevention of solicitation for prostitution or sexual gratification by either 
sex in public places. 

2. Repression of clandestine prostitution in hotels, rooming houses and 
apartments by passage and enforcement of prohibitory laws effective 
equally against both sexes. 

J. Provision and Maintenance of Facilities for Diagnosis, Treatment and 
Control of Infected Persons. 

(a) The discovery of infected individuals through laboratory aids to diag- 
nosis, through the maintenance of an advisory clinic, through the stimu- 
lation of better diagnostic service by dispensaries and hospitals, as well 
as through examinations made by the general medical profession in 
private, public and industrial practice. 

(b) Provision of treatment through the maintenance of dispensaries with 
adequate equipment and personnel to supplement the service afforded 
by the medical profession and the enactment of legislation against treat- 
ment by unqualified persons. 

(c) Control of infected persons through thorough instruction regarding the 
venereal diseases by the physician responsible for the treatment of such 
patients, through the provision of hospital facilities, the quarantine of 
cases under certain circumstances, the establishment of standards for 
discharge from treatment and the enforcement of penalties for exposing 
others to infection. 



398 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUK\ i > 

II. Medical Phases 

INTRODUCTION PREVALENCE SIZE OF PROBLEM 

THE frequency with which venereal disease occurs in civil life was realized 
by but few persons until the United States entered the World War. 
The country was shocked by the prevalence of gonorrhea and syphilis, 
as shown by the first draft. 

Although this prevalence is recognized, the unorganized defense (until 
recently) against gonorrhea and syphilis as compared with other communi- 
cable diseases makes it impossible to obtain material upon which a positive 
statistical statement may be based. A conservative estimate, however, can 
be made to approximate conditions existing at the present moment. Upon 
these estimates certain positive and constructive plans can be formulated. 

Cleveland did some pioneer work in venereal disease control, and has in 
many respects made much progress. It is reasonable to assume that, in 
general, Cleveland is no worse nor better equipped to handle the problem 
than any other American city of its size; nor is the total amount of venereal 
disease that requires attention greater in Cleveland than elsewhere. 

How much venereal disease exists in Cleveland? From army figures we 
get merely an idea of the amount of venereal disease work to be undertaken, 
for it must be realized that army and draft board figures do not include 
boys below twenty-one, men over thirty, nor the women and children. It 
must be further understood that gonorrhea and syphilis are germ diseases 
whose mode of transmission is known; that they are found in all walks of 
life, at every age from birth to old age; and, finally, that they are respon- 
sible for many symptoms and conditions classified as diseases other than 
those generally recognized as or admitted to be venereal diseases. 

In the second million men called to the colors in the late war 275 cases 
of venereal disease were recorded for the 6,189 Cleveland men examined at 
the camps, or 4.44%. If this rate of 4.44% of the pick of Cleveland's men 
were found infected, it is reasonable to expect to find at least the same rate 
among all men of the age group of twenty-one to thirty years in Cleveland 
now, or a total of 7,637. 

Venereal diseases have been reportable but a very short time. False 
modesty still lingers, and any estimate of the prevalence of gonorrhea and 
syphilis throughout the United States is necessarily incomplete. In a very 
few states venereal disease has been reportable for more than a year; in 
only one, over three years. The figures for the last six months of 1919 are, 
therefore, a conservative index only of the incidence, and justify us in con- 
sidering them as a marked underestimation of prevalence. The number of 
cases of gonorrhea and syphilis credited to Ohio during the last six months 
of 1919 in the U. S. Public Health Service reports was 7,380. The total num- 
ber of cases reported to the Ohio State Department of Health for the period 
of July-December, 1919, was: gonorrhea 4,438, syphilis 3,869, making a total 



\I\IKI\I. I) 1 - I \ - I 



399 



of 8,307. Of this mimlx'r there were reported from Cleveland during the 
same period: gonorrhea 44(5, and syphilis 497, making a total of 743 cases. 
During this same period the City Health Division informed the Survey 
that 91 I t venereal disease had been reported, which is a smaller 

number tluiii were CM red for by the clinics or were reported to the Cleveland 
Hospital and Health Survey by the physicians of Cleveland. 

In the following table five states and Continental United States as a 
\\hole are compared. An equally active anti-venereal campaign, similar to 
the Ohio State Health Department program, was conducted by each state, 
c\.ept that Ohio had not "pushed" reporting to quite the same degree. 

VENEREAL DISEASE REPORTED LAST SIX MONTHS OF 1919 















S. &G. 








Rate 




Rate 


Total 




Population 


Gonorrhea 


per 


Syphilis 


per 


Rate per 




(Est.) 


(Reported) 


100,000 


(Reported) 


100,000 


100,000 


Continental U. S. 


106,871,294 


92,218 


86. 


68,963 


64.5 


150.5 


Illinois 


6,400,473 


9,109 


142. 


5,652 


88.2 


230.2 


Massachusetts 


3,889,607 


4,996 


128. 


2,348 


60.2 


188.2 


Michigan 


3,173,089 


5,496 


173. 


3,253 


102.4 


275.4 


Minnesota 


2,378,128 


2,586 


109. 


1,797 


75.6 


184.6 


Ohio 


5.335.543 


4.003 


75 1 


3.377 


63.3 


138.4 



The dispensaries of Cleveland treated more than 1,453 patients for 
venereal disease during 1919. From correspondence with physicians in 
Cleveland, and from personal inquiries of physicians and nurses in hospitals 
and dispensaries and of those engaged in health work outside of hospitals 
in Cleveland, it appears probable that between 8,(M)0 and 10,000 patients in 
Cleveland are treated annually for venereal infections. There is good 
reason to believe that there are in any metropolitan community at least as 
many venereal disease patients that are not under professional medical care 
a> there are diagnosed and under treatment, and there is some good evidence 
that there are generally twice as many such patients untreated and prob- 
ably unrecognized as there are under medical supervision. Recalling the 
careful estimates of such competent student- ;is Dr. Prince A. Morrow 
(namely, 3% <>f the population infected), and using the present day infor- 
mation as a further basis of estimating, we may properly offer as a reason 
able guess that approximately 30,000 individuals (3.H ( ' ( of the population) 
are today suffering from gonorrhea or syphilis in Cleveland. This repre- 
sents the traffic \ be handled in office, clinic and hospital. Cleveland must, 
therefore, prepare to eombat the wastage due to gonorrhea and syphilis, 
diseases that arc preventable by known and proven methods medical, 
legal, educational and environmental. 



400 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVKY 

DIAGNOSIS 

The facility for the diagnosis of gonorrhea and syphilis provided through 
the Health Division laboratory, while probably not sufficient for the full 
volume of business that can be developed, is meeting the present needs. 
This is adequate at the moment from the standpoint of technical procedure : 
the provision of materials, such as slides, Wassermann tubes, etc. The 
Division of Health, however, seems to be rendering unsatisfactory service 
from the standpoint of returning reports, as there is considerable complaint 
about the long period of time elapsing between the sending of the specimen 
to the Division and the receipt of the result by the physician. The pres- 
ent scheme of utilizing the temporary service of a college student as serolo- 
gist on a part-time basis is not sound from the standpoint of organization, 
nor is it productive of a feeling of confidence on the part of the general medi- 
cal profession. 

During the first ten months of 1919 the laboratory of the City Health 
Division made 525 microscopic examinations for the detection of gonorrhea. 
During the same period the Wassermann test for the detection of syphilis 
was performed upon 5,807 specimens of blood. The increase in demand for 
laboratory aid in the diagnosis of gonorrhea and syphilis has been gradual, 
but has shown a steady growth, indicating increasing appreciation of the 
value of the laboratory as a factor in diagnostic procedure. 

Private laboratory facilities in the City of Cleveland are adequate. A 
number of physicians maintain their own laboratories. Many physicians 
connected with hospitals use the laboratory facility of the institution with 
which they are connected. Thus, in addition to the work done by the 
laboratory of the Division of Health, a very considerable number of blood 
and microscopic tests are done by the hospital and private laboratories. 
The Health Division laboratory figures can be taken as an index of the 
volume of private and hospital work that is done in the field of laboratory 
diagnosis. 

There is no supervision nor regulation of private, hospital or commercial 
laboratories by the Health Division. Laboratories used for the detection 
and control of communicable diseases must be adequately equipped and 
staffed with thoroughly competent personnel in order to be of real value to 
the city. 

The so-called "Government Diagnostic Clinic," 64 Public Square, Cleve- 
land, Ohio, is probably responsible for a considerable percentage of the 
increase in the work done by the laboratory of the Health Division. From 
September 10 to November 22, 1919, this clinic made a total of 265 exami- 
nations of individuals suspected of being infected with either gonorrhea 
or syphilis. About 216 cases were received from the courts, 39 cases were 
referred by doctors, and 10 cases came of their own volition because they 
had heard of the facility. The quarters are adequate for the purposes 
of a diagnostic clinic and are well maintained ;^but they are in an old, unat- 
tractive building and are inconvenient of ajdRVffein the street. The loca- 




\ I \ I i; I \ L I) I S K A S K 401 

tiou on the Public 'Square is convenient and, with projKT publicity, most 
excellent service ran be rendered by such a clinic organized purely as an ad- 
\i-ory and diagnostic station. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that the Cleveland Academy of Medicine emphasize to physicians 
the importance and relative value of laboratory aid in diagnosis, in the control of treat- 
ment and as a check before the discharge of patients as cured; 

That the Division of Health establish rules and regulations for standards of pro- 
cedure, equipment and inspection of laboratories offering facilities that have any rela- 
tion to the diagnosis of communicable diseases. (See page 416.) 

That the Division of Health serological laboratory be placed on a sound basis of 
organization with full time personnel; 

That the diagnostic clinic be continued, preferably as a part of the central downtown 
dispensary. (See chapter on Dispensaries, Part X.) 

TREATMENT 

In considering the treatment of venereal diseases we recognize the need 
for facilities for the very poor, the self-supporting group that cannot finance 
the additional cost of long Continued medical care, as well as the group that 
can pay the entire cost of treatment. Cleveland, like all progressive com- 
munities, has developed dispensaries to cover the need of those unable to 
pay, ami was the third city to establish pay clinics for treating venereal 
diseases in the group that is normally self-supporting but unable to meet 
the financial stress of specialized treatment over a considerable period of 
time. The third evening-pay-clinie established in the United States is at 
Mt. Sinai Hospital, which is doing an admirable piece of work. One of the 
largest and best syphilis clinics in the country, conducted under the most 
unfavorable conditions as far as quarters are concerned, is at Lakeside 
Hospital. Charity Hospital established a clinic for venereal diseases in 
SeptemlKT, 1919. 

In general, the dispensary facilities for treating gonorrhea and syphilis 
are inadequate, although the personnel is generally competent, interested 
and anxious to improve. The patients get good treatment, under condi- 
tions (except at Mt. Sinai) that not only make the work of the doctors 
difficult hut also must have a very depressing effect upon the patient. It is 
not possible > the clinics accurately, because of the inadequacy of 

the record sy-tcm- \O definite attempt has been made by the clinics to 
measure their own efficiency, to determine costs, or to plan for future'ad- 
vanceraent. 

Hospital led- an- required in but few cases of venereal diseases, \\hen 
required, the need for beds for -n< h patients is urgent, frequently as a matter 
of public health protectufi 



: I 






402 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Hospital facilities for treatment of the venereal diseases may be said to 
be practically non-existent, as Cleveland still maintains the age-old attitude 
that gonorrhea and syphilis must not be admitted to a hospital. This seri- 
ously handicaps the work of the private physician as well as the work and 
development of the out-patient department of the institution. 

The only available hospital facilities are at the City Hospital, with the 
exception of almost negligible provision of beds for women at Lakeside in 
connection with the gonorrhea clinic. The number of beds provided at 
City Hospital is not sufficient for more than the care of those cases that 
require control by quarantine because of the patients' lack of ability or 
actual unwillingness to cooperate in the protection of the public health. 
There are available for this purpose 75 beds for syphilis and 50 beds for 
gonorrhea. 

It is practically impossible for a venereally infected person, who is will- 
ing and able to pay, to be admitted to any hospital in Cleveland for gonor- 
rhea or syphilis in the communicable stages. It is the general consensus of 
medical opinion throughout the country that patients infected with syphilis 
or gonorrhea present no problem in hospital administration and medical 
and nursing services of greater menace to the other patients or attendants 
in the hospital than do those suffering from such diseases as typhoid, pneu- 
monia, infected wounds, and the like. The latter group of communicable 
diseases are regularly admitted to the general hospitals without question. 
The hospital door closed against gonorrhea and syphilis is a relic of the doc- 
trine that venereal disease is the just punishment for a moral transgression, 
and is not based upon any inherent technical difficulty of hospital man- 
agement. 

It is probable that many cases of venereal disease are admitted to the 
hospitals of Cleveland under a "camouflage" diagnosis. Cases have been 
brought to the notice of the Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey in which 
the individual, because of his environment, such as living in a hotel or board- 
ing house, was unable to follow the advice of his physician, and in some 
instances was actually put out of his place of abode. It is impossible to 
care properly for these cases under existing conditions. They are not en- 
titled to admission to the City Hospital because they are capable of paying 
for their care; and, in spite of this fact, there is no place where they can be 
provided with the care for which they can pay. 

Treatment for gonorrhea and syphilis by private physicians in the city 
of Cleveland is available through a group of specialists, and of course is car- 
ried on by a large number of physicians who are not specializing in venereal 
diseases. As a result of the questionnaire sent to the physicians of the 
city, we find the number of venereal disease cases treated by private physi- 
cians to be difficult of estimation. 2,060 cases were reported by the 241 
physicians that replied to the Survey's questionnaire. A very considerable 
percentage of patients was reported as having discontinued treatment before 
having been cured. The reasons given were tl>e usual reasons that are 



\I\IKI\I. DlSBABl -M)3 

heard everywhere: "rout imied treatment at free clinics," "lack of fundx," 
"unwilliniMievs to pay fee," "carelessness," "dislike of treatment." "removal 
from city." ami similar CM MM - 

Witlnmt doubt the medical profession of Cleveland as a whole ranks as 
high as in any city with an equal number of physicians. The treatment of 
the disease is oftentimes scientifically outlined, but the patient's individual 
problem is frequently neglected his or her economic status, environment, 
personal feelings, and the like, are given scant, if any, consideration, It 
must be reali/.ed that the average doctor has neglected the social phase of 
medical work, both as general practitioner and as specialist, in that he has 
made no attempt to follow up the patient who discontinues treatment. 



RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that all general hospitals change the rules of admission so that 
there may be no discrimination against venereal diseases, and that pay beds may be made 
available for gonorrhea and syphilis in any stage of the diseases. 

That each hospital that maintains a dispensary for the treatment of venereal diseases 
organize a special department for the purpose of correlating the dispensary and hospital 
work in the care of these diseases, and that a definite bed allotment for free, part-pay and 
pay patients be assigned to the reorganized venereal disease service. The service can be 
classified in the hospital organization singly, in one unit, as the Department of Venereal 
Disease; or into three divisions: Urology, Dermatology and Gynecology. In this latter 
plan syphilis would be assigned to Dermatology, gonorrhea in the male to Urology, and 
gonorrhea in the female to Gynecology. 

That closer cooperative arrangements be developed between the clinics and the City 
Hospital for the cafe of indigent and irresponsible cases at the hospital, with more effective 
methods for the return of these patients to the clinic for after-care following their release 
from the hospital. 

That the City Hospital administration be so improved and supported that hospital 
or city politics will not be able to ruin what can and should be the biggest and best venereal 
disease service in the city. 

That the Academy of Medicine bring to the attention of all physicians of Cleveland 
the sociological aspects of venereal diseases, and place squarely before the doctor his 
peculiarly strategic relation to the problem. This might well be done by letters, pam- 
phlets, clinics, meetings and the use of such clinical motion pictures as are produced by 
the governmental and other agencies engaged in the national campaign for the control of 
gonorrhea and syphilis. 

That private physicians be urged to cooperate in the educational and social protec- 
tive work which tends to reduce the number of exposures. 

That physicians prepare themselves to advise exposed individuals as to means for 
prevention of infection; and equip their offices and dispensaries with facilities for prophy- 
lactic treatment, supervise such treatment when it will be of value, and maintain contact 
with the exposed person so advised and treated during the period of presumed incubation. 



404 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

That the Bureau of Venereal Diseases in the Division of Health cooperate actively 
with the Academy of Medicine in the diagnosis, treatment and control of venereal dis- 
eases; and to this end receive the benefit of the opinion and advice of a special committee 
of the Academy, appointed from among its members, in matters of educational policy and 
administrative control of patients. 

DISPENSARIES AND CITY HOSPITAL 

Cleveland has three dispensaries that maintain clinics for the treatment 
of gonorrhea in the adult male and syphilis in both sexes and all ages. Gonor- 
rhea in the female and in children is cared for, if cared for at all, in the de- 
partments of Gynecology and Pediatrics. No clinic is located in quarters 
that tend to promote the best effort of the doctors or the most cooperation 
on the part of the patient. One clinic (Mt. Sinai) has quarters in a remodeled 
residence that meet the requirements of cleanliness, relative privacy, separate 
waiting rooms for the sexes, and confidential conference between physician or 
social worker and patient. 

The patients are drawn to each of the venereal disease dispensaries from 
all parts of the city, and there is a great deal of cross traffic. The location 
of the clinics is brought to the attention of the general public by means of 
a large placard posted by the Division of Health in a few public places, 
such as toilets, shops, and the like. 

In general it can be said that good professional care is available at all the 
clinics, although, under the difficulties inherent in poor and crowded quar- 
ters, by no means the best that the physicians are capable of rendering. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that the city be districted and the public toilets located in each 
district be thoroughly placarded by the Division of Health to call attention to the venereal 
disease clinics in the district ; and that additional publicity be given all the clinics in places 
such as railroad stations, industrial plants, public toilets, and the like, which, because 
they are primarily used by people from all parts of the city, will not fall readily into a dis- 
trict plan. 

That a new, smaller and more attractive placard be prepared by the Division of Health 
for this purpose. The number of placards required will exceed 10,000 if complete coopera- 
tion of the industrial plants is secured. 

That new clinics be established on the west side and southwest side of the city. 

That the present so-called "Government Clinic" be developed into a diagnostic and 
advisory clinic, maintained or closely supervised by the City Division of Health, properly 
advertised throughout the entire city; that it refer to private physicians all applicants 
that can pay, and refer to the clinics serving the district in which the patient resides all 
applicants that cannot pay the private practitioner's fee ; that it serve as a center to which 
the physician may send his patients for diagnostic assistance; and that it be incorporated 
as part of the proposed central downtown dispensary. (See chapter on Dispensaries, 
Part X.) 



\IKEAL DISEASE 



( hart of Cleveland showing distribution of patients treated at Lakeside, Chart 1 11 
and Mount Sinai Hospital Dispensaries for venereal diseases, according to 
residence by Health Division Districts. The percentages of patients recorded 
at each dispensary as living in a given district are shown in parallel bars. 
The total cases for each hospital, upon which the chart was based, are as 
follows: 

Lakeside 1,062 cases of syphilis 

Charity 140 cases of venereal disease 

Mount Sinai 250 cases (Syphilis, 65^; Gonorrhea, 35%) 




The narrow eastern end of DUtrict 6, extending along the lake shore it not included in thit map. 



406 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

That supervision of the clinics and the establishment of reasonable standard mini- 
mum requirements for their equipment and services be undertaken by the Division of 
Health after conference with the proposed Dispensary Committee of the Cleveland Hos- 
pital Council; and that no dispensary (public, private or commercial) be permitted to 
treat gonorrhea or syphilis unless the requirements are met as certified by the Division of 
Health. (See page 417.) 

That more educational work be done in all the clinics by means of personal interviews, 
pamphlets, wall placards and similar methods. 

That printed material, such as cards, pamphlets, wall charts, and the like, be pro- 
vided for the clinics by the Division of Health. 



LAKESIDE 
Syphilis Clinic Day Men, Women and Children 

A patient who applies for treatment at this clinic must apply at the 
admission desk in the main dispensary, receive the medical record, walk 
across Lakeside Avenue to the clinic building, wait in a small crowded room 
for the opportunity to see the doctors, then visit the social worker, then 
return to the main building to 'turn in the medical record and have any 
prescription filled or receive salvarsan. before being free to go home. This 
useless consumption of time, and exposure to inclement weather, coupled 
with the unsightly old wooden tenement that has never been remodeled to 
meet clinic purposes, is an affront to the self-respect of the patient and a dis- 
couragement to the personnel. During the winter months this building is 
improperly heated and inadequately supplied with water. At times there 
is no water. 

Educational w r ork with the patients for the protection of the individual, 
the family, and the general public, is well done. The personal relationship 
between the staff and the patient is excellent, but is maintained in spite of 
the handicapping conditions mentioned above. 

The patients are educated to the great need for treatment continued over 
a long period of time; and, if they fail to keep their appointments, are 
requested, by postal card, to return. This failing, effort is made, by home 
visits, to bring the patient back to treatment. Effort is also made, with 
considerable success, to bring to the clinic the other members of the patient's 
family. 

Largely due to the personality of the physicians and the social worker, 
the handicap of poor quarters is overcome and the clinic "atmosphere" is 
quite human. That the patients are aroused to an interest in their own 
welfare, as well as in the protection of the public health, is evidenced by the 
enrollment of 800 cases of syphilis largely by the "family groups" under 
observation and treatment. 



\ i \ i u i \ I. 1) I > i. \ ^ i HIT 

Syphilis Clin ic Kren ing Pay 

The general j>ersonnel is the same, and similar measures are followed. 
As this clink- is housed in the main dispensary building, it presents a dis- 
tinctly better ap|>earance and can be managed more efficiently. 

About 400 syphilis cases are registered as under observation or treat- 
ment. Compliance by the dispensary management with the simple recom- 
mendations of the personnel would greatly increase the efficiency of the 
clinic and would promote the comfort and convenience of the patients. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that, because of the existing handicaps inherent in the present 
quarters, the growth of this clinic be checked; unless the volume of work be taken care 
of by the increasing usefulness of the other clinics and the opening of new clinics, and the 
overcrowding be overcome by the separating of the syphilis cases from the dermatological 
cases. 

Gonorrhea Male 

The clinic, aside from the actual professional treatment of the "case," 
in no way meets the requirements of a modern clinic for treating communi- 
cable diseases. The quarters are cramped. There is no privacy. No 
attempt is made to follow up the patients that fail to continue under treat- 
ment until no longer a menace to the community. Little or no effort is made 
to educate the patient regarding his condition for either his own good or the 
protection of the public health. 

Gonorrhea Ft-malr 

The Gynecological Department treats gonorrhea in women and vaginitis 
in children, but has only 32 women and about 20 children registered. Re- 
cently a social worker was detailed to the clinic. Hospital beds are avail- 
able, and the method for treatment calls for three or four days' hospitaliza- 
tion. This is the only clinic in Cleveland for women suffering from gonor- 
rhea that provides any bed facilities for its patients. If really active work 
were done in conjunction with the men's clinic, the women's clinic should 
be very much increased in its facilities, proportionate to the accommoda- 
tions of the men's clinic. An excellent public health protection should be 
available to Cleveland through the Lakeside Dispensary Gonorrheal Clinics. 



RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

It is recommended that a complete reorganization of the gonorrheal service of the 
Lakeside Dispensary be undertaken, in order that both male and female patients may 
receive adequate, humane treatment under conditions that will tend to increase rather 
than destroy 'the self-respect'of the patients. 



408 HOSPITAL AND HKALTH SURVEY 

That a follow-up system be established. 

That adequate quarters be provided. 

That the evening and day-time clinics be under the same medical supervision. 

That a responsible person be placed in charge of the men's service, and that this 
physician be the urologist to the hpspital and to the dispensary. 

That the placards advertising the "pay clinics" be removed from the dispensary, on 
the ground that they are justly criticised by the medical profession as being too com- 
mercial, particularly when considered in conjunction with the general method of organ- 
ization of the evening pay clinics. These clinics are practically distinct from the dispen- 
sary day clinic, and are not under the supervision of the hospital staff. 

MT. SINAI 

Gonorrhea Men. Syphilis Men, Women and Children 
Evening Pay 

This clinic, located in a remodeled dwelling (semi-detached), is well 
arranged on two floors, and has separate waiting rooms for men and women. 
It is well equipped, clean, efficiently and humanely managed. Every effort 
is made to impress the patient with the seriousness of his condition and the 
importance of continuous treatment and observation until he is pronounced 
cured by the physician. Follow-up of patients that do not return for treat- 
ment is done by mail, but house visiting is done only in exceptional cases. 

The clinic is rapidly outgrowing its present quarters, although it is still 
possible to maintain a considerable degree of privacy. This tendency to 
crowding can be met by an increase in personnel and the opening of the 
clinic every night instead of only three times a week. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that the service be improved by the addition of a clinic clerk and 
the use of a social worker, so that follow-up by mail may be re-established and consistently 
carried out, by using a less cumbersome system of form cards for this purpose and allow- 
ing a shorter time interval to pass before follow-up work is begun. 

That the clinic be open every night except Sunday in order that it may meet the 
demand bound to result from the national, state and local campaign for combating venereal 
diseases. 

That a gonorrhea clinic for women be established. 

ST. VINCENT'S CHARITY HOSPITAL 
Gonorrhea Evening Male 

This clinic was established in September, 1919, and has grown' very 
rapidly so rapidly, in fact, that organization has not kept pace with growth. 
Administration is not smooth and there is no separation of patients in the 
waiting room by age, sex, or color. 



\I\IKI\I. DISEASE K>! 

Educational work with patients is not carried out to any great degree, 
ami a full understanding of the function of a modern clinic that deals with a 
communicable disease, such as syphilis or gonorrhea, is apparently lacking. 
There seems to be no resjKmsible direction of the clinic by the physician in 
charge. The staff is irregular in arriving and departing. The great need of 
a clinic in this area is demonstrated by the growth of this clinic despite the 
irregular service rendered. 

Facilities exist for the development of a modern clinic that would render 
positive service to the patients in a location of great strategic value for the 
protection of the community. With more time for organization, with careful 
study of the problem of clinic management, with bettor social treatment of 
the patient by the personnel, and with a definite follow-up system to bring 
back the patients that discontinue treatment, this clinic can fill an important 
need of the city of Cleveland a responsibility not now being met. 

Gynecology Female 

Gonorrhea in women and children is treated in the Department of Gyne- 
cology. 

Syphilis 

Syphilis in men, women and children is receiving attention in a special 
clinic, which has possibilities of development as outlined above. 

The laboratory facilities are probably adequate, although not used as 
freely as one would like to see. This is due, in a large measure, to the lack 
of organization and correlation. The method of collecting blood specimens 
for the Wassermann test by means of a capillary tube appears to be decidedly 
obsolete, and the requests for additional specimens seem to bear out this 
observation. 

The follow-up met hods are not bad if well conducted. Letters or notices 
are sent the patients that fail to return. Obviously, three letters a month 
apart, and then reference to the Health Division for action, cannot be 
expected to function for the l>enefit of the patient or the protection of the 
community. 

There has been a falling off in the volume of work done since January, 
1920, which we believe can !>< attributed to the staff personality and method 
of handling patients, as well as to the irregularity of time of arrival and de- 
parture of the doctors. The "floating" population, the clinic hours, the 
poor arrangement of rooms, lack of system and long periods of waiting are 
all contributory factors. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that better management be instituted. 
That gonorrhea in women be given proper consideration; and, 

That, because of the present need and the indicated future growth, the clinic be open 
six nights a week. 



410 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

' CITY HOSPITAL 

The venereal disease service of the City Hospital has never been entirely 
satisfactory. Gonorrhea in both male and female has been neglected, and 
the importance of the urologic and gynecologic services has not been recog- 
nized or developed to a degree at all commensurate with the city's responsi- 
bility in caring for the individual. 

It is estimated that about 150 beds will be required in making adequate 
provision for the venereal disease patients; and this must receive considera- 
tion in the plans for the reorganization of services and rebuilding of the City 
Hospital. In general it may be said that, while the syphilis service as main- 
tained prior to its discontinuance during the recurrence of influenza in Febru- 
ary and March, 1920, was excellent, and the quarters in which the depart- 
ment of dermatology was housed (in a remodeled and repaired building) are 
the best, in the present City Hospital marked improvement is required to 
make the most of the possibilities. In other words, nothing short of a new 
building will make it possible to provide the type of venereal disease service 
that the City Hospital of Cleveland should maintain. 

Gonorrheal service for women can be rated as only fair, because it varies 
with the different services; while the gonorrheal service for men is not 
satisfactory and is, as a matter of fact, neglected, if not ignored. 

It is recommended that for the sake of the future development of venereal 
disease service, a definite plan of procedure free from any consideration of 
professional jealousy or controversy on the part of the staff and manage- 
ment, be put into effect. Two possible plans may be considered: one a 
venereal disease service, caring for all cases of gonorrhea and syphilis in both 
sexes of all ages, under one member of the staff acting as chief of a major 
hospital service, with a corps of associates especially trained in the various 
ubdivisions of venereal disease treatment, plus a cooperative arrangement for 
consultation service with the other departments of the hospital organization; 
the other a three-headed service, with syphilis assigned to dermatology, 
gonorrhea in the male to urology, and gonorrhea in the female to gynecology. 
In this second scheme of organization the department of dermatology as now 
organized should continue to function in its present efficient manner. The 
urologist and gynecologist must have a full service under the surgical division 
of the hospital organization. These services should be continuous through- 
out the year. The appointees should be definitely charged with the respon- 
sibility of caring for all cases of gonococcal infections, both acute and chronic, 
in their respective fields, and at the same time charged with the care of the 
surgical work properly falling within the domain of the special divisions of 
urology and gynecology. 


DIVISION OF HEALTH 

Six years ago the Division of Health outlined a campaign for the control 
of the venereal diseases. One of the tilings proposed under this campaign 
was the establishment of a special bureau to devote its energies to educa- 



\I\IUEAL DiHEASE HI 

tional and medical work and particularly to the rc]M>rting of cases. This 
bureau was never established; reporting has not l>cen stimulated or enforced; 
and it is found that little work along educational lines has been attempted. 
The only Division of Health activity is the laboratory facility mentioned 
as a special topic under Diagnosis. 

During the war certain renewed activity was stimulated by the United 
States Government and the State Board of Health. Advantage should be 
taken of the public sentiment then developed, and the continued national 
campaign should be used as the foundation upon which to base the future 
activities of a special bureau of the division. This can l>e done in such a 
manner that the confidence of the medical profession will lie regained and 
retained. The general public not only needs but will welcome educational 
information. The only educational material used in the city at present is 
provided by the State Health Department. 

Theoretically, one of the important functions of the Division of Health 
in controlling exposure to syphilis or gonococcus infection is to warn indi- 
viduals regarding specific sources of infection; but few of the practical 
procedures worked out for other infections are applicable to the venereal 
diseases, and such special measures as are being tested out for the latter are 
thus far limited largely to what may be accomplished by the private physician 
and through tactful social service follow-up among the families and intimate 
associates of infected individuals. Again, personal instruction of individuals 
likely to be exposed is of great importance. The pupil nurse, for example, 
who is about to assist in an oj>eration or care for an active case of syphilis 
should be instructed in meeliaiiical and antiseptic methods of preventing 
infection of herself or others. It is not difficult to train her to wear rubber 
gloves, to wash her hands thoroughly with soap and water, to avoid touch- 
ing her eyes or lips with her hands, and to use such antiseptics as may be 
designated. In theory it is just as possible to instruct individuals to employ 
similar methods for avoidance of genital infection. In practice, however, 
the health officer as well as the physician finds himself confronting the facts 
that genital exposure to venereal infection is not consciously risked within 
marriage, and that exposure outside of marriage is not sanctioned under 
any conditions by American public opinion or by law. Consequently, to 
undertake popular education for individual prophyhu tic measures presents 
the dilemma of over emphasizing the importance of what is a relatively 
small number of cases of exposure in wedlock, or of admitting a very large 
number of violations of law and public standards of morality by illicit inter- 
course. 

Scientific knowledge exists upon which have heeu based useful military 
measures for promptly cleansing exposed surfaces and membranes of the 
body and applying effective antiseptics.* As a part nf a ireneral adminis- 
trative program in the army, where all the men can !>< required under mili- 

Th; essential factors in the procedure generally known a* "medical prophylaxis" are: the appli- 
cation within a short period of time after exposure (preferably within an hour) of mechanical cleansing 
of exposed parts with soap and water; the administration of an antiseptic solution to the urethral and 
vaginal mucous membranes for protection against gonorrhea; and the application of a germicidal oint- 
ment for protection against syphilis. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



tary regulation to carry out instructions given them, and where every man 
must be taught the purpose and relative importance of each measure in the 
entire program, so-called "medical prophylaxis " has its place. In civil life 
to achieve the same results even among those who could be reached, it would 
be necessary for physicians and clinic chiefs to advise with individuals, who 
apply to them immediately after exposure, to provide adequate supervision 
of the prophylactic treatment recommended and to keep in touch with each 
individual until all danger of infection is passed. 

The difficulties of securing such administrative efficiency, and the dangers 
of stimulating undue dependence upon prophylactic measures officially recom- 
mended, have prevented the development of practical prophylactic measures 
of general public health importance. Furthermore, the promulgation of 
such measures has been constantly met by opposition from those who earnestly 
believe that popular education concerning the methods and the places where 
such preventive treatment may be administered, would be interpreted as 
public sanction for greater sexual promiscuity, at the same time diverting 
popular attention from the larger and more effective preventive measures of 
the program. It is believed that prophylactic measures of this character 
are of relatively slight practical importance in civil life. It should be stated 
in this connection, however, that this applies only to prophylactic measures 
for genital exposures, because popular opinion holds that it is reasonable to 
demand that individuals protect themselves through the more effective and 
morally far more desirable measure of avoidance of any exposure through 
sexual contact. In contrast, public opinion fully supports and laws demand 
prophylactic measures for prevention of the development of gonococcus in- 
fection of the eyes of new-born children exposed by passage through the 
infected birth canal of the mother. 



RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that the Division of Health establish a special bureau in charge 
of a full-time medical officer, with the needful number of assistants (such as nurses, clerks, 
etc.), to conduct properly a comprehensive campaign for the eradication of gonorrhea 
and syphilis. The duties of such a bureau should be the organization, the supervision 
and the stimulation of treatment facilities; the returning to treatment of those patients 
who fail to continue under medical care until cured ; the education of the public upon the 
methods of contraction, spread, control, prevention and treatment of veneral diseases- 
The duties of the chief of this bureau in completing a comprehensive program would pre- 
clude any clinical work, either private or public. In order to gain the absolute confidence 
of the medical profession, he should have had clinical experience in the treatment of the 
venereal diseases, and he should not be required or permitted to do clinical work. The 
following plan of organization for the venereal disease bureau of the Division of Health is 
suggested: 



\ I \ K It E A L D I 8 E A 8 E IK* 

I'uni'nsKli <):. VM/ATIOX F<>!< Y.\l.:il \I. DiM \-l III !<l.\l oi Till 

DIVISION OF HKALTH 

1 Chief (full-time physician). 

2 Nurses (female). 
1 Agent (male). 

1 Stenographer. 
1 Clerk. 

The function of the special bureau of the Division of Health devoted 
to the combating and control of the venereal diseases should be primarily 
educational- education of the public upon the general subject of prevalence. 
mode of transmission, serious consequences of gonorrhea and syphilis, and 
the necessity for prompt 'and continuous treatment. This educational work 
in list reach all classes and ages in the community, directly or indirectly, 
through lectures, the use of motion pictures, stereopticon slides and pam- 
phlets and other means of printed publicity. 

Special educational work is required to reach the physicians, not only 
for the purpose of arousing their interest as members of the community in 
the campaign for the combating of venereal diseases, but also to develop the 
professional appreciation of the necessity for better diagnosis and more con- 
scientious, continued treatment. An active campaign along strictly pro- 
fessional lines should be conducted by the Division of Health in cooperation 
with the Academy of Medicine, using as the vehicle, existing motion picture 
films upon the modern diagnosis and treatment of gonorrhea and syphilis, 
supplemented by such printed material as is available or may be produced. 

An efficient campaign of this character will stimulate the reporting of 
gonorrhea and syphilis, which has been neglected in the past. The adminis- 
trative function of the Division of Health, Bureau of Venereal Diseases, 
should include the education and stimulation of the hospitals of Cleveland 
to an appreciation of the necessity for bed treatment for selected cases, the 
inspection and sujx'rvision of dispensaries treating gonorrhea and syphilis. 
and the stimulation of the clinics to improve continually the existing facili- 
ties. Material assistance can he rendered to dispensaries in various ways, 
and the City Division of Health should act not only as the stimulating 
agency but should also assume the function of intermediary between the local 
clinic and the state and federal health authorities. The state subsidy, both 
in the form of financial aid and of free arsphcnaniine, should be received by 
the department and distributed to the approved clinics. The reports from 
the variola clinics can le consolidated for forwarding to the proper authori- 
ties. Provision for examination, diagnosis and treatment of cases requiring 
control should he made hy the City I )i vision of Health. Quarantine of those 
individuals unwilling or unable to protect the community must be assumed 
by the Division of Health, and its facilities should be so adjusted that they 
may be available for the private practitioner, clinic, hospital and the court. 



414 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Various social measures come within the function of the Venereal Disease 
Bureau of the Division of Health through its close cooperation with courts, 
clinics, physicians and the organizations represented in the Welfare Federa- 
tion. A standard method of follow-up -should be developed, and it is recom- 
mended that some series of forms similar to that suggested in the following 
recommendation be used for both publicly and privately treated individuals. 
Full use should be made of, and thorough cooperation given by the Division 
of Health to the social service machinery of the city, whether this be through 
a central organization serving all the hospitals, clinics and physicians of 
Cleveland, or through the social service departments of the individual insti- 
tutions. 

The duties of the chief should be to direct the general activities of the 
bureau, to inspect the diagnostic and treatment facilities throughout the 
city, to stimulate greater activity and improve the efficiency of all the agen- 
ices engaged in the combating and control of the venereal diseases, to main- 
tain close cooperative arrangements with state and federal agencies, both 
public and voluntary, and, finally, to institute such new procedure as may 
be required from time to time. 

The duties of the nurses should be to aid and inspect follow-up work, 
to assist in the transferring of patients from hospital to clinic or vice versa, 
to cooperate with the probation officers, and to assist in the various activi- 
ties connected with the work of the courts. 

The duties of the agent should be to placard the city, check drug store 
prescribing, investigate the advertising and non-advertising medical charla- 
tan, and carry on such other activities as call for the services of a non-medical 
male employe. 

The duties of the stenographer and clerk should be the ordinary activity 
of routine office work. 

The Division of Health should prepare and provide the printed material 
for educational and follow-up work required by dispensaries that treat 
venereal diseases. Details of a follow-up plan are outlined below: 

FOLLOW-UP 

To control the spread and prevent the future development of disastrous 
sequelae of gonorrhea and syphilis, continued effort must be made by the 
Division of Health, physicians, clinics and drug stores, to the end that the 
patients understand the necessity for uninterrupted treatment and observa- 
tion until pronounced cured by the physician. This can be accomplished 
by the judicious use of educational material, such as public lectures, pam- 
phlets, posters, and the like, coupled with the institution of the most modern 
therapeutic procedures in clean, orderly and generally well-maintained treat- 
ment quarters all coordinated with broad human understanding by a 
trained physician, who, realizing his responsibility, carefully explains to each 
patient, at the first visit, the serious nature of the complaint and empha- 
sizes the necessity of conscientious, continued treatment. 



V i \ I. u BAL I) I s I. \ - I 415 

Some infected individuals need to be brought to a forceful realization of 
their personal or public responsibilities with regard to communicable dis- 
eases. For their benefit the Division of Health must be prepared to meet 
its own responsibility and, in cooperation with the physician in either his 
private practice or clinic service, should arrange methods of varying degree 
for the purpose of again placing the delinquent patient under treatment. 

A simple "request " card has been found efficient in a number of clinics, 
and has also been used by physicians in their private practice. These cards 
are sent out in sealed envelopes as first class mail. 



Mr 

_ No 

You are requested to return on or before ... 
You were not cured at your last visit. 
You need further treatment or observation. 

For youi own good and the protection of others this card is sent to you. 
Kindly answer this note. 

M. D. 



Upon receiving no response to these calls for more active measures, the 
use of the fallowing form is suggested: 



Mr. 

No. 

You were requested to return on or before 
Will you return on 



You were not cured at your last visit. 

You failed to4feep this appointment or to notify us in any way. If you 
are under competent medical care, we are satisfied. Failure to notify us of 
your present arrangements for medical care will force us to report you to the 
Division of Health. 

For your own good and the protection of others this card is sent to you. 

Kindly answer this note. 

M. D. 



416 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The third form should be a final notice that, unless the individual return 
for treatment, his or her name and address will be reported on a certain date 
to the Division of Health, in compl ance with the law. Two extra blanks 
will be required for reports to the Division of Health: one for the physician 
to report his patient under treatment elsewhere, and one to report failure 
of his patient to return for treatment. 

Any efficient plan for holding individuals to prolonged periods of treat- 
ment and observation requires that patients be educated to the end that 
they understand the need for continued treatment; the advisability of notify- 
ing the doctor when unable to keep an appointment; the real power possessed 
by the Division of Health; and, finally, the likelihood of action by the 
clinic or physician should circumstances demand force. 

Equally necessary to make any "follow-up" notification efficient is the 
proper timing of the notices. The first notice ought never to be delayed 
more than a week after the first neglected appointment; the second notice 
must go out, if it is to carry weight, on the day of the unkept new appoint- 
ment; and the third highly official notice should be timed for not more than 
a week later. The Division of Health, upon receipt of notice of discontinu- 
ance of treatment, should begin official action by sending its inspector 
promptly to visit the patient for the purpose of persuading the individual to 
return to treatment. If the patient does not respond to persuasive methods, 
quarantine or isolation should be enforced. 

The Division of Health should establish rules and regulations prescribing 
minimum requirements for the conduct of dispensaries that treat gonorrhea 
and syphilis. (See page 417.) 

The Division of Health should be guided in its activities by an advisory 
council or committee on venereal diseases, appointed by the Commissioner. 



RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE CONDUCT AND MAINTENANCE 

OF LABORATORIES 

Rules and regulations governing the conduct and maintenance of labora- 
tories that offer facilities for the diagnosis of gonorrhea and syphilis should 
be formulated by the Division of Health. These rules should apply in 
general to the entire field of infectious diseases. The lack of supervision by 
the Division of Health over private, hospital and commercial laboratories 
is undoubtedly a weak link in the general problem of venereal disease control. 

The Sanitary Code should have a section stating that all laboratories in 
Cleveland that offer facilities for the diagnosis of communicable diseases 
shall not be conducted or maintained without a permit issued by the Divi- 
sion of Health, or otherwise than in accordance with the regulations. The 
regulations should provide for: 

1. Applications for permits to conduct and maintain laboratories. 

2. Duly qualified persons to be in charge. 



\ i \IKKAL DISEASE 417 

3. Proper handling of specimens received at the laboratory by a method of 
numbering and designation that will definitely establish the identity of 
each particular specimen in order that errors may be avoided. 

4. Proper records covering the following points: 

(a) Laboratory number and date of receipt of specimen. 

(b) Name and address of the person from whom the specimen was 
taken, or some symbol possible for identification. 

(c) Name and address of the person to whom the report of the result 
was made. 

(d) Finally, the result of the test 

The records should be available for inspection by the duly authorized 
Division of Health representative. 

5. Establishment of reasonable minimum requirements in order to safeguard 
the provision of adequate facilities for the proper performance of the test 
undertaken by the laboratory. In line with this should be some definite 
recognition of a reasonable method of procedure. 

RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING DisiK\-v\:m.- 

Rules and regulations should be formulated under the Sanitary Code to 
govern dispensaries wherein communicable diseases are treated or diagnosed; 
so that they shall not be conducted and maintained without control and 
supervision of the Division of Health. Rules governing the conduct of dis- 
pensaries for the treatment of persons afflicted with syphilis or gonorrhea 
may be divided into two divisions: 

Syphilis 
Regulations for the treatment of syphilis should provide for: 

1. A special department that shall be responsible for the care of all indi- 
viduals that come to the dispensary infected with syphilis, with the pro- 
viso that when the nature of the part affected requires treatment in some 
other department of the dispensary, treatment may be given jointly by 
the two departments. 

2. Microscopic examinations of suspected lesions by the syphilis depart- 
ment. 

3. Laboratory facilities for making Wassermann tests in the dispensary, or 
the use of the Division of Health laboratory or other approved labora- 
tories. 

4. Prompt, intensive treatment, by the use of salvarsan, mercury, or other 
accepted means of treatment in sufficient quantities in all cases of syphilis. 
In order to fulfill the public health function, the clinic must be made to 
appreciate its obligation to render an infected person non-communicable 
at the earliest possible moment. 



418 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

5. Regulation of the number of patients to be treated, in order to overcome 
crowding and the reduction of efficient service to the patient and, there- v 
fore, to the community. From experience throughout the country, it is 
generally conceded that the maximum number of patients to be treated 
by a clinic should be limited and not exceed ten an hour per physician. 

6. Complete and adequate records. These are of primary importance to 
the successful conduct of a dispensary, and should be, in so far as possible, 
standardized and made available for the approved clinics. 

7. Maintenance of a follow-up system according to a plan approved by the 
Division of Health, in order to insure regular attendance. 

8. A standard procedure providing for the discharge of patients, to include 
test and subsequent observation. 

9. Having dispensaries open at least three days a week, preferably during 
evening hours on at least two days. 

\ 

Gonorrhea 
Regulations for the treatment of gonorrhea should provide for: 

1 . Systematic microscopic examination of all discharges in every department 
of the dispensary wherein any person is treated. 

2. Provision for and employment of proper facilities for asepsis and antisepsis. 

3. Facilities for urethroscopic and cystoscopic examination to be regularly 
employed by the physicians in attendance. 

4. The use of complement-fixation test for gonorrhea. It is deemed advis- 
able to recommend this, although this test is not as yet thoroughly estab- 
lished in medical practice. 



5. 6, 7, 8 and 9 are the same as for syphilis. 



\ ' \ I 1C I \ L I) I S K A - I 419 

III. Legal Aspects 

THIS Survey is concerned not only with what Cleveland is doing and 
should do to detect, diagnose and treat venereal disease, it is even 
more vitally concerned with what ( Cleveland is doing and should do 
to prevent, detect, diagnose and treat sex delinquency, as the cause of 
venereal disease. 

The analogy is a fair one, because prostitution and other forms of sex 
delinquency are certainly diseases of society and require the application of 
the best social science for their amelioration. 

Laws relating to sex delinquency follow the outlines of the average medi- 
cal text book. They define and name each disease or offense, provide sani- 
tary measures in the shape of decent environments, describe the symptoms 
of each disease in terms of human conduct, provide for the early detection 
of those symptoms by the police, the diagnosis in the verdict of the jury, 
and the treatment in the sentence of the court. 

Much other machinery necessary in one or the other of these processes, 
such as prosecutors, probation officers, psychiatrists, jails, detention houses, 
reformatories and feeble-minded colonies, require the sanction and support 
of laws to operate. 

It is fairly obvious, therefore, that a consideration of the laws on this 
subject is of first importance. 

The Legal Section of this Survey will attempt to cover Cleveland's laws 
or sex delinquency and some of the machinery for their enforcement. 

The relation of sex delinquency laws and their enforcement to venereal 
disease is the relation of cause and effect in the inverse ratio. This is true, 
because the aim of such laws is to prevent sexual relations outside marriage. 
and such relations are known to be the immediate or ultimate source of 
most venereal disease. 

If we could devise 1<K)% perfect laws prohibiting extra marital relations, 
and have them enforced with 100% efficiency, venereal disease would after 
a while disap|>car. 

No community has |>cen found, however, and probably none will ever be 
found in this country, willing to undergo the paternalistic supervision and 
to make the sacrifice of j>ersonal liberty, necessary to accomplish this result 
solely by repressive measures. 

Religion and education will and should Ke relied upon to |>enetrate and 
influence the more intimate and private lives and standards of the |>eoplc. 

The sexual conduct of the individual becomes a matter of public concern 
and therefore of legal regulation, only when it seriously affects the sanction 
of monogamous marriage, or the integrity of the family, or the public .health. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Si HVEY 



From all three points of view, the most serious menace to the public wel- 
fare in sexual conduct, is promiscuity. From the public health point of view 
promiscuity may fairly be said to cause the vast majority of all venereal 
disease. 

That female is the most dangerous of sex delinquent women who is most 
promiscuous, because she is most likely to be diseased and to transmit dis- 
ease, and this regardless of whether she demands money or its equivalent 
or not. 

Similarly, the male who most frequently consorts with promiscuous 
females is the most dangerous of sex delinquent males. In fact, this type 
of male is probably a greater menace to public health than the promiscuous 
female, because he is the immediate source of many infections of innocent 
wives and children, in addition to infecting the other women with whom he 
consorts. 

It was because prostitutes have always been the most promiscuous per- 
sons of either sex that laws aimed at their activities and the activities of 
the third parties who promoted or exploited prostitution have been passed 
nearly everywhere in this country and have found a large measure of public 
support. 

While the enforcement of such laws has eliminated red light districts 
and open houses of prostitution, and has greatly reduced the total number 
of contacts of prostitutes and, consequently, the amount of disease that 
they spread, these laws have yet failed to accomplish the results which we 
have a right to expect from the expenditure of so much time and money on 
their enforcement. 

The reason is not far to seek. Until 1919, when a standard form of law 
on this subject was prepared and presented to the legislatures of the several 
states by the Federal Government, prostitution was, with few exceptions, 
an offense for which a female only could be held guilty. 

Generally speaking, also, the acceptance of money by the prostitute was 
a necessary ingredient of her offense. 

It is axiomatic that, as long as men can with impunity buy such services 
from women, there will always be found women, foolish, ignorant or lazy 
enough to adopt this apparently easy way out of life's difficulties. 

Furthermore, as the life of the professional prostitute becomes more and 
more hazardous, many of them are forced to go to work, and the amateurs 
are retaining their jobs for the same reason. Under the disguise of honest 
working girls many such women are supplementing their incomes, or secur- 
ing the luxuries which they think are necessary to them, by building up what 
they fondly believe to be a select clientele. 

They are careful when taking a new customer not to ask for or take 
money. They very often accept gifts of jewelry or wearing apparel, theatre 
parties or expensive meals, either as a test or as a real quid pro quo. 



\ I \ I H I. \ I. I) l - I \ 8 E 421 

How far the activities of such amateur prostitutes make up for the reduc- 
tion in the activities of the professionals no one knows. The doctors testify, 
however, that a large number of their men patients claim to have been 
infected by such amateurs. 

It became obvious, therefore, if further progress was to be made, that 
the definition of prostitution would have to be enlarged to include all males 
whose payments make prostitution possible, and all males and females 
sexually indiscriminate, even though the element of hire, which usually 
exists in some form, could not be proven. 

Following the recommendation of the Federal Government in this regard 
the legislatures of eleven states, in 1919, remodeled their prostitution laws. 
Ohio was one of these eleven states, and has therefore had since June 21, 
1919, the best law on prostitution (except for paragraph C under subsection 
17) that sound social experience has yet been able to devise. This law 
amends Section 13031 of the General Code by adding seven new subsections, 
13 to 19, inclusive. 

This law not only attempts to reach all promiscuous sex delinquents 
but sharpens and renders more serviceable the legal weapons against the 
third parties to prostitution, particularly the taxicab chauffeur, that most 
modern and elusive of go-betweens. 

It is suggested, however, that paragraph (.' of subsection 17 of this law 
be amended to read as follows: 

The name and place of detention of any person charged with a violation 
of Section 13031-13 of the General Code shall immediately be reported in 
writing to the district or city board of health by the department making the 
arrest. 

No person so charged .shall be discharged from custody on bail or other- 
wise until 12 hours after the receipt by such district or city health board of the 
name and place of detention of such person so charged. 

It shall thereupon be the duty of such district or city health board to 
determine forthwith whether there are reasonable grounds for believing that 
such person is infected with a venereal disease, or has been exposed thereto. 

If such district or city health board shall determine that such reasonable 
grounds exist, it shall be the duty of such board to cause such person to be 
examined immediately for such venereal disease, by a physician competent 
to determine the existence of such disease. 

In order to make the findings above outlined, the district or city board of 
health shall have the power to detain any such person so charged for a 
period not exceeding 48 hours, after expiration of the L2 hours following the 
receipt by such board of the notice from the department making the arrest. 

Any such person found to have a venereal disease in an infectious form 
shall be treated under quarantine, at a clinic, or otherwise, as such district 
or city health board may determine shall best protect the public health. 



'422 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Such infected person shall pay for such treatment, if able to do so, but 
if not, such medical treatment shall be at the expense of the municipality or 
county. 

The purpose of this amendment is to separate the detection, diagnosis 
and treatment of venereal disease, from the detection, diagnosis and treat- 
ment of delinquency. Experience has shown again and again that police 
and courts are confused and diverted from the solution of the problem of 
delinquency with which they are charged, by imposing medical or quasi- 
medical duties upon them. Furthermore, this mixing of venereal disease 
and delinquency is not in the best interest of public health. 

Under this act, as it now exists, the judge can have in many cases no 
basis for issuing or withholding the order for medical examination. This 
basis is, as suggested in the proposed amendment, a reasonable ground for 
believing that the defendant is infected or has been exposed to infection. 
The mere fact that the defendant is charged with a violation of Section 
13031-13 would be wholly inconclusive in many cases from a legal point of 
view. 

Suppose the defendant was charged with soliciting, procuring or trans- 
porting for prostitution all offenses which do not involve proof of sexual 
contact to constitute the offense. In the exercise of his discretion, the aver- 
age judge might well conclude that no justification exists for compulsory 
examniation in such cases, whereas the physician would see on the faces 
of many such defendants the clinical evidence or stigmata of their disease. 
Furthermore, evidence of exposure to disease, which has no bearing what- 
ever on the defendant's guilt or innocence of the crime charged, could be 
heard by the health authorities, but not by the courts. 

It is believed, therefore, that some such procedure as that suggested in 
the proposed amendment would much better serve the interests of both 
courts and health departments., 

There is one type of disease, however, that is known to have a direct 
and vital bearing upon delinquency, and that is mental disease. 

So many careful and authoritative studies have been made of this rela- 
tion between delinquency and mental defectiveness that it may be taken 
as settled that from 20% to 50% of sex delinquents are mentally defective, 
and will not be benefited by the ordinary dispositions of such cases made 
by the courts. 

The law for the diagnosis and treatment of mental defectives should be 
amended so as to make available to every Cleveland court, juvenile and adult, 
which handles sex delinquent cases, competent and adequate" psychiatric- 
service for the routine mental examination of all such delinquents, prior to 
sentence by the court. 

Unless this be done, Cleveland may expect to see a procession of non- 
reformable sex delinquents returning again and again to its reformatories, 
and see its probation ofli-rs struggling vainly to control the conduct of 



V I \ I REAL D I S K A s K l>:\ 

feeble-minded prostitutes who arc spreading disease broadcast, and who 
would never have IKHMI put on probation had their true mental condition 
been known. 

The older penal statute* of Ohio go still further and prohibit couples from 
indulging in habitual fornication or adultery. To the extent that such 
couples remain true to each other and avoid promiscuity, they may be said 
not to constitute a serious public health problem. 

Ohio also has the injunction and abatement law, which enables the prose- 
cuting attorney or any citizen of the county to enjoin perpetually the use of 
any property for purposes of lewd ness, assignation or prostitution, and abate 
the same as a public nuisance. (Approved March 30, 1917.) 

This law exists in 39 other states and has been found extremely valuable 
in preventing unlawful use as houses of prostitution, of hotels, rooming 
houses or apartments, against whose owners, managers, or lessees it was 
difficult or impossible to prove violations of the criminal laws. 

Such owners, managers or lessees of property have often been so politi- 
cally intrenched that officials have not dared to move against them. For 
this reason the provision in such laws that individual citizens could bring 
such injunction and abatement suits has been found particularly valuable. 

It is in this last provision that the Ohio Injunction and Abatement Law 
is defective. The Ohio legislators, in an apparent desire to protect proj>erty 
owners from frivolous suits, have so hedged about the right of a citizen to 
bring such suits with burdensome and unnecessary restrictions and jwnal- 
ties, as to operate as a practical prohibition of this sort of activity by a 
private citizen in the public interest. 

Experience in all other states, whose laws do not contain these restric- 
tions, proves conclusively that they are unnecessary and that the fears of 
the Ohio legislators were groundless 

It is suggested, therefore, that section 3 of this law. approved March 30, 
1917, IK' amended by omitting the last half of the section. M> as to read as 
follows : 

Whenever a nuisance exists the attorney general of the state, the prose- 
cuting attorney of the county, any person who is a citizen of the county, or 
any organization of citizens of the county may bring an action in equity in 
the name of the state of Ohio, upon the relation of such attorney general, 
prosecuting attorney, person or organization to abate such nuisance, and to 
perpetually enjoin the person or persons maintaining the same from further 
maintenance thereof. 

The law* again-! .so-railed \Vhitc Slavery. Keeping Disorderly Houses 
and Kapc appear to br adequate. The "age of consent" law should be 
nded to protrrt yoiniii IM.VS as \\rll as girls under \i\, and more protec- 
tion should be iriven to incut al i defect i\ r- -cm-rally. It is believed, ho\\c\rr. 



424 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Sruvi-:v 

that the best protection to such mental defectives is afforded by laws which 
provide for early registration, and supervision inside or outside institutions, 
of this class of individuals. 

Cleveland's ordinances providing licensing and supervision of commer- 
cialized amusements, such as dance halls and pool parlors, are well in the 
van of such legislation, particularly the one relating to pool parlors. The 
state law for the licensing and supervision of hotels (defined to include most 
transient rooming houses) and restaurants is adequate. It would help if 
this law could be extended to apartment houses. There should be, however, 
a law or ordinance providing for the revocation of licenses of chauffeurs who 
agree to act as go-betweens for prostitution. 

This study of the laws indicates that Cleveland, in the main, is legally 
well equipped for the prevention, detection and diagnosis of delinquency, 
except in cases of mental defectives. Let us turn to a consideration of the 
administrative machinery for carrying out these laws. 

I 
ADMINISTRATION 

The real functions of police and courts are, in the modern view, the pre- 
vention and cure of crime and delinquency. The old emphasis on detection 
after the crime was committed, and punishment as a satisfaction to society 
is giving way to a more intelligent and humanitarian doctrine. Cleveland 
has in its ordinances for licensing and supervising commercialized amuse- 
ments, and in its state law treating hotels, transient rooming and boarding 
houses and restaurants in the same manner, legislation of this preventive 
character. The inspection of these different sorts of places is scattered among 
several departments, such as the Mayor's inspector of dance halls, the Direc- 
tor of Finance's billiard hall inspector and the hotel inspectors of the State 
Fire Marshal. 

These laws and ordinances all provide for the revocation of licenses or 
closing such places for disorderly or immoral conduct on the premises. 

If the previous recommendations regarding licensing and inspection of 
apartment houses and chauffeurs are adopted, there will exist two more 
types of inspection to be made with inspectors probably from one or more 
departments. It is believed that much of this routine inspection could be 
covered by a special women's bureau of the police department, with econ- 
omy to the city and state and with advantage to the public welfare in the 
prevention of crime. 

The officers of this bureau could be deputized by the departments now 
charged with this duty, if by reason of the other structural and technical 
points to be covered by such inspections, it is not deemed wise to turn over 
the entire inspection to this women's bureau. 

Such a bureau, having access to police information and becoming ac- 
quainted with criminals and delinquents, would be in a much better position 
to prevent such places from becoming the resorts of disorderly characters 
than could the inspectors of departments not so acquainted with the 
underworld of a large city. 



\I\IKI\I, DlSEABl 



Such women police coiil<l also protect girls who are employed at Midi 
places by insisting on the establishment and maintenance of pro(>er rules 
and regulations. In addition to these ins|>cction duties, exj>erienee in 
many cities where women police are employed has proven their value as 
>treet and park patrols, and in the investigation and adjustment of all sorts 
of home and employment conditions of girls who are either delinquent or 
in great danger of becoming so. 

Finally, there exists in many cities, including Cleveland, a hiatus in official 
case work with girls, l>etween purely protective work and probation work. 
The Cleveland Municipal Court Act (Sec. 1579-50) provides, for instance. 
that probation officers "shall devote their time to the interests () f persons 
placed on probation." The girl who has been arrested for a sex offense in 
this court has no one officially interested in her, until she has been tried. 
Convicted and sentenced. When she has at last arrived at this s-tage in her 
travels through the legal machinery, she is apt to be hardened or bitter. 
and ex(>erience shows that she is infinitely more difficult to influence and 
handle then than immediately after her arrest. 

A sympathetic and intelligent woman ]>olice officer, with social ex|x*rien<-e, 
can learn the truth from such a girl, investigate her environment, shield her 
from unnecessary re(>etitions of her story and bad associations (lending trial, 
see to it that she is mentally and physically examined, and be of infinite 
value to the prosecutor and judge in the trial ami disposition of the case. 
She may even, as is done in one large city, prevent a charge being filed against 
her if, after informal consultation with the prosecutor and the judge, such a 
course seems best for the girl and society. 

It goes without saying that on the personnel of such a bureau everything 
de(>ends. To secure the right ty(>e of women it would l>e necessary to pay 
the chief inspector at least #4,000. and the others from $1,400 to $1,800. 

It is our opinion that most harmony and efficiency will result if this 
bureau is made a part of the police department, responsible to its chief. 
The contact with the delinquents would be much closer thereby, and no 
jealousy l>etween the men and women police officers need result, if it is made 
clear from the Itcginning that all credit for arrests belongs to the men and 
that the women derive their credit from the amount of real help they can 
give. 

Further details concerning such bureaus can be learned from the head 
of one of the most progressive and effective of them, in Washington, D. C. 

If it be argued that much of this work is now being done in Cleveland 
by the private unofficial Woman's Protective Association, and that, tli 
fore, such a woman's police bureau is not needed, our answer would be: 



That in proportion as such private organization has shown its 
necc-.sity to the police and courts, in that same proportion has it proved 
Mich service to be a legitimate MSpOIMibflity of government . 



426 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Second That, having demonstrated the need, and blazed the trail, such 
private organization should insist on the city paying its own way, and should 
assist the city in getting such a bureau well organized, and see to it that it 
functions in accordance with the best and most approved methods. 

I sing this modern conception of the function of police departments, 
that they aim at prevention as well as detection of crime, it is suggested that 
the test of their efficiency lies not in the number of arrests and convictions (the 
usual form of report made), but in the relation which such number of arrests 
and convictions bears to the whole number of offenses committed. 

This test is easily applied to crimes which become public, such as mur- 
der, burglary, etc., or even to all minor offenses concerning which complaints 
are filed. 

Even as to such offenses, however, the reports of the police departments 
rarely bring out the deadly parallel. A real-difficulty confronts us when we 
try to apply the test to sex offenses. 

These offenses differ from offenses against the person or property in the 
fact that the danger to the public, while more serious, is less apparent, so 
that the public rarely and the individuals most directly concerned never 
file complaints. The police could not, therefore, if they wished, apply this 
test to their efficiency in preventing and detecting sex offenses. 

The fact, therefore, that the Cleveland police department has not issued 
a report for six years is of less importance to this survey, than would at first 
seem probable. There are two remedies for this situation, both of which 
have proved successful. 

1. Educate the public to make complaints. 

2. Form a committee of citizens, whose duties shall include vice investiga- 
tion. 

The citizens of one large camp city, during the war, were so educated to 
the necessity of protecting the troops, that the Vice Squad spent its entire 
time investigating complaints filed by patriotic citizens. New York, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, San Francisco, Los Angeles and many other smaller cities have 
adopted the second alternative and maintained a committee with investi- 
gators to check up the work of its departments and to take the place of the 
reluctant public in filing complaints. The second alternative is believed to be 
the best, because while working gradually to bring about the first (a slow and 
laborious process in peace times), it can secure immediate results from the 
police and greatly strengthen and coordinate all the various municipal de- 
partments which handle this problem. 

It can strengthen these departments by interpreting them to Jhe public 
and the public to them. It can also help them to get needed legislation, 
appropriations and the right kind of personnel. 

It can coordinate them by helping to bring about team work in govern- 
ment. In our government system of checks and balances, there often de- 
velops a tendency to "pass the buck" from one department to another. 



V i \IKI.VI. 1) i s i: \ - i 



If things go wrong and crime increases, the police and the courts Manic each 
other and the prosecuting attorney, while the latter shifts the burden to the 
other two. An intensive comparative study of records and methods, by an 
impartial organization, will reveal the weak links in the chain. Tactful and 
constructive criticism given privately to the depart ments at fault will often 
serve to remedy conditions. Conferences arranged l>etween department 
heads with the secretary or a member of the citizens committee, acting as 
liason officer, may remove the friction. As a last resort the public can be 
informed and the pressure of public opinion applied. 

We desire to make two recommendations in connection with court ad- 
ministration. These are the establishment of a Woman's Court and a finger- 
print system for all convicted sex delinquents. The essentials of a woman's 
court are the trial of all women sex offenders in a separate court, or at least 
at a separate period of the day, by one judge, and the exclusion of everyone 
from the trials who cannot show a legitimate interest therein. The advan- 
tages of such procedure are the development of expert knowledge by the 
judge, a consistent judicial policy and an immense improvement in the 
dignity and efficiency of court procedure. 

The finger-print system for convicted sex offenders is of the utmost value 
to the judge in his disposition of cases. Rejxaters constantly give false 
names and often 'escape identification without such a system. As above 
indicated, the test of court treatment is the proportion of offenders who 
repeat. This test cannot be applied without an infallible system of identi- 
fication. The finger-print system is the only one that is infallible. Con- 
structively it enables the judge to determine, within five minutes after con- 
viction of an offender, the probable value of probation, reformatory treat- 
ment and the need for mental examination. 

Its cost would for Cleveland probably not exceed $,500 for the first 
year, and less thereafter. Any intelligent policeman can he taught to OJMT- 

ate it. 



MCE CONDITIONS 

In an attempt to apply the test of efficiency above described to the Cleve- 
land police department, an under-cover investigation was made to determine 
the extent to which the laws against sex offenses were leing violated without 
fear of the police. 

This investigation did not disclose the existence of a red light district or 
any open or public houses of prostitution. Little soliciting was observed 
on the streets, and the dance halls were not apparently being used for this 
purpose. 

The situation at many of the hotels was, however, found to be inexcusably 

bad. Prostitutes in many of these were permitted to operate \\itlmut fear, 
and in some of them employes of the lintels assisted the prostitutes by bring- 
ing customers to them or sending them to the rooms of customers. 



428 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Many chauffeurs and taxicab stands readily agreed to take investigators 
to prostitutes and a few restaurants were observed to permit this type of 
women to frequent their dining rooms. 

In general it may be said that prostitutes do not flaunt themselves in the 
public eye, but there appears to be a large amount of clandestine prostitu- 
tion, which easily escapes detection or restraint by the police. 

Much of this fearlessness by Cleveland's prostitutes has probably been 
due in the past to the Golden Rule method of treatment which turns these 
women back on the streets on confession of their offenses. 

None of the city departments was apparently aware of the existence of 
the new state law against prostitution above described, as late as November, 
1919, some five months after its passage. 

This law eliminates fines and provides for long sentences* It is our 
understanding that sex offenders will be charged under this law exclusively 
hereafter, and the golden rule system abandoned. Improvement should 
result. 

The police have ample legal weapons 'for breaking up automobile traffic 
in vice under the new prostitution law. This law, together with the Injunc- 
tion and Abatement Law and the law giving the State Fire Marshal power to 
close hotels and restaurants which permit immoral or disorderly conduct, 
provide legal tools which leave the city authorities no excuse for the condi- 
tions above described. 



V K N K K K \ I. I) I > K \ ^ I 

IV. Protective Social Measures 

RECREATION 



AS a large part of venereal disease is due to the wrong use of leisure 
time, wholesome recreation for its right use is a measure of prime im- 
portance in any venereal disease reduction campaign. The public 
responsibility in this regard is established. Millions of dollars are being 
spent by official and unofficial organizations throughout the country to fill this 
need. Playgrounds, parks, public school athletic leagues, gymnasia, swim- 
ming pools, recreation piers, as well as such national organizations as the 
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Campfire Girls, and others, attest the general 
recognition of this responsibility. 

In spite of these developments in which Cleveland shares with other cities 
of its size and importance, much yet remains to be done to discharge this 
community responsibility. The exhaustive recreation survey recently com- 
pleted by the Cleveland Foundation renders unnecessary here a detailed 
analysis of the needs of Cleveland, and the recent employment of a director 
of recreation is an excellent guarantee that the city accepts the responsibility. 
It is sufficient for our purpose to state the relation of recreation to the venereal 
disease problem and its importance as a measure for prevention of disease. 

PREVENTION WORK FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS 

Pending the development of an adequate recreation program, and indeed 
supplementary thereto, is the responsibility for the protection of those indi- 
viduals who do not or cannot avail themselves of these opportunities for the 
right use of leisure time. Protection also is needed for individuals who have 
failed to adjust themselves to their environment and are guilty of some infrac- 
tion of the law through ignorance or heedlessness, in order to prevent them 
from becoming habitual delinquents. A further type of protection involves the 
supervision of commercialized amusements, such as theaters, dance halls, 
restaurants, cabarets, public parks, beaches, road houses, etc. The most 
recent development in administrative machinery affording such protection 
is the Woman's Police Bureau. In Cleveland, as in other cities, this respon- 
sibility has leen assumed largely by the unofficial Women's Protect 
ciation. In Washington and other cities this work has been accomplished 
by the Women's Police Hnrcaii attached to the Police Department. Rightly 
organized and with adequate personnel it is believed that the Police Bureau 
offers the best machinery for providing this protection. 

The guidance and supervision of sex delinquents who are not yet hardened 
offender-, through probation, has demonstrated its value in the prevention 
of much socia I wreckage, with its resulting venereal disease. Wise, kindly, 
and humane probation officers can and do adjust economic and dom- 
difficulties and are agents of recognized value in preventive medicine. 



430 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

INSTITUTIONAL CARE OF SEX DELINQUENTS 

Where, the mentality of a sex delinquent is weak or the environment has 
been such that the delinquent will not be benefited by probation, the com- 
munity as well as the individual must be protected by institutional care. 
Colonies for the feeble-minded, reformatories, etc., for those for whom 
rehabilitation is possible, have been approved by the most advanced thought 
of students in this field. 



\> \KREAL DISEASE L ; I 

V. Sex Education 

ANY program for the eradication of human contact diseases, such as 
tuberculosis, syphilis and gonococeus itifcctioiis, which are so diffi- 
cult of prompt recognition, so insidious in their onset and methods of 
transmission, and so successful in their development of carriers, must in- 
clude education as one of its outstanding features. Such education naturally 
divides itself into, first, the training of those not yet infected in the applica- 
tion of measures for their protection, and, second, the instruction of those 
who are already infected in the value of persistent and curative treatment 
and in measures for the avoidance of infection of others. The latter in- 
struction must necessarily be carried out by doctors, nurses, public health 
officials and others who are dealing with infected persons. For practical 
purposes, therefore, educational measures must be directed toward the great 
mass of the population who are not infected, and may be grouped under four 
headings: 

Sex education for children. 



Sex instruction for young men and women. 

Social hygiene information for parents and leaders of public opinion. 

Permanent sex education measures. 

SEX EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN 

It is just as reasonable and practicable for the health officer to plan twenty 
years into the future a campaign of protection of the public from a given 
disease, as it is to plan ten thousand miles in distance. In the latter case 
the federal public health authorities expect and receive the support of the 
public in placing health officers in India, China and other distant lands, in 
order to prevent bubonic plague from reaching the seajx>rts of the United 
States and becoming an imminent danger. In the former case it is reason- 
able for the health officer to expect full coo|>eration and support of the 
public in placing proj>er officers, so to sj)oak, twenty years in the future to 
establish barriers for the prevention of exposure of citizens of the United 
States to syphilis and gonococcus infections. This is only another way of 
stating, of course, that the barriers which will prove most effective in pro- 
tecting against these diseases are projMT sex education, right methods of 
thought, religious and ethical training, and adequate environmental protec- 
tion against exposure. For such educational and environmental measures 
to have their largest influence, work must l>e l>cgun in early childhood and 
be continued until the individuals concerned are fully established in their 
homes as adult citizens. The task of promoting this phase of preventive 
measures must eventually necessarily fall to the trained educators, although 
all public health officials can be of very great assistance. 

While the purposes of this report do not permit of full discussion of sex 

education, it is, perhaps, permissible to point out that the consensus ,,f 
opinion of educational and public health authorities favor- .1 sex education 
program based on the fundamental proposition, that social hygiene education 



432 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

in schools and colleges should not be given prominence as a so-called course 
or courses of sex instruction by a special individual or teacher, but rather, 
that all teaching concerning sex and its manifold relations to human life 
should be merged unobtrusively into regular subjects of training and instruc- 
tion, notably the biological sciences, general hygiene, nursing, physical edu- 
cation, social ethics, literature, home making, practical training for an 
occupation or profession. 

SEX INSTRUCTION OF YOUNG MEN AND WOMEN. 

Annually a very large number of young men and women emerge from the 
state of protected childhood to the responsibilities of maturity and adult 
life. The age at which this transition occurs for different groups varies 
according to the home conditions, industrial demands and environmental 
and educational influences for each group. The transition having occurred 
prior to successful sex education work and training, there remains the oppor- 
tunity to give these young people sound instruction in matters of wholesome 
sex relations and the methods of transmission and prevention of the venereal 
diseases. For the most part, since young people at this age are no longer in 
school, the dissemination of such knowledge must be through continuation 
school courses, instruction of the membership of religious, fraternal and other 
social organizations, and the voluntary efforts of social hygiene agencies, 
working in cooperation with the health education authorities. 

SOCIAL HYGIENE INFORMATION FOR PARENTS AND LEADERS 
OF PUBLIC OPINION. 

In promoting this, as in all other public health programs, it is essential 
to have the support of public opinion. And since syphilis and gonococcus 
infections are spread by human carriers through methods which may best be 
combated by simple measures of control which lie within the power of the 
individual not yet infected, even though he does not know the identity of 
the infected persons, the active cooperation of parents in beginning the edu- 
cation and training of their children toward the ultimate application of these 
methods is of paramount importance. For these reasons it is necessary to 
promote in every practicable way the extension of social hygiene information 
to parents and leaders of public opinion. Among the successful plans which 
have been tried in this connection are parent teacher meetings, popular 
addresses to industrial groups, luncheon discussions under the auspices of 
commercial business and social organizations, clubs of men and women, 
appropriate distribution of selected pamphlets, motion picture and exhibit 
presentation of the venereal disease problem and its solution. 

PERMANENT SEX EDUCATION MEASURES. 

By way of illustration, various temporary expedients in promoting educa- 
tion have been indicated under "a," "b" and "c," but it should be borne in 
mind that ultimately as time, adequate methods and personnel become 
available, the essentials of needed sex education should find their way through 
the normal channels of popular education and religious and social training. 
As a rule permanent advances in any field of social betterment result from 



V E N K H K A L D I S E A 8 



activities which pass through three stages: first, the assembling and testing 
of data and proposal of practical measures; second, active propaganda for 
the adoption of the proposed measures in the course of which the subject 
comes to popular attention with an apparently exaggerated view of its im- 
portance in relation to the whole of life and social progress; third, the quiet, 
general application of the permanent measures public opinion endorses, and 
education of each succeeding generation as to the need for continuing such 
measures. The latter task always falls to the constituted educational 
authorities with the cooperation of parents and the powerful influence of 
convention and custom. Success may be hoped for in the elimination of 
venereal disease only in so far as such broad principles of education are 
applied. 




List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 

The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 

THE PREMIER PRESS 
Cleveland. O. 



Mental Diseases 
and Mental Deficiency 



PART Six 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Mental Diseases 
ana Mental Deficiency 



PART Six 



Cleveland Hospital a n'd 
Health Survey 




Copyright, 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 
308 Anisfield Bldg. 
Cleveland Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBRiDE, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS CODGHLIN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCKWOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 

and the following collaborators: 
GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D., Director of Tuberculosis Survey; 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the],Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

I. Introduction Page 

Mental Factors in Medical and Social Problems 443 

Complaints of the Community 444 

II. City Facilities for Diagnosis and Treatment 

Cleveland City Hospital 446 

Provisions for Mental Patients in Other General Hospitals 

Lakeside Hospital 460 

Fairview Park Hospital 461 

Mt. Sinai Hospital 461 

Lakewood Hospital 461 

Other General Hospitals 461 

Dispensaries 462 

Private Sanitaria for Mental Patients 462 

Places Other Than Hospitals for Detention or Care 

County Jail 464 

City Infirmary _ _ 465 

i III. State Facilities for Diagnosis and Treatment 

State Board of Administration 467 

Laws Relating to Insane, Mentally Defective and Epileptic 468 

State Hospitals for Mental Diseases 469 

State Institution for Feeble-minded 471 

State Hospital for Epileptics 473 

Bureau of Juvenile Research v 473 

IV. Courts and Correctional Agencies 
Courts 

Probate Court 476 

Municipal Court 478 

Parole Board 479 

Juvenile Court and Detention Home 480 

Correctional Agencies 

House of Correction 482 

Farm School 484 

Girls' Home 484 

House of Good Shepherd 485 

Boys' School 486 

Other Homes 487 

V. Mentally Atypical Children 

Special Classes for the Mentally Defective 488 

Work Permits for the Mentally Defective 490 

Special Types of Atypical Children 494 

After-care and Supervision 495 

VI. Welfare Organizations 497 

VII. Prevention Mental Hygiene 501 

VIII. Summary of Recommendations 

Dealing with State Legislation and Local Ordinances or Charter Changes. 503 

Dealing with Departments of State and City Government 505 

Dealing with Private Agencies by Groups 508 

Dealing with New Agencies or Private Facilities to be Established 509 



PREFACE 

THE National Committee for Mental Hygiene was requested by the 
Director of the Cleveland Hospital and Health Survey to make a study 
of the provisions for dealing with the medical and social problems aris- 
ing out of mental disease and mental deficiency, as it was felt that the field 
to be covered was such a special one that an organization with experience 
in conducting such studies would be most apt to obtain a clear picture of 
existing conditions and to make sound recommendations. Those in charge 
of the general Survey have made me feel at all times that my share in the 
work constituted an integral part of the larger undertaking, and I wish to 
express my deep appreciation not only of their cooperation but of the sym- 
pathetic understanding with which my work in a special field has been re- 
garded. 

It is difficult to render proper acknowledgment to individuals for assist- 
ance and advise when all of those with whom I came in contact during the 
Survey gave me every possible assistance. Nevertheless, the following per- 
sons contributed of their time and wise counsel so liberally that special 
acknowledgment should be made : 

Hon. Howell Wright, who supplied information, advice, and secured 
data otherwise difficult to obtain; Hon. Alexander Hadden, Judge of the 
Probate Court; Hon. George S. Addams, Judge of the Juvenile Court; Hon. 
Dudley S. Blossom, Director of Public Welfare; Dr. Chas. W. Stone; Dr. 
Leonard R. Ravitz, who assisted in the neuro-psychiatric examinations; 
H. Austin Aikins, Ph. D., Professor of Psychology, College for Women, 
Western Reserve University, who made the psychological tests; Miss Claire 
Walters, who assisted actively with personal work, information and in secur- 
ing documents; Miss Cecelia A. Evans, of the Public Health Nursing Course 
at Western Reserve University, who took much interest and enabled three 
of the pupils, Miss Nesbit, Miss Graham and Mrs. King, to render valuable s 
direct assistance in the work; Miss Charlotte Steinbach, Supervisor of Spe- 
cial Classes in the public schools. 

The various welfare organizations, especially the Associated Charities 
who cooperated in making a study of their families, and the Welfare Federa- 
tion and the Humane Society who arranged for and assisted in the examina- 
tion of inmates of orphanages and other institutions and of children boarded 
out in families. 

The methods by which my studies were carried on are of little general 
interest and so I will not describe them in detail. Every institution in 
which the problems of mental disease and mental deficiency seemed likely 
to be encountered was visited, in many cases a number of times. Five 
hundred and forty-one individuals in various hospitals, homes, clinics and 
schools were carefully examined by psychiatrists and psychologists with a 
view to determining their mental condition and the type of treatment or 
supervision that they actually required. A large number of people whose 
work dealt even slightly with these problems, were consulted personally 
or through correspondence, and official reports and other publications were 
freely used. It is impossible to assign proper credit where extracts IIMVC 
been made from so many different publications, so I take the opportunity 
here of making a general acknowledgment. 

JESSE M. W. SCOTT, 

Field Consultant, 
\ational Committee for Mental Hygiene 



Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency 

THOMAS W. SALMON, M. D. 
Director of Mental Hygiene Survey 

and 
JKSSE M. W. SCOTT, M. D. 

Field Consultant 
National Committee for Mental Hygiene 

Introduction 

NOT long ago mental diseases and mental deficiency were thought to 
present only one group of problems, that dealing with the proper 
institutional care of persons who suffer from these disorders. Slowly, 
as medical and social work in relief and rehabilitation became more ex- 
tensive in scope and intensive in method, it became apparent to those en- 
gaged in such work that mental factors, at one time in one form and again 
in another, complicate, or, in many cases, entirely condition the individual 
or social situations which require attention. No American cities attempt 
now to deal with the great social problems arising out of disorders of con- 
duct of their citizens by measures applicable only to groups of persons. 
We know that behind social mal-adaptation lies the mal-adaptation of some 
individual or individuals, and that behind the mal-adaptations of individuals 
lie those mental factor* which determine behavior. Sometimes such factors 
produce conditions whi<*h are generally recognized as mental disease or 
states of defective mental development. Sometimes they produce altera- 
tions in behavior which do not follow conveniently the conventional boun- 
daries of mental disease or mental defect. It is very widely recognized, 
however, that the success of efforts for the economic or social reconstruction 
of individuals or families who become liabilities to their community instead 
of remaining assets, depends largely upon the personal resources of the 
individuals concerned, and that among these resources none compares in 
its actual influence upon life with their type of mental reactions. With a 
normally adaptable mind, severe physical and economic handicaps are 
overcome, but with a mind defective from birth or damaged by disease, 
ordinary tasks in personal or social adaptation are difficult or impossible. 

Mental Factors in Medical and Social Problems 

It is one thing to recognize the importance of mental factors in the social 
and medical problems of a community and another to devise methods by 
which the community can best deal with these factors. There is general 
lack of exchange of ideas on this subject between American cities. Experi- 
ments that have failed in one place, through intrinsic causes of failure, are 
embarked upon hopefully in another. In no city is all the work of the 
community that deals with mental disease and mental deficiency centered in 
a single administrative department. In general, the task of unofficial wel- 
fare agencies is to make beginnings before the official authorities are ready 
or free to act, and to deal informally with individuals who are in difficulties 
before the graver situations with which the official agencies are especially 



444 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



prepared to cope have arisen. Often, unfortunately, there is lack of con- 
tinuity between the activities of official and unofficial agencies. In con- 
sequence, one sees the most perplexing and wasteful duplication of effort. 
Water is poured liberally on the smoke while the fire often burns unchecked. 

It has been the purpose of this Survey not only to trace as closely as 
possible the tangled relationships which mental disease and mental deficiency 
bear to other problems and to examine and appraise the value of the dif- 
erent efforts, large and small, official and unofficial, which the city is putting 
forth in its effort to deal with them; as so much of real governmental re- 
sponsibilities are taken over, for the time being at least in this country, by 
voluntary welfare agencies, the Survey has dealt quite as fully with the work 
of the latter as with that of the city itself. It is felt that the presentation 
in full of the very large amount of detailed information collected would serve 
no useful purpose, and so only an outline of actual findings is given, the space 
available in this report being devoted chiefly to a consideration of the means 
by which the city can best deal in a constructive and progressive way with 
the problems that are indicated. 



Complaints of the Community 

In medicine, no intelligent physician undertakes to examine a patient or 
to recommend treatment until he has heard a spontaneous account by the 
patient himself of the complaints which led him to seek assistance. It 
seems proper, therefore, to commence this Survey with a brief statement of 
the complaints that the community has to make in relation to the provisions 
existing in Cleveland for the diagnosis, treatment and supervision of persons 
with mental diseases or mental deficiency. 

Physicians complain that no adequate provisions are made by the city 
for the temporary observation of persons with mental diseases during the 
period in which measures for their future are being considered, nor for their 
emergency treatment. They say that the rich or well-to-do find the facilities 
they need in private institutions, but for the poor and those in moderate 
circumstances, upon whom the stress of disease falls so heavily, the city 
offers nothing more than a partly custodial and partly correctional type of 
institution connected with the City Hospital, in which the modern treatment 
of mental disorders has no place. They complain also that the state of Ohio 
has made so much less provision for the continued care of mental cases than 
the population requires, that Cleveland, in addition to performing the emer- 
gency services mentioned above, must also provide continued care for many 
persons simply on account of the failure of the state to perform its well- 
recognized share of the duty. They assert that such conditions make per- 
sons with mental diseases reluctant to apply for treatment in the earlier 
stages of their disorders, in which effective measures of treatment are most 
likely to prove successful. Far from extending aid to those suffering from 
mental disorders, the absence of proper facilities and the harsh legal methods 
so generally employed serve, they say, most effectively to cause mental 
patients to conceal their troubles. They complain that the law plays a much 
larger part than medicine in the management of mental diseases in Cleveland, 



MI.VTAL DISEASES AND DI.I i< IKXCY 



and that legal measures properly applicable to a very small proportion of 
mental patients are applied to practically all, with the result that much avoid- 
able suffering and humiliation accompanies illnesses painful enough to the 
patients and their relatives without such additional inflictions. 

Welfare agencies which have to deal with that part of 'the city's problem 
of caring for the mentally ill that has been mentioned and, in addition, with 
many trying social situations which grow directly or indirectly out of mental 
disorders, complain that there are many insane and feeble-minded persons 
in institutions not intended for them and in families in the community, and 
that the presence of those who are for purely humanitarian reasons sheltered 
in institutions designed for another purpose prevents such institutions from 
successfully carrying out their original purposes, and is of little or no benefit 
to the mentally defective who are received. These agencies complain that 
no psychiatric or psychological examinations are made when dependents 
are received into orphanages and other welfare institutions or sent to homes 
to be boarded out. They say that, in the absence of facilities for psychiatric 
diagnosis in well-staffed, well-equipped psychiatric clinics, they have to make 
shifts for themselves which are not only ineffective but often wasteful of 
time and money. They feel that some of their most difficult and apparently 
hopeless problems could be solved if the state bore the share of the burden 
of institutional care that is borne by most other states. 

The judges complain that the task assigned to them by the archaic laws 
of Ohio governing the legal management of mental diseases, is a burden- 
some one and that not infrequently they are compelled to do grave injustice 
to sick persons because of the lack of an adequate mechanism for determin- 
ing the questions at issue. * 

It has been our task to examine the foundations for these grave com- 
plaints and to suggest remedies that have been effective when applied else- 
where. 



446 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



City Facilities for Diagnosis and Treatment 

WHAT basis is there for the complaint by physicians that Cleveland 
is without facilities even for the emergency care and observation of 
mental cases, because, for this type of illness, the public and private 
hospitals of the city have practically nothing to offer? It is convenient 
to consider first the great City Hospital the chief resource of the sick 
poor and then the other hospitals which can be looked to to supplement 
the work of this institution. 

Cleveland City Hospital 

The general features of Cleveland City Hospital have been very fully 
described in other sections of this report. 

This hospital is far from being adequate. As the report in Part X. indi- 
cates, the buildings are old, equipment is largely out-of-date, and many 
facilities possessed by a hospital completely equipped to discharge its obli- 
gations to the sick of the community are lacking. Nevertheless, scientific 
medicine and surgery find their way into every general ward to the extent 
of the facilities available. When a new patient is admitted every effort is 
made to discover the nature of the disease from which he suffers and the 
possibility of bringing about his speedy recovery, amelioration of his con- 
dition or relief from his distress. Let a medical or surgical discovery in 
therapeutics be made in any great medical center of the world and it is only 
a little while before it is applied to the benefit of patients in this hospital. 
Forming as it does a part of the clinical resources available for teaching in 
the medical school of Western Reserve University, cases are studied not 
only with reference to their own needs, but to the means by which their 
diseases and the causes of these diseases can best be presented to medical 
students who will be required to treat similar conditions in their own practice 
later on. 

All this, however, refers only to the general wards of the City Hospital. 
When one leaves these wards, crosses a little strip of grass and enters the 
doors of the building devoted to mental cases he leaves behind him not only 
the medical science of the present century, but, in a large part, its humani- 
tarian attitude towards disease and suffering. The building in which the 
wards for mental patients are located was erected in 1851 and used as the 
city poorhouse. In its arrangement you will see no evidence of thoughtful 
hospital planning to meet a special need nor even bright sunny wards such 
as those to be seen in other portions of the hospital. A wide, dark corridor 
runs down the middle of each floor, with little cell-like rooms on either side. 
At about the middle this central corridor is crossed by another, one arm of 
which serves as a dining room and the other as a crowded day room. The 
arm of the transverse corridor used for a day room has a bare table and not 
enough chairs or stools for the patients to be seated. Along the central 
portion are cots for the overflow. The place would be depressing enough, 
with this dark corridor and the cell-like rooms, but the discolored and dilap- 
idated walls increase its gloomy appearance. The rooms are about eight by 
nine feet in size. Although they provide the minimum of floor space allotted 
to one person, many of them are occupied by two patients. Their windows are 



MlVIAI, DlSKAM \\D |)|IKI!\(1 447 

haired; they have no provision whatever for artificial illumination ami for 
heat they depend upon radiation from the corridors. The wooden floors are 
worn nearly through and it is impossible to keep them in a clean and sani- 
tary condition. A short time ago a woman pulled up a part of the floor in 
one of the rooms and escaped through the hole which she had made. Rats 
and bedbugs are numerous. Each floor, which accommodates 60 patients, 
lui^ Kut a single bathtub and one toilet in a dilapidated room. There are 
no arrangements for the use of hydrotherapy nor for prolonged tepid baths. 
The building is lighted by gas, in spite of the dangers in this kind of illumina- 
tion to hospitals for mental cases. There are no outside porches, but a small 
area of the ground is enclosed. Women occupy this part of the day, and men 
the other, except in bad weather, when, for weeks at a time, no one is out. 

There is no classification of patients. The anxious and depressed and 
the excited and noisy occupy the same ward. Childhood and old age mingle. 
Social distinctions are left outside. The hard-working, self-respecting 
mother who has reared her children in a clean American home and has in 
her later years developed certain mental changes listens all day to the curses 
of a young prostitute in a bed adjoining hers. 

For the care of those 120 persons suffering from serious and complex 
diseases, nearly every one of whom presents an individual problem in diag- 
nosis or treatment, there are but two trained nurses; one for each floor. 
For the rest, dependence is placed upon untrained women attendants for the 
female patients, and male attendants for the male patients. Mechanical 
restraint is used freely. In the absence of any other provision dealing with 
disturbed conduct, it constitutes a relatively humane method. The one 
bright spot about these miserable wards is the kindly spirit which is shown 
by attendants toward those whom misfortune has brought into their care. 
Although those who govern this great, rich city have failed to recognize the 
needs of the most unfortunate of all its citizens, the poorly-paid and poorly- 
trained people who spend their days in these wards try to make up by their 
o\vn devotion for the city's neglect. 

The "laboratory" of this department is in keeping with its inadequacy 
in all other respects. It is a single room where analysis of urine can be 
made, but with provision for practically nothing else. There is no diag- 
nostic or therapeutic equipment, whatever, not even an apparatus for test- 
ing blood pressure. Simply for convenience, a certain number of convales- 
cent cases and a few organic nervous cases are cared for in this department. 

This place has been visited by many medical visitors familiar with the 
provisions for acute mental diseases in other large cities in the I'nited States, 
and they are agreed that none maintains a poorer, shabbier, more barren 
place than this. It is a place of custody and safe-keeping to which no term 
suggesting a hospital is applicable. It represents, however, the exact measure 
of the sympathy, kindness and helpfulness which the city of ( Meveland extends 
to its insane poor. Nothing could be letter calculated to deter those seek- 
ing treatment during the earliest and most curable stage of the disease. 
Nothing could give medical .-hident.s .-uid pupil nurses a more distorted con- 
ception of the needs of the mentally sick and of the resources which modern 




I 

.t 






448 




1 



I 

1 

I 



44!) 




.1 



- s 




151 







Wards for Mental Patients, Cleveland City Hospital General Bath and Toilet for Men. 



452 




.1 Mn,l,-rn .Mrntdl IIoxi>ittil Baths for Treatment. 




Wards for Mental Patients, Cleveland City Hospital One of the Cell-rooms 



454 




A'Modern Mental Hospital Single Room for Disturbed Patient. 




Wards for Mental Patients, Cleveland City Hospital Excitement controlled by 
isolation in "Strong Rooms." 



456 




A Modern Mental Hospital Excitement controlled l>y prolonged baths and skilled nurse. 



457 



458 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

science and humanity, under happier conditions, is able to bring to bear 
upon their illness. Nothing could affect more adversely a person suffering 
from a depressed form of mental disease, in which foreboding and fear have 
taken the place of the normal mental attitude, than to be brought into these 
wards, every feature of which suggests neglect and hopelessness. Time and 
indifference have painted the scenes so vividly shown in the accompanying 
photographs, but had a skillful "movie" director desired to create a setting 
symbolic of poverty and despair he could have done no better. 

Fortunately, this deplorable place will soon be a thing of the past. The 
approval of the bond issue for a new City Hospital makes it possible to tear 
down these dilapidated wards and replace them by a building that will 
reflect the modern attitude toward mental illness. It is proposed to provide 
from 128 to 200 beds in the new City Hospital for the observation and tem- 
porary treatment of mental cases. If these provisions are wisely planned 
so as to provide the facilities for classification and special care which are 
required for the modern treatment of acute mental disorders, the neglect of 
the last half century may be atoned for. It is extremely important that the 
plans for the new psychopathic building should be prepared in consultation 
with those who are familiar with such departments elsewhere and who know 
the precise purposes which they must be designed to serve. Not only are 
new buildings needed, however, but the city must be prepared to provide 
the personnel of physicians, nurses and attendants needed to carry on treat- 
ment in accordance with modern standards. An adequate ambulance 
service is essential in order that mental cases may be brought there from 
homes under the same conditions as those by which other sick persons com- 
ing under treatment are received. A full-time, resident psychiatrist, and 
at least two assistants, with a sufficient number of internes, will be needed. 
It will also be necessary to have an assistant superintendent of nurses who will 
not only have charge of the nurses and pupil-nurses attached to the psycho- 
pathic department but will direct their training in the practice of mental 
nursing. Occupation instructors will be needed to institute, at the bedside 
and in the workrooms, occupational treatment especially designed to meet 
the needs of individual cases. 

When such provisions exist, the Probate Court will no longer be the only 
course of admission. Patients will be freely transferred from the other 
wards of the hospital and back again, and many will come voluntarily to 
avail themselves of the special facilities provided and to seek the services of 
physicians and nurses skilled in the treatment of the serious forms of illness 
from which they suffer. Anyone in the city of Cleveland who has a mental 
problem to solve may then be made to feel that this hospital and its out- 
patient department stand ready to give their aid. Such problems may arise 
in adults and be recognized by their families or by themselves, or they may 
arise in children and be recognized by those responsible for their care or 
instruction. They may come to attention only when anti-social conduct has 
brought them to the courts. They may complicate other difficulties in per- 
sonal or social adaptation in which they play an important but secondary 
part. For the solution of all such problems, whatever their nature, the 
city will have in such a psychopathic hospital as that which has been dis- 
cussed, the best type of medical resource that has yet been devised. 



MINI M I >i-i vsi - \\D DKKK it \< > 




I 



\ 



Wardifor Menial Patient*, Clereland City Hotpilal Child in Ward for 
Alcoholic* and Drug Addicts. 



460 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

. Provisions for Mental Cases in Other General Hospitals 

LAKESIDE HOSPITAL This important teaching hospital has no place for 
even the temporary care of mental cases. In Cleveland, as elsewhere in the 
United States, the virtual exclusion of patients with mental diseases from 
general hospitals is due to a fundamental defect in medical education which 
trains students in physical disorders and practically ignores disorders affect- 
ing the mind. 

Dr. Pearce Bailey, in a recent article*, inquires why problems in mental 
medicine have not received the attention which problems in general medicine 
have, and answers his question in the following words: 

"One significant answer to this question will be found in the indifference 
on the part of the medical profession to nervous and mental diseases. What 
medical school today, what general hospital, gives any but the most meagre 
and grudging representation to neurology and psychiatry? Our medical 
faculties have done so little to encourage interest and knowledge in these 
subjects that some of the most important social features connected with 
them have been brought to public interest by laymen. Indeed, we are so be- 
hind hand in these matters that there is a question if American neurology 
and psychiatry will ever attain the position they should have unless there 
is established a special foundation for research and teaching, to do for the 
menace of nervous and mental disease what is being done as a matter of 
course for physical diseases. It really seems that a care-free foundation 
were the condition for the firmer, broader, more scientific grasp of the sub- 
jects which bring us into closer relation with human nature than any others. 
Trained men are wanted everywhere, a wider dissemination of knowledge 
is wanted. Men trained in mental medicine are needed at the state hos- 
pitals, in the Public Health Service, in the courts and the schools, to carry on 
the principles of the few psychiatric clinics thus far established. Where 
are they to come from? What medical school is in a position to train them? 
A great field of preventive medicine is before us, asking for action. Perhaps 
in the past the proofs of the need have not been plain enough. That ex- 
planation no longer holds good. The public health importance of nervous 
and mental diseases no longer permits of evasion." 

The facilities for teaching mental medicine in the Medical School of 
Western Reserve University are neither inferior nor superior to those found 
in practically all American colleges. The academic status of psychiatry 
an unimportant division, combined with neurology, of the department of 
general medicine is in harmony with the meagre clinical facilities available 
and the small number of hours devoted to the subject in the curriculum. 
The only wards in which mental patients can be studied by medical students 
are those at the City Hospital, where the most striking thing to be seen is the 
neglect with which mental cases still can be treated in an institution devoted 
to the relief of the sick. A rather striking local occurrence which shows how 
little can be accomplished when psychiatry is taught under such conditions 
was afforded by a trial in which the testamentary capacity of a wealthy man 
was the issue. A recent graduate of the Medical School, wherf placed upon 

Mental Hygiene, Vol. 4, No. 2, April 1920. 



MINIM. DISEASES AMI DI-.I i< IKXCY 461 

the witness stand, attempted to describe the patient's mental disease in a 
confused medical jargon, instead of stating what it was that he saw and 
heard which led him to make a diagnosis of mental disorder. The impression 
made on the court was that of a person attempting to describe something 
he knew nothing whatever about. A few minutes later, however, a bank 
clerk who took the stand gave a clear, simply-worded account of his deal- 
ings with the patient, evidences of failing memory, of delusions, misidentifica- 
tion of persons and other evidences of a disordered mind. 

The authorities of the University and the Medical School are fully aware 
of the deficiency which their school shares with so many others, and an 
active movement is under way to include a modern well-equipped university 
psychiatric clinic in the new Lakeside Hospital. When these facilities are 
available, mental cases will be admitted to the wards set aside for them with 
as little formality as to the general medical or surgical wards of the hospital, 
and students will learn their mental medicine in the same atmosphere of 
science and kindly care as that in which they learn to diagnose and treat all 
other types of illness. With such provisions, those who graduate from this 
medical school in the future will have an attidude toward mental disease very 
different from that of those already graduated, who are carrying into the 
homes and hospitals in which they practise a conception of insanity that 
belongs to a different century. The benefits of the university psychiatric 
clinic to others are even greater than those which come to the future phy- 
sicians. The training school for nurses of the parent hospital which has a 
psychiatric department gives special consideration to mental nursing, all 
pupil nurses spending a definite period of their course of training in the mental 
wards. The social service department of a university psychiatric clinic 
enables the environment to be studied as a factor in the causes of disease, 
its manifestations or its outcome. Thus, the hospital is brought into con- 
tact with the school and the home and when such relations are established 
between the social environment in which mental illness has its origin and the 
psychiatric hospital in which it is studied and treated, a real and positive 
mental hygiene becomes possible. 

FAIRVIEW PARK HOSPITAL The medical staff of Fairview Park (formerly 
the German) Hospital is headed by a neuro-psychiatrist. A limited number 
of patients are received in private rooms where they are cared for skillfully 
under his direction. A mental hygiene clinic is about to be opened.. 

MT. SINAI HOSPITAL has this year appointed a neuro-psychiatrist to its 
staff and inaugurated a mental hygiene clinic. 

ST. JOHN'S HOSPITAL is able to take in a few mental patients, who offer 
no special difficulties in treatment, but it has no out-patient department for 
mental diseases and no psychiatrist. 

LAKEWOOD HOSPITAL also receives a few mental patients, the physicians 
who bring them into the hospital being responsible for their care. 

OTHER GENERAL HOSPITALS There are no beds for mental patients in 
the hospitals not mentioned above, except the Marine Hospital in which 
there are a few beds for mental patients among beneficiaries of the Bureau of 



462 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

War Risk Insurance, but most of them have neuro-psychiatrists on their con- 
sulting staffs. In none, however, is there a regular psychiatric service or clinic. 
The neuro-psychiatrists act as consultants and are called in only when some 
one feels that their special services are needed. How little this need is ap- 
parently felt is shown by the fact that the neuro-psychiatrist of one of these 
hospitals made his last visit before he left to enter the army and it was not 
known at the hospital whether or not he had returned to Cleveland since the 
war. In another hospital no psychiatric consultations had been held or 
demanded within two years. 

Dispensaries 

There are no dispensaries for psychiatric cases in Cleveland. Were it not 
for the psychological clinic maintained by the Board of Education and the 
work done by Miss Claire Walters in connection with the Boys' Home and 
the Juvenile Court, it would be necessary to say that no organized facilities 
existed for the examination of mental patients in out-patient clinics. It is 
well recognized that the psychological clinic can deal with only one phase of 
the problems of mental diseases and mental deficiency. With the great 
shortage of institutional provisions that exists in Cleveland the need for 
dispensaries is much increased. There is urgent need for several well 
equipped and well staffed psychiatric dispensaries not only to aid the 
psychological clinics in rounding out their work with children but to bring 
medical aid to many who can be most successfully treated in that 
way and to others who need institutional care but who can be tided 
over temporary difficulties by the help that they can receive in a 
well-conducted psychiatric dispensary. The out-patient department of 
the proposed City Psychopathic Hospital will be one of its most useful 
activities but to deal with such special problems as those presented in 
the schools and courts and homes, "outposts" must be established which 
can give as many hours or days a week as are necessary to these special 
tasks. With a personnel consisting of a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a 
social worker such "outposts" can become extremely valuable diagnostic 
and therapeutic agencies, especially when they have behind them the wards 
and laboratories of a modern psychopathic hospital. Another such dispen- 
sary which should also maintain its share of "outposts" should be established 
at the Lakeside Hospital where it will greatly increase the usefulness of the 
proposed university psychiatric clinic. 



Private Sanitaria for Mental Cases 

The number of patients in private institutions in the different states bears 
a general relation to the extent and character of state care. Where state 
care is maintained at a high level of efficiency, persons avail themselves 
freely of it, but when it is poor in extent or quality every effort is made, 
even by those with very limited means, to provide some kind of a substitute. 
It is not surprising, therefore, that with its overcrowded state hospitals 
operated at a very low cost, Ohio should have a relatively large proportion 
of patients in private institutions. 



MINI \i. |)IM.\-KS AND DM 1- n:\CY 463 

In most other states the insane and mentally defective, whether in public 
or private institutions, are at all times regarded as wards of the state. This 
is a practical survival of the ancient custom which made all minors and 
incompetent persons wards of the Crown. In Ohio no license whatever is 
required to conduct a private sanitarium for the care of voluntary or com- 
mitted cases of mental disease. In spite of the efforts of a former member of 
the State Board of Charities, who was a psychiatrist, to bring such institu- 
tions under state supervision, any person can start a sanitarium, advertise, 
receive patients, lock them in strong rooms or restrain them in beds without 
any authority of law. These sanitaria are not inspected, in fact, are scarcely 
known to exist, except by physicians. Judges occasionally order patients to 
such institutions which receive them on that specific order, but thereafter 
the state exercises no supervision. Practically the only control which any 
state official has over these institutions is that exercised by the Fire Marshal 
who may declare the premises unfit for the purposes for which they are used 
and order the reception of persons and patients discontinued on the ground 
of fire hazard. 

This lack of supervision over what is generally recognized to be an ac- 
tivity in which the state has a very definite responsibility, may be contrasted 
with the provisions for licensing and inspecting private institutions which 
exist in New York. In that state a private institution caring for mental 
cases must secure a license which is granted only after a careful inspection 
by the psychiatrist who is Medical Inspector of the State Hospital Commis- 
sion. The physician -in-charge of a private institution must have had at 
least five years' experience in the treatment of mental diseases in an insti- 
tution for the insane. All cases under treatment in an institution must have 
been received as voluntary patients under the laws regulating this form of 
admission or must iiave been committed by one of the methods provided by 
law. Such institutions are frequently inspected and they must make the 
changes and improvements ordered by the State Hospital Commission, in 
personnel as well as in physical facilities, or be in danger of having their 
license revoked. 

Nothing that has been said above regarding the necessity for supervising 
and inspecting private sanitaria for the care of mental cases should be taken 
to minimize the valuable part which the best of these institutions, even 
though run for profit, play in the treatment of mental diseases. It would 
be difficult to devise any other substitute for patients who require con- 
tinued care and are able to pay more for it than the cost of maintenance in 
the state hospitals. There are certain disadvantages in the lack of a large 
staff, laboratories and facilities which characterize the modern state hos- 
pital, but the surroundings of the good private institutions are similar to the 
patient's usual environment. Much more individualized work is carried on 
in behalf of those who have disorders of long duration, but with prospects 
of ultimate recovery, than is possible in the state hospitals, in which prac- 
tically all therapeutic effort is concentrated for a short period upon a rela- 
tively small proportion of patients. Several of the sanitaria for mental 
diseases, which receive patients from Cleveland are excellent institutions, 
have staffs of competent physicians and nurses and are able to provide prac- 
tically all the facilities for treatment which modern standards demand. On 



464 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

the other hand, others which often charge as high or higher rates provide 
only custodial care which, in many instances, is inferior to that provided by 
a state hospital. 

There is urgent need of a change in legislation which will enforce in Ohio 
the provisions of the Fifth Amendment of the United States Constitution, 
which makes it illegal to deprive any person of "life, liberty or property, 
without due process of law. " Private sanitaria for mental patients and men- 
tally defective children should receive their cases by voluntary admission, 
commitment for observation, or regular commitment, as is the case with 
public institutions. Such institutions should be licensed, preferably for a 
year at a time, after an inspection of the plant and facilities by a competent 
psychiatrist and after approval by the Bureau of Hospitals of the State 
Department of Health. Every such institution should be subject to expert 
inspection not less frequently than four times a year and during such inspec- 
tions every patient should be examined to see that he is either a voluntary 
patient or held under proper legal authority and to determine whether he is 
receiving the treatment which his condition demands. A provision should 
also be inserted in the law which will make it mandatory for the medical 
head of each such institution to possess certain experience in the care of 
mental disease. It should be within the power of the licensing board to 
revoke or fail to renew at any time the license of any private institution 
which does not maintain a satisfactory standard of treatment or which re- 
ceives patients through illegal methods of commitment. 



Places Other Than Hospitals for Detention or Care 

COUNTY JAIL The county jail provides for a small number of mental cases. 
In the cell section there are two beds in which prisoners who are quite ill 
physically or are thought to be mental cases are put for short periods. For- 
merly this was the only provision available for those who after their arrest 
seemed to present evidences of abnormal mental condition. Largely through 
the efforts of Judge Alexander Hadden of the Probate Court, a room off the 
sheriff's office was secured and provided with eight beds. Men who are 
apparently insane, epileptic or mentally defective are now put into this 
room. Before prohibition went into effect more than fifteen had been housed 
in this room at one time, mattresses being placed on the floor and the patients 
placed two in a bed. Since prohibition this number has been greatly decreased 
so that sometimes for several days at a time there has been no new mental 
case admitted. When the jail was visited there were two patients in the 
room, one a man who escaped from the State Hospital at Massillon, and the 
other a young negro awaiting investigation. These patients are kept segre- 
gated from criminals, and everybody at the jail seems to realize that they 
should have some special attention. Usually after one night spent in the 
jail hospital mental cases are examined by one of the neuro-psychiatrists 
attached to the Probate Court and when their cases have been considered 
by the court they are transferred to the City Hospital or other disposition 
made. Women are taken to the matron's floor where they have^the freedom 
of a good-sized room during the day. At night they are put in cells. 



MI.NTAL DISEASES AND DKFK n.\< i 465 

In spite of the best provisions, insane JMTSOIIS wlio are unable to give an 
account of themselves or who suffer with disorders of conduct are extremely 
likely to be picked up by the police. With a law which permits the admis- 
sion of all such persons to psychopathic- wards for observation, it is not neces- 
sary for such cases to be detained in jail at all. In fact, in several states, 
provisions of the insanity law directly forbid the placing of an insane person 
or one in whom insanity is suspected in a place for criminals or even in a place 
in which are to be found those accused of crime. Prisoners who are await- 
ing trial or who exhibit evidences of mental disease during their imprison- 
ment should be transferred at once to the psychopathic department of the 
City Hospital for observation. This applies to alcoholic cases and drug 
addicts whose arrest cuts off the supply of the drug to which they are ad- 
dicted. It is very evident that the jail is regarded in Cleveland as a wholly 
unsuitable place for persons suffering from mental disease and, very properly, 
no provision is made there for other than the most temporary kind of care. 

Mentally defective prisoners are very unlikely to have their condition 
recognized at the jail unless they are very low grade defectives, when they 
usually take the course through the Probate Court followed by those suffer- 
ing from mental diseases. 

With the routine mental examination of a person admitted to a jail, 
such as is the practice in many cities and is rapidly extending to others, it 
will not be necessary to depend upon the untrained judgment of the sheriff 
and jailers as to the mental state of prisoners. 

CITY FARM On a large tract of land at Warrensville, a short distance 
outside the corporate limits of the city, is the City Farm which was acquired 
upon the suggestion of Dr. Harris R. Cooley, at one time Director of Chari- 
ties and Corrections. It was Dr. Cooley 's plan, as part of a general system 
of parole and reconstruction, to attempt to reclaim prisoners in the House 
of Correction by giving them an opportunity for industrial training on the 
farm. The tract of land is so large that some of it was soon used for other 
purposes. There are now on this tract in addition to the House of Correc- 
tion, the Tuberculosis Sanatorium (described in Part IV. of the Hospital and 
Health Survey), the Girls' Home and the City Infirmary. 

THE CITY INFIRMARY This institution provides for about 5(K) patients, 
most of them advanced in years, with chronic illnesses. Some are able to 
be about and help to a certain extent in the institution, but most of them are 
too infirm. Cases are received upon the order of the Superintendent of 
Out-door Relief after being referred to that official by the families of pa- 
tients, district physicians or other physicians. The building is new and 
clean. There is only one resident physician and few nurses, so the standards 
of scientific care are not high, although there are many evidences of kind- 
nr-s and interest on the part of those who are in contact with the patients. 
Specialists from the Probate Court make periodical examinations of the 
whole population of the Infirmary for the purpose of discovering and having 
"probated" those suffering from mental diM.iM -. The last such visit wa> 
in November, 1919, and another is expected in the near future. The exami- 



466 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

nation of seventy cases indicated that a number of patients with well-defined 
psychoses will be found and, in addition, many others with simple senile 
deterioration who are usually not transferred to the " insane wards. " These 
"insane wards" consist of two buildings of modern construction, but show 
no evidence of having been planned especially for the purpose for which 
they are used. When visited there were seventy-nine male and eighty-nine 
female patients. Windows are guarded and doors locked. In general, the 
wards were clean and not unattractive. Patients are not received directly 
to these wards, but, in all cases, transferred from the City Hospital or from 
other wards of the City Infirmary. Theoretically, all are awaiting reception 
by the State Hospital as soon as vacancies exist. Actually, they will spend 
many months or years in the institution, for vacancies in the State Hospital 
are used for the reception of more acute cases. These patients have no 
specialist in mental diseases to direct their care and no trained nurses. At- 
tendants who are paid from $42.00 to $50.00 per month, with maintenance, 
are employed. These attendants, as is so often the case, make up in kind- 
ness and thoughtf ulness much that they lack through not having had special 
training. 

These "insane wards" are purely custodial. They represent another 
period in the history of the care of the insane, and exist only because, pending 
the state's tardy recognition of its duty in the matter, Cleveland is content 
to allow some of its citizens who suffer from serious diseases to be held in a 
custodial institution without treatment. Sane patients are sometimes trans- 
ferred from the other wards of the City Infirmary to the "insane wards" for 
"discipline, " a practice unfair alike to the insane and to those who are trans- 
ferred. 



M i NTAL DISEASES AND DEFICIENCY 467 

State Facilities for Diagnosis and Treatment 

I\ every state the care of mental diseases is very largely dependent 
upon legal and administrative mechanisms set up by the legislature. 
A community may possess an enlightened and humane conception of 
its duty toward its mentally ill but such a conception can be expressed only 
through such mechanisms. In all other diseases no such situation exist v 
It is for this reason that a study of the facilities for dealing with mental 
diseases and mental deficiency in Cleveland must take into consideration 
the laws, administrative agencies and institutions that the state of Ohio 
has provided. 

State Board of Administration 

The form of institutional administration and supervision in Ohio is that 
known as the "State board of control system. " In this system all authority 
is placed in the hands of the few men constituting the central board, and the 
institutions have no local boards of managers. In Ohio this board is called 
the State Board of Administration. It is a bi-partisan body consisting of 
four members, each of whom receives $5,000 a year for full-time service. 
The term of office is four years. Members are appointed by the Governor 
with the advice and consent of the Senate. In spite of the fact that by far 
the larger number of persons in the twenty -one institutions under the control 
of the Board are suffering from serious forms of illness, the law does not re- 
quire that a physician shall be one of the members, nor even for any medical 
consultation in the work of the Board. The medical superintendents of 
state institutions are directly under the Board. When the medical profes- 
sion demanded representation, a physician was appointed to the Board. 
Business administration is centered in the Board so there are no stewards in 
the hospitals. This places a heavy burden of business detail upon the medical 
superintendents of these institutions. There is no provision for coordinat- 
ing the scientific work of the hospitals, no central institute for research and 
training and no feeling on the part of the Board that it is responsible for 
leadership in the very important and complex relationships which mental 
diseases and mental deficiency bear to social, health and educational prob- 
lems. A harsh and unwieldy commitment law is permitted to remain on 
the statute books as far as any action initiated by the Board is concerned, 
and the whole system of administration is based upon the conception that 
the duty of the state toward its citizens with mental diseases and mental 
deficiency begins and ends with institutional administration. Of course the 
period of institutional treatment represents only one phase of a life-time prob- 
lem in the insane and mentally defective, and no administrative mechanism 
which limits its interest to the institutional phase (and practically only to 
the business side of this phase) can establish clinics, develop social service 
and after-care for patients and take leadership in practical work for preven- 
tion. In states which have special medically led commissions to direct the 
state care of the insane and mentally defective, all these activities constitute 
a large part of the service rendered, while at the same time business adminis- 
tration is competently directed. At present many states are firmly committed 
to the "Board of Control Idea," but in several, efforts are being made to cor- 
rect the serious deficiencies of such a system by appointing physicians as 



468 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

special advisors in the part of their work that deals with mental diseases, 
mental deficiency and tuberculosis. Even with such modifications this sys- 
tem does not permit the kind of work in treatment and prevention that 
modern conception of mental diseases and mental deficiency makes obligatory 
upon a state that faces these problems squarely and seeks to do more than 
temporize with them. 

Laws Relating to the Insane, Mentally Defective and Epileptic 

INSANE The laws of Ohio require that when any person is believed to be 
insane, or because of insanity is "dangerous to the community at large," a 
formal complaint be made, a warrant issued for the apprehension of the 
alleged insane person, and the accused brought before the court or examined 
by the Probate Judge out of court. This procedure emphasizes the legal side 
of mental disease, adding a considerable burden to the already troubled minds 
of the unfortunate patients, who often are perplexed that they should be 
arrested when they have committed no crime. As stated, the judge may 
review the case at the residence of the patient or elsewhere, but naturally 
this is seldom done. The judge obtains such evidence of the patient's in- 
sanity as he deems necessary and must cause a certificate to be made by two 
medical witnesses. Being satisfied that the person is insane, the court applies 
to the superintendent of the state hospital, asking that the patient be received. 
Upon notice from the superintendent, the judge directs the sheriff to transfer 
the patient to the state hospital. A suitable female assistant must accom- 
pany him if the patient is a woman. If there is a vacancy in the county's 
quota at the hospital, the Probate Judge may commit an acute case without 
notice. If the relatives of an insane person desire to take charge of him they 
may do so with the court's approval. Voluntary commitments are permitted 
for not more than sixty days, and no hospital is permitted to care for more 
than five voluntary patients at one time, nor for any if the county's quota 
is already full. There is no provision for emergency commitments. 

Patients may be allowed out on trial visits not exceeding ninety days in 
length. These visits are made under rules prescribed by the Board of Ad- 
ministration, but the decision, except in criminal cases, rests in the hands of 
the superintendent. When an insane criminal is in condition suitable for 
discharge, the prosecuting attorney of the county whence he came must be 
informed. The question of insanity may be introduced as a defense in crim- 
inal actions and determined by the jury sitting in the case or by jury specially 
called, in which event the prisoner is usually transferred to the jurisdiction 
of the Probate Court so that he may be placed in a state hospital. The trial 
judge may commit him if his release is deemed dangerous to the public 
peace or safety. Similarly if a person before a court in any capacity appears 
to be insane, a jury may be empowered to decide his mental state, or he may 
be transferred to the Probate Court for its determination. The latter is the 
usual procedure. Criminal, convict, dangerous and "incorrigible" insane 
who cannot be conveniently cared for at other hospitals for the insane, and 
insane persons who have previously been convicted of certain serious crimes 
are cared for at the Lima State Hospital for the Criminal Insane. 



M i HTAL DISEASES AND DKFK IKNCY 469 

None hut residents of the state can be received into a state hospital, 
except upon order of the State Board of Administration. 

The Ohio law does not reflect, as the laws of many other states now do, 
the great changes in medical and public opinion regarding mental illness 
and those who suffer from it that have come about during the last genera- 
tion. The provision for a quota for each county legally recognizes failure 
to provide free state care. The requirement of personal apj>earance before 
a judge imposes the hardships of a quasi-criminal procedure upon sick people. 
The provision limiting the number of voluntary cases to five is not observed 
by most hospital superintendents. In the absence of vacancies for ca-e- 
awaiting admission after court commitment such a provision serves, never- 
theless, to restrict the use of the most desirable type of commitment pro- 
cedure. 

The laws relating to the insane should l>e thoroughly revised so as to 
permit j>ersonal appearance or even service to be waived, to provide for 
emergency commitment and commitment for observation, and to remove the 
restrictions thrown about voluntary admission. The law should provide for 
attendants from the state hospitals going to the homes and bringing in new 
patients, thereby eliminating the sheriff entirely. 

MENTALLY DEFECTIVE AND EPILEPTIC Proceedings in committing the 
feeble-minded and epileptic are practically identical with those followed in 
cases of insanity, and there is the same emphasis on a hearing before a judge. 
There is the same provision for the reception of epileptics as voluntary pa- 
tients, and parents and guardians may voluntarily ask that their charges 
be admitted into the Institution for the Feeble-minded at Columbus, Ohio. 
The Board of Administration may also make commitments to that institu- 
tion. Medical certificates for these institutions and the state hospitals are 
alike. 

With the mentally defective and epileptic, as with the insane, the object 
of the commitment law should be to make the institutions readily accessible 
to those who need their services, throwing around the procedure only such 
safeguards as experience has shown to be necessary to prevent abuse. The 
self-respect and welfare of those committed should l>e the chief consideration. 
In the care of the mentally defective and epileptic, voluntary commitment 
should l>e so provided for as to become the method of election. 



State Hospital for Mental Diseases 

Tin-re are six civil state hospitals and an institution for the criminal 
insane in Ohio. Hamilton County (Cincinnati) has a hospital as large as 
one of the state hospitals, which is owned by the county but maintained by 
the state. The state hospitals at Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton and Toledo 
receive nearly all their patients from the cities in which they are situated. 
In many states the great public institutions for the insane are remote from 
large cities. The Ohio plan has several marked advantages. Few states 
in the country have an arrangement whereby a system of state psychopathic 
hospitals forming departments of existing state hospitals could l>e put into 



470 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

operation so readily or be likely to operate with as much success. The favor- 
able location of these hospitals not only renders them readily accessible but 
also makes it possible to carry on after-care supervision with great facility. 
The over-crowding, understanding, low per capita allowance for maintenance, 
and the unsympathetic control by a board of business administration, makes 
it impossible, however, to take advantage of these favorable circumstances. 

THE CLEVELAND STATE HOSPITAL owes its origin to a gift of a tract of 
100 acres lying within the city limits by Thomas Garfield and his wife, for 
the purpose of establishing a hospital for the insane. The reception of pa- 
tients commenced in 1855. The growth of the city has made land so valu- 
able that the hospital cannot expand. As the buildings are old and in poor 
repair it would be sound economy to abandon them, retaining only a recep- 
tion hospital, acute medical and surgical hospitals and a diagnostic clinic. 
Such a center for intensive medical treatment of not more than 500 beds 
would provide facilities for an institution of 1,500 which should be situated 
within twenty miles from the city where land is cheaper and more outdoor life 
possible. The experience of states in which full state care is provided shows 
that the ratio of patients to population under such conditions is approxi- 
mately three to one thousand. In states like New York and Massachusetts 
in which full state care has been provided for many years and people make 
the fullest possible use of the state hospitals, the ratio rises to four per 1,000. 
Every group of 500,000 people requires a state hospital of 1,500 beds. There- 
fore the district in which Cleveland is situated (Cuyahoga, Lake and Geauga 
Counties) requires a second state hospital, which, like the first, could be 
utilized for the intensive medical treatment suggested. With the growth of 
the city these hospitals could be increased in size to 2,000 each or possibly to 
2,500. When the latter number is reached, with the intensive treatment 
group, there will be 5,500 beds, which would provide for a city of 1,650,000 
population. No provisions short of these will relieve the situation that exists 
and end the reproach of detaining mental patients in such places as the City 
Infirmary, because the state has made too little provision, and of sending 
them back to their homes because the courts will deal with only such cases 
as can be provided for. 

Cleveland gets but little relief from other state hospitals. When visited 
by the Survey investigator the Cleveland State Hospital had 1,737 patients. 
There were only 55 patients from Cleveland in all other state hospitals, 
except that for the criminal insane at Lima, where there were 219. The 
ratio of patients to population in the whole state was one to 423.5 and the 
ratio of patients from Cleveland to the population of the city, one to 497.3. 
It is obvious that Cleveland has 17 per cent fewer beds than its quota in 
the state hospitals. The 1,737 patients in the Cleveland State Hospital 
were occupying space alloted to 1,450, causing an overcrowding of nearly 
20 per cent. ' The original allotment is based upon a distressingly small 
floor space and it is not difficult to picture the conditions that exist when 
this space is occupied by 20 per cent more patients than the number for which 
it was designed. Even to maintain the population with this amount of 
overcrowding and to receive new cases it is necessary to send out many 
patients still unrecovered. No policy could be more unsound economically 
than this. The number of physicians in comparison with the number of 



\h\i\i. DIM\-I;S \M) DIMCIIN^ 471 



patients in this hospital is one to 485, one of tin- lowest ratios in tin- Cnited 
68 and little Drearer than that of physicians t<> the general population in 
the city of Cleveland. If one disregards entirely the need of physicians to 
treat the mental (tisrnxex from which the patients suffer, he can gain some idea 
of the standards of medical work possible, when he reali/es that these patients 
are so ill physically that 10 j>er cent die each year. The population of a 
hospital gives a less adequate idea of the amount of medical work that has 
to be done than the admission rate. In 11)1!), 017 patients were admitted to 
this hospital. No state hospital of the same size in the whole country re- 
ceived so many. The suj>erintendent, who is a well-trained physician, re- 
ceives only $,.500 a year, which is less than the amount received by a recent 
graduate in medicine as junior assistant in some other states. The appropri- 
ations for maintenance are in proportion. Few institutions in the United 
States .spend as little for their patients' maintenance and care. In 1919 the 
rate per annum per capita for medical, surgical and laboratory supplies was 
19.4 cents. In this hospital approximately 180 patients die every year. 
If the entire appropriation for medical, surgical and laboratory supplies had 
l>een expended last year upon these 180 patients, each would have had $2.20 
worth of such sick room necessities during his or her last illness. The super- 
intendent is trying in the face of these conditions to make his institution a 
hospital in fact as well as in name. He plans to re-institute a training school 
for nurses, develop a system of after-care and make the l>est possible use of 
his meagre staff and equipment. He will inevitably fail if the people of 
( 'leveland are unable to induce the legislature to change the policy of neglect 
that keeps its work upon the asylum level. 



State Institution for the Feeble-minded 

The "Institution for the Feeble-minded," the only one in the state, 
was established in 1857 and opened in August of that year in rented buildings 
in Columbus, Ohio. It removed to its present location in West Columbus 
in 1868. In 1898 the legislature appropriated funds for the purchase of the 
Custodial Farm of 1,248 acres at Orient. 

June 30, 1918, there were 2,2(54 inmates. Additional buildings about to 
IK- opened and others immediately constructed will care for 864 more, giving 
accommodation for 8,128. This is the largest institution of the sort in the 
\\orld. 

The state of Ohio is hardly doing more than touching the surface of the 
problem of mental deficiency. With a population of 5,393,000, a conserva- 
tive estimate would place the number of feeble-minded in the state at at least 
Jl.noo (four |>er thousand), of whom not less than 10,000 require care in 
special institutions. Provision is made for less than one-third of this number. 
What of the other two-thirds who should have such care? Many of them, 
as feeble-minded children in the public schools, juvenile courts, reformatories 
and orphanages, or as feeble-minded adults in the county jails, state prisons, 
criminal courts, venereal clinics and almshouses. are yearly a source of vast 
e\j>ense and the cause of untold sorrow. 



472 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH 

With an estimated population of about one million, Cleveland District 
has about 4,000 feeble-minded persons, each of whom possesses potentiali- 
ties for delinquency and dependency that justify a serious effort on the part 
of public authorities to recognize and deal properly with the problems these 
individuals present. 

The advantages of early recognition and diagnosis, intensive special class 
training, and either wise and careful supervision out in the community or 
adequate institutional care, should be offered to each feeble-minded child in 
the state. 

It is not enough to place these defective children in special classes for a 
few hours of the day over a period of a few years, and then suddenly dump 
them into the community without proper oversight or supervision in early 
adolescence the most unstable and critical period of life even for those not 
so handicapped mentally. The sad combination of the defective's childish 
mind and his adult years inevitably brings him into conflict with laws and 
rules of conduct which have been devised for persons whose minds as well as 
bodies are those of adults. 

Much of the benefit to be derived from special classes in Cleveland is 
being lost through lack of proper oversight after school hours and adequate 
supervision of the child in the community. The special class should be used 
not merely to relieve the grades of a drag and the regular grade teachers of 
an apparently hopeless burden, not for awakening interest and developing 
the general intelligence of the child, but to prepare and fit the defective to 
do something useful in life. 

Some state authority should be charged with the supervision of all mental 
defectives who are in need of, but not receiving it. On leaving the special 
class, employment suited to his vocational interest and aptitudes should be 
secured for each of these children. All those unable to profit by special class 
training or incapable of being adequately supervised in the community, 
should receive institutional care, but those defectives whose character, make- 
up and personality give them a definite cqmmunity value, who are self- 
supporting, and are neither a danger to themselves nor the general public, 
can and should be handled satisfactorily under outside supervision. 

The fact that many high grade defectives, after prolonged institutional 
life and occupational training, can be paroled with perfect satisfaction into 
the community, has now been well demonstrated by Dr. Fernald at Waverley, 
Dr. Wallace at Wrentham, Dr. Bernstein at Rome, and many other leaders 
in work among the feeble-minded. Dr. Fernald recently made a study of 
all male patients paroled from Waverley in the last twenty -five years. It was 
found that the great majority of these boys had never been arrested, never 
been in court, never had children, but were law-abiding, self-supporting citi- 
zens. Few had married. The economic saving through a well -developed parole 
system is enormous but it is necessary to emphasize the point that such super- 
vision must rest upon a carefully made diagnosis by experts. With this a 
period of institutional training is usually, but not always, required. 



Mi MAI. DIM \SKS AND DKKK iKXCY 473 

Two outstanding needs deserve mention: (1) identification and special 
class training, with proper after-care and supervision for all children in the 
state who are capable of receiving it; (2) increased institutional provision. 

The first requires a comprehensive mental deficiency law for the state 
and the careful upbuilding of the local mechanisms by which such a law may 
be made effective. The appropriation of $650,000 which is available will 
procure the site, provide for water supply, sewage disposal, power plant, 
;i(li!iinistrative and service buildings for a new institution, but at least $1,350,- 
000 more will l>e needed for an institution housing 2,000 patients. With 
such provisions Ohio will still be behind other states in the number of beds 
compared to the general population, but, with two such "parent" institu- 
tions, extension by means of colonies may be cheaply and efficiently made. 



State Hospital for Epileptics 

The Ohio Hospital for Epileptics at Gallipolis, opened in 1893, was the 
first institution in this country for the care of epileptics. The example was 
followed in many different states. The census of this institution at the end 
of the last fiscal year was 1,587. On April 2, 1920. there were 191 patients 
from Cuyahoga County. This number represents a ratio much less than 
that which the population of Cleveland bears to that of the whole state, but 
cities have many resources in their dispensaries and clinics for the treatment 
of epilepsy, and in the absence of full state provisions it is not unfair that the 
cities should have a smaller proportion of the beds available in state institu- 
tions than rural communities. Additional provisions for 456 patients are 

here being made. A second institution of this kind is already needed. 



Formerly a special class for epileptics was maintained in Cleveland, but 
it was discontinued for reasons that could not be ascertained. Epileptic 
children have needs that cannot always be met in the special classes for the 
mentally defective. Although many of them are mentally defective from 
birth or are dulled intellectually by their disease, there are others suffering 
from epilepsy who are normally bright. Their seizures make it necessary 
to exclude such children from the grade classes, as nothing is much more dis- 
tressing for other children to witness than a severe epileptic convulsion, but 
they are capable of carrying on grade work. The result is that many leave 
school altogether at an early age and, in addition to the heavy burden of 
their epilepsy, carry the additional one of illiteracy. It would seem that in 
a school population of 144,197 several special classes for epileptics would be 
amply justified. 



Bureau of Juvenile Research 

The Bureau of Juvenile Research was established on July 1, 1914, under 
the following broad provision of law: 

"All minors, who, in the judgment of the Juvenile Court, require state 
institutional care and guardianship, shall be wards of the state and shall be 



474 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

committed to the care and custody of the Ohio Board of Administration, 
which Board thereupon becomes vested with the sole and exclusive guardian- 
ship of such minors." (Ohio G. C., Section 1841-1.) 

The Board of Administration commits these minors to the Bureau of 
Juvenile Research for study and classification and is required, after their 
condition has been determined, to "then assign the child to a suitable state 
institution or place it in a family under such rules and regulations as may be 
adopted." The Board of Administration has authority to transfer minors 
from one institution to another upon proper cause with the proviso that 
"except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall be transferred from a 
benevolent to a penal institution." This permits the Board to transfer a 
child from the institution in its jurisdiction to the Bureau of Juvenile Re- 
search and later to re-transfer him. Further provision is made for the re- 
ception by the Bureau of minors from public institutions not supported by 
the state, from private charitable institutions, or frpm the custody of legal 
guardians, upon terms deemed proper. The counties liable for the support 
of these minors are required to pay the expenses of their transportation. 

The special defect of this generally admirable law is that it provides for 
the review of cases that have already been passed upon by the courts. Obvi- 
ously, the examinations are most heeded before trial rather than after com- 
mitment. It will be noted that only cases which require institutional care 
are to be sent to this Bureau by the Juvenile Courts. This restriction is 
undesirable, for the hope of correcting delinquent trends in the mentally 
defective and of dealing successfully with psychopathic or psychoneurotic chil- 
dren, lies in making the greatest efforts in the early stages before departures 
from normal behavior are so striking that they are easily recognized, and be- 
fore it is certain that institutional care is the most desirable measure. Those 
interested in the problem of conduct disorders in childhood desire to have 
all Juvenile Court cases examined with regard to the mental factors in their 
delinquency. The present director of the Bureau, Pr. H. H. Goddard, has 
well said: 

"In a great many cases, the first offenders are as feeble-minded or psy- 
chopathic as others and there is no good reason why we should wait until 
they have made a second or third attempt before we should recognize their 
condition and proceed to treat it." 

The Board of Administration and the Bureau of Juvenile Research in- 
terpret this law in the broadest possible way and endeavor to render as much 
service as possible to the children sent by parents or institutions. The work 
of the Bureau has been much handicapped by insufficient funds. Good 
buildings with a capacity for 150 patients exist but there is sufficient money 
to care for only 40 at a time, and at present there are less than that number 
at the Bureau. Its work is very much embarrassed by the fact that the 
Institution for Feeble-minded is overcrowded, so that a mentally defective 
child must wait, after his examination, until there is a vacancy before he can 
be admitted, and further embarrassment is due to the fact that there are 
no facilities. Jn the state for the treatment of psychopathic and psycho- 
neurotic children. 



IflNTAL DlBKAAM AMD DmnCIENCI 17 ~> 

The Director .supplies the following concise statement of the personnel 
in his organi/ation. 

"The organization at present is as follows: director, chief psycho- 
clinician, who is responsible for all under mental diagnosis; two associate 
clinicians, who are next to the chief in ability and also capable of making 
diagnosis; then two assistant psycho-clinicians of somewhat less experience, 
but able to make accurate mental tests and submit recommendations or 
suggestion on diagnosis; a physician and two nurses for the care of the physical 
side; a chief clerk, record clerk, three stenographers, one superintendent of 
cottages, superintendent of grounds, two attendants and the night watch." 

We have much doubt as to the wisdom of dismissing so lightly the "j hys- 
ical side" of such complex problems as those which come to the Bureau of 
Juvenile Research for solution, and of dealing with all the mental factors 
from a purely psychological approach. Even if the defectives present no 
special problem with which the psychiatrist is best equipped to deal, the 
psychopathic, psychotic and psychoneurotic children must present many 
difficulties upon which mental medicine has some light to throw. 

It will be most unfortunate if this highly important experiment station 
fails to render the service of which it is capable through lack of sufficient 
funds. When one contrasts the few thousands of dollars required for its 
maintenance with the millions that are almost blindly expended in dealing 
with the consequences of our unintelligent way of approaching conduct 
disorders of childhood and adolescence, it is obvious that considerations of 
economy alone would demand generous support of this Bureau. 



476 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Courts and Correctional Agencies 

MENTAL diseases and mental deficiency differ from other problems 
of health and medicine because of the fact that their diagnosis, 
management and, to a very large extent, the success with which 
they may be dealt by physicians, teachers, nurses and social workers is de- 
termined by courts and correctional agencies. There is no doubt that these 
disorders come to attention much more frequently for other reasons than 
that of disturbance of conduct. Such disturbances, when they do occur, 
however, are so important socially and sometimes so tragic in their con- 
sequences that mental disorders generally are dealt with by a legal mechan- 
ism suitable for only a small percentage of all persons who are mentally ill. 
The physician, therefore, has to call upon the courts when mental cases are 
brought to his attention, even though there is no question whatever of 
public order or safety. .Very often, in other cases, the courts have gone a 
long way in determining the future of mental patients before the advice of 
physicians is sought at all. 

Courts 

PROBATE COURT The Probate Court is especially charged with the 
duty of dealing with mental patients. The Commitment Law of Ohio has 
already been referred to (page 468). When an affidavit alleging insanity 
has been presented, the Judge orders a "suitable person" usually the sheriff 
or a deputy, to bring the patient to court. Patients are also referred to the 
Probate Court from other courts in which they have been found to be insane 
but which are not empowered to commit to institutions. In such cases the 
function of the Probate Court is only that of commitment, the issue of 
insanity having already been decided. 

In order to protect himself from ill-advised or improper applications for 
the commitment of a patient the Probate Judge has attached to his court 
two examining physicians who have had experience in hospitals for mental 
diseases. These psychiatrists interview the friends of the patient, examine 
the patient personally, and make a report, usually verbal, to the Judge. 
The Women's Protective Association sometimes makes social investigations 
for the court. If this preliminary examination shows that the patient 
suffers from a mental disorder, the psychiatrists make out a medical certifi- 
cate and the patient is committed forthwith. If the Judge deems that such 
action is inadvisable the case is dismissed. If the examination is inconclu- 
sive and observation is required to establish the diagnosis the Probate Judge 
commits the patient to the "Detention Hospital," that is, to the mental 
wards of the City Hospital, (page 446). Previously this was not possible, 
but some years ago when the wife of a lawyer went through the trying ex- 
perience of commitment the law was amended so as to permit this practice. 
The Detention Hospital is used not only for such observation cases but for 
those "whose insanity is likely to be temporary" and all "insane persons 
who cannot be committed to or received into the State Hospital." The 
overcrowding at the Cleveland State Hospital makes the latter procedure 
necessary in many cases, but the overcrowded and unsatisfactory state of 
the Detention Hospital often makes it difficult to find any place for those 



Mi M \ i. DIM-. \SKS AND DEFICIENCY 477 

who urgently need care. The result is that people are advised to take their 
mentally ill relatives home again and thus treatment is deferred a tho- 
roughly uneconomic and unsound practice. The Probate Judge may also 
commit to the department for mental patients in the City Infirmary at 
\Yarrens\ille (page 465) or, in criminal cases, to the jail hospital (page 464). 

It is often the case, when the law is harsh and public facilities for 
observation and treatment inadequate, that kindness and sympathetic 
cooperation on the part of those who administer the law minimize the distress 
and humiliation that come to patients. This is the case in Cleveland. The 
Probate Judge is considerate, realizing the heavy affliction that mental 
disease brings to the patients or to their families but, although he attempts 
to soften the phases of commitment that smack of criminal procedure, the 
fact that a person "suspected" of having a mental disease is produced in 
court and usually brought there by a sheriff creates an atmosphere that in 
many other states has been eliminated from the admission to hospital of 
I>ersons suffering from mental illness. 

When a patient is committed the Court becomes a supplicant to the 
State Hospital in the effort to secure admission. The superintendent of the 
hospital exercises full jurisdiction in this. Preference is given to patients 
who are having the greatest difficulty in getting on in the community. Those 
with mild mental disorders are rarely received when application is first made. 
Practically no other course is possible but the great disadvantage of this 
method of solving the difficulty lies in the fact that mild and early cases 
afford the most promising field for successful treatment and many of the 
severe and late cases that become a permanent charge upon the state could 
make a full or a "social" recovery were treatment available in time. 

The cost to the city of the medical examinations and other services 
rendered in the commitment of mental patients in the Probate Court is not 
ascertainable from any published reports. The Clerk of the Court kindly 
permitted the examination of the check book stubs for the period of three 
months ending September 10th, 1919. This quarter is somewhat lighter 
than the other three and so an estimate of the yearly cost based upon this 
examination would give a total less, rather than more, than is actually the 
case. Medical fees during the period amounted to $2,209.00, an annual 
rate of $8,836. If these examinations were made in the mental wards of 
the City Hospital under such conditions as those that may be expected to 
exist when that institution is transformed into a real City Psychopathic Hos- 
pital, such a contribution would go far toward paying the salaries of all the 
full-time psychiatrists needed. In such a hospital expert observation would 
yield medical and social facts of great value in determining the best action 
to be taken in each case. If the present difficulty in securing prompt ad- 
mission to the state hospitals continues, as it must for several years in spite 
of the most energetic efforts to correct it by new building, the selection of 
cases for commitment or for return to their homes, with or without out- 
patient supervision and treatment, would be done in a more efficient manner 
than is possible with the facilities that now exist. As it has been held that 
the mental wards of the City Hospital constitute a place to which insane 
patients may be legally committed, the physicians there cannot, obviously, 



478 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURYKY 

take part in the commitment of people to their own institution. In order 
that the proposed City Psychopathic Hospital in connection with the City 
Hospital may operate to the greatest advantage, it is necessary that this 
and other provisions of the law be changed so as to permit commitment 
there only for observation and temporary treatment on physicians' cer- 
tificates or the orders of any magistrate. This method of commitment is 
followed with conspicuous success in New York City in the psychopathic- 
wards of Bellevue and Kings County Hospitals in the commitment of more 
than 4,000 patients a year. 

The sheriff receives $1.71 for each patient conveyed to the Cleveland 
State Hospital. There were 567 such patients during 1919, for whose trans- 
portation he was paid $969.57. For each mentally defective person sent to 
the Columbus State Institution $22.83 is paid. Twelve patients were con- 
veyed there during the same year at a cost of $273.96, the remainder 
of the total of eighty-six being taken by relatives. Twenty patients were 
taken to the State Hospital for Epileptics by friends and six by the sheriff 
at a cost of $247.38 or $41.23 each. The warrant to arrest a patient entails 
a fee of $1.64. The number of such warrants issued was not ascertained. 

To those who are accustomed to methods more in accordance with those 
used with other sick persons, this handling of children and adults with mental 
diseases, feeblemindedness and epilepsy by sheriffs and court attendants is 
abhorrent. It is a relic of a period in the development of the public attitude 
toward illness that has no more place in an enlightened community today 
than Salem witchcraft. The simplest, kindest, and least expensive method 
is to have nurses and attendants from the institutions to which patients are 
to be committed come for them and convey them there by the skillful and 
kindly methods that their training so admirably fits them to use. No other 
method would be tolerated by those who had seen the one suggested in actual 
operation. 

MUNICIPAL COURT Only a relatively small proportion of all offenses for 
which people are arrested are serious ones. This is true of those committed 
by mentally defective or psychopathic persons as well as by those with nor- 
mal mentality and so the lower courts, which in every city deal with a vast 
amount of delinquency, have to do much more than the higher courts with 
persons whose asocial conduct is dependent upon abnormal mental states. 
In the Municipal Court of Cleveland the relationship existing between 
delinquency and psychopathic conditions are not so fully appreciated as in 
some other cities nor do they receive as much weight in procedures of the 
court and in the dispositions made of offenders. The work of the Municipal 
Court is evidently carried on with earnestness and a broad spirit of toler- 
ance but few persons brought before it receive an expert psychiatric examina- 
tion. When insanity is offered as a plea or some abnormal mental condition 
is apparent to the court or to the social workers, patrolmen or others con- 
nected with it, prisoners are sent to the Probate Court for disposition and 
there they receive a psychiatric examination. There seems to be a belief 
that laymen can pick out individuals who require a mental examination and 
that insanity or mental deficiency that does not manifest itself in ways thus 



MIMM. DIM \M- \\i> DKKICIKM i 471) 

apparent does not require to be taken into consideration. During a visit to 
this court a girl who had escaped from an institution in Michigan was under 
examination. Although to a psychiatric observer there seemed to he indica- 
tions of mental deficiency which would warrant a careful examination, the 
Court and the Probation Officer were quite confident that the girl had excel- 
lent intelligence and was simply "sulky" and "tough." It is asserted that 
such conclusions are founded upon long experience in dealing with delinquent 
types but it must be remembered that this experience is not checked by 
studying the results of examinations made elsewhere by those specially 
trained and it is difficult to see how it can do any more than to crystallize 
connections of nonnality and abnormality already formed. In Boston, 
Chicago and Philadelphia psychiatric clinics in connection with the Munici- 
]>al Courts have been in successful operation for a considerable period of 
time and, in the opinion of the magistrates presiding over those courts, con- 
stitute a practical adjunct of the greatest value. 

The Probation Officer, Mrs. Callaghan, realizes that her work would be 
aided in many cases by access to psychiatric advice. She has charge of all 
persons placed on probation, paying special attention to the women, and 
renders other assistance to the court when women are concerned. Airs. 
Callaghan has many cases examined by Miss Claire Walters who conducts 
the psychological examinations at the Boys' School and in cases that are to 
be sent to the Probate Court she makes notes that are very helpful to the 
psychiatrists attached to that court. 

In a city as large as Cleveland a psychiatric clinic in connection with the 
Municipal Court would be able to render valuable service. Nothing is more 
wasteful and ineffective than the method of dealing with permanent mental 
deficiency or psychopathic conditions by repeated trial and commitment to 
correctional institutions. Where the actual results of this method have 
been carefully studied it has been found that, in many instances, the cost 
to the community of dealing with one such individual by these methods 
i s greater than that of maintaining an efficient psychiatric clinic for a period 
of years. With a modern City Psychopathic Hospital as a center for all such 
activities, a psychiatric clinic could be established in the Municipal Court 
which would have back of it all the scientific resources of the Psychopathic 
Hospital and its facilities for investigation by those specially trained in this 
kind of medical social work. 

PAUOLK BOARD The Parole Board which consists of the Director of 
Public Welfare and the Probation Officer deals with skill and discrimination 
with cases that come before it. From ten to fifteen prisoners come before 
this Board each week and there are usually about seventy-five cases on 
parole. This number of cases requires more time for thorough investigation 
than one probation officer can give, and the work of the Board would be much 
aided if the probation officer had more assistance. In the numerous instances 
in which mental deficiency or some psychopathic condition is the cause or a 
very important factor in the delinquency of prisoners who come before the 
Parole Board there is no psychiatric report. The great value of such reports 
in dealing with these prisoners would amply justify provisions for mental 



480 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

examinations as a routine measure in all persons committed by the Courts 
to the House of Correction. When a modern City Psychopathic Hospital 
is established there should be stationed here another psychiatric "outpost" 
consisting of a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a social worker who could 
give from one to three days a week to this work. 

JUVENILE COURT AND THE DETENTION HOME The Juvenile Court of 
Cleveland has long been known as a progressive agency conducted in accord- 
ance with enlightened ideas regarding the management of delinquency among 
children. The present judge who, in addition, presides over the Domestic 
Relations and Insolvency Courts, has been at the head of the court for more 
than twenty years. It is housed, unfortunately, in the same building as the 
criminal courts, but in the new Criminal and Juvenile Court building which is 
being erected it will have a separate entrance and contact with the criminal 
courts will be avoided to a large extent. 

Many avenues are open to the Juvenile Court for securing information 
regarding the children brought before it. Social workers investigate the 
family and personal histories and the Clearing House cooperates in securing 
such information, especially regarding dependency or delinquency among 
families. The important relationships that juvenile delinquency bear to 
mental deficiency and other disorders of the nervous system are well under- 
stood and many efforts are made to secure psychiatric and psychological 
examinations that will throw light upon this subject in individual cases. 
Miss Claire Walters who is attached to the Boys' School makes intelli- 
gence tests. At her suggestion the services of the psychiatrists attached 
to the Probate Court are employed, children often being sent to them for 
mental examinations. At the Boys' School and the Detention Home (dis- 
cussed below) children are observed while their cases are pending or while 
awaiting placement but, of course, this observation is not made by those 
trained to detect the most significant alterations in behavior. The Bureau of 
Juvenile Research is by far the most valuable facility possessed by the court 
in dealing with issues, but, as was stated in the discussion of that institution, 
it receives children for scientific study after instead of before the issue of 
institutional commitment has been decided. 

The Juvenile Court can dispose of children brought before it in a number 
of different ways. Warning or reprimanding the children, warning or fining 
their parents and parole to a parole officer are the methods employed in by 
far the greater number of cases. Boys may be committed to the Boys' School, 
the State Industrial School for Boys, or to the Cleveland Farm School. 
Girls may be committed to the House of the Good Shepherd or to the State 
Industrial School for Girls. These institutions will be described a little 
later. They receive many mentally defective children, sometimes those of 
relatively low grade, and, in consequence, the tasks for which they were 
created are less efficiently performed. This is largely due to the absence of 
fully adequate facilities in the court for scientific mental diagnosis but were 
such facilities available many children would still have to be disposed of 
in this way on account of the very inadequate state provisions for institu- 



MENTAL DISEASES AND Di M< n \< ^ 4K1 

tional care of the mentally defective and the lack of a mental deficiency law 
under winch an effective system of extra-institutional supervision and guard- 
ianship can be constructed. 

When it is apparent from the histories and the results of psychiatric and 
psychological examinations that children are mentally defective and require 
institutional care the Judge of the Juvenile Court makes every effort to 
secure admission to an appropriate institution. He can transfer the case to 
the Probate Court for commitment, to a state hospital (which is rarely 
done), commit directly to the State Institution for the Feeble-minded, the 
State Hospital for Epileptics, or to the custody of the Board of Administra- 
tion for transfer to an institution upon recommendation of the Bureau of 
Juvenile Research. 

This court needs a psychiatric clinic to help it deal with the perplexing 
and enormously important problems in human conduct that come before it. 
Here are to be observed the first difficulties that subnormal or psychopathic 
children experience in making the adaptations that are required for socially 
acceptable behavior. Upon the methods here employed for checking un- 
desirable adaptations and substituting desirable ones depend riot only the 
future happiness of children and of the families of which they are members, 
but the success or failure that the community will later achieve in dealing 
with much adult delinquency and crime. The time has long since pass, I 
when it was necessary to defend utilizing to the utmost in Children's Courts 
the sciences that have to do with the deep springs of conduct. Practical 
demonstrations by this time, extending over a number of years, justify the 
statement of one Judge of a Juvenile Court that he would not be willing to 
continue his work if deprived of the services of his psychiatric advisor. 

The maintenance of a psychiatric clinic for the Cleveland Juvenile Court 
should constitute one of the broader "outpost" duties of the proposed City 
Psychopathic Hospital. Backed by the resources of such a hospital, with its 
highly trained personnel, ward service for children, laboratories and well 
organized social service, such a clinic in the Juvenile Court would \ye much 
more useful than a small clinic acting independently. 

DETENTION HOME An indisj)ensable adjunct to every Children's Court 
is a place where children may t>e safely detained while their cases are under 
investigation or while they are awaiting disposition. In Cleveland this is 
provided by the Detention Home, consisting of offices in a remodelled frame 
dwelling and quarters for the children in a fireproof addition. The building 
is sanitary, well designed for the purpose that it serves and regarded as very 
satisfactory. Recreation rooms in the building and a playground outside 
have been provided. Adjoining property has l>een purchased so that depend- 
ent children may be placed in a building entirely separate from that in which 
delinquents are quartered. Changes must l>e made in this structure t<> 
eliminate a fire hazard but, even with present facilities, dependent and 
delinquent children are provided for separately. The total capacity of the 
Detention Home is 135. The usual population is from 100 to 140. On 
April 1. 1!>-20, there were ninety-nine present sixty-nine boys and thirty 



4s-..' HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

girls. On that date fourteen boys and six girls selected at random were 
carefully examined mentally. Nine, or 40 per cent were found to be men- 
tally defective. 

The stay of the children in the Detention Home is necessarily short as 
they are detained only while their cases are pending. During this brief 
period, however, education is not neglected. Boys attend the Boys' School, 
close at hand, and girls receive instruction in the home building. Academic 
subjects are taught and some instruction given in domestic science and 
manual training. There are many evidences of kindness, sympathy and 
understanding on the part of those responsible for the operation of this 
institution. 

When a psychiatric clinic is included in the resources that the Juvenile 
Court has at its disposal, the observation of special cases in the Detention 
Home will yield very important psychiatric information. 



Correctional Agencies 

The public correctional agencies of the state were not examined in this 
survey. For children there are the Girls' Industrial School near Delaware 
and the Boys' Industrial School near Lancaster. The Boys' Industrial School 
receives boys between the ages of ten and eighteen. They may be retained 
until the age of twenty-one. The Girls' Industrial School was established in 
1869 for "the instruction and reformation of incorrigible girls between the 
ages of nine and eighteen. " A report published by the Bureau of Juvenile 
Research in 1915 showed that more than 50 per cent of 1,000 children ex- 
amined in the two schools were mentally defective. 

HOUSE OF CORRECTION The House of Correction, situated on the 
same reservation at Warrensville as the City Infirmary, the Tuberculosis 
Sanatorium and the Girls' Home, is a modern building, clean, sanitary and 
well conducted. All Courts, except the Juvenile Court, commit to the 
House of Correction. Only misdemeanants are received, the maxi- 
mum sentence being one year's imprisonment and a fine of $500. Prisoners 
may be paroled at any time in the discretion of the Director of Public Wel- 
fare. During 1918, 4,986 men and 695 women were admitted. In the year 
following the male admissions fell to 3,002 and the female admissions to 408. 
The greatest number in the institution at any time was 662 men and 88 
women in 1918 and 748 men and 81 women in 1919. It is seen that the 
greatest decrease in 1919 was in prisoners serving the shortest terms. This 
is ascribed chiefly to prohibition. During the last six months it has been 
still greater than previously and the average daily population is less than 
forty. On the women's side with a capacity of 150 the average daily popu- 
lation in 1919 was only fifty-two. The best use to make of the vacant parts 
of the building is receiving much thought. There are many agencies that 
could make use of increased institutional facilities but few care to use a penal 
institution. It has been suggested that it be used as a convalescent hospital 
for patients from the City Hospital, for an isolation hospital for 
venereal patients, and for the care of feeble-minded women of child- 



M \ i \i. DI-I \SKS \M) DI.I i. ii \. i 



bearing age pending proper provision by the state. The desirability 
of the city making provision for the mentally defective is open to 
serious question. However temporary these provisions may he intenle<l 
t<> le. exjM'rienee shows that they are exceedingly likely to be permanent. 
There is general agreement that the institutional care of the mentally de- 
fective is the function of the state, (iranting that some increased provisions 
by the state will soon be made available, it is certain that if Cleveland makes 
the provisions at the House of Correction suggested, the new l>cds in state 
institutions will t>e used first for residents of other localities in which it may 
be assumed that the pressure for room for such patients is quite as marked as 
in Cleveland. By far the wisest thing to do during the period of waiting 
for the state to meet its deficit is to increase the facilities for community 
supervision and guardianship. If as much progress in this direction is made 
as the experience of other communities shows is possible, the need for insti- 
tutional provisions may be found to lie less than it would be if 1,000 or 2,000 
additional l>eds in state institutions were suddenly made available at the 
present time. 

Some of the statistics obtained regarding prisoners admitted to the 
House of Correction suggest a relatively high proportion of mentally defec- 
tive individuals. The changing character of the population resulting from 
the great decrease in the number of prisoners convicted of intoxication and 
minor offenses growing out of alcoholism is indicated by the marked differ- 
ence in the ]>ercentage of illiterates l>etween 1918 and 1919. During 1918, 
when there were 1.128 admissions for intoxication or 20 j>er cent of all 
admissions the proportion of illiterates was 8.3 ]>er cent. During 1919 only 
471 prisoners were committed for intoxication, constituting 14 per cent of 
the total numlxT of admissions. In that year the proportion of illiterates 
was 16.9 ]>er cent. It is evident that formerly alcohol played an important 
part in the failure to make social adjustments which brought people to the 
House of Correction but that, in the absence of this causative agent, crime 
and delinquency are committed by ]>ersons less typical of the entire com- 
munity. In such a group the feeble-minded will always be found in the 
highest proportion. This bears out the experience of other communities 
which have seen their problems of crime and delinquency change strikingly 
during the last ten years, first by the wider use of probation and parole which 
greatly shortens the terms of normal-minded prisoners without affecting in 
the same degree the mentally defective, and more recently by prohibition 
which lessens the numl>er of accidental criminals and delinquents but does 
not affect in such a marked manner those whose offenses are due to more 
deeply seated causes of unacceptable social behavior. 

Forty-seven men and seven women, taken at random and representing 
presumably t he average population of the House of Correction, were examined 
mentally. Of this Dumber five were found to have definite mental disease-. 
and twenty to le mentally defective. Here, then, as in other tyjies of insti- 
tutions for the socially inadequate, we find a heaxy proportion of those whose 
difficulties are due to mental defect or disease. It is obvious that it is use- 
levs to expect an institution of this sort, however efficiently administered, to 

tnplish much with individuals who have seven- ami often permanent 



484 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

defects of the brain. Although there are no routine psychiatric examina- 
tions to determine the real nature of the mass of asocial humanity dealt with 
in this institution, there is a rough and ready practical recognition of the 
existence of an important problem in mental deficiency by those who actually 
come into contact with the prisoners. Many of the features in the daily 
routine of institutional life which experience has shown to be desirable indi- 
cate quite clearly that the limited capacity of the feeble-minded has been 
taken into account in the development. 

FARM SCHOOL Near Hudson, twenty-three miles from Cleveland on 
electric and steam railways, is the Cleveland Farm School. After some early 
difficulties this school got under way in 1903. It is conducted by the Depart- 
ment of Public Welfare. All commitments are made through the Juvenile 
Court. Usually there is a waiting list (twenty at present) and it is necessary 
to hold boys who have been committed to the Farm School at the Detention 
Home (page 481) where they remain under the jurisdiction of the Court and 
attend the Boys' School nearby (page 486). When children are admitted to 
the Farm School from the Detention Home all information that has been 
gathered regarding them is sent at the same time. 

The school is a cottage institution, each cottage being under the charge 
of a master and a matron. The eight frame cottages were designed to accom- 
modate 120 boys, but the present census is 150. The superintendent, who 
was formerly a teacher in the East High School, is energetic and progressive 
but is much hampered by insufficient funds. Academic instruction is under 
the direction of the Cleveland Board of Education. Four teachers, three 
men and one woman, are employed at an average salary of $1,480 a year. 
School work continues throughout the year. Manual training and country 
sports provide work and recreation. It is said that it is possible to get on 
successfully with much more liberty than is feasible at the State Industrial 
School at Lancaster and that the results have been exceedingly good. At 
first it was thought that a short period of institutional life and a long parole 
would prove the best method but recently the period of institutional care 
has been lengthened with much better results. 

In connection with the Farm School is a well organized Placement De- 
partment which not only places boys from this school but from the State 
Industrial School at Lancaster. Principals of schools have been instructed 
not to receive boys directly from either institution but to refer them to the 
Placement Department. The follow-up work thus provided for is carried on 
as efficiently as the funds and personnel available permit. 

THE GIRLS' HOME This is a wooden structure with a capacity of thirty- 
nine which is usually exceeded. An effort is made to receive only delinquent 
girls who are not sexually immoral. The matron and the teacher, who are 
doing notable work, are aware of the importance of detecting feeble-minded 
and psychopathic girls and modifying their training in accordance with their 
special needs, but are without the expert advice which is so essential. The 
practical type of instruction carried on is very well suited to the require- 



MENTAL DISEASES AND DEFICIENCY 485 

ments of subnormal types, if a careful mental examination were possible in 
order to indicate the kind of training most likely to be useful in each case. 
The examinations made indicate that such girls constitute about 20 per 
cent of those received. In this home, as in most such places for the tempo- 
rary care of young people who are delinquent or dependent, the mentally 
defective require an undue amount of the attention from those in charge, and 
they do not receive a corresponding amount of benefit. Such institutions 
feel the full weight of the state's failure to provide adequately for the 
mentally defective. If the extra work, anxiety and interference with broad 
aims for individual reconstruction which is due to the burden of feebleminded- 
ness in such homes, refuges and shelters throughout the state, were fully 
known the legislature could not fail to be moved to make the provisions 
that have been promised so long. 

HOUSE OF GOOD SHEPHERD The House of the Good Shepherd is situated 
on Carnegie Avenue at 30th Street and is one of the notable institutions of 
the same name to be found in many large cities throughout the world. The 
girls received are divided into three groups. The group composed of delin- 
quent girls committed by the Juvenile Court is the largest group, and when 
the institution was visited, numbered 120. Dependent girls form the next 
largest group and numbered sixty -five. There were forty girls in the "Mag- 
dalene" group. 

The institution is conducted in accordance with a very definite point of 
view regarding the problems presented. It is felt that the atmosphere of 
religious influence and kindness which has been created by the devotion of 
the Sisters who conduct the institution can be depended upon to bring about 
better living and, in order to intensify the impression upon the minds of the 
girls that their entrance into the home is the fresh starting point, each girl 
receives a new and fictitious name by which she is known to everyone. Of 
course this renders it impossible to trace individuals through previous de- 
linquent experiences or to establish their school records. The past histories 
of the girls afe never discussed. There is great reluctance to have the diag- 
nosis of mental deficiency or psychopathic conditions made and the children 
transferred to special institutions unless serious disorders of conduct makes 
such a step necessary. This is due to the intense devotion to their tasks 
which the Sisters have and a l>elief that no effort should be spared to bring 
about reformation even in those who seem the least promising. It results 
not infrequently in achievements in individual cases that would not be thought 
possible by those whose early and only recourse in difficult <"IM- IN the insti- 
stihition for the mentally defective and it represents the literal carrying out 
of a very honest and deep-seated conviction as to the basic factors in immoral 
conduct. 

Twenty of the delinquent girls were examined mentally. One \\a found to 
be suffering from a psychopathic condition and eight were mentally defective. 
If the same proportion exists in this entire group the ]>creentage of mentally 
defective girls is forty-five. Thirteen of the dependent girls were examined 
of whom five were found to be mentally defective and one suffering from a 



486 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

psychopathic condition. This Avould indicate the same proportion in the 
entire group as in the delinquents. None in the "Magdalene" group were 
examined. 

Academic instruction is carried on with training in domestic science, 
especially laundry work. Many girls who have been admitted to the home 
have gone out to live useful and orderly lives. 

BOYS' SCHOOL The Boys' School, situated on Clinton Avenue at 29th 
Street, was organized in 1876 for "truant and incorrigible boys." At first it 
was called the "Special Unclassified School" and the object of its establish- 
ment was to segregate boys who "because of immoral conduct were a detri- 
ment to work of the regular classes." Later the present name was adopted. 
For a time the classes were conducted in several different buildings, but in 
1904 they were united in the present building. There are two sources of 
admission the city Board of Education through a certificate of the Assistant 
Superintendent of Education, upon application of the principal of the school 
which the boy attended, and commitment by the Juvenile Court. Boys 
sent from the Board of Education are known as " incorrigibles " and are a 
charge upon the city while those sent by the Juvenile Court are known as 
"detention cases" and are a charge upon the county. 

Upon admission to the school each boy is first studied by the Placement 
Department of which Miss Claire Walters is the head. Miss Walters com- 
menced her work as a teacher in the Boys' School in 1902. Since 1907 she 
has been attached to the Juvenile Court and since 1912 has been fitting her- 
self by summer study for psychological work. The findings of the psycho- 
logical tests constitute the chief factor in the subsequent disposition of the 
boys. Those who seem to be mentally defective are referred to the psycho- 
logical clinic of the Board of Education for examination by Dr. Luckey and 
placement by Miss Steinbach. If not suitable candidates for the special 
classes they are assigned to classes in the Boys' School and observations upon 
their conduct are carefully made. There are eight grades and two classes 
for the subnormal. Besides the usual academic branches, manual training, 
weaving, printing and knitting are taught. The printing classes have been 
especially successful, many boys securing part-time employment outside. 
Sale of the products of the manual training shops provides funds for the pur- 
chase of materials. There are also night classes and the school term extends 
throughout the. year. Most of the children from the Juvenile Court reside 
in the school and most of the incorrigible boys live at home. 

There are no psychiatric examinations of the boys in spite of the growing 
body of information that is accumulating regarding the relation that exists 
between certain psychopathic conditions and disorders of conduct in chil- 
dren. Here is another favorable place for an "outpost" of tHe City Psy- 
chopathic Hospital when it is established. 



MI\I\I DISEASES AND DEFICIENT > 487 

OTHER HOMES 

Sixteen orphanages and other homes conducted by private agencies were 
Although maintained chiefly for dependent children all have their 
problems of delinquency with which to deal. 

In all the institutions for delinquents visited the total census on the dates 
that \ isit> were made was 1,975.' [Of this numlrcr 375 children, chosen for the 
most part at random, were examined mentally by the psychiatrists and 
psychologists associated with the Survey. Fifteen of all those examined 
were found to have some psychopathic condition and fifty-six to l>e mentally 
defective. If the proportion of psychopathic and mentally defective chil- 
dren was the same in the total population of these institutions there were 
not less than 374 individuals who presented a demonstrable mental disorder 
or a definite mentally defective condition, by far the greater proportion of 
whom could have been cared for in s]>ecial state institutions with advantage 
to themselves and to the community. It is doubtful whether any other 
institutions are as greatly impeded in their work by the presence of a large 
component of ]>ersons utterly nnsuited for the environment in which they 
live as these homes and schools established and maintained for the care and 
training of dependent and delinquent girls and boys. Sometimes these insti- 
tutions are harshly criticized for the quality of their work, but few people 
stop to realize that they are carrying a burden which the state should carry, 
and that many if not all the deficiencies in their work are due to this, the fact 
that a large part of all their slender resources has to be devoted to a task that 
is not primarily theirs at all and was not in the minds of those whose gener- 
osity made these institutions possible. It is easy to say that all mentally 
defective and psychopathic children could be excluded from institutions that 
were not intended for them, but no one who has seen the plight that many of 
these children present, coming as they do so often from homes presided 
over by feeble-minded parents, would have the heart to advocate closing the 
only doors that are open to them. But for the patience and humanity of 
those who work day and night with these children the real tragedy of the 
state's neglect to provide for the mentally defective would be far more appar- 
ent than it is. The imbecile girl, of ten with her illegitimate baby, the psycho- 
pathic boy with gravely delinquent traits that make him an unsafe companion 
for other children, the irritable epileptic child, all are taken into these homes 
and cared for in spite of the fact that their presence interferes seriously with 
work that would be difficult enough under most favorable conditions and 
that it is well known to the authorities of the home that little or nothing will 
be accomplished by methods that have been carefully devised for the train- 
ing or social rehabilitation of the normal minded. 

Then- are but two remedies for this condition which is to be seen in the 
institutions for dependents ;m<l delinquents in nearly all large American cities. 
The first i^ careful psychological and psychiatric examination and classifica- 
tion of all applicants for admission and the second is an adequate system of 
state institutional care and community supervision for those \\ lio ;trc rendered 
.M.cially inadequate on account of mental deficiency or unstable mental make- 
up. 



488 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Mentally Atypical Children in the Schools 
Special Classes for the Mentally Defective 

CLEVELAND has provided instruction in special classes for the men- 
tally defective since 1905, when four classes were organized for "defec- 
tive pupils," it being recognized that the provision for "backward 
children" made in 1893 was not suitable for those with more serious men- 
tal defects. At the present time such classes are well conducted under the 
general supervision of Miss Charlotte Steinbach who has had special train- 
ing for this work. The psychological examinations are conducted by Bertha 
M. Luckey, Ph. D., with the assistance of Miss Florence Durst, a specially 
trained teacher. 

Some of the special class centers are poorly provided for. They have 
only one or two rooms while others have four or five rooms which permit 
satisfactory classification. Each class has from 12 to 15 pupils. There are 
about 1,000 children in all the special classes. This constitutes somewhat 
less than one per cent of the total school population.* Cooperation between 
the special class teachers and the grade teachers is good. When a child 
appears to the grade teacher to be atypical, incapable of doing the regular 
work and is being passed for promotion, the child is reported to the principal 
of the school and the name of the child sent to Miss Steinbach's office. The 
names come in at intervals, in long lists. Children are also referred by the 
Juvenile Court, the Humane Society and other welfare organizations, paro- 
chial schools and parents. These children are referred to Dr. Luckey, who 
conducts a careful psychological examination, usually in the dispensary of 
the school which the child attends. Children in whom a diagnosis is not 
possible with such an examination are brought to the office for special study. 
In such cases a carefully prepared history blank is sent to the school to be 
filled with all the information that can be obtained by a personal investiga- 
tion. The careers of these children are followed as thoroughly as possible. 
In this the "Clearing House" in the building of the Associated Charities, 
under the Welfare Federation, is able to render valuable assistance by report- 
ing, usually within three days, the names of other members of the family 
who have received relief or have been dealt with by the courts. During last 
year about 1,400 of the 2,916 children examined were found to be mentally 
defective. Investigation of these cases, through the Clearing House, showed 
that members of the families of the mentally defective children had Juvenile 
Court records in 466 instances. In 173 of these cases there had been two or 
more appearances in the Juvenile Court. 

Some of the children who are of very low grade mentally are sent to 
appropriate institutions, when vacancies exist, without being placed in special 
classes at all. About half of all the children examined are thought to be 
simply cases of slow development or children in whom other causes than 
mental deficiency are responsible for failure in school. The rest are assigned 
to the special classes that seem to fit their requirements best. It is well un- 
derstood that a single examination is not always conclusive and the lack of 

* Division of Health Report, March, 1920: public schools, 108,000; parochial schools, 36,197. 



MKM AI. DISEASES AND DEFICIENCY 489 

time for making repeated examinations is much regretted. Careful observa- 
tion in the special classes by experienced teachers compensates in part for 
this defect. An effort is made to have it generally understood that admission 
to these classes does not necessarily imply a positive diagnosis of mental 
deficiency. 

The teachers of the special classes are enthusiastic over their work and 
feel convinced that they are accomplishing something of real value. Some 
of the principals are a little out of sympathy with the special classes and 
\press the opinion that more children who are "simply backward" should 
remain in the regular classes, even though larger and older than their class- 
mates and that, for the others, the special classes are an inadequate substitute 
for permanent institutional care. The general impression in visiting the 
special classes is that there are many defective children in them who should 
be in state institutions and that their removal would enable the special classes 
to do their work with others more successfully. In the absence of proper 
state facilities, however, no one would seriously recommend that such chil- 
dren be excluded from the special classes. When more adequate state pro- 
visions exist and more defective children can be admitted to proper institu- 
tions, at least for a period of training, the classes will undoubtedly do better 
work and have more success in their highly important task of fitting the less 
defective children to take a useful part in the life of the general community 
with their defect in intelligence partly compensated for by having learned 
to do skillfully a few simple kinds of work for which there is a demand. 

The salaries of the teachers in the special classes are the same as those of 
grade teachers, with the exception of head teachers who are responsible for 
the work of several others. These receive from $50 to $100 a year additional. 
At least ten of the special class teachers are on the regular substitute list and 
receive from $4.20 to $6.00 a day for their services, which is less than that 
received by grade teachers. The entire cost of the special classes during the 
year ending September, 1919, was $71,989.70 for teachers' salaries and 
$106.33 for supplies. It is doubtful whether any educational activity of 
the city yielded larger returns for the money expended. 

More special classes, extra pay for teachers and better classification at 
special class centers are needed. In addition, more complete diagnostic 
facilities should be supplied. Although the schools have been fortunate in 
securing the services of so well trained a psychologist as Dr. Luckey, it must 
not be forgotten that more than a psychological examination and social in- 
vestigation is needed to deal satisfactorily with the complex problems pre- 
sented by a child whose mental development is defective or retarded. These 
conditions depend upon brain defects but not usually upon this cause alone 
for there are many closely related changes in the body as a whole and in other 
organs which have a great deal to do with both the rate of mental develop- 
ment and the degree to which it may progress. The assignment of a child 
to a special class is an event of great importance in the life of the child and 
of no little importance to the community. The examinations that precede 
such a step should be conducted in a clinic equipped to deal with both mental 
and physical issues. The great importance of disorders of the "ductless 
glands" (thyroid, thymus, pituitary, testicles and ovaries) makes it essential 



490 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

that a complete physical study should play a large part in such an examina- 
tion. The fatalistic attitude too prevalent toward all mental defects has 
excluded many a child from treatment which might have materially modified 
the mental and social picture presented upon a superficial investigation. A 
thorough-going study of each child, from a psychiatric as well as a psycho- 
logical point of view, in which are considered the child's personality, his 
special abilities and interests and the possibility of psychotic or psycho- 
neurotic trends is the only basis upon which future mental health and limits 
of adaptability to a social environment can be judged in an individual still 
in the developmental stage. Such a complete study is the function of the 
psychiatric clinic. 



Work Permits for the Mentally Defective 

The truancy law of Ohio provides that boys of such subnormal mental 
capacity that they are unable to get past the sixth grade may receive special 
permission to go to work upon attaining fifteen years of age, and girls of six- 
teen, having passed the seventh grade may also receive permission. At six- 
teen any boy or girl may leave school. Boys of sixteen may go to work with- 
out permits, but girls of normal mentality who have not passed the seventh 
grade cannot have permission to work in factories until eighteen. A mentally 
deficient girl may have a work certificate before eighteen. 

It is believed that the law requiring school attendance shoufd be more 
flexible in the case of mentally defective children. It should give the school 
enough power to hold the child when advisable in individual cases or to recom- 
mend that children be allowed to leave before they have completed the 
attendance now required. Often defective children leave school too soon, 
when the teachers feel that they have just reached the point where something 
can be done for them. It is suggested that in cases where subnormal children 
are not able to receive benefit from academic instruction and are approaching 
the age at which they can receive work permits, they should receive technical 
training in a school or shop, or in domestic economy, where, working under 
the supervision of expert teachers they can gain the knowledge and skill 
that will be helpful to them in securing and maintaining employment which 
will command a living wage. In this way the fundamental and non- 
remediable mental defect may be compensated for by intelligently directed 
training. 

It should, however, be kept in mind that if the equipment of the shop or 
school is unusual or out of date and instruction is given only with such 
apparatus, re-education may be necessary when the boy or girl takes up 
employment. 

Work permits are issued by the truant officer and the subnormal child's 
mental age is recorded on the card. Some people feel that this handicaps the 
child in obtaining advantageous employment, but most of those concerned 
believe that the mental age should be so recorded as the card i not widely 
displayed but is filed with the employer and knowing the child's limitations 
he can protect the employe and himself. As a matter of fact the feeble- 



M h \ I \l I >ISEASE8 AND DEFICIKNCY 491 

minded easily secure employment and sometimes receive very good wages. 
Many anecdotes are told, one concerning a seventeen year old boy whose 
"mental age" was six years, earning $4.20 j>er day cleaning cork in a factory. 
He was taught by a substitute teacher who received exactly the same amount 
for her services. 

A review of permits issued during a recent period of six months showed 
that 8.6 per cent of the boys and 4.8 per cent of the girls were definitely 
diagnosed as feeble-minded and had their mental ages recorded upon their 
work permit cards. 

The following tables, prepared by Miss F. V. Ball, show in detail the in- 
formation contained in the health records of these children and an analysis 
of the industries in which those who were working were engaged. The kinds 
of work in which they were occupied do not differ materially from those in 
which all working children are engaged. 



492 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 







UOIJ 


-i t^ m i- 









U9AIO JIUJJ3J 


co * CM co 


CO 






^Jla'l 


CM f. tO 


! 


i 

CX 










9 

C 
03 y 




U8J 


o\ to in ~ i 


>^s> 

s^- 


fc 6 
Sfe 






i-l tO CS CO 

es CM 1-1 


3 


fad - 










ON | 






x 





^ 




Sn03UB[[30SlJ^ 


m r~ o 1-1 


co 


~' C 






rH ^- CO CO 


CM 


O 
M 










4> 










09 










1 




sisoiiujaqnx 






Z 




P^.n S 






NM A 

_] C 






^0 


^ 


ON 




aUIJB3f] 


p^ 


* 


ON 



2 




co 


co 





1 








fe 


B 




o 


,-J 


g a 


Q 
CO 


8J18UOX 


to 





r"1 oo 


s 




* 


' 


- * 


1 








o j? 











^* 

32 




ql ,, x 


-1* 


00 


S *"" 






H CM rf i-< 


Oi 


OS C 






^H ^H 


01 


o 










z t 










03 






Kp 


VjO 


i , l 










* * 




UOISl/\ 


tO 00 00 1-1 


CO 


CO 4) 






i-l t^ t^ CO 





^ rfi 








CM 


J - 










J 

< 










H - 






^ 


^\ 


*7 r+ 




uoutjjnM 


to oo H co to 


* 


5 ^2 

-T 






-i ^ + - 


CO 


VN 




3 


rN 00 00 CM rN 





' ' 




H 


10 co 5 ^ w 


8 






1 


I 
I 


y 






| 
i 


! HH 


H 






S 


C? K? X kJ >> 

> > t-i ?S ?S 









UOI) 


4- oo t^ to 


^ 






-33JJO3 JJJJV 


CM ^- O CO 


^ 






U3AIQ JIU1J3J 




CM 






pasnjaa 


Tl- 00 O> ^H 





s 




" 


->j -r ^- 





CD 






1-H 




a 












V 










a 






K 


so 






JIU1J3J 


CM tO O CO M 

-H O ^ ^ 1-1 


co 

00 


T 






1-1 CO H 


m 


i 










<u 










exami 







CO 00 t^ to 

CM Tj- O CO 

1^ 


CM 


JB 










o 










u 










O 










| 




SIgo 3 


&^ 


&^ 


- 




pa;o3dsng 


tO Tj- CM 


C* 


K 






CO CM -H 


^ 






/ 






'o 












S 




8UUB3H 






Q 










- 





















0. 
G* 

00 


1 




g5 


^ 


"2? 





sjisuox 


01 S Tl- 


00 




"3 




i-l i-l CM 


* 



n 











09 






w^ 


w** 


c 






tO i-l CM tO 


m 




o 






CO t^ O CO 


^ 








CM 


co 


2 
















CM <M ~4 


m 


i 






** ~ *~ 


9) 


"3 

* 






1^ 

co to m to 


O 


1 






es co m co 


m 


S 




(B 


^0 


^ 








o n to o el 


o 






H 


to o co o 1-1 
<N m ~H 



















1 


1 


i 






| 


M 

t-t t-i ^ 


y 



M KN'TAL DlSKASES AND DEFICIENCY 



z 



X 

c 



O 



f - 

\ 

= 
w 



H 

is 

' 



>- 
kJ 

3 



^ 


/: 

C 
u 

5 

z 

irf 



i 

u. 
c 








3 


f> - CO 







i 


OO LD 00 O 


| 




j. 


> 







i 


* CM 00 


s 


! 


i|. 


g 


** 





If 


* * 00 * 






11 


KB 
O * ^ CO 

pil 


-- 

00 

o 




-s 


^^ 


o 




** 


00 *CS 


co 




g 


~* O CO <O Ot <* 


e 




H 


^H O CO <O 00 CO 

^-, rs . CO 




*- 




Miscellane- 
ous 


C* t^ ^^ t^ H 

-! C C 


00 

f) 


o 

m 


OM 
11 

X* 


:":: : 


00 

co 






^ C CM <N t 


* 




1* 


^4 C4 CM CM O 

M 


Of 














; ; i ; i 








: : : 








Sewing Trades 
Woolen Mills 
Metal Trades 
Retail Stores 
Printing Trades 
Miscellaneous 


i ' 



494 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUHVKY 

Special Types of Atypical Children 

I 

UNUSUALLY BRIGHT CHILDREN By means of group psychological tests, 
supplemented by individual tests, a number of children classified as " unusu- 
ally bright" have been picked out and the school authorities have formed 
some special classes and devised methods of giving these children special 
work. A physical examination is made of these children but no psychiatric 
examination. So important is the latter in determining whether or not a 
child shall be placed in this group that, in the opinion of the writer, the harm 
likely to result to unstable individuals if purely psychological tests are em- 
ployed will offset the good that comes to others if the experiment is continued 
without such aid. It is in this group that some of the graver psychiatric 
problems are often found. An ordinary physical examination in such cases 
is far from conclusive and often throws no light upon the psychiatric situa- 
tion. Properly conducted such an experiment is certain to yield important 
results. Much has already been done for these children whose needs have 
so long been overlooked. Often astonishing progress is made in the special 
classes for the "unusually bright." Handicraft and domestic science play 
a large part. Folk dancing and various games fill part of the time. A model 
store is conducted with great success. As there is only a "four-period day," 
some of the children work after hours. It is, however, a field to be entered 
only with full appreciation of the complex factors with which it will be neces- 
sary to deal. 

PSYCHOPATHIC CHILDREN Cleveland has not yet been able to give spe- 
cial attention to psychopathic children in the public schools. These children 
usually possess normal intelligence but have volitional or emotional diffi- 
culties or psychoneurotic trends that interfere seriously with their family 
and social adaptation in later life. It is among such children that the fore- 
runners of grave mental disease are often found. Juvenile or adult delin- 
quency, vagrancy and the development of many asocial compensations for 
personality defects, make wrecks out of much human material that early in 
life might have been dealt with successfully. In such work it is indispensable 
to conduct careful psychiatric, psychological and social studies and to co- 
ordinate the findings, with the element of treatment always uppermost. 

SPEECH DEFECTS The essentially mental basis for speech defect, together 
with the great frequency of this condition among school children, makes 
its consideration important. Since the educational survey of Cleveland in 
1915, forty-eight special classes have been organized for treatment of speech 
defects. The work was started by fifteen teachers, each teacher having three 
classes a kindergarten class, a phonetic class and a stuttering class. Some 
are conducted in school hours and some out of school hours. At the present 
time there are four teachers each teaching ten classes per week, each class 
having one hour of instruction per week. These teachers receive extra com- 
pensation of $200 per year for this work. Seventeen other teachers give in- 
struction outside school hours and receive $1.50 per hour additional for this 
work. The work is conducted under the general direction of Miss Williams 
who devotes to it half her time, for which she receives $1,880 a year. For 
the other half of her time which is otherwise occupied, she is compensated. 



MINIM. DIM. \SKSAND DKKHIKNO 

The teachers are not particularly attracted ly the increase in compensation 
but are especially interested in the work and would prefer to do it exclusively. 
Since this work has l>een going on teachers in the school have become more 
watchful for speech defects and recognize them more quickly. If teachers 
were available, the nmnl>er of pupils enrolled could be doubled at once. It 
is claimed that one-third of the kindergarten children have speech defects 
(lisping most common), and it is .hoped finally to give each kindergarten 
class teacher some training for speech instruction. A good deal of research 
concerning the essential elements in difficulty in speech and the basic facts 
underlying plans of treatment has recently been carried on. Much ex<-el- 
lent work in treatment has already been done, but an important fact 
often overlooked in speech classes is the psychoneurotic basis for the condi- 
tion in many cases. Without correcting the handicaps found in the psycho- 
neurotic child, little in the way of permanent results are to be expected. If 
the subject had been taken up from a psychiatric approach this would have 
been readily comprehended. It is important that this factor receive atten- 
tion or else much time and money will be used in attaining temporary results. 



After-care and Supervision 

Too often attention is fixed upon the phase of the lives of mentally de- 
fective children that is passed in school without realizing that in the more 
serious affairs of adult life the mental defect will persist but the protection 
of the special class will not be present. Many a teacher sees the end of the 
period of school life approach for her charges, especially the girls, with dread. 
The transition is often dramatically sudden. One day the defective child is 
in an environment especially created for her safety and protection, watched 
over and guided by those who well understand the limitations of the mind 
arrested in its development. On the following day this individual with a 
child's mind in a woman's body goes into a world which knows nothing of 
"mental age" or "limited responsibility" and has inexorable standards of 
conduct which do not take such factors into consideration. 

Thanks to the practical instruction given in the special classes, such chil- 
dren are often tetter fitted than some of their normal minded schoolmates to 
earn their living at simple work and have had habits of industry developed 
by the careful training that they have received. Nevertheless they have 
still only the judgment and control of impulses of a child. In many instances 
they are handicapped by mentally defective parents so that those who should 
prove their protectors are but an additional handicap to them. 

There is urgent need for a system of community supervision that will 
throw around these grown-up children some of the special protection that is 
thrown around those who are children in years as well as in mind. First, it 
is necessary to have a mental deficiency law that recognizes the need of spe- 
cial guardianship and provides a practical means for supplying it. Such laws, 
modeled in most instances after the "Mental Deficiency Act" of England 



496 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

have been enacted in several states and when they exist and there is an 
efficient system of registration and community supervision the work of the 
special class is supplemented in such a way that the feeble-minded can and 
do live happy, useful, harmless lives instead of inflicting much damage upon 
society and being themselves harmed by a social environment created for 
people with normal minds. 



Mt\i\i. DIM \^K^ \\n DEFICIENCY 497 



A 



Welfare Organizations 

MONG the voluntary agencies for social work is to be found a \ i\ 
keen appreciation of the part played by mental factors in the problems 
with which they have to deal. N T one see more clearly than the workers 
in these agencies the full effects of the failure of the state to provide 
adequate facilities for caring for the insane, the mentally defective and the 
epileptic. Weary of waiting for relief from this quarter, from which, how- 
ever, it must ultimately come, these agencies are devising for themselves 
some makeshift methods of dealing with certain phases of abnormal men- 
tal conditions. The general hospitals to which they may refer all other 
classes of sick persons for help have nothing to offer to those whose illness 
is mental. Psychiatrists in private practice give as much time as they can 
afford to the examination of special cases but social workers are reluctant 
to make use of this means of securing help except in especially urgent cases. 
It is of interest to review briefly what some of the social agencies have done 
to provide means for solving some of their problems. 

AMERICAN RED CROSS This organization serves those who have been in 
the naval and military service of the United States during the recent war, 
and their families. The society has organized a medical committee made up 
of various consultants, including psychiatrists; has employed a psychiatric, 
and, on January 9, 1920, opened a neuro-psychiatric clinic. The organiza- 
tion already has a record of 238 cases and believes that this number will be 
much enlarged when the clinic is further developed. Prom January 6th to 
April 6th, 158 examinations had been made, the psychiatrist personally ex- 
amining about 100. Social workers bring the patients to the clinic and re- 
port on the family, economic and neighborhood situation as well as giving 
attention to personal histories and the facts which led to the request for 
examination. The social workers receive instructions at the clinic which 
assist them in becoming letter qualified for this special work. On questions 
of general physical health consultations are obtained at various prominent 
hospitals or with members of the mental committee. The Red Cross main- 
tains an Army and Navy Club where the psychiatrist lives and where several 
quiet mental patients may be cared for. 

Members of this organization report that they are much embarrassed l>y 
the fact that the Government makes inadequate provision for ex-soldier 
with mental and nervous disorders. There are thirty in the neighborhood 
who need hospital care, which at present is unavailable. 

THE ASSOCIATED CHARITIES- 1 This organization finds that with the widen- 
ing of its field beyond the supplying of necessities of life such as food, fuel, 
clothing and shelter, its work now includes health, education, employment, 
recreation and spiritual development, the last having for its objective the 
development of "a working philosophy of life" that will help to make the 
adjustments necessary for living in a modern community. Of the 2,000 
families cared for by the Associated Charities less than 600 receive material 
help, the other 1,400 being able to work out their own problems after receiv- 
ing advice and personal 



498 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

In carrying out this program a psychological approach to the problems of 
the individuals concerned is, of course, necessary. A survey of 1,960 families 
under the care of the organization during March, 1920, disclosed 359 in which 
abnormal mental condition was an important element in the social problem 
presented. In these 359 families there were 574 individuals listed. The 
number of individuals is probably smaller than the actual number because 
the list was made conservatively, especially in regard to the number of indi- 
viduals with mental difficulties. It is believed that if a psychiatric clinic 
were available for closer study of these families, a larger number of mentally 
abnormal members would be found. Among these 574 individuals, however, 
46 are already in hospitals for the insane arid 19 in institutions for the feeble- 
minded. It was thought that 56 more should be in such hospitals and 136 
in institutions for the feeble-minded. These data are shown in detail in the 
following table. 

FAMILIES AND INDIVIDUALS UNDER CARE OF ASSOCIATED CHARITIES 
WITH MENTAL DISORDERS 

Group 1 Diagnosed Cases 

Families Individuals 

Mental Diseases and Constitutional Psychopathic States 88 95 

Mental Deficiency 107 148 

Epilepsy 12 12 

Group 2 Well-defined Mental Cases, but not Diagnosed 

Families Individuals 

Mental Disorder 29 41 

Mental Deficiency .. 28 76 

Group 3 Mental Disorder or Mental Deficiency Strongly Suspected, but 

not Well -defined 

Families Individuals 

Mental Disorder 41 64 

Mental Deficiency 54 138 

Total of the three groups 359 574 

It is stated that there is great difficulty in securing the commitment of 
mental patients unless the condition from which they suffer is severe and that 
uncured patients are too freely paroled from the hospitals. The commitment 
of the feeble-minded is extremely difficult because of the lack of institutional 
space. 

The association is deeply interested in preventive work and the treatment 
of cases in early stages to avert further development of mental disorders. 



49!) 



In tin- absence of any special provision for mental hygiene work it is doing 
what i> possible by means of its own worker-. 

Hi \IVNI SCM IKTY The Humane Society found tliat in its work it was 
frequently necessarv to have mental age and capacity of children and adults 
tested, luit no local agency was available to give this assistance. Such in- 
formation is needed in order to reach an opinion as to whether a father can 
take and keep a position and whether a mother is able to maintain a home 
and supervise and rear her children. The information is essential in order 
to determine the proj>er form of assistance in any particular case and to de- 
termine what disposition and care shall be given to children. Help has been 
received irregularly from the workers of the Bureau of Juvenile Research 
located at Columbus, and the Humane Society had one of its workers trained 
to make intelligence tests. 

WELFARE FEDERATION This organi/ation is most desirous of having 
suitable provisions made for mental patients now in the various orphanages 
and other institutions in which it is interested. The officers of this organiza- 
tion also feel the need of psychiatric clinics to which they can turn for help. 

THE WOMEN'S PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION This is a private association 
supported from the Community Fund. It is associated in its work with the 
Police Department, having an office at the central police station. Some 
members of the Association are special investigators without power, but 
carry this title to facilitate the discharge of their duties. The Association 
takes charge of girls and women, usually t>etween the age limits of fourteen 
and twenty. The police often turn over to them the insane and obviously 
mentally defective girls whom they do not wisJi to place under arrest, and 
cases in which there is not enough evidence to go into court. 

This Association makes home investigations for the superintendent of the 
institution for the feeble-minded and obtains reports on his parole cases. 
It also makes investigations for the Probate Court. 

A \vom;m to be charged with the offense of being a common prostitute 
must have been arrested before. The so-called "golden rule" method of 
handling these cases is to have the girl sign a confession when arrested, 
promising to refrain from further delinquency, after which she is given a 
warning or placed under the care of the Protective Association. The Asso- 
ciation maintains Sterling House (described in another section of this report) 
for the detention of girls in their charge. 

A prominent psychiatrist makes mental examinations on ex-ravioli, the 
Probate Court gives its cooperation, and Miss Walters of the Boys' School 
a ists. Nevertheless these facilities are too limited to afford the type of 
help needed. Mental cases must be picked out l>y laymen and referred for 
examination afterward. Recently it was necessary to send two feeble-minded 
women to the county workhouse as they could not lx> kept in the home on 
account of venereal disease ami evidently could not be committed to an 
institution for the feeble-minded. The probation officer of this Association 
suspects that at least 75 per cent of those who come under her care are sub- 
normal and that many others arc psychopathic. The obviously feeble- 



500 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

minded are sent to the state institution at Columbus, but are readily released 
on parole at the request of relatives or friends, because of the crowded condi- 
tion in the institution. 

MENTAL TEST REGISTRY OF THE ASSOCIATED CHARITIES The Associated 
Charities maintains a mental test registry which consists of a card index of 
the results of the mental tests of children, made by psychologists and psychia- 
trists for the Probate Court, for the Board of Education and for the Juvenile 
Court. There are records of ,000 families, including frequently more than 
one individual per family, usually the children. The assembling of these 
records was begun in 1914. The cost has been moderate and the results of 
the work have been of great benefit in the administration of relief for families 
in which mental deficiency or disease was the chief factor in family depend- 
ency. This registry has provided a storehouse of information for research, 
education and for propaganda purposes. 

Cleveland supports the welfare agencies mentioned above in a liberal 
manner with full appreciation of the part they play in the social life of the 
city. How much further would every dollar contributed to their work go 
if their efforts to bring about better individual and social adjustments could 
receive the aid that a careful mental study of each individual gives? It is 
certain that when the proposed City Psychopathic Hospital comes into ex- 
istence and establishes its "outposts" where they may be of the greatest 
service, the first to derive benefit from the new facilities will be the welfare 
agencies which now have to deal with some of the most complex human prob- 
lems without the information regarding the deep springs that regulate the 
conduct of the human beings concerned that can be gained only in the psychi- 
atric clinic. 




\li\i\i |)IM-.\>I.- \\D DKIHIINO 



Prevention Mental Hygiene 

DURING the four months in which this study was in progress practi- 
cally every institution in Cleveland which deals with dependents, de- 
linquents or persons who for any reason require special care and super- 
vision by the community was visited by members of the Survey stuff. Social 
workers, court officers, teachers, physicians and others whose work brings them 
directly into contact with the socially maladjusted of the city were inter- 
viewed repeatedly and in many instances their daily work was closely observed. 
In twenty-nine of the institutions visited children and adults under care re- 
ceived a careful mental examination. Altogether these institutions had a popu- 
lation of 2,978 on the days on which they were visited and 541 individuals 
were personally examined by the Field Consultant or his assistants. Among 
those examined, who in all cases were taken at random from the group under 
study, there were found 119 persons who presented mental disorders, consti- 
tutional psychopathic states, mental deficiency or epilepsy of such a degree 
of severity that institutional care was required. If the same percentage ex- 
isted in the whole population of the institutions visited, and there is no 
reason to believe that it does not, there were in Cleveland at the time the 
survey was made 651 mental patients receiving temporary or permanent 
care in institutions designed for entirely different purposes. In these unsuit- 
able institutions they were not only constituting a serious drain upon the 
institutional resources but were interfering with the specific objects for which 
the institutions were established and conducted, At some time, the remote- 
ness of which depends chiefly upon the strength and the insistence of the 
demand made by the people of the state, adequate institutional facilities 
for these cases will be provided but if, today, it were possible to admit every- 
one of them to an appropriate institution, a survey made six months hence 
would find nearly as many others in their places.' The investigation made by 
the Survey merely dipped into the stream of unadapted human beings 
which flows continuously through the schools, courts and institutions of 
Cleveland, and ascertained the fact, already known by many and suspected 
by others, that disorders of the central nervous system were in very large 
part responsible for the volume of this stream. The stream can be diverted 
into other channels but what can be done to dry up its source? Are mental 
disease and mental deficiency inevitable accompaniments of the life of 
American communities, or can they in any considerable measure he con- 
trolled? It is most important that this report, which of necessity is devoted 
so largely to the institutional provisions for those with mental disorders and 
mental deficiency, should not convey the impression that we have to do with 
a problem which can be handled^fl~xlffFerent ways according to the skill, 
enlightenment and resources thatAye^rmg^ bear u]x>n it but which, never- 
theless, must always continue m> exi$f irv.the same dimensions. Mental 
diseases and mental deficiency Are prerenliible, to a less extent than the 
infectious diseases but to a grejitvr exjfcervt than most of the degenerative 
physical diseases. It is beyond the ''swpt" of the report even to outline the 
field of mental hygiene or the practical measures of prevention, but it is de- 
sir.ihle to suggest that the agencies which deal with health, education and 
the care of dependents and delinquents in Cleveland institute organized 
efforts to bring about practical work in mental hygiene. 



502 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

Much of the prevention of mental diseases lies in other fields of preventive 
medicine. General paresis, which is responsible for one-fifth of all the male 
admissions to hospitals for the insane, is a manifestation of syphilis and its 
prevention lies in the prevention of the primary disease. Mental diseases 
dependent upon alcohol and drugs are prevented only by the legal and social 
measures which can be directed against the particular evils from which they 
come. Much mental disease is the result of general physical illness and its 
prevention depends upon the success with which the general health of the 
population is maintained. Mental deficiency has its most important single 
cause in heredity, and the control of unfavorable heredity is the practical 
field of eugenics. As far as those disorders which have been mentioned are 
concerned mental hygiene consists obviously in directing the attention of 
those responsible for other organized health movements to the relations which 
their work bears to mental disease and mental defect. Nevertheless, there 
is an important field of prevention which no other agencies than those spe- 
cifically devoted to mental hygiene can hope to enter successfully; that is, 
the control largely during childhood of those factors acting within the 
mental life of the individual which are recognizable early as slight deviations 
from normal thinking and living, and which ultimately may result in disastrous 
anti-social reactions or in the production of grave forms of mental disease. 
There is, in addition, a great field in mental hygiene which has for its objects 
the protection, supervision and special training of people with impaired or 
naturally limited ability to adjust themselves so that through the skillful 
efforts of others their lives may be successful and useful, socially if not bio- 
logically. Facilities must be organized for dealing with those incipient stages 
of severe disorders at the very beginning. A conception of the part of the 
school clinic much wider than that of classifying children with reference to 
intelligence must come into existence. The mental hygiene activities of 
many unrelated welfare organizations and city and state departments must 
be coordinated by an organization specifically established for this purpose. 
This is the task of the mental hygiene society.* 



* Important and recent reprints on the subject of mental disease and care can be had by application 
to the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, 50 Union Square, New York City. 



MINIM DIM \M - \MI I > i.i 1 1 i I:\CY 503 

Summary of Recommendations 

I Dealing with state legislation and lo<-al ordinances or charter changes. 

A. STATK 

1. State administration and supervision of the institutional care and treatment of 
persons with mental diseases, mental deficiency and epilepsy, and of their guardianship in 
the community. 

Legislation is recommended that will accomplish the following objects: 

a. Establishing a special State Commission on Mental Diseases for the per- 
formance of the functions mentioned above; such Commission (headed by 
a physician experienced in dealing with the institutional and social aspects 
of mental disorders) to administer the state hospitals for the insane, the 
State Institution for the Feeble-minded, the State Hospital for Epileptics 
and the Bureau for Juvenile Research and to concern itself with the broad 
medical and community relationships of these disorders as well as with 
the business administration of the institutions. 

b. Establishing a bi-partisan State Institutional Development Commission 
composed of the head of the special Commission on Mental Diseases 
recommended in the preceding paragraph, members of each house of the 
Legislature and persons not in the service of the state who can bring special 
knowledge to the task ; such Commission to formulate a ten-year program 
for the development of the state's institutions for mental disorders in 
accordance with a comprehensive plan for remedying the existing serious 
inadequacy and to present to the Legislature, at the beginning of each 
session, definite recommendations for appropriations for the ensuing two 
years. 

c. Licensing and inspecting private institutions for the care of mental 
patients. 

2. Commitment, care and parole and discharge of persons with mental diseases. 
Legislation is recommended that will accomplish the following objects: 

a. Removing present restrictions as to the number of voluntary patients that 
can be received in state hospitals. 

b. Committing patients for observation for a period of ten days to state 
hospitals, psychopathic hospitals and psychopathic wards in general hos- 
pitals. 

c. Prohibiting the detention of persons awaiting commitment in jails or alms- 
houses and placing the responsibility for their care pending commitment 
and reception in state hospitals in the hands of health officers, except in 
cities where suitable facilities are otherwise provided. 

d. Discontinuing the personal appearance of mental patients in court. 

e. Admitting patients to state hospitals in emergencies upon the certificate 
of two physicians, such admissions to be followed within ten days by 
discharge or court commitments. 



504 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



f . Committing to state hospitals any persons under trial in whom mental 
disease is suspected upon order of any trial judge, such commitments 
being for observation only and for a period not less than ten nor more 
than thirty days. 

g. Authorizing sending nurses and attendants from state hospitals to bring 
from their homes or places of temporary detention patients who may 
have been committed and are awaiting transfer, thus eliminating the 
services of sheriffs and police officers. 

h. Authorizing counties to pay examining physicians salaries instead of fees 
for their services when mental examinations are made in psychopathic hos- 
pitals, psychopathic wards in general hospitals or mental clinics main- 
taining satisfactory standards. 

3. Commitment, registration, care, training, parole and discharge and com- 
munity guardianship and supervision of the mentally defective. 

Legislation is recommended that will accomplish the following objects: 

a. Committing children and adults for observation for a period of ten days 
to state institutions for the feeble-minded, state hospitals for epileptics, 
psychopathic hospitals, psychopathic wards in general hospitals or the 
Bureau for Juvenile Research. 

b. Committing mentally defective children and adults to guardianship, with 
provision for transfer from this form of commitment to institutions and 
vice versa. 

c. Encouraging the development and coordinating, under the proposed 
State Commission on Mental Diseases, organized facilities for the regis- 
tration and community supervision of the mentally defective. (See 
IV A-lb.) 

d. Eliminating the age of consent in mentally defective women and girls who 
have been committed to institutions or to guardianship. 

e. Authorizing sending nurses and attendants from state institutions for the 
feeble-minded and state hospitals for epileptics to bring from their homes 
or places of temporary detention patients who have been committed 
and are awaiting transfer, thus eliminating the services of sheriffs and 
police officers. 

f. Authorizing counties to pay examining physicians salaries instead of fees 
for their services when mental examinations are made in psychopathic 
hospitals, psychopathic wards in general hospitals or mental clinics main- 
taining satisfactory standards. 

_g. Authorizing the proposed State Commission on Mental Diseases to in- 
spect places for the temporary detention of mentally defective persons 
and homes and schools in which delinquent or dependent children are 
maintained. 



MlNTAL DlM \>l - \\D iMlICIENCY 505 

h. Requiring the establishment and maintenance of special classes for 
mentally defective children in every school district in which fifteen or 
more such children are found, authorizing the payment by the State 
Department of Education of a fixed sum to the local school authorities 
for each such class maintained, requiring satisfactory mental and physical 
examinations of all children before admission to such classes and author- 
izing supervision of such examinations by a psychiatric advisor to the 
State Department of Education. 

4. Other state legislation affecting the insane, mentally defective and epileptic and 
furthering work in mental hygiene. 

Legislation is recommended that will accomplish the following objects: 

a. Developing the Bureau for Juvenile Research so that its original objects 
may be accomplished, permitting it to receive children for observation 
before as well as after they are committed to the state institutions or to the 
custody of the Board of Administration. 

b.j Requiring the Juvenile Court and authorizing other courts to maintain 
mental clinics or to make arrangements with other clinics for the routine 
mental examination of juvenile and adult offenders. 

B. CITY 

Such changes in local ordinances and city charter are recommended as will permit 
the establishment of the facilities recommended in the following sections. 

II. Dealing with departments of state and city government. 

A. STATE 

The following recommendations are made for developing existing state 
facilities for dealing with mental disorders and promoting mental hygiene. 
Some of them involve both legislative and administrative action and others 
only administrative action: 

1 . Institutional provisions for the treatment of persons with mental diseases. 

a. Providing a new State Hospital for the insane, to be constituted by adding 
a new department in the country to the Cleveland State Hospital and dis- 
tributing functions between the two departments so that the city depart- 
ment (the present institution) will be used for receiving and intensive 
treatment center, infirmaries for terminal conditions, hospital for acute 
general and surgical diseases, diagnostic clinic, laboratories and adminis- 
tration and the new department (which would be the larger) for patients 
in good physical condition who require long, continued care and who will 
profit by the facilities for industrial training and re-education. 

b. Providing adequate salaries for superintendents of state hospitals (who 
now receive lower compensation than in any other state) assistant physi- 
cians, nurses and occupation instructors in order that more efficient treat- 
ment services may be built up. 



,506 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



c. Providing Clinical Directors of Psychiatry in all state hospitals to be 
responsible for the scientific work and for the supervision of all training. 

d. Providing training schools for nurses and for attendants in all state hos- 
pitals and a Supervisor of Nursing in the proposed State Commission on 
Mental Diseases to supervise and standardize such instruction. 

e. Instituting active after-care and social service so that more patients may 
be paroled and, by following their supervision into the community, the 
durability of recoveries and remissions increased. (See IV A-lb.) 

f . Instituting a system of mental clinics in the district of each state hospital 
for after-care and preventive work, and, in cities, cooperating with exist- 
ing mental clinics so that after-care patients may be seen by the physicians 
who have them under their care while in state hospitals. 

g. Providing stewards at state hospitals so that superintendents will be 
relieved from the administrative details that now occupy a larger part 
of their time than supervising and developing medical activities. 

h. Effecting liaison with the proposed City Psychopathic Hospital (Psycho- 
pathic Department of the City Hospital) for the purposes of training 
medical and nursing personnel and carrying on joint work in psychiatric 
research. 

2. Institutional provisions for the treatment of persons with mental deficiency and 
epilepsy. 

a. Providing a new state institution for the feeble-minded to which persons of 
both sexes and all ages will be admitted and attaching to this and the 
existing institution colonies for the care and training of boys and men 
in good physical condition and of relatively high mentality. 

b. Providing adequate salaries for superintendents, assistant physicians, 
nurses and teachers of the State Institution for the Feeble-minded and 
the State Hospital for Epileptics in order that more efficient treatment 
and training services may be built up. 

B. CITY 

The following recommendations are made for developing existing city 
facilities for dealing with mental disorders and promoting mental hygiene: 

1 . City Hospital. 

a. Replacing the present deplorable facilities for the reception, observation, 
diagnosis and early treatment of mental patients with a modern City 
Psychopathic Hospital (Psychopathic Department) of from 150 to 200 
beds with a full-time medical staff and all modern facilities for treatment 
including occupational therapy, physiotherapy, hydrotherapy, etc. 

b. Providing the proposed City Psychopathic Hospital with a dispensary 
at the hospital and developing under its control and leadership, besides 
the Central Mental Dispensary, special mental clinics in the Children's 



Mi\i\i Di-i \^i- \M> DKKK IKNXY 



Court, the Municipal Court, the Boys' School and other agencies which 
require the services of psychiatrists, such "outposts" being supported 
directly by the agencies served or by appropriations to the City Hospital 
for these specific purposes and constituting part of the Mental Clinic 
in the proposed Downtown Dispensary. (See IV B-l.) 

(This arrangement prevents the establishment of a number of small, 
weak and unattached clinics and permits the facilities in personnel and 
laboratories that a strong Psychopathic Hospital would possess to be 
widely employed.) 

c. Including nursing in the City Psychopathic Hospital in the nursing 
department of the City Hospital, pupil nurses in the training school 
being required to spend three months in mental nursing and the physicians 
and supervising nurse of the Psychopathic Hospital assisting in the 
instruction of nurses in the training school. 

d. Forming affiliations with other Nurses' Training Schools in the city and 
elsewhere so as to give special instruction and experience in mental nurs- 
ing and, in return, secure the services of pupil and graduate nurses. 

e. Strengthening the Social Service Department of the City Hospital by the 
addition of psychiatric social workers. 

f. Utilizing to the fullest possible extent the teaching facilities of the City 
Psychopathic Hospital, not only for medical students and physicians 
but occupation instructors, social service workers and others. 

2. Board of Education. 

a. Providing a greater number of special classes for backward and mentally 
defective children and improving the accommodations in special class 
centers. 

b. Increasing the compensation of teachers of special classes so that this 
work will be placed upon a higher professional plane. 

c. Developing the present psychological clinic of the Board of Education 
into a School Mental Clinic in which psychiatrists, psychologists and 
psychiatric social workers can bring to bear upon the mental problems 
of school children all the resources of psychology and medicine instead of 
only those which deal with the measurement of intelligence. 

d. In such a clinic, widening the scope of the study of unadjusted school 
children to include other mental problems than mental deficiency and 
making the aim of treatment as prominent as that of diagnosis. 

e. Systematically encouraging teachers and parents to make use of the 
School Mental Clinic recommended in the preceding paragraph for the 
diagnosis and treatment of psychoneurotic and psychopathic children 
and those presenting conduct disorders of any kind (lying, pilfering, sex 
delinquencies, truancy, etc.). 



508 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



f. Correlating the work of special classes for "exceptionally bright" children 
and for the correction of speech defects with routine examinations and 
individual studies in the School Mental Clinic. 

g. Including in the instruction given, in teachers', institute and other train- 
ing courses, information regarding mental deficiency and the psycho- 
pathic disorders of childhood. 

h. Arranging for the postgraduate instruction in Cleveland or elsewhere of 
teachers who desire to fit themselves especially for work in special classes. 

3. Parochial Schools. 

a. Encouraging the formation of special classes for backward and mentally 
defective children and the free use of the School Mental Clinic recom- 
mended above for diagnosis and treatment. 

4. Courts. 

a. Establishing in the Juvenile Court a mental clinic staffed by psychiatrists, 
psychologists and psychiatric social workers from the proposed City 

Psychopathic Hospital and the Downtown Dispensary or, in case that 
difficulties in making satisfactory arrangements arise, an independent 
but closely affiliated clinic. (See IV B-ld.) 

b. Including in the work of such clinic the routine mental examinations 
and individual studies of children in the Boys' School, the Girls' Home 
and the private agencies to which children are sent by the Children's 
Court for temporary detention or placement. 

c. Establishing as another "outpost" of the Psychopathic Hospital a clinic 
in the Municipal Court which should also conduct routine mental exami- 
nations and individual studies of persons in the House of Correction. 
(See IV B-ld.) 

d. Replacing the present system of mental examination in the Probate 
Court by examination by the staff of the Psychopathic Hospital, such 
services to be paid for by appropriations or allotments made by the 
Probate Court to the Department of Public Welfare for this purpose. 
(See I A-2h and I A-3f.) 

III. Dealing with private agencies by groups. 

The following recommendations are made for more effective work in 
dealing with mental disorders and promoting mental hygiene by private 
agencies : 

A. STATE 
1. Mental Hygiene Committee. 

a. The newly organized Committee for Mental Hygiene should receive 
the support of all those who desire to see the state assume the duties that 
rightfully belong to it so that local agencies need not continue devoting 
a large part of their resources to the performance of tasks that arise chiefly 



\II.\TAL DISEASES AND DEFICIENCY 



from the state's negligence. Not until the state has met its obligation 
to provide for the mentally defective and epileptic will the local agencies 
both public and private be able to devote themselves exclusively to the 
work for which they were created and are maintained by public funds 
or private philanthropy. A strong State Committee for Mental Hygiene, 
with definite objects and strongly supported by public spirited citizens, 
can do more to accomplish these ends than any other type of private 
agency. 

B. CITY 

1 . Hospitals. 

a. Western Reserve University and Lakeside Hospital. (See IV B-2a, b, c, d.) 

b. In order to carry their share of the burden of mental illness the various 
hospitals that aim to be general hospitals in fact as well as in name 
make provisions to care for a few mental patients, especially those arising 
in the hospital in the course of other illnesses; make more use of the 
neuro-psychiatrists on their visiting and consulting staffs and make 
provisions for mental patients in their dispensaries. 

2. Orphanages and Homes. 

a. Private charitable institutions, especially those which deal with dependent 
or delinquent children, wayward girls and unmarried mothers will find 
that light can be thrown upon some of their most difficult problems 
by making the freest use possible of such clinics as those recommended. 
Institutions receiving only delinquent children should secure such aid 
in every case whether it seems to be especially indicated or not. 

IV. Dealing with new agencies or private facilities to be established. 

A. STATE 
The establishment of the following new agencies is recommended : 

1. Agencies that can be successfully instituted only under the special State Commission 
on Mental Diseases recommended. (See I A- la.) 

a. Forming a joint purchasing committee composed of representatives of 
the proposed Commission on Mental Diseases, the Board of Administra- 
tion, and superintendents and stewards of hospitals and institutions in 
the "mental disease group" the "charitable group" and the "correctional 
group" so as to effect all possible economies through joint purchase 
without requiring the present administrative union of entirely different 
kinds of state activities. 

b. Organizing, in the proposed Commission on Mental Diseases, a Bureau 
of Mental Hygiene that will have supervision over state mental clinics, 
after-care, parole and social service work, community supervision of 
the mentally defective and intensive experiments in the prevention of 
mental diseases and mental deficiency. 



510 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

c. Organizing directly under the Commission on Mental Diseases at one of 
the State Hospitals or at the Bureau for Juvenile Research a central 
Psychiatric Institute for study and research into the causes, nature 
and treatment and prevention of mental diseases, mental deficiency and 
epilepsy, and for direction and coordination of the scientific work of the 
hospitals and institutions. 

B. CITY 
The establishment of the following new agencies is recommended: . 

1. Mental Clinic in the Downtown Dispensary. 

a. Establishing in the Downtown Dispensary, that has been recommended 
in various sections of the Survey, a large and fully staffed and equipped 
Mental Clinic that shall be a branch of the City Psychopathic Hospital 
(Psychopathic Department of the City Hospital) and conducted by that 
institution. 

b. Providing for the closest cooperation between this Mental Clinic and 
the other departments of the Downtown Dispensary and the dispensary 
of the proposed Psychiatric Clinic of Western Reserve University. 

c. Providing for carrying on mental clinics in connection with the Juvenile 
Court and other agencies, except the School Mental Clinic of the Board 
of Education, as "outposts" of the Mental Clinic of the Downtown 
Dispensary. (See II B-4a, b, c.) 

d. Utilizing the teaching facilities of the Mental Clinic of the Downtown 
Dispensary in the same way as those of the City Psychopathic Hospital. 

2. Western Reserve University and Lakeside Hospital. 

a. Establishing a University Psychiatric Clinic of from 40 to 60 beds as 
an integral part of Lakeside Hospital for the reception, treatment and 
study of mental diseases, especially those types most frequently seen in 
general medical and surgical practice and most likely to be benefited 
by treatment under the conditions that exist in such a psychiatric de- 
partment of a general hospital. 

b. Establishing in connection with the University Psychiatric Clinic recom- 
mended in the foregoing paragraph, a dispensary particularly for the 
same types of cases as those received in the clinic. 

c. Utilizing to the greatest possible extent the facilities of the University 
Psychiatric Clinic and Dispensary for medical students and those in 
other departments of the University who would be aided by the study of 
psychopathology under clinical conditions. 

d. Effecting close cooperation between the University Psychiatric Clinic 
and the City Psychopathic Hospital and its various "outposts." 



MINI \i. Ih-i 18E8 \M I )i I nil \< 1 511 



3. Welfare Organizations. 

a. Organizing a Cleveland Mental Hygiene Committee, in which all other 
welfare organizations should be represented to coordinate all the activi- 
ties of voluntary social agencies that deal largely with mental hygiene 
problems, to conduct the "mental test registry," to aid public agencies 
(especially the proposed City Psychopathic Hospital and its various 
mental clinics, and the School Mental Clinic) and to cooperate, in 
measures affecting state institutions or state policies, with the Ohio 
State Committee for Mental Hygiene. 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 



The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Pftnted by 

THE PBEMIER PRESS 

Cleveland, O. 






*! 
O 

. ^t 
! 

;O 

.CO 

f^ 

'CO 



A Program for 
Child Health 



PART THREE 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



A Program for 
CKild Health 



PART THREE 



Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 




Copyright, 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



v-/! MI i'i'.i :: 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 
308 Anisfield Bldg. 
Cleveland - Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital andJHealth Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

TheJ Survey! Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the 
work* and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBmoE, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUGHLIN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCK WOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

% 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director 

and the following collaborators: 
GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, A. M., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 

and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

I. Present Organization 207 

II. The Problem 269 

III. Proposed Organization 270 

IV. Functional Activities 

Prenatal Care 273 

Maternity Care 275 

Infant Care 280 

Pre-School Age Care 284 

Child-caring Institutions 287 

Children's Dispensaries 288 

Schools 

Health Supervision 288 

Sanitary Supervision 297 

Recommendations 301 

Issuance of Work Certificates 318 

\. Conclusion*... .. 319 



A Program for Child Health Work 
in Cleveland 

BY JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H. 

"The aim of hygiene in 
general if to render 
growth more perfect, 
decay let* rapid, death 
more remote and life 
more vigorous and suc- 
cessful." 

IN presenting a program for future child health work in Cleveland, it has 
been considered essential, first, to analyze v the work as it is carried on 
at the present time; second, to discuss certain basic needs, and third, 
to suggest measures that should be instituted to obtain more effective 
results. 

Present Organization 

The survey has emphasized the lack of strong central control and effec- 
tive coordination of the activities for child welfare as a whole. Public and 
private agencies are, in many instances, carrying on service of excellent 
quality and distinct merit, but these activities are limited in extent and, 
with one possible exception (the hospital maternity service) they are inade- 
quate to meet the self-evident needs of the child population of Cleveland. 
The lack of coordination by each agency with other agencies or as part 
of the child health program of the community, and the absence of a definite 
program for continuous, adequate and progressive action, are detrimental 
to the full effectiveness of each group. Some of the children of Cleveland 
are receiving at certain periods of their growth a type of care that is excel- 
lent and should be commended, but the unrelated functions of the various 
child hygiene activities have left children as a whole without that con- 
tinuous oversight which alone can guarantee the type of good health that 
will serve throughout life. 

\Yith the exception of the prenatal work and certain parts of the work 
carried on in the prophylactic baby-health stations, the Survey would seem 
to show that there is lack of preventive health functions. Emphasis has 
been placed on corrective work and there is too great a tendency to view 
the immediate results as justifying or proving the effectiveness of the 

For the collection of the information from which this report was prepared the author it indebted to 
many of her colleagues, and their assistants, in the other subjects of the Survey. The author wishes to 
express her appreciation particularly for the studies contributed by Gertrude St urges. M. D., Michael 
Davis, Ph. D., Anna Richardson, M. D., Miss Josephine Goldmark, Miss Elizabeth Fox, Miss Janet 
Geister and Miss Florence V. Ball. 



268 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

methods employed. Intensive effects often unconsciously interfere with 
proper perspective. Extreme specialization has, in some instances, resulted 
in too great concentration upon the activity and not enough upon the child 
as a whole. Treating disease is essential. Removing diseased tonsils and 
filling decayed teeth are important activities, but the full fruition of normal 
and sound health cannot be achieved by these methods alone, however well 
they may be performed. The admirable work that is being carried out 
should receive its full measure of praise. On the other hand, we cannot 
ignore the fact that the present facilities are inadequate in extent, that in 
some instances they are not functioning effectively, and that the lack of 
unity of purpose and central control has resulted in markedly lessening the 
results that might reasonably be expected from the amount of effort that 
has been put into the work as it is carried on at the present time. 

There are two fundamental bases for effective child-hygiene work in 
any^cornmunity : 



First Object: Prevention of disease is the first consideration, with such 
corrective health measures as may be necessary to assure a normal 
physique during childhood and sound health throughout adult life. 

Second Method: Continuous coordination and effective health super- 
vision from the prenatal period through adolescence, by means of public 
and private community provision of all essential educational and health 
aids, including health instruction, supervision and care of the indi- 
vidual mother and child. 



Cleveland's problem does not differ from that of other communities in 
this regard. Mention should be made of the efforts which are directed 
toward meeting the situation. Praise should be given to the four great 
features of Cleveland's child-caring program: (1) The prenatal and maternity 
services for expectant mothers, originating in the work of the Maternity 
Hospital, and now shared in by other hospital and nursing agencies; (2) The 
Babies' Dispensary, which serves the whole city in the diagnosis and treat- 
ment of the ills of infancy; (3) The prophylactic baby health stations of the 
Division of Health, which serve by teaching mothers how to keep well babies 
well; (4) The system of school medical inspection, under the Board of Edu- 
cation. A creditable infant mortality rate and a widespread public interest 
in the necessity for correction of physical defects and the resources for main- 
taining children's health are the logical results of these activities. It is 
evident, however, that there are many gaps in the continuity of an effec- 
tive health program for children. There is not only lack of coordination 
in the work of the agencies in the field but, in many instances^ there are 
insufficient equipment and personnel to meet existing needs in a manner 
at all adequate. 



A I'KOGRAM FOR Cmu> II i M/TH ->; 

Tke Problem 

Concretely, the problem in Cleveland may be outlined as follows: 

1. There are approximately 240,000 children in Cleveland under sixteen 
years of age. 

2. There were 19,123 registered births in Cleveland during 1919. Con- 
servatively estimated, fifty per cent or ten thousand of these mothers 
require medical and nursing supervision and care, at the expense of the 
community, during their prenatal period and at time of confinement, 
and an equal number of babies need care during the period of infancy. 
It is estimated that the remaining fifty per cent are able to obtain the 
essential care through individual effort, although a relatively small pro- 
portion of the latter group actually receive what is recognized as ade- 
quate prenatal care. 

3. On the basis of an estimation of approximately twenty thousand children 
in each year age-group under five years, it is probable that there are 
about sixty thousand children between two and five years of age in Cleve- 
land. From experience with this age-group ir\ other cities, it is esti- 
mated that at least thirty thousand of these children need the type of 
health supervision they can obtain only through concerted action of 
community forces. 

4. To the number of children attending the public schools (103,273, not 
including students in Senior High Schools) should be added the full number 
in attendance at the other free schools in the city (35,000, in the parochial 
schools), whether under denominational or other control. In its expen- 
diture for and interest in the welfare of its children, Cleveland should 
not discriminate in its bounty. All children of school age should receive 
equal advantages and have equal opportunity for the best type of 
health care. 

5. Children of whatever age who, through no volition on their part, are 
deprived of home care, should be placed in other homes as wards of the 
city, or should be given proper care in modern, well-equipped and ade- 
quately maintained day nurseries or resident institutions. These children 
are entitled to the same kind of health supervision that is considered 
essential for all children. 

6. The adolescent child is entitled to adequate protection from exploitation 
in industry. The period of adolescence is one of extreme importance 



270 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



from the health standpoint. This is particularly true of girls, and for 
individual sound health and future welfare of the race, there should be 
stringent regulations from the health point of view for the protection 
of all children during this hazardous period of life. 

Proposed Organization 

The outstanding need for effective child-hygiene work in Cleveland at 
the present time is proper organization of existing facilities of public and 
private agencies and the public departments. In order that this may be 
made effective, there must be (1) central control; (2) proper coordination. 

At the present time the community as a whole expresses itself in health 
matters through the Division of Health and through the health control of 
children of school age provided by the Board of Education. Even within 
the public departments there is divided control, but among the private and 
semi-public agencies this division is more sharply marked. It is neither 
necessary nor wise for private agencies to sacrifice their individuality in 
any way or to become part of the public work except as it may be thought 
wise from time to time for the public to assume certain types of child-hygiene 
effort that now are being carried on by private associations. It is essential, 
however, that there should be some coordinating force and some form of 
central organization among the private agencies so that they may function 
completely with the public departments in the most effective manner. 

/. CENTRAL CHILD HYGIENE COUNCIL 

As part of the general health organization of private and public agencies, 
there should be a Central Child Hygiene Council. This Council should have a 
membership consisting of a representative from each private or public agency 
dealing with any phase of child health supervision. To facilitate administrative 
procedure, such a council should be divided into functional groups, each having 
in its membership one person representing each agency in its class. Each 
group or subdivision should elect a chairman, such chairmen to form the execu- 
tive committee of the Central Child Hygiene Council. In turn, the executive 
committee should elect their own chairman and should have at their disposal 
a paid, full-time executive secretary as the executive officer of the Section on 
Child Hygiene of the proposed Cleveland Public Health Association. 

The Central Child Hygiene Council should 

1 . Coordinate the work of all public and private agencies, promot- 
ing effective cooperation while preserving the integrity of each 
unit. 

2. Provide for an equitable distribution of functional activity to 

(a) meet existing needs. 

(6) prevent duplication of effort. 



A PIM.U\M FOR CHILD HEALTH 



271 



1 

S 


maternity 
hospital 


o * ?f P 
" 3 n B 

8 5 f 1 
-Hz | 

^ 




Committee 
on 
Maternity 
Hospitals 


* r B 


||| 
I&8 


ill 


J|?l ^ 




7 

o3 n 

5S3 

<* r* T \ 


^j 3 s. 


5. | 


31 S S 1 \ 




- 2 ^ 


3 


n 








P , " 




&9 f 










i** i. 

~1'S 

S g 3 

?i* 


5 E 
fi 3 


|||| ? 

1 -o 




P 

Pfroi 

h i 


HI 










|| a 




Oil i: 










O M = 

1 ~* 1 

3 Ji 

T"" cr* j% 

5-2. "* 

P 5- p 


go 8 

3 3" 

J 8" 
^ < 


Iff ? 

a !ir \ 

S 3 2" 
. -o 





2 P 

JM 

8 r? 


2 

00 * rt 










r* ^ 

i-l 3 














"! 

~ . 

vl 1 

S>| 


3 3- 

!! 
2- 


iff P 
HU f 

o n = 5 





s"p P 

ft 


lf 




' -a 




2 - S 


* B" f6 




o S ,_ 




^ o 










pi 

3 S 


Is 


if f P 




f 


T -i- 


3 =r 


1 1 






!; 


g 







9.8*8 1 





12 


If 1 1 




8 ? 


0. 


< 






^ 














01 

g 

3 s 

3 ff 


S. 
2 " 


| 


Iff 





S o 


3 c 


5 ^ 


S 3 5 


I 


2 ^ 


. 


3 


S 1 1 


g 


B g- 
CD 


3 
ft 


< 


1 T3 




-1 








f^ 










IP 






?i 


P 


f 




1 ' 


T * 

S 3 J 

' T3 


3 


O 










a 












o 
en 
n> 
a- 

O 

t 

<JQ. 
ft) 



i 













ft) 





1 






* 


r-f- 


I 


1 

ft 








. 




a 


2 








3 


I 


n 

i 


m 

X 


m 

X 




O 


V 

3 


5 


o 


n 




"*~* 







e 


<* 


e 


F 


n 


! 


< 

c 


n 

o 


n 


9 


_ 




1 


3 




3 


-t 


f 


1 


3. 


n 




ft) 


a 


-~ 


^ 










a 


I 


"* 


t 






Educatioi 


t_ 









n 

:r 


P 

S 

1 


i 








51 





? 




















a 










VJ 



a 

3 

a 

n 



c 



272 



(c) attain uniform methods of procedure. 

(d) extend the functions to cover all parts of the city and 
provide the needed health supervision for each part. 

3. Provide for each type of child hygiene work in each of the health 
zones* or districts as established by the Division of Health. 

4. Maintain a central clearing house to 

(a) receive and tabulate all essential statistics on child 
welfare work; 

(6) act as intermediary and communicating link between 
the functional groups, unless (a) is provided for as 
suggested in the chapter on "Vital Statistics within the 

Division of Health." (Part II.) 

5. Stimulate public opinion to obtain adequate appropriations 
for child health work under the Division of Health and the 
Board of Education. 

6. Act in an advisory capacity and as a closely cooperative group 
to the city government to promote effective public health work 
for children. 

2. PUBLIC DEPARTMENTS 

The Division of Health and the Board of Education should provide for closer 
cooperation with each other and with the private child hygiene agencies. This 
may be done by 

/. The appointment by the respective public departments of a 
representative, preferably the Director of the Department of 
School Medical Inspection of the Board of Education and the 
Director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene of the Division of Health, 
to serve as a cooperative and coordinating committee to act 
on all matters pertaining to child health which concern the work 
of both departments, such as 

(a) Supervision and control of communicable diseases in 
children. 

(6) Sanitation and hygiene of school buildings and the 
homes of school children. 

(c) Supervision of the health of children of pre-school age. 

2. The appointment by these departments of appropriate represen- 
tatives to serve on the committees of the Central Child Hygiene 
Council. 

The above type of organization will provide for strong central represen- 
tation from the Division of Health and the Board of Education, and a strong 

* Throughout this report the term "zone" will be used to designate that division, census area or 
health distript that may be decided upon as the unit for health work. These zones or districts should 
have definite boundaries, which may comprise one or more sanitary areas, and it is recommended that 
such zones be the unit for all health work. 



A I'KMI.U \\l I <>K ( 'llll. I) Hl.M.TH 27.'* 



central Ixxly representing all private agencies with the machinery so 
arranged that these public departments and private agencies shall function 
harmoniously and without waste of effort. Such a type of organization will 
not only provide for covering the territory as far as present facilities admit, 
l)i it also will call attention to existing needs, provide a way for extension 
of types of work already organized, and the institution of new kinds of work 
that are essential for continued, well-rounded child care,. 

Functional Activities 

PRENATAL CARE 
nt Status and Needs: 

The object of prenatal care in Cleveland should be to provide adequate 
instruction, supervision and health care during the prenatal |>eriod for 
approximately fifty per cent of all pregnant women, estimated at ten 
thousand. 

About thirty-five per cent of all deaths under one year of age occur 
during the first month of life. Statistics obtainable from many cities show 
that this death rate under one month may be reduced one-half or even 
two-thirds by proper prenatal supervision. Provision for such prenatal care 
in Cleveland would mean that from three hundred to four hundred baby 
lives would be saved each year. 

Present Provision for Prenatal Care in Cleveland: 

During 1919, 2,848 prospective mothers received prenatal care under 
the auspices of four institutions through nine organized centers. This work 
is of good quality. In addition, the Visiting Nurse Association and a number 
of nurses from the Division of Health gave prenatal advice to all pregnant 
women with whom they came into contact. The latter service .undoubtedly 
gives good results, but it would seem that all pregnant women should have 
the advantage also of the type of service rendered by the prenatal clinics. 
In addition to. the care provided for 2,848 mothers in 1919, it is evident 
that Cleveland should make provision for prenatal care for at least seven 
thousand more prospective mothers annually. 

A study of the records of 442 mothers receiving prenatal care in the 
University district, where the baby death rate was found to be much higher 
than the rate for the city as a whole showed that, even under such circum- 
stances, it was possible to reduce the mortality rate among babies under one 
month of age to 24.8 per thousand births, as compared with the city rate 
of Ml. 4 per thousand births, as a result of prenatal care. If results like these 
(an be obtained in a district where the racial, social and economic condi- 
tions are such as to result ordinarily in an unusually high baby death rate, 
it is quite evident that far better results might be expected if provision for 
prenatal care could be extended to all pregnant women of the city who 
otherwise would be without such supervision. By extending this sen 



274 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Cleveland could not only actually save from three hundred to four hundred 
baby lives a year but the death rate among mothers from accidents and 
diseases at time of confinement could be reduced materially. What can be 
accomplished in this regard may be seen from the figures given out by the 
Maternity Center Association of New York City, which show that among 
502 women supervised during their pregnant periods and receiving proper 
care at time of confinement, there was only one death. Maternal mortality 
ranks second highest in the list of causes of death among women between 
fifteen and forty-five years of age in the United States, being exceeded only 
by tuberculosis. Reduction in the death rate of mothers and babies as a 
result of prenatal care can be effected with mathematical certainty. It is 
simply a question of providing the type of care that has already been recog- 
nized and standardized. 

Reduction of the still-birth rate in the University District from 28 per 
thousand births for the city as a whole to 20.4 per thousand births among 
the prenatal cases, and reduction in the death rate from puerperal sepsis 
from four per thousand births for the city as a whole to 1.4 per thousand 
births for the cases having prenatal care also warrants favorable comment. 
It must be remembered, however, that this reduction applies only to a 
limited group of pregnant women, i. e., 2,848 of a total of 19,123 registered 
births in 1919. It shows what may be done and makes it clearly evident 
that Cleveland needs three times the facilities for prenatal care that she 
has* at present. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

1 . It seems evident that the Division of Health cannot at present secure the neces- 
sary funds to carry on a city-wide service in prenatal care. Ultimately, this work 
should be one of the functions of the Bureau of Child Hygiene, paid for by ap- 
propriation of city funds. Until this can be accomplished, however, the respon- 
sibility must rest upon private initiative and should be carried on by private 
agencies. 

2. It is suggested that a Committee on Prenatal Care of the Central Child 
Hygiene Council be composed as follows: 

(a) An obstetrician or other representative from each hospital or 
other institution having an obstetrical service under the direc- 
tion of a specialist in obstetrics, either in the hospital or at the 
patient's home. 

(6) A member of the Academy, Committee on Public Health. 

(c) A representative of the nursing staffs of the University District 
and the Visiting Nurse Association. 

(d) A representative of the Division of Health. 

3. Facilities for prenatal care are offered in Cleveland by four institutions 
the Maternity Hospital Dispensary, through its six clinics; the University District 
Dispensary! St. Luke's Hospital Dispensary and Mt. Sinai Hospital Dispensary. 
These hospitals and the home nursing services of the Visiting Nurse Association 
and the Division of Health should hold themselves responsible for maintaining 



A I'ltOGRAM FOR (ill 1. 1) HEALTH 



and providing proper professional services at the maternity centers in each of 
the specified zones of the city. Each zone should have one or more centers, in 
accordance with its needs. The service should be free, except where the eco- 
nomic status of any locality may warrant the establishment of a center where a 
moderate fee may be charged. 

4. No institution should take patients from any zone not under its con- 
trol, except by reference from another institution, at the special request of the 
patient concerned, or as a matter of professional courtesy between the directors 
of the respective services. 

5. Expectant mothers should be encouraged to attend the maternity cen- 
ters in their zones, and should be referred there by 

(a) Visiting nurses. 

(b) Division of Health nurses. 

(c) Social workers. 

(d) Hospitals. 

(e) Physicians. 

(f) Midwives. 

(g) Any other persons who may have knowledge of such cases. 

6. All cases of delivery should be sent to the physician or midwife referring the 
patient to the prenatal clinic, or to the hospital responsible for the zone in which the 
patient lives. 

7. There should be submission at specified intervals to the executive secretary of 
the Central Child Hygiene Council of 

(a) Full reports of all statistical data of work performed and results obtained. 

(b) All complaints of discrimination in favor of or against any institution or 
individual, and matters requiring adjustment of policy. 

8. The Committee on Prenatal Care should prepare 

(a) Standard forms for recording all essential data. 

(b) Standard methods of prenatal care. 

These forms and methods should be adhered to by each clinic. 

9. Provision should be made for necessary home visits by nurses who are directly 
assigned to duty at the prenatal clinic or by the Visiting Nurse Association 

MATERNITY CARE 

nt Status and Needs: 
I. Present Hospital Facilities: 

There are seventeen hospitals in Cleveland which have set aside a total 
of three hundred and fifteen beds for maternity cases. The total number 
of institutional deliveries in 1919 was 4,980. The number of institutional 
deliveries has increased from 11.5% of the total births registered in 1915 



276 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

to 26% in 1919. Two agencies the Maternity Hospital and St. Luke's- 
gave out-patient service for maternity cases, the Maternity Hospital deliver- 
ing in 1919, 1,156 patients, and St. Luke's, 101. The Visiting Nurse 
Association gave nursing service to 234 confinement cases. 

2. Birth Registration: 

The registration of births in Cleveland is inadequate. A number of 
births were taken from the city at large and checked at the Bureau of Vital 
Statistics of the Division of Health to see how many had been registered. 
The following results were obtained: 

Total for 

1918 1919 1920 1918-19-20 

Total number of birth records investigated.... 128 429 57 614 

Total number found registered 82 267 34 383 

Percentage of birth records investigated 

found registered , 64% 62% 59.5% 62% 

These results, with 55 additional, were checked over carefully, looking 
under every possible date and spelling. As a result of this re-investigation, 
the following results were obtained: 

Total for 

1918 1919 1920 1918-19-20 

Total number of birth records investigated.... 141 451 77 669 

Total number found registered 104 362 46 522 

Percentage of birth records investigated 

found registered 74% 80.2% 59% 78% 

In addition, a list of baptisms from various churches of the city were 
looked up, with the following results: 

Pilgrim Trinity St. Paul's 2d Presb. Total 

Total number of birth records in- 
vestigated 1 25 28 11 3 67 

Total number found registered 22 24 8 3 

Percentage of birth records investi- 
gated found registered 88% 86% 73% 100% 85% 

These investigations would seem to show that not over eighty per cent 
of the births occurring in Cleveland are reported to and registered by the 
Bureau of Vital Statistics of the Division of Health. No action is being 
taken by the Division of Health against persons who fail to report births, 
nor is there any evidence that proper measures are being taken to check 
up birth registration. A beginning has been made toward requiring a birth 
certificate as evidence of age for school enrollment. Failure to report births 
seems to be common both to physicians and midwives. Analysis was made 
of one hundred deaths under two years of age, which showed that physi- 



A PKK;U.\M mu CIIII.D HK\LTH -,'7? 

cians had failed to report 39.2% of the births which had occurred under 
their sii|>ervision, and midwives had failed to report 47% of the births 
attended by them. 

3. Midwives: 

It is estimated that there are one hundred and sixty licensed and one 
hundred and ten unlicensed midwives in Cleveland. It is evident that the 
regulations of the State Medical Board of Ohio are such that midwives are 
practically barred from obtaining licenses in Cleveland at the present time. 
During 1919-1920 only two midwives received licenses to practise. The 
type of supervision given to midwives who are practising is inadequate, 
amounting to an average of less than one call a year upon each midwife 
during 1919. It is evident, also, that midwives are allowed to practise 
without being licensed. 

4. Relative Number of Births Reported by Midwives and by Physicians: 

During the past five years, of the total number of registered births, 
from 55.5% in 1913-14 to 65% in 1918-19, were reported by physicians, 
and from 44.5% in 1913-14 to 33.9% in 1918-19 were reported by mid- 
wives. From this it is apparent that, while the practice of midwives is 
decreasing, it still is of sufficient extent to warrant attention, serving as it 
did in 1919, 5,903 pregnant women. It is evident that, notwithstanding 
the extensive hospital and out-patient maternity services, there is a large 
proportion of women in Cleveland who prefer the services of midwives at 
the time of confinement. This experience is common in all cities having a 
large alien population. The great majority of these women accept the 
midwife in the traditional manner. Neither they nor their families have 
ever known any other type of attendant at birth. In addition, among 
certain foreign groups, the husbands of the women are prejudiced against 
having men in attendance at the time of confinement. There can be no 
doubt that, from the point of view of the patient, the midwife fills a social 
need. There is no evidence to show that midwives can be eliminated by 
outlining regulations of so stringent a character, as a requisite for a license 
to practise midwifery, that no midwife can possibly comply with them. There 
is, furthermore, a serious inconsistency in any type of administration which 
allows unlicensed and untrained midwives to practise, but refuses to recog- 
nize the graduates of such schools as that maintained by the City of New 
York, or graduates of the high types of schools that are maintained in Eng- 
land. In fact, the regulations now in force in the City of Cleveland would 
l>ar not only graduates of the best schools in this country but those of the 
great majority of the European, schools. The regular course in midwifery 
schools in England covers a period of six months, in New York City eight 
months, while on the Continent the average course is from twelve to eighteen 
months. To require a two years' course in midwifery, therefore, is pro- 
hibitive. It is appalling to think of the results of a system of midwifery 



278 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



control which, by its inherent qualities, systematically ignores the dangerous 
results that may come from allowing ignorant, untrained women to prac- 
tise midwifery without supervision or instruction. 

5. Prevention of Blindness: 

Excellent results have been obtained from the follow-up of cases of 
ophthalmia neonatorum. It is stated that only one case of blindness due 
to gonococcal infection has occurred among children born in Cleveland 
during the past five years. 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 

1. Committee Formation: 

In order to provide for the right distribution of the present hospital facili- 
ties for maternity care throughout the city, there should be an Obstetrical Coun- 
cil or a Committee on Maternity Care of the Central Child Hygiene Council, 
such committee to consist of 

(a) An obstetrician or other representative from each of the mater- 
nity hospitals. 
(6) A representative of the Bureau of Child Hygiene of the Division 

of Health. 

(c) A representative of the Visiting Nurse Association. 

The functions of this committee might well be served by the committee on prenatal 
care as outlined above, page 274. 

2. Birth Registration: 

(a) Adequate birth registration is absolutely essential as a basis for effective child 
hygiene work. It is essential to know how many babies are born, their race, sex and 
residence. The Division of Health should take whatever steps may be necessary 
to give Cleveland as nearly one hundred per cent birth registration as is humanly 
possible. This may be done by 

1. Investigating deaths of babies under six months of age to deter- 
mine whether the births were registered. 

2. Receiving reports of names, addresses, dates and places of birth 
of all babies registered at the health centers and investigating 
same with reference to birth registration. 

3. Returning a copy of the birth certificate to the mother of each 
baby whose birth is recorded. 

4. Prosecuting all physicians, midwives and others who fail to report 
births as required by law. 

(6) In order to make the statistics of births available as a basis of work, 
facilities should be afforded for analysis of these records, by zones, so that any 
information regarding distribution or other questions connected wfth the birth 
rate may be available immediately to persons interested in child welfare work. 
For further details see chapter on Vital Statistics, Part II. 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HEALTH 79 

3. Hospital Facilities: 

The present provision for beds for maternity cases seems adequate, and when the 
out-patient maternity services also are considered, it is deemed inadvisable to recommend 
any extension of free maternity bed service at the present time. There are, however, 
methods which might be employed to make this service a more integral part of the child 
health program. These are that 

(a) Each hospital providing maternity service should assume respon- 
sibility for certain zone* and for the care of all women needing 
and desiring free obstetrical care who reside in such zones. It 
should be agreed that patients residing in other zones will not be 
taken by any hospital other than that responsible for the zone 
in question, unless by special arrangement in each case with 
the hospital or institution in charge of the zone in which the 
patient resides. 

(b) All patients who register in advance should be referred to the 
prenatal clinics for proper supervision. 

(c) Standard forms of record-keeping and compilation of statistics 
as outlined by the Committee on Maternity Care should be 
used. 

(</) All mothers after confinement should be referred to the health 
centers. This can be done by using a duplicate card, one sec- 
tion to be given to the mother, referring her to- the health center 
or prophylactic baby health station in the zone in which she 
lives, the other to be sent to the executive secretary of the Cen- 
tral Child Hygiene Council, who will refer it to the indicated 
health center. If the mother does not appear at the center 
within twenty-four hours, a nurse should visit her at her home to 
induce her to register. Whenever a mother is referred to a 
health center, the essential points in the history of the case 
and the feeding and care of the baby should be forwarded by the 
hospital or other institution to the health center. 

(e) Extension of the out-patient service in zones where the hos- 
pital facilities are inadequate. 

(/) Extension of the work of the Visiting Nurse Association to give 
proper obstetrical nursing for the out-patient service in all zones. 

4. Suggested Program for the Control of Midwifery: 

(a) Regulations for the control of midwifery should be amended 
so that the graduates of reputable midwifery schools of recog- 



280 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEI 

nized standard, which maintain courses of not less than six 
months' duration, may be admitted to practise, after passing 
the necessary state examinations. AH midwives who are unable 
to qualify under such a system of regulation should be denied 
the right to practise, and should be prosecuted if they attempt to. 

(6) The present midwifery law should be amended so that it will 
not be retroactive from the date of its first enforcement. Mid- 
wives who were already practising when the law became effective 
should be granted licenses to continue, by virtue of their having 
practised before. Reasonable and adequate but not unattain- 
able standards should be drawn up for midwives who, in future, 
may apply for permits to practi s e. The rules and regulations 
governing the practice of midwifery should be enforced rigor- 
ously, and any midwife who is found not to have complied with 
such rules and regulations should be prosecuted. If found 
guilty, her license should be revoked. By this method a gradual 
elimination of unfit midwives can be accomplished in a manner 
that will protect the interests of the community and of the 
mothers, and at the same time solve the problem of the present 
incongruous situation in Cleveland, whereby unlicensed mid- 
wives are permitted to practise but are not kept under proper 
supervision. 

(c) A system of supervision should be inaugurated at once, under 
the Division of Health, Bureau of Child Hygiene, whereby as 
part of the work of the health centers midwives will be kept 
under constant and continuous supervision. They should be 
encouraged to improve the methods of their practice, should 
be taught how to attain a safe, decent technic and, as far as 
possible, the actual type of work performed by them should 
be known by having nurses attend cases with them and keep 
them under constant supervision. Midwives should be required 
to keep records of all cases attended by them and should be held 
strictly accountable for adherence to the rules. The rules and 
regulations governing the practice of midwifery in New York 
City and in New York State will serve as useful examples of 
practical measures which can be and are being enforced. 

INFANT CARE 
Present Status and Needs: 

Infant care in Cleveland is carried on under the control of .the Bureau 
of Child Hygiene of the Division of Health, through fourteen health centers. 
In eight of these centers work for the control of tuberculosis, supervision 



A I'U<M;U\M i- oi< CHILD HKM.III 281 



of contagious di>c;iM-, including eye conditions and nursing inspection of 
children of the parochial schools, also are provided for. In two of the centers 
venereal disease work also is carried on. 

1. It is estimated that there are in Cleveland at least twenty thou-and 
children under two years of age who should have the type of health super- 
vision which their parents are unable to obtain for them without community 

help. 

2. The health centers are well distributed throughout the city but, owing 
to the widely scattered population in certain areas and consequent dis- 
tances to be traveled by the mothers, they do not cover the field of needed 
infant care. 

3. The medical work in these health centers is of the five types enu- 
merated above. It is controlled by the heads of three bureaus of the Division 
of Health the Bureau of Tuberculosis, the Bureau of Communicable Dis- 
eases, and the Bureau of Child Hygiene. *The nurses in the health centers 
carry on what is known as "generalized" nursing; that is, they divide their 
time among all the functions that are served by the centers. From the 
point of view of the efficiency of the infant welfare service, this type of 
nursing would seem to be unfortunate. The proportion of time given to 
infant care at the centers is wholly inadequate. 

4. Administrative work and office duties by the nurses occupy too great 
a proportion of their time. On a basis of one hundred hours of service for 
the nurses at the health centers, 41.9% of this time was found to be devoted 
to office duties. This disproportion of service works to the detriment of the 
regular nursing functions, and may account in great measure for the neglect 
of the proper follow-up work among babies. 

5. Not enough nurses are assigned to duty at each center to care ade- 
quately for the functions placed under their supervision. Each nurse has 
too many patients under her care. Reference to the chapter on Nursing 
Service, Part IX, will show that each nurse has approximately three hundred 
cases to care for, including two hundred babies. This is greatly in excess of 
the maximum that can be supervised effectively. A study of the records 
at the Health Centers shows that an average of .4 visits is paid each baby 
each month; that is, each baby is visited about once in every two to two 
and a half months. One in every nine babies comes to the clinic once during 
the month. It is evident from a study of individual record cards and of 
the various reports on nursing service in this Survey that home visits to 
babies are neglected, that there is little attempt to check up -regularity 
of attendance, to give proper and necessary home supervision, or to see that 
delinquent cases are brought back to the centers. It is evident that too 
great reliance is placed upon distribution of milk as a bait to draw mothers 
to the centers. While* this may account in great measure for the fairly ade- 
quate attendance, it in no way compensates for the loss that is apparent 
in the lack of proper teaching of hygiene in the^home and suj>ervision 
of the baby's environment. 

* The information concerning the scope, character, excellencies and defects of the nursing servicr 
in the Division of Health and the school*, used in this report, was obtained from the reports of the investi- 
gators who collaborated under Miss Josephine Goldmark's direction in the preparation of the chapter on 
Nursing Service in Cleveland, Part IX. 



282 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SIKVKY 



6. There is no organized method of referring cases to the health centers. 
Outgoing mothers and babies from maternity hospitals are not referred to 
the centers, and there is no apparent recognition of the value of enlisting 
the cooperation of midwives in referring babies born under their care, a 
type of case which is particularly in need of such supervision. 

7. Infant feeding by artificial means has been developed to a high 
standard of efficiency, but statistical evidence would seem to show that too 
great emphasis is placed on methods of artificial or substitute feeding, with 
consequent apparent neglect of the importance of breast feeding. Three 
separate studies which were made of babies under the care of the health 
centers, show that the number of babies breast fed varied from 29 to 60 
per cent. There is indisputable evidence available to the effect that ninety- 
five per cent of all women can nurse their babies. As a measure for the 
reduction of infant mortality, encouragement of breast feeding is probably 
of greater importance than most highly developed methods of substitute 
feeding. 

8. While specific criticism of the many and varied types of work required 
of the nurses may not be advisable, in view of the determined policy to 
carry on generalized nursing service, there is evidence that infant hygiene 
work, both at the health centers and in the homes, is neglected. The nursing 
reports show that home visits are too infrequent and irregular, and from the 
records it appears that nursing care (to infants) is rarely given, and then 
very inadequately. Owing to the many duties which the nurse is called 
upon to assume and the large number of patients under her control, follow- 
up visits to babies in their homes, and the supervision necessary to see that 
the babies are brought to the clinics regularly, have been so far neglected 
that in a considerable proportion of instances it was found that the babies 
had not been seen for periods of from two to three months, and that there 
was no record as to what had become of them during that time. Such 
neglect leads to the inference that preventive health work for infants has 
been relegated to a place of minor importance. Such a result may reason- 
ably be expected when the nurses are required to attend to so many kinds 
of work which, by their very nature, are of more emergent type. It is quite 
natural that in any combined medical or nursing work the corrective or 
emergent cases will be given precedence. Without underrating the impor- 
tance of contagious disease and tuberculosis supervision, venereal disease 
control or school inspection, attention may well be called to the inequality 
of the prophylactic work for babies which, by its nature, is non-emergent 
in character, but which is of the utmost importance in any effective public 
health program which has for its object a reduction of infant sickness and 
death. 

While medical advice can be given in an adequate manner at the health 
centers, the value of the nurses' work is more clearly shown in their home 
visits. Only in that way can they be sure that the proper routine is being 
carried out, that the directions of the doctor are being obeyed and that the 
mother not only understands but actually puts into effect th essential 
methods of baby care. The baby's immediate environment is its mother. 



A |'IM.K\M Hu Ciin.i. Ill M.III 283 

but it> home rarroundillgi are only slightly less remote in degree, con- 
sequently the many factors of hygiene and sanitation which have so direct 
an effect upon the lives of infants can U adjusted and controlled only if 
the nurses make >y>lematic and regular home visits. If the administrative 
experiment in so-called "generalized" public health nursing is to be con- 
tinued, as for some reasons apix-ars desirable, radical change in the organi/a- 
tion, distribution and supervision of the nurses' work must l>e undertaken 
promptly. 

9. There is no agency in Cleveland for supplying wet nurses. The use 
of wet nurses is recognized as an important factor in saving the live.- of 
young babies. Breast feeding plays such an important part in the pre- 
vention of infant sickness and death that provision for some opportunity 
for obtaining the services of wet nurses is a recognized part of the community 
program for the reduction of infant morbidity and mortality. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

1. A Committee on Infant Care should be formed as part of the Central 
Child Hygiene Council. This committee should consist of 

(a) A representative from the Bureau of Child Hygiene of the Divi- 
sion of Health. 

(6) A representative of the Visiting Nurse Association. 

(c) A representative of the Babies' Dispensary. 

(d) A representative of the hospitals providing special maternity 
services. 

(e) A representative of the Committee on Prenatal Care. 

2. The Division of Health should extend its health centers, particularly those 
devoted wholly to preventive health work for infants. If it is not possible at the 
present time to establish more of these health centers, the minimum require- 
ment should be at least one center in each zone, with sufficient nurses attached 
so that home visits may be made to the families of all infants who need such 
attention and who live at too great distances from the centers to attend regu- 
larly. 

3. Each center should be furnished each day with a list of names and ad- 
dresses of all babies whose births were reported from the indicated zone on the 
previous day. Each such case should be visited and the mother urged to attend 
the center. If she is unable to do this, she should be kept under observation by 
the visiting nurse. 

4. The personnel of the staff at each health center should be increased. 
With the present distribution and types of work, each nurse should have under 
her supervision not more than one hundred cases. If it is impossible to increase 



284 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

the staff at the present time, attention should be directed immediately toward 
relieving the nurses of the greater part of their office duties. Clerks should be 
employed for this purpose, and the nurses should devote their entire time to 
nursing work. 

5. It is essential for effective work that the number of home visits to babies 
should be increased and that these home visits should be carried out with reg- 
ularity. 

6. More emphasis should be placed upon the general education of the mother 
in methods of proper baby care, in addition to the question of feeding. 

7. Increased attention should be paid to the necessity for breast feeding. 
Methods of restoring lactation and encouraging mothers to continue to nurse 
their infants should be insisted upon more vigorously than they are at the present 
time. Every effort should be made to increase the relative proportion of breast 
feeding among infants in attendance at the health centers. 

8. Efforts should be made through the committees of the Central Child 
Hygiene Council to obtain effective cooperation from other agencies. Coopera- 
tion should be maintained with the prenatal clinics and maternity hospitals in 
obtaining histories of all cases cared for by them who afterward are referred to 
the baby clinics of the health centers. 

9. Babies should not be discharged from control of the health centers when 
they reach the age of two years. 

10. Health centers should extend their functions to include care of the 
child of pre-school age. For discussion of this question, reference is made to 
the discussion of "Pre-school age Care," which follows. 

11. There should be established at each health center a wet nurse registry. 
This should be maintained in cooperation with the Committee on Maternity care of 
the Central Child Hygiene Council. Effort should be made also to obtain the 
cooperation of midwives in this regard. Mothers whose babies have died should 
be asked to register as wet nurses. Each woman so registered should receive a 
thorough physical examination, including a Wassermann test. The facilities of 
this wet nurse registry should be open to all physicians of the city. 

PRE-SCHOOL AGE CARE 
Present Status and Needs: 

1. Statistics of the United States Census Bureau show that eighty per 
cent of all deaths from contagious diseases occur under five years of age. 
Less reliable morbidity statistics would seem to indicate that from eighty- 
five to ninety per cent of all cases of contagious diseases occur in children 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HEALTH 



under five years of age. Examination of children of this age group has re- 
vealed the presence of physical defects in greater proportion than in the 
ten to fifteen -year-age group. Studies of the relative occurrence of physical 
defects show that practically all of them can be prevented or at least cor- 
rected in their early stages during the pre-school age period. 

2. Facilities for the health supervision of children of pre-school age in 
Cleveland are almost wholly lacking. There are seven day nurseries in 
Cleveland, five of which the Mather, Louise, Lend-a-hand, Perkins and 
Wade are branches of the Cleveland Day Nursery and Free Kindergarten 
Association. One Merrick House is conducted in connection with that 
settlement house, and the other Joseph & Feiss by that industrial plant 
for the children of its employes. The aggregate service provided by these 
day nurseries in 1919 was 47,085 child days, and the daily average attend- 
ance was 184.75 children. It may thus be seen that the day nurseries of 
Cleveland are caring for less than two hundred children daily out of an 
estimated child population of sixty thousand between two and five years 
of age. 

3. It is estimated that fifty per cent of the children between two and 
five years of age, a total of thirty thousand, are probably without any health 
supervision. 

4. This neglect of supervision of the child of pre-school age is the greatest 
gap in the continuity of Cleveland's child-health program. The importance 
of caring for this age-group cannot be overestimated. 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 

Immediate step* should be taken to provide the necessary facilities for health 
supervision of children of pre-school age. It is recommended that this be done 
through the health centers as a continuation of the work of infant care. It is 

realized that the pre-school age bears a very intimate relation not only to the period of 
infancy but also to the period of school life. It may well be considered, therefore, whether[the 
school should be responsible for the care^of the pre-school age child, or whether this should 
be considered simply an extension of the period of infancy. Logically, the school should 
consider that the pre-school age bears the same relation to the school age as the prenatal 
period bears to infancy, and, theoretically, it should be the duty of the school authorities 
to see that children of pre-school age are so cared for and their health so supervised that 
they will be in sound physical condition when they enter school. From a practical view- 
point, however, such a course seems inexpedient at the present time. It is probable that 
money appropriated for school purposes could not be used for the benefit of children who 
have not yet reached the legal school age. While it is possible, of course, that private 
funds to establish clinics for children of pre-school age in connection with the service of 
school medical inspection in the public and parochial schools may be obtained, it seems 
at the present time that the need would be most completely served by considering the 
supervision of children of pre-school age one of the functions of the health centers, under 
the Division of Health. 



286 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Such service should be carried on as follows: 

/. Children who, as infants, have been under the care of the health 
centers, up to two years of age, should not be discharged from 
observation at the end of that time but should be continued on 
register as pre-school age cases. 

2. The personnel of the health centers should be increased to pro- 
vide sufficient doctors and nurses to give the necessary supervision 
to children of pre-school age. 

3. Close cooperation should be maintained with hospitals, day nur- 
series, the Board of Education, social service agencies and other 
sources so that children between two and five years of age may be 
referred to the health centers for health supervision. 

4. Each child of pre-school age should receive a physical examination 
at least once every six months and after any acute illness. If pos- 
sible, the service should be extended so that examinations may be 
made every three months. Every case, whether considered nor- 
mal or abnormal, should be placed under the supervision of the 
nurse and visits should be made to the child's home at frequent 
intervals so that environment may be adjusted, the hygiene of 
its daily life regulated and all possible prophylactic and early 
corrective measures taken to insure prevention of disease and 
future sound health for the child. 

5. In connection with the dental clinics, a system of oral hygiene 
should be maintained, and all children of pre-school age should 
receive the advantage of this service. It has been proved definitely 
that proper methods of oral hygiene, begun in early childhood, have a 
more definite and lasting effect in preserving the teeth than any future 
corrective work can possibly accomplish. Moreover, the cost of proper 
oral hygiene is only a fraction of the cost of corrective dental work. To be 
effective, oral hygiene should be commenced before the child's 
second teeth have begun to appear, and certainly well in advance 
of the appearance of the first permanent teeth the sixth year 
molars. 

6. In the pre-school age clinics facilities should be provided for 
performing Schick tests on all children and for giving toxin- 
antitoxin injections for immunization of proved susceptibles 
against diphtheria. The period before five years of age is the time 
when natural immunity to diphtheria is at its lowest and when the death 
rate from this disease is at its highest point. There is little doubt that 



A PK<<;U.\M HH< CHILD HKALTII 



this disease could be largely, if not entirely, eliminated if Schick tests 
and toxin-antitoxin immunizations of non-immune children could be 
carried out throughout the entire child population under five years of 
age. ' 

CHILD-CARING INSTITUTIONS 
Present Status and Needs: 

There are in Cleveland nineteen children's institutions with a capacity 
of 2,03 children. In addition, about 800 more children, under the super- 
vision of the Humane Society, are provided for in boarding homes and in 
free homes where they have the status of adopted members of the family. 

A medical survey of these institutions gave the following results: 

1. Only three out of a total of nineteen institutions investigated have an 
entrance physical examination. 

2. Only three have an admission quarantine to prevent new entrants from 
bringing contagion into the institution. 

3. Eleven have ample isolation facilities; eight have not. 

4. Thirteen have adequate hospital facilities, while six have inadequate 
facilities, or none at all. 

5. Not a single institution of the nineteen investigated conducts a periodic 
physical re-examination. 

6. Thirteen of the homes have hospital and dispensary affiliations, while 
six maintain no relationships of this nature. 

7. Children are allowed as visitors in seventeen of the institutions investigated. 
In only two is this practice prohibited. 

\ -.initary survey of these institutions showed a great variety of inade- 
quacies of equipment and insanitary conditions prevailing (For details sec 
chapter in "Child-Caring Institutions," Part II.). 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 

1. The licensing of all child-caring institutions and their regular and ade- 
quate inspection and supervision by the municipal government should be pro- 
vided for through the Division of Health. 

2. Extension is advised of the boarding-out system in private homes, under compe- 
tent supervision. Homes offering to receive children to board should not be allowed to 
do so before having received permits fcr the purpose, such permits to be issued by the 
Division of Health. Permit holders should be kept under close supervision and the per- 
mits revoked if any negligence is found at any time. As rapidly as possible provision 
should be made so that every mentally normal child who cannot otherwise receive home 
care may be placed in a properly licensed private home, under adequate supervision, and 
such child should receive, either through the pre-school age facilities of the health cen- 



288 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

; 

ters or through the school medical inspection of the public and parochial schools, the same 
type of effective health supervision that is given to children whose parents are alive and 
able to provide for them. 

CHILDREN'S DISPENSARIES 

A detailed statement of existing facilities, the needs to be met and the 
remedies proposed, will be found in the chapter on "Dispensaries," Part X. 

SCHOOL HEALTH SUPERVISION 
Present Status and Needs: 

School health supervision in Cleveland must be considered from two 
angles: school medical inspection in parochial schools, and school medical 
inspection in public schools. 

School Medical Inspection in Parochial Schools: 

There are about 35,000 children attending the parochial schools in Cleveland. The 
authorities of these schools provide no medical or nursing care or health education, either 
in the school or in the home. In March, 1917, nurses of the Division of Health were 
assigned to duty in seventeen parochial schools. In 1919-1920 this work was carried on 
in twenty-one parochial schools. Records seem to show that 9,323 pupils in these schools 
received a physical examination. Notices were sent to the parents and some effort was 
made to follow up the children found to have defects. No records are available to show 
what percentage of defects the nurses had corrected. During the school year 1919-1920 
the total number of parochial schools, sixty-eight in number, with a registration of ap- 
proximately 35,000 pupils, were placed under the supervision of these nurses. As the 
staff of field nurses averages only about fifty and as they have their work at the health 
centers in addition to this work in the parochial schools, it was impossible for them to 
carry out any system of school health supervision in the parochial schools that could be 
considered at all adequate. 

One observation was made in each classroom to discover evidences of contagious 
diseases. Visits were made once a week to each school and a certain amount of absentee 
visiting is recorded. No provision for the assignment of doctors to this work has been 
made. It is evident that the work is not well organized or at all extensive and in no sense 
can it be considered an adequate system of health supervision of the children in the schools 
in question. 

School Medical Inspection in Public Schools: 

Services dealing with health in the public schools in Cleveland are carried out through 
four distinct groups: (1) a Department of Medical Inspection under the control of a Direc- 
tor who is on part-time; (2) physical education, under control of a Director; (3) health 
education, without any organized or central direction, and (4) sanitary supervision, under 
the Director of Buildings. 

The Directors of the Departments of Medical Inspection and Physkal Education 
report to an Assistant Superintendent of Schools, while the Director of Buildings is under 
the control of the Director of Schools or chief of the service department for the Board of 



i UK CIIII.K HKAI.TH js! 



Education. It may thus be seen that there is divided responsibility for the health of the 
school children, and that at present there is no coordinated program of such type that 
the work may be considered effective. 

More specific consideration may be given to these matters as follows: 
/. Medical Inspection: 

This department is organized with a director, who is responsible, through an assistant 
superintendent, to the Superintendent of Schools. The following groups of employes 
and functions come under the supervision of the director of this department : 

(a) Medical inspectors, staff nurses, field nurses and junior health workers. 

(b) Clinics: Dental clinics and eye clinics. 

(c) Special Classes: Classes for the blind, school for the deaf, school for crip- 
pled children, classes for mental defectives, open air classes, classes for 
tuberculous children. 

(d) Issuance of work permits. 

(e) Advisory capacity at preventorium (Children's Fresh Air Camp) and the 
Boys' Farm at Hudson. 

Medical Inspectors: 

There were at the time of this investigation twenty-one school inspectors with a total 
registration, in the elementary schools and junior highs, of 103,272 for 1919-1920. This 
allows one medical inspector to each five thousand pupils. These inspectors give part time, 
or from 9 a. m. to noon five days a week. The qualifications for this position have not 
been standardized, other than that a degree in medicine is required. The director inter- 
views the candidates personally and uses his judgment as to the applicants' suitability for 
the work. The chief incentive of many of the force is interest in the work rather than 
the salary paid, which is low. Each inspector is responsible directly to the director, as 
there is no assistant director. Each follows a schedule which has been prepared at the 
central office and provides for a visit by a doctor or nurse to each school practically 
every day. The inspector may not visit each school assigned him oftener than one to 
three times a week, as each doctor has from six to nine schools under his supervision. 

At these school visits the doctor's routine is as follows: 

1. Inspection of all children who have been selected and referred by the 
teachers as possible cases of illness. 

2. Routine physical examination of pupils. The physical examination is in 
reality an inspection. It seems to be fairly competent as far as examina- 
tion of teeth, tonsils and eyes is concerned, but the rest of the examination 
is casual and hurried, and heart, lungs, joints, musculature and hearing 
are examined only in special instances. Children are not undressed, nor 
are height and weight recorded. Apparently no investigation is made as 
to the health habits of the children, nor is any advice in general health 
habits given at the time of the medical inspection. It is evident that 
the so-called "physical examination" of the children is of a superficial 
type and that it cannot be considered either thorough or satisfactory. In 
fact, it does not warrant the name "physical examination," for in many 



290 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



instances it seems to amount to little more than a casual inspection, cer- 
tainly not thorough enough to discover physical defects except those of the 
most obvious types. 

Plans are under way to adopt the recommendation of the Survey to 
improve radically this department. 

School Nurses: 

There are about thirty school nurses and each has under her supervision approxi- 
mately three thousand school children. School nurses have the following duties: 

1. To assist the medical inspectors in the physical examination of children. 

2. To inspect all pupils, by rooms. This is done usually after the summer, 
Christmas and Easter vacations, when the children are inspected, a roomful 
at a time, by the doctor and nurse for signs of communicable diseases. 
Once a month the nurses make similar inspections, devoting from seven 
to ten minutes to an entire roomful of children. 

3. To secure correction of physical defects found in the physical examina- 
tions by means of 

(a) Notices and messages to parents. 

(b) Consultations with parents at the schools. 

(c) Visits to homes. 

. , 4. To maintain a dispensary hour in each school for treatments, dressings, 
emergencies and inspection of children returning to school after exclusion. 
5. To give health talks to individual pupils and to classes in classrooms. 

/. Assisting the Doctors in Physical Examinations: 

In assisting the doctors in physical examination of school children, the work of the 
nurses is distinctly clerical in character. A large proportion of her time is thus taken 
from strictly nursing duties and the results obtained do not justify the use of nurses for 
the purpose. 

2. Inspection of Pupils in Classrooms: 

The nurses spend an entire hour or more each school day making classroom inspection s 
of the children for the purpose of detecting communicable diseases. On account of the 
preoccupation of the nurses with other duties, even this necessarily superficial inspection 
can be repeated only at intervals of about four weeks. In the intervals the teachers must 
be relied upon to notice symptoms and refer children to the nurses for proper care. 

3. Correction of Physical Defects: 

In Cleveland at present much time is given to finding defects and recommending 
treatment; little time is given to seeing that those defects are remedied and the child's 
mode of living and home surroundings are improved. Reliance is placed largely on the 
sending of notification to the parents and having parents' consultations at school. The 
correction of physical defects and the elimination of those home, school and personal 
environmental conditions which may cause physical defects are among the most impor- 
tant activities of the school nurses, yet at the present time the unsatisfactory results of 
the methods used are apparent from the report of the Department of Medical Inspection 
for the school year 1917-1918, where it is shown that although 32,918 children were found 
to have physical defects, only 38.1 % f these are reported as having been corrected. It 
is, moreover, striking to note that, according to the table of defects found and corrected, 



\ |'IM.U\\I H>U <'niM> HKVLTH 



corrections were almost all of the most obvious defects those of teeth, tonsils and eyes 
while those defects listed as anemia, scoliosis, poor nutrition, defects of the extremities, 
chorea, chest defects, discharging nose, cardiac disease, goitre and discharging ears a 
total of 1,213 cases showed only five corrected. Tor the 32,918 children found defec- 
tive, the nurses had only 6,397 consultations with parents, with possible duplications 
included in this number, and made only 9,010 visits to the homes, thus visiting fewer 
than one out of every three defective children found. This small number should be in part 
ascribed to the fact that the nurses assisted in a very large number of vaccinations dur- 
ing the year, over 45,000 as against approximately 16,000 in the next year. The figures 
contained in the report of the Department of Medical Inspection for 1918-1919 show an 
improvement in the correction of defects; 32,747 defects were found and 14,295 or 43.6% 
were corrected. It is clearly evident that the essential follow-up work to obtain proper 
care and treatment for these children is almost wholly lacking. It is of no practical value 
to discover physical defects in children simply for the gathering of statistical data. The 
true test of efficiency in the matter of preventing and correcting physical defects in 
children is not the number found but the number which receive proper medical and 
health care. It is evident that neglect of this important work is due to the use of the 
nurses in so many other duties and to the fact that, with the limited staff, there is little 
time left for making home visits. 

An important innovation in the field of preventive medicine and remedy of physical 
defects has been made in the schools of Cleveland following the demonstration of success 
in the schools of Akron, Ohio; namely, the detection and abatement of enlarged thyroid 
glands among the girls of 10 years and over. The detection is simple, by direct inspection 
supplemented by palpation to verify the presence of the residual stalk and the central 
body as well as the lateral lobes. Enlargement is found in about 80' ,' of the girls of 10 
years and over, unless they have had specific treatment under their family physician. 
The reduction of the glandular enlargement to normal size is easily accomplished by the 
use of small doses of iodide of soda in aqueous solution for a week or ten days in the fal 1 
and in the spring of the year until the age of 16. The advice is given on a printed slip 
as follows: 



Division of Medical Inspection and Physical Education 
BOARD OF EDUCATION, CLEVELAND, OHIO 

To the Parents of Bearer: 

Cleveland is located in a goiterous district. About one-third of our 
girls in the public schools above the age of ten years have some degree of 
enlargement of their thyroid glands or simple goiter. 

The expenditure of a trifling sum yearly will prevent this affection. 
Three grains of Iodide of Soda taken in a glass of water once a day for ten days 
in the fall and again in the spring will prevent goiter. This treatment should 
be carried out yearly between the ages of 11 and 16 years. 

Director, 

Medical Inspection Department. 

TAKE THIS HOME 



292 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

That surgical treatment, nutritional, circulatory, nervous and cosmetic defects are 
thus avoided for these children in the future by such corrective medicinal treatment can 
hardly be doubted. The inconvenience of residence in the goiter ous region on the great 
glacial plateau is easily remedied by an intelligent application of the facts established by 
physiological research. The school children of Cleveland owe much to the studies made 
in this field by Dr. Marine in particular and by others whose contributions to science in 
the field of physiological chemistry, clinical medicine and physiology have built up the 
facts upon which education and specific treatment are now based. 

4. Maintenance of Dispensary Hour at Each School: 

Nearly half the nurse's time is spent in dispensary work. This consists in assisting 
the doctor in his physical examinations, inspecting children and doing emergency dress- 
ings and treatments. This seems to be a high percentage of time for this work, and a great 
part of it is not properly part of the nurse's duties or of the school health service. The 
use of nurses for this clerical work absorbs a large proportion of their time and takes them 
away from their essential school duties. The treatment of minor illnesses and injuries 
takes a great deal of time and should properly be carried out at dispensaries located out- 
side the school buildings. The use of nurses for this work for practically half the day 
reduces the efficiency of the school health work to a marked degree. 

5. Health Talks to Individual Pupils and to Classes in Classrooms: 

While the nurses are supposed to give individual health talks to the pupils, it is evi- 
dent that the dispensary work* is so hurried as to render this impossible. As a general 
rule, the talks given are of a very hasty and superficial character, and it is doubtful whether 
they make any very lasting impression upon the children. In addition, the fact that the 
talk is given to the child in school and not made the subject of a follow-up visit to the 
home, where also the parent or guardian may be talked to, would seem to render these 
talks of but little value. 

As to the health talks to classes in classrooms, there is always a difference of opinion 
as to whether they should be given by people who know how to teach but who are not 
necessarily experts in the subject matter, or by persons who are experts in the subject 
matter but who do not know how to teach. It would seem as though nurses generally 
come under the latter classification. In the talks on health subjects given by the nurses 
in the classrooms, a wide variation of ability is shown. Some of the nurses are quite 
competent to teach the subject, while others, although knowing their subject well, do not 
know how to teach. The present unstandardized, ungraded and unsystematic methods 
tend to diminish the value of these talks. 

Field Nurses: 

Supervising nurses in Cleveland are called "field nurses." The spirit, intentions 
and desires are excellent and their ideas seem to be good. There are, however, too 
few of them to enable them to visit the staff or school nurses at sufficiently frequent 
intervals. Because of the unusual outside demands made on these nurses during the 
past year, the present average of visits was only two in a year. Last year several of the 
school nurses were not visited at all by the field nurses. It is evident that the question 
of proper supervision is not clearly understood and this is one of the most serious weak- 
nesses in the system. The results are evident in the nurses' work, which has tended to 
become routine in character, often lacking in originality, in vision, in social spirit and in 



i <>K Cini.i) UK \LTH 



grasp of opportunity. These nurses are performing their duties conscientiously, but 
without imagination. It is felt that their work could be improved if more time could be 
devoted to their supervision. 

Junior Health Worker*: 

These employes, of a type which seems unique to the city of Cleveland, are giving 
excellent results. They are well educated women of 'an unusually high type, and have 
relieved the nurses of much routine work, in attending the doctor during physical examina- 
tions, in making efforts to obtain correction for dental defects, and taking children to 
dispensa-ies. These junior health workers are paid one hundred dollars per month. They 
are not under civil service regulations but are, in general, women of excellent training, 
college graduates, and their opportunities could be increased and their sphere of usefulness 
greatly extended with resultant advantage to the system. 

Clinical Facilities: 

There are certain clinical facilities available in the schools: 

1. Emergency treatment in the dispensaries. 

2. Dental clinics. These are held in six schools for half of each school day. 
The work is mainly on first and second grade children. Older children are 
sent to their own dentists or to the dental college clinic. 

3. Eye clinics. There are two eye clinics, one on the east side at Brownell 
School and the other on the west side. In addition, there is a trachoma 
clinic in the Murray Hill School. 

Nose, throat, ear, skin and orthopedic cases are sent to private phy- 
sicians, hospitals or clinics. 

Facilities for dentistry and the treatment of abnormal eye conditions are inadequate. 
In this respect, however, Cleveland is as well equipped as most cities in the country. The 
value of dental clinics, particularly for prophylactic work and oral hygiene, has not been 
widely recognized in the past. Plans have been made by the Department of Medical 
Inspection to increase greatly this branch of the work during the coming year by the 
appointment of capable assistants to the school dentists and by training them as dental 
hygienists. Also, there can be no criticism of the maintenance of special clinics for the 
treatment of trachoma. The Department lacks the services of an oculist to guide policies 
and supervise trachoma work. That is a contagious disease and its elimination is dis- 
tinctly a function of the city authorities. 

Special Classes: 

1. Open Air Classes. There are nineteen fresh air rooms in various schools, 
caring for about two hundred and seventy pupils. In some districts the 
fresh air classes can take care of practically all applicants, but, in general, 
there are always more pupils than can be accommodated. These classes 
care for anemic and sickly children and those exposed to tuberculosis. 
Even limiting the attendance to cases of these types, it is clearly evident 
that the present fresh air classes are wholly inadequate to care for the chil- 
dren who are in urgent need of this type of care. 

Admission to these classes is decided upon by the doctors and nurses who 
go through the classes and, with the cooperation of the teachers, pick out 



294 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



children who are considered to need this kind of treatment. The children 
selected include those who are lagging and are not doing well and those 
who come from home with insufficient food. Each child receives a com- 
plete physical examination before admission to the class. Underweight 
and malnutrition are considered to be sufficiently evident, without weigh- 
ing, as scales are not provided by the Board of Education. 

The health routine in the fresh air classes is under the control of the Direc- 
tor of the Department of School Medical Inspection. This official does not 
appoint the teachers, however, but acts in an advisory capacity to them. 
The nurse takes the temperature of the children in these rooms twice a 
month. If the temperature is over ninety-nine degrees in any case, she 
takes it every day until it returns to normal. She tries to have the chil- 
dren weighed once a month. A loss of two and a half pounds is reported 
to the doctor. All possible efforts are made to have physical defects cor- 
rected. 

As far as possible, these children have a rest period of at least twenty 
minutes during the noon hour and additional rest periods are provided for 
individual pupils when, in the judgment of the school doctor, such rest is 
deemed necessary. Cots are provided by the Board of Education for 
these rest periods. Physical exercise for these children includes only 
light gymnastics and games, with much emphasis on deep breathing. 

Children in the open air classes receive a lunch twice a day, consisting of 
milk, cocoa, graham crackers, furnished by the Federated Women's 
Clubs and the Board of Education jointly. 

2. School for the Deaf. One school for the deaf is maintained. In this 
school seventeen teachers care for about two hundred and fifty pupils. 
Children are referred to the school by the school doctors when they find 
cases of markedly defective hearing. Children with slight defects of this 
kind or whose defects are under treatment usually are kept in their regular 
classes. The present facilities would seem to be adequate, both in 
quality and in their provision for the number of children needing this 
kind of care. 

3. Classes for the Blind. There are classes for the blind in twelve different 
schools. The Department of School Medical Inspection selects the chil- 
dren for these classes. In addition, a number of sight-saving classes are 
maintained. A child is sent to a sight-saving class when it is felt that 
the ordinary routine of school work would damage its eyesight. These chil- 
dren receive a complete physical examination. Routine inspection is 
also made in these classes. It would seem that the provisions for caring 
for this class of cases are adequate. 

4. School for Crippled Children. While a special school for crippled children 
is maintained, there is always a waiting list for entrance and the authori- 
ties have recognized the need for increasing the facilities. Children are 
referred to this school by the medical inspectors. Canvass is made also 
of all schools in the city for children who should receive this type of treat- 
ment. Busses are provided by the Board of Education for transporting 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HKALTH 295 

these children to and from their homes and to and from the dispensaries. 
It is evident that the facilities are inadequate and that this work should 
be extended. It is planned to build a new school especially adapted to 
the needs of these children. 

5. Classes for Correction of Speech Defects. Eighty-one classes for correction 
of speech defects, with an enrollment of 1,182 pupils, are maintained. Pro- 
vision for the correction of these defects by class instruction seems to be 
adequate. 

6. Nutrition Classes. Special nutrition classes have been established in two 
schools. However, the work applies only to a small number of pupils and 
is intensive in character. As is well known, the causes of undernourish- 
ment are many and complex, and intensive work, taking each child indi- 
vidually and giving it unusual care, undoubtedly gives the best results. 
At the same time, it must be remembered that undernourishment is one 
of the most extensive and serious diseases met with during child life. The 
statistics for many cities and for the country at large show that twenty to 
twenty-five per cent of the children of school age suffer from some degree 
of malnutrition. It is stated that plans are under way for extension of 
the special nutrition work throughout the schools. 

7. Provision for Mental Hygiene. Thirty schools have classes for mentally 
defective children. This subject is dealt with in the special report on 
Mental Hygiene, Part VI. 

8. Cardiac Classes. There is no provision for children with cardiac disease. 
The need of special provision for the cardiac child in and out of school is 
described in the chapter dealing with this problem, Part II. 

School Dispensaries: 

Each school is provided with a so-called "dispensary" where emergency treatments 
are given for minor injuries or ailments. In these school dispensaries, emphasis is laid 
upon corrective rather than upon preventive health work or health education. 

Conferences: 

Doctors meet every two weeks with the Director of the Department. At these meet- 
ings papers on the Schick test, goitre, contagious diseases and so forth, are read and 
discussed. The nurses meet each week. The whole group meets from time to time for 
special lectures. To help the nurses special courses are given, tuition free, at the Summer 
Session of the Normal School. 

Health Records: 

The health records of the children are deficient. Neither the nurses nor the doctors 
keep these records filled in properly and many of the cards do not show the essential points 
which would be of value in determining the type of health care the child needs. At the 
present time the cards do not seem to serve any useful purpose. Such records, however, 
should be one of the most important features of a well-organized system of school health 
supervision. A cumulative record card, having on it the social history, physical examina- 
tion and follow-up, is being prepared by a committee of the Department of School Medical 
Inspection. The child's individual record is kept in the classroom. It is very brief and 



296 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

tells little of what has been done for the child. The doctor's orders are entered on this 
card, but the work done by the nurse is usually, although not always, entered on the cor- 
rection slip in her file. Home visits are recorded on still another card, so that any effort 
to check the nurse's accomplishment against the doctor's recommendations is almost 
hopeless. The individual health records of the children are kept on the teacher's desk. 
They are supposed to keep the teacher informed of the children's physical condition. 
These records follow the children from class to class, together with the school records. 
The teachers seem uninterested, however, because nothing appears on these records that 
would give them a clear idea of the children's physical condition. 

The nurses have a habit of using the ordinary correction slips for making notes of 
home visits. This method is extremely bad, as it does not make for permanency and 
there is absolutely no way in which such records can be made the basis of analysis of work 
done and results obtained. The absence of monthly reports of the work of the nurses is 
also a factor in making it difficult to show what she has actually accomplished. It is 
doubtful whether any of the nurses have any idea of the amount of work they do every 
month and the amount that is left undone because of the number of children handled. 

Neglect of Statistics in Regard to Physical Defects. 

In common with most systems of school medical inspection, particular emphasis 
is laid upon the number of defects found and the number corrected. In this regard, how- 
ever, the records of Cleveland are not complete. It is evident that results obtained in 
cases of physical defects are not recorded on many of the cards. It is impossible, there- 
fore, to state the actual percentage of corrections obtained. Of two hundred cards studied 
it was found that 15.2% of the defects found were recorded as corrected. The report of 
the Department of School Medical Inspection, however, states that 38.1% of the defects 
found were corrected. This discrepancy is obviously due to incompleteness in the records 
as available to the investigator. 

Supervision of Control of Communicable Diseasest 

Although minor complaints have been recorded about the failure of nurses to take 
cultures in cases of sore throat, there is no evidence to show that the doctors and nurses 
of the Department of Medical Inspection are not carrying on the work with reference to 
the control of communicable diseases in a satisfactory manner. There seems to be good 
cooperation between the Department of School Medical Inspection of the Board of Edu- 
cation and the Division of Health in this particular and the present regulations, if enforced, 
are adequate to protect the children and the public. 

2. Physical Training: 

The Department of Physical Training has charge of the physical training of children, 
their exercise and athletics. In addition', it makes a certain number of physical examina- 
tions of children in the junior high schools and in the high schools. There is no definite 
cooperation or coordination of this work with the Department of School Medical Inspec- 
tion. Plans are under way for the coordination of these two departments. School 
medical inspection, as it is commonly understood, does not exist in the high schools. It 
is stated that all pupils, before they are admitted to the physical training classes in the 
high schools and junior high schools are examined by the teachers of physical training. 
This examination covers heart, lungs, eyes, back, weight, etc. It is stated, however, 



A I'KIM.IMM K'K Ciin.i) Ih:\LTH 



that not nearly all the girls have been examined. The elementary school health records 
do not follow the children into the junior high schools or the high schools; therefore they 
are not used by the Department of Physical Training. 

3. Health Education: 

At the present time this work is carried on in the following ways: 

(a) Through occasional classroom talks on health topics given by nurses of 
the Department of School Medical Inspection. 

(b) Through individual instruction of the children in the schools by physi- 
cians and nurses of the Department of School Medical Inspection. 

(c) Through instruction by the nurses, in the seventh and eighth grades, on 
the subject of care of babies. 

(d) The curriculum in the grammar grades provides for two forty-minute 
periods a week in physiology and hygiene. No material is provided 
the teachers for giving this course. 

(e) There is instruction in the high schools in physiology, botany, cooking, 
chemistry, social problems and physical training. These courses, 
except physical training, are elective. 

In actual practice, according to conferences held with various teachers and principals 
little or no work in hygiene is carried out in the elementary schools. The whole matter 
depends upon the initiative of the individual teachers. In the seventh and eighth grades 
an outline has been provided, but the teachers are not obliged to follow it, and in the cases 
of the teachers with whom the matter was discussed, very little of it had been used. Many 
of the principals and teachers stated that they are eager to have definite material furnished 
them from which a course in child hygiene could be given. In the high schools, the work 
of health education, while claimed to be thorough, does not seem to be standardized. It 
is stated that points on personal hygiene and sanitation are covered more by chance than 
premeditation, that correlation between the teaching departments is weak, and that it is 
difficult to tell how much overlapping of courses exists. The general feeling among the 
teachers seemed to be that there is great need for a standardized hygiene outline some- 
thing systematic, clear and concise. 

Examination of Teachers: 

Each teacher's contract contains a requirement that she shall receive a physical ex- 
amination. The Director of the Department of School Medical Inspection stated that 
the teachers and custodians had a thorough physical examination two years ago, given 
partly by the school physicians and partly by outside physicians of the city. He stated 
also that no examination has been made or is contemplated of other employees of the 
Board of Education, but that, in his opinion, such a procedure would be desirable and that 
there should be a physical examination of teachers at least every year. 

4. Sanitary Supervision: 

Sanitary supervision in the schools is primarily under the Department of Buildings. 
This department is directly responsible to the Director of Schools or the Chief of the Serv- 
vice Department of the Board of Education. The actual work is carried out by a group 
of employes known as "custodians," who are responsible to the supervising custodians, 
who, in turn, report directly to the Director of Buildings. Various sanitary standards for 



298 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



sweeping, dusting, care of water closets and drinking fountains, provision of soap and 
towels, control of temperature and ventilation of classrooms, have been outlined by the 
Board of Education. The Director of Buildings states that the supervising custodians 
try to make sanitary inspections of the schools twice a month, and that some buildings 
which give a good deal of trouble are visited more frequently. 

(a) Ventilation: 

While the operation of the ventilating systems is placed under the control of the 
custodians, the law of the state determines the type of ventilation that must be used. It 
is stated that there are old-fashioned gravity heat and open window ventilation in sixty 
to seventy schools. There is shut window, forced draft ventilation, which is the policy 
of the department in all new plants, in fifteen to twenty schools. Not more than eight or 
ten schools have provision for humidification. One school has air washers. When the 
mechanically operated systems are working the windows in the schools cannot be opened 
without interfering with the ventilating systems. 

Open Window vs. Mechanical Methods of Venlilalion. Proof is available that children 
in open air classrooms or children in classrooms ventilated by open windows will increase 
in weight and strength, that conditions of undernourishment may be overcome and sound 
health re-established and that respiratory diseases may be prevented if children receive 
the advantages of such care. In view of these established facts, it is difficult to under- 
stand why fresh air in abundance, by means of open window ventilation, is not made 
available in all classrooms. From the economic point of view, the establishment of open 
window ventilation is not only possible but desirable. Official statements have been 
made that the cost of any school building in Cleveland will average $30,000.00 per class- 
room. It has been stated by sanitary engineers that the cost of installing heating and 
ventilating plants in school buildings amounts to fifteen per cent of the cost of construc- 
tion. The main objection that has been raised against the open window system of ventila- 
tion is the increased amount of heat required and the consequent expense for additional 
fuel. It may be estimated that the approximate cost of the ventilating plant is seven and 
a half per cent of the total cost of construction of the building. If the cost of each class 
room is $30,000.00, it may be seen that, in addition to the ordinary appropriations for fuel, 
there would be a sum amounting to $2,250.00, available for extra fuel before the total cost 
of the classroom ventilated by open window ventilation would reach the estimated cost of 
the room ventilated by artificial means. From the point of view of health, open window 
classrooms are essential. The cost is not excessive and in all probability it is not greater 
than the present cost of school maintenance. 

(6) General Construction. 

The regulations governing general construction of classrooms require that sixteen 
square feet of floor space be allowed for each child. The color of the walls and ceilings is 
a standard soft gray. Maple flooring is required to be used in new classrooms, and tiles 
in corridors. In new buildings these regulations have been complied with, but they are 
not common in old buildings. 

(c) Temperature. 

Each classroom is supposed to be equipped with a thermometer, but no provision has 
been made for systematic testing of the thermometers, and the reporting of variations of 
temperatures is very generally left to the principals. A temperature of sixty-five to sixty- 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HEALTH 



eight degrees is recommended. In many instances investigated, however, the temperature 
was found to be distinctly above this standard. Upon inspection in various schools the 
temperature was found to be as follows: 

Total Number of 

Temperature Classrooms Per Cent 

Under 70 degrees F. 14 20.9 

70 degrees F. 19 28.3 

71 degrees F. 2 2.9 

72 degrees F. 11 16.4 

73 degrees F. 7 10.4 

74 degrees F. 11 16.4. 

75 degrees F. 1 1.5 

76 degrees F. 2 2.9 

Total ................................................ 67 

Outside temperature was forty-five degrees F. when forty-three of these temperatures 
were recorded, forty-nine degrees F. when three were read, forty-three degrees F. when 
nine were read, twenty-nine degrees F. when seven were read and thirty-eight degrees F. 
when five were read. 

Principals, nurses, physicians and custodians interviewed seemed more or less inter- 
ested in the temperature, reporting that "they looked at the thermometer when in the room," 
but no regular inspection of the thermometers in the rooms was found to be provided 
for. Responsibility for the temperature of the room seems to lie between the teacher 
and the custodian, and is a more or less constant source of friction. 

(</) Lighting: 

The state law requires that the relation of window space to floor .area in classrooms 
shall be as 5 to 21. In the construction of new buildings, rooms are lighted from the 
left or from the left and rear. Window shades are of a new standard type, matching 
the indoor paint. Plans are in preparation for improving the lighting of rooms now in- 
adequately lighted. In rooms where the lighting is artificial, the system is semi-indirect, 
allowing six hundred watts per room with two candle power on desks. 

(e) Seating: 

While seating adjustments in classrooms are taken care of by the custodians at the 
request of the principals, inspections and requests for special adjustments are supposed to 
be made both by teachers and by the Department of School Medical Inspection. About 
fifty per cent of the schools are equipped with adjustable seats. Forty per cent of these 
schools have what are known as "shifting" classes, so that the seats are not continuously 
occupied by the same pupils. 



300 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(/) Cubic Air Capacity: 

The state law covers the distribution of cubic air capacity and floor space. The 
number of children allowed in a room about 24 x 28 is now forty-two (eighteen square feet 
per capita). The ordinary system of ventilation allows for changing the air in these class- 
rooms six times per hour. This change of air is recorded by a meter which is checked up 
by the Department of Buildings. Inspection of the proper functioning of the ventilating 
system, to check up the required number of changes of air per hour, is made by the super- 
vising custodians. 

(g) Blackboards: 

In new schools blackboards are generally adjusted in height according to the age of 
the child. These adjustments have not been completed, however, and at the present 
time a number of schools still need to have their blackboards replaced at the proper heights. 

(A) Cleaning: 

Definite rules are given to the custodians with regard to sweeping, dusting, window- 
washing, scrubbing, etc. Thorough inspections as to cleaning are made in September, 
at Christmas and in the spring. The custodians are supposed to visit classrooms at least 
once a month, and more often if conditions warrant. Five or six schools are equipped with 
vacuum cleaning systems. 

(i) Drinking Facilities: 

All schools are equipped with drinking fountains, but not every school has as many 
fountains as the number of children requires. Practically all these fountains are located 
in basements. They are of standard type, with pressure jet. In the type of fountain used, 
the flow of water through the outlets can be regulated to the water pressure, but in many 
cases the fountains investigated did not have sufficient force to obviate the danger of com- 
municating disease. In some of the fountains seen the force was scarcely sufficient to 
carry the water over the side of the nozzle. The greatest force in any fountain seen was 
only sufficient to raise a stream about two and one-half inches. All fountains seen were 
vertical in type. Some had a continuous stream, while in others it was necessary to turn 
on the water. It was impossible to place any responsibility for the control of the condi- 
tion of these fountains, although the matter of adjustment of the proper functioning of 
the fountains as to pressure and cleanliness is supposed to be left to the custodian of the 
building. 

Summary of Drinking Fountains Inspected 

Number Inspected Height of Water Per Cent 

9 Practically no force 12.7 

6 M in. 8.4 

16 % in. 22.6 

12 % in. 16.9 

5 1 in. 7.0 

8 '^in. 11.3 

5 2 in. 7.0 

10 2^ in. 14.0" 



71 XflPK. 99.9 




A I'KIM.KAM FOK ('IIII.D HI.M.III 301 

It will be seen that only twenty-one per cent, or about one-fifth, of all the fountains 
had a force of two inches or over, which the Department of Buildings gave as the standard 
to be achieved, and certainly desirable in the interest of health protection. 

(/) Toilets: 

One toilet is allowed for each fifteen girls and one for each twenty-five boys. The 
number now provided is below the standard required by the state law. Inspection of the 
toilets is made by the Department of School Medical Inspection once a month, and some 
physicians also stated that they made periodic investigations. Other physicians stated 
that they had no responsibility in the matter. No report of conditions found is registered 
unless complaint is made. Unsatisfactory conditions are reported either to the custodian, 
the principal or to the Department of School Medical Inspection. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 
School Medical Inspection in Parochial and Private Schoolt: 

Parochial School*: Provision should be made, either in the budget of the 
Division of Health or through private contribution, for immediate extension 
of the school medical inspection service to all parochial school children in the 
city of Cleveland. There are now about thirty-five thousand children in attend- 
ance at these schools. If the city cannot appropriate sufficient funds at the 
present time, it would be very desirable if the parochial school authorities could 
undertake the work themselves, but, ultimately, it should be carried on by the 
Division of Health. It is evident that the type of health supervision which has been 
shown to be so essential for children in the public schools must be equally essential and 
desirable for children in the other free schools of the city. Their needs in this respect 
should no longer be neglected, nor should there be any discrimination practised in the 
matter of health supervision against any group of children who are receiving instruction 
in any schools. 

Private Schools: In discussing the question of health of school children, a 
point has arisen which may not be considered within the scope of this particular 
inquiry, nevertheless, as the health of all children of the city of Cleveland must 
be considered in any adequate program for child hygiene, it is recommended that 
rules and regulations be drawn up by the Division of Health for the sanitation 
and hygiene of the private schools of the city, and that standard methods of health 
supervision be devised, also, in cooperation with the private school authorities, 
and that they be put into effect in the private schools under the auspices and at 
the expense of the schools in question. 

School Medical Inspection in Public Schools: 

Much of the work carried on for the health of the children in the public schools of 
Cleveland is of an extremely high type and warrants commendation. The present form 
of organization, however, is a great drawback to the efficiency of the work and, in addi- 
tion, there are numerous points in canhoettWl w > tr tne various types of work where changes 

/ '"\ 

I f 



302 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

are indicated. Lack of coordination of the different types of health work is a serious 
detriment. There are many points of overlapping of function. For instance, the cus- 
todians are responsible for the sanitary and hygienic maintenance of the school buildings, 
yet it is apparent that control of proper ventilation, adjustment of seats, attention to 
drinking fountains and toilets, and general sanitary surveys, with adjustment of com- 
plaints, are left to the sporadic attention of teachers, doctors and nurses. This neglect 
to fix definite responsibility and to have well-directed, central control is manifest through- 
out the system. 

In order that the health of children of school age in Cleveland may receive adequate 
protection, the following program of reorganization, readjustment and the addition of 
new activities is suggested: 

Organization: 

There should be coordination of all services dealing with health; that is, 
the Department of School Medical Inspection and the Department of Physical 
Training, the Department of Sanitary Supervision and the teaching of health 
education should be under the control of a single individual, an assistant super- 
intendent of schools. This employe should be a full-time employe, preferably 
a physician, at a suitable salary. The department might be called the "Depart- 
ment of Health Supervision of School Children." The director of this depart- 
ment should be in full charge, and there should be two Assistant Directors, one 
in charge of the work of school medical inspection and one in charge of physical 
training. The Director of School Custodians should be under the jurisdiction of 
the Director of Health Supervision of School Children, and the control of subject 
matter for health education should be placed with the Bureau of School Medical 
Inspection. 

Specific recommendations are offered as follows: 
School Medical Inspection: 

1. Personnel: 

The number of school medical inspectors should be increased so that there 
is one doctor for every three thousand children. There should be included on 
the staff an oculist who would act as consultant in regard to trachoma cases. 
The number of nurses should be increased so that there is one nurse for every two 
thousand children. The number of junior health workers should be increased 
so that there is one for each nurse. 

2. Duties: 

(a) Duties of School Doctors: 
1. Sanitary Surveys: 

At the beginning of each term the school doctor should make a complete 
sanitary survey of each school under his jurisdiction. This survey should be fol- 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HEALTH 303 

lowed up by a report outlining condition* of sanitation and hygiene found in 
each school and classroom, calling attention to any changes or readjustment* 
to be made or new equipment or replacements necessary in order to maintain the 
classrooms in a wholly hygienic and sanitary condition. Comment should be 
made also upon the nature of the routine supervision of the hygienic and sani- 
tary condition of the school building and classrooms. These reports should be 
made out on a standard form and, when completed, should go to the Director 
of the Department and by him be transmitted to the supervising custodian for 
adjustment. The latter should thereupon see that the matters complained of 
are adjusted, then report back to the Director of the Department of Health Super- 
vision of School Children. 

2. Physical Examination: 

Physical examination should be made by the school doctors of all pupils in 
the schools in the following order: 

(a) Children entering school for the first time. 

(6) Children specially referred by teachers or nurses. 

(c) Children in the third grade. 

(</) Children in the sixth grade. 

It is realized that this outline is a marked departure from the present practice, but unless 
the number of physicians employed can be increased sufficiently to warrant such a course, 
no attempt should be made to give the children a physical examination each year. With 
the present staff such an examination must be superficial and of little value. If only a 
small appropriation can be made available, it should be devoted entirely to the children 
of the earlier age groups. Extensive investigations have shown that the number of physical 
defects found in school children reach their height in the ten to twelve year period. Exami- 
nation of 356,000 children, with a tabulation of the physical defects found, by type, age 
and sex is shown on the "graph" which follows. It is evident that the time to deal with phy- 
sical defects is when they first appear or when they are increasing in frequency. Until this 
period of life can be cared for in an adequate manner, it cannot be considered a proper 
expenditure of public funds to make examinations of children whose defects are decreas- 
ing in number, and on whom the damage caused by previous defects has already made a 
definite impression. It cannot be stated too strongly that the time when children need 
the prevention, detection and correction of physical defects is in the very early age periods, 
that is, under ten years of age, and unless provision can be made for making the present 
type of physical examination more adequate, the recommendations made above as to the 
routine physical examinations should be carried out. 

In a properly organized system of school medical inspection, the nurse's routine 
inspection of all pupils in the classrooms once a month should detect any cases of physical 
defects that need attention. This class of cases is referred to under subdivision (b) above, 
and with the regular physical examination three times during the school life of the child, 
in addition to an immediate physical examination of every child who is found to have any 
physical defect or who needs attention in any way, it should be practically impossible 



304 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



for children to reach the upper grades in school life and still be found to have physical 
defects which interfere with their health or progress. It is recommended that the physical 
examination cover the following points: 

(a) Palpation of cervical glands and thyroid gland. 

(6) Thorough inspection of posture, with palpation of scapulae, 

chest and hips, also testing of poise. 
(c) Testing of hearing, right and left ears separately, with watch. 

"Graph" of Incidence of Physical Defects in School Children by Age Periods and Sex 



Age 



8-10 10-12 12-14 



16 Age 



MALE 



FEMALE 




A I'UIM.KVM H>K ('IIII.D HKAI.HI 



(/) Testing of vision. 

(e) Taking of height and weight. 

(/) Examination of nutrition. 

(g) Examination, preferably without shoes, for flat feet. 

(h) Examination of heart. 

(i) Examination of lungs in all cases. 

Re-examinations should be made of all children after treatment has been 
provided for the correction of physical defects. Record should be made on the 
child's physical record card of its condition at this time. If it is evident that the 
treatment has not been effective, further follow-up work should be carried on 
and no child should be finally discharged until its defect has received adequate 
attention. 

Special Examination of the Heart: 

Special examination should be made of the heart of each child who has been 
absent on account of diphtheria, tonsilitis, measles or scarlet fever. 

3. Health Conferences: 

The school doctors should hold frequent health conferences with the chil- 
dren. They should give them individual instruction in the care of their health. 
Whenever possible, they should induce the mothers to be present at the time 
the children are physically examined so that conference may be had with both 
mother and child. 

4. Emergency Treatments: 

The medical inspectors should carry out only such emergency treatments 
as may be absolutely essential, and thereafter children so treated should be 
referred to their private physicians, hospitals or dispensaries for the necessary 
care. 

5. Instruction of Teachers: 

The medical inspectors should, by means of group conferences and indi- 
vidual talks, instruct all teachers of the classes under their supervision in methods 
of detecting symptoms and signs of illness in children, with particular reference 
to infectious diseases as well as the early symptoms of physical defects or any 
signs of ill health. These conferences should be repeated at sufficiently frequent 
intervals so that there may be no doubt as to the teachers carrying out the in- 
structions they have received. 

6. School Visits: 

Each school under the supervision of the medical inspector should be visited 
by him at least three times a week. At each visit, in addition to attending to 



306 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

his other duties, he should consult with the nurses to determine whether the 
matters under his jurisdiction are being cared for in an adequate manner. 

(6) Duties of the School Nurses: 
The schools nurses should 

/. Be relieved at once of all clerical duties in connection with the physical 
examination of school children. Junior health workers should be used for the 
purpose of recording all essential data and assisting the doctors by doing the 
writing that is necessary. 

2. Have under her jurisdiction not more than two thousand children. 

3. Visit each school under her supervision each morning and examine all 
children referred by the teachers as suspected cases of infectious diseases, 
excluding indicated children from school attendance. 

4. Inspect all children who have been absent from school three days or 
more because of illness, to see that they are in proper condition to return to 
their classes. If they have been absent because of contagious disease, she should 
see that they have the proper certificates showing that they are no longer likely 
to spread infection. 

5. Hold school consultations with parents in cases where the children's 
physical condition needs readjustment. 

6. Have health conferences with individual pupils or groups of pupils. 
These conferences should not be superficial in character but should be distinctly 
health talks with the children, with careful consideration of the individual prob- 
lems of each child. Each health conference should be followed by a visit to the 
home, where the parent and child may be talked with together and the child's 
home environment adjusted where necessary. 

7. Devote at least half of each day to follow-up visits to the homes. The 
home environment should be studied and readjusted to the needs of the child. 
Matters of home ventilation, cleanliness, condition of toilets, proper disposal of 
refuse and all environmental matters likely to affect the health of the child should 
receive careful attention. In addition, the home routine and hygiene of the child 
should be outlined carefully so that the mother may follow it out in detail. 

8. Make every effort to see that the child receives appropriate treatment in 
all instances where physical defects exist. Such cases should be followed up 
carefully and frequent and sufficient home visits should be made to be sure that 
the child is receiving proper and adequate care and that its defects have been 
corrected, and that everything possible is being done to prevent the occurrence 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HEALTH 307 

of other physical defect*. Cases should not be terminated or considered closed 
until every effort has been made to see that the child is placed under proper 
conditions and has received the essential care. 

9. Make routine inspection of all children in their classrooms not less often 
than once a month to discover and refer to the doctor any contagious eye or skin 
disease, any symptoms of illness or any sign of physical defect. 

10. Consult with the teachers at frequent intervals regarding the condition 
of individual pupils and readjustment of classroom activities and environment 
for the benefit of the child. 

(c) Duties of Field or Supervising Nurses: 

I. The field nurses should be increased in number so that there will oe 
one to every ten staff nurses. They should 

(a) Hold conferences with the nurses under their jurisdiction at 
least once a week. Occasionally, some special speaker may be 
asked to address the nurses. At these conferences considera- 
tion should be given to case histories, the various individual 
problems confronting the nurses, criticisms of the service or 
suggestions for its improvement, and to matters pertaining to 
the proper conduct of the work. 

(6) Visif each nurse at her school at least once a week for the pur- 
pose of conferring with her upon all matters pertaining to the 
work. There should be inspiration and assistance as well as 
criticism given to the nurses on these visits. Routine investi- 
gation of records is not sufficient. The live, vital and manifest 
interest in the importance of the work carried on by the nurse 
and her ability to conserve the health of the children should 
receive first consideration. 

(c) Feel responsible in every way for the conduct of the work of the 
nurses under her jurisdiction. Because the efficiency of the 
work will depend very largely upon the type of supervision car- 
ried on, field nurses should be women of excellent training and 
broad social vision. They should have a genuine liking for 
public health work and for children, and should have executive 
ability and the power to inspire others. 

(d) Duties of Junior Health Workers: 

1. The number of junior health workers should be increased so that there 
will be one for each nurse. These employes should 



308 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(a) Assist the doctors in all physical examinations, make the neces- 
sary records, do all clerical work required and carry on whatever 
other functions may be indicated. 

(6) Assist the nurses in all their school duties. 

(c) Make home visits to children whose families have already been 
visited by the nurses. 

(c7) Take children to dispensaries or clinics for treatment. 

It is obvious that the position of junior health worker is one of increasing importance 
and that the duties cannot be strictly outlined at the present time. They may be extended 
and added to from time to time and the sphere of her usefulness greatly increased. 

3. Physical Defects: 

More emphasis should be placed upon the prevention rather than the correc- 
tion of physical defects. In order to do this the following recommendations 
are made: 

(a) There should be greater attention paid to the hygiene of the 
school building and its proper adjustment to the child's physical 
needs. 

(6) The nurses should make more home visits and at such home 
visits should pay particular attention to readjustment of 
environmental and other conditions which may have any rela- 
tion to the production of physical defects. The effect of home 
conditions in the preservation of health and prevention of 
disease should be a matter of careful study and well-thought- 
out attention. 

(c) More careful examination should be made to determine the 
presence of physical defects, particularly in their early stages 
and in the younger age groups. This early detection should lead 
to early correction, and in any case the physical examination 
should offer an opportunity for the type of health instruction 
which will prevent the occurrence of defects in the future. 

(</) The health records should be made a more integral part of the 
child's school life and should follow it from the baby health 
center, through the pre-school age, school age and high school 
or into industry. 

(e) The doctor and nurse should pay more attention to individual 
health talks with the children and to health instruction in the 



A PROGRAM FOR ('HII.D HKALTII :><! 

classrooms. The question whether health teaching or the teach- 
ing of hygiene it an academic function must be given careful 

consideration . 

4. Clinic Facilities: 
(a) Dental Clinic*: 

1. There should be more dental clinics and a* rapidly at possible pro- 
vision should be made for at least one dental clinic for each four schools. 
This number is given as the minimum for effective work. 

2. Not only should the present methods, which are based upon treating chil- 
dren of the first and second grades, be continued, but the work should be extended 
in the following manner: 

(a) An oral hygienist should be assigned to each school. The func- 
tion of these oral hygienists should be to examine and thoroughly 
clean the teeth of the children of the first and second grades at 
least once each term, to chart out all dental defects and refer such 
children to their family dentists for proper treatment. If treat- 
ment is not obtained, the children should be referred to the 
school dentists. The oral hygienists should also assist the 
dentists in every way possible, conduct tooth brush drills and 
give talks on dental subjects to the children in the classrooms. 
After a child has once been placed under the care of a dental 
hygienist, it should be required to report at least once each 
term during its entire school life for careful dental inspection. 

5. Special Classes: 
(a) Open Air Classes: 

The relation of fresh air to health is one of such vast importance that it cannot be 
considered that the schools have done their full duty in this matter simply by establish- 
ing open air classrooms. However, classrooms of this type do seem to fill a certain need 
at the present time, and until matters can be arranged so that all classrooms shall have 
the benefit of free and adequate ventilation, and until all children can have the contin- 
uous health supervision which is now given to the children in the open air classes, class- 
rooms of this type should be extended as rapidly as possible. 

There should be 

1. At least one open air classroom in each school. If the number of 
children found to need this special kind of care is in excess of the capacity of the 
one classroom, ample provision should be made to care for all such children. 



310 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

2. Provision for a special lunch for all children in these open air classes 
such as is provided in the open air classes already established. This lunch should 
be a feature of all future open air classrooms. 

3. A standard covering the type of children to be admitted to these classes, 
as follows: 

(a) Children exposed to tuberculosis at home, or in whose family 
there has been a recent death from this disease. 

(6) Children who have had tuberculosis, which is now arrested or 
cured. 

(c) Children suffering from malnutrition. 

(d) Children who become tired easily or show languor or fatigue 
before the end of the day, and on this account are unable to 
carry on their class work. 

(e) Children suffering from nervous diseases, except chorea. 

(/) Children who are absent frequently because of colds, bronchi- 
tis, etc. 

(g) Children suffering from cardiac disease, who are recommended 
by their private physicians as proper cases for these classes. 

4. Provision for weighing and measuring the height of these children once 
a term and weighing once each month. There should be in each room a class 
record showing the height and weight of each child. This record should be 
available to the physician and nurse at all times. 

No attempt has been made to outline a proper method of conducting open air classes . 
There is much literature on the subject which gives in detail the manner in which effec- 
tive work of this kind may be maintained. 

(6) Nutrition Classes: 

Without in any way attempting to disparage the value of intensive work for the 
correction of undernourishment in children, it is obvious that work of this type is too 
expensive to be extended to all children in Cleveland who may be in need of such atten- 
tion and supervision. The problem of undernourishment, however, is an extremely seri- 
ous one and no effort should be spared to make every provision possible for seeing that 
this condition is prevented, or, if it occurs, that it receives proper attention at the earliest 
possible moment. For these reasons a system or organization, possibly less thorough 
but more far-reaching, is suggested. It is designed to reach every child who is found 
to be undernourished. 

In order to accomplish this, it will be necessary to classify all children as to their 
degree of nourishment and to take whatever steps may be necessary to see that their 
environment or personal hygiene is so adjusted that the proper balance of health may be 
restored. The following recommendations are made for this purpose: 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HEALTH 311 

1. At the time of physical examination each child should have its weight 
and height recorded and it* degree of nourishment classified. Two standard 
methods are recommended: 

(a) Relative height and weight in accordance with standard tablet. 
Any child ten per cent below the proper weight for its height 
may be considered undernourished. 

(6) Grading according to the Dunfermline scale. At it ha* been 
found that many children may have the proper relative height 
and weight and still be undernourished, the technical ability 
of the doctor may be drawn upon to determine whether or not 

. any undernourishment exists. For thi* purpose the use of the 
Dunfermline scale i* recommended. 

2. There should be in each classroom a chart for recording height each 
term and weight each month for each child. Thi* height and weight record 
may be kept by the teacher or by tome specially appointed monitor in each daft- 
room. It it obviout that for thit purpose a scale thould be provided in each 
school. 

3. Every matter pertaining to school life, inttruction, tanitation and 
hygiene, which influence* the health of the child should be adjusted. Thi* it 
particularly necessary with regard to provision for proper ventilation. 

4. Every undernourished child thould receive individual health inttruc- 
tion from the doctor or nurte in the school, and it* school life should be adjusted 
to meet it* particular need*. 

5. Home visits thould be made to each cate of undernourishment. Mat- 
ter* pertaining to hygiene and sanitation of the home, proper ventilation, food 
and adjustment of hour* of sleep, study and play are important point* to be 
considered, with provision of sufficient rest and absence of excitement. 

6. In the work of health education in the schools, particular attention 
should be paid to the importance of health game*, especially for the younger 
children. The type of work carried on by the Child Health Organization i* par- 
ticularly recommended. 

6. School Dispensaries: 

The name of these dispensaries thould be changed to something more in- 
dicative of their real function. "Health Office" it tuggested at more closely 
describing the service provided there. While it may be a dittincly humani- 
tarian effort to provide treatment in the tchoolt for the children, it cannot be 
considered part of a well-conducted system of tchool health tupervition. Cor- 
rective work of this nature does not belong in the tchoolt but it essentially the 
function of dispensaries conducted under other authority and organized for that 



312 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

purpose. The full time and efforts of the medical inspectors in the schools 
should be given to their proper function of prevention of disease and ill health, 
and the diagnosis of abnormal physical conditions in the school children. As 
far as emergency treatment is concerned, the doctor or nurse should give such 
care where it is necessary, but in every instance they should refer the child for 
further treatment to the private physician, hospital or dispensary. In other 
words, the school dispensaries should discontinue the function which their 
name implies. The school building is not a place where sick children should 
be treated, but a place where children's health should be conserved and ill health 
prevented. Work of a corrective nature should be carried only as it may be 
necessary for diagnostic purposes or for first aid or emergency treatment. The 
only exception to be made to this rule is in cases of contagious eye and skin dis- 
eases, where it is difficult or impossible to obtain treatment elsewhere and still 
have the child remain in attendance at school. 

7. Records: 

The child's health record should be continuous and reach from the health 
center, through the pre-school age, the school age, into the junior high school 
or high school or follow the child into industry. In the absence of a continu- 
ous pre-school health record, a beginning should be made as soon as the child 
enters school. In order that such a health record may be made effective it is 
recommended that 

(a) The health record should appear on the same card as the school 
record and should be brought by the child to the doctor each 
time it is physically examined. On it should be noted all ob- 
servations made by the school doctor, the school nurse or the 
teacher regarding the health of the child, and the results of 
treatment obtained for any physical defects. 

(fc) During the time the child is in school the record should be the 
property of the school and should be filed in the office of the 
principal or clerk or in the individual classrooms. They should 
be available to the doctor or nurse at any time but should not 
be taken from the classrooms. 

(c) Criticism of the present form of health record would seem to 
lie not in the information it asks for but rather in the negligence 
that has been shown in failing to keep these records up to date. 

Physical Training 

Recommendations will not be made with regard to the work of physical training but 
rather to the recognition of much of this work as an integral part of the heafth supervision 
of school children and its relation thereto. As at the present time this work is carried out 
mainly in the junior high schools and the high schools, it is recommended 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD Hi -. M.TII 313 

/. That the Department of Phyiical Training should be an integral 
part of the Department of Health Supervision of School Children. 
The methodt of physical examination should be standardized 
and made to include all children in the junior high schools and 
the high schools. If this department is to participate in the 
work of teaching hygiene, it should follow the standardized out- 
line which will be discussed under the heading of "Health Edu- 
cation," and this work should be continuous with and part of 
the entire program for the health education of the- children. 

2. That every child in the junior high schools and the high schools 
take with it its school record from the elementary schools and 
that such health record be available for the purposes of the De- 
partment of Physical Training. 

3. That the physical examinations carried on by the Department 
of Physical Training be thorough and follow the same routine 
as has been outlined for the physical examination of children in 
the elementary schools. 

4. That classes for the correction of bad habits of posture be estab- 
lished as part of the work of the Department of Physical Training. 

Health Education 

Organized, consistent education with relation to all the factors which maintain sound 
health in the individual should be carried on throughout the entire school life of each 
child. A certain amount of health care can be enforced from without but the most im- 
portant, fundamental provision for community health in the future lies in each child's 
gaining and applying the knowledge which is essential for the individual maintenance of 
personal health and the extension of all community forces for the purpose of promoting 
the health of the people as a whole. Health education of all children may be considered 
as the most important part of any program of health supervision. In order that such a 
program may be available for the children in the schools of Cleveanld, it is recommended 
that: 

/. Health education be considered a function of the teaching staff. 
As it is, however, a matter connected so closely with health mat- 
ters, a committee should be appointed, advisory to the Director of 
Child Health, representing all phases of the health program, 
and this committee should work out a complete plan of health 
education throughout the school system, coordinating the 
work of the several departments in this regard. 

2. A syllabus be prepared for instruction in health and personal 
hygiene, for use in different grades of the public schools, and that 
another syllabus be prepared for use in the high schools and 
junior high schools. These syllabi should contain specific in- 



314 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

struction in the causes and methods of prevention of disease. 
The instruction should not be of an academic nature hut of a 
type which makes a direct appeal for the child's cooperation. 
In other words, childten are not interested in health for health's 
sake. They must be taught the value of health and the way to 
attain it. In this way their active and interested cooperation 
may be enlisted. Such syllabi, therefore, in addition to 
teaching, might readily give directions for a detailed health 
program covering a full day in the life of a child at different ages. 

3. The program should make definite provision in the high school 
curriculum for regular courses to cover the main points of per- 
sonal hygiene, physiology and sanitation, and should provide for 
proper correlation of other subjects, such as botany, cooking, 
chemistry and social problems. 

4. The course on health education should be compulsory and not 
elective in the schools of all grades. 

5. A syllabus should include a course of instruction on the causes 
and prevention of infectious diseases. 

6. A definite schedule should be outlined and maintained for health 
talks to groups of children, such talks to be given by the doctors 
and nurses of the medical inspection staff. 

7. Individual health talks should be given to the children by the 
doctors and nurses of the medical inspection staff. These indi- 
vidual health conferences have already been referred to and 
should constitute part of the work connected with the physical 
examination of each child. 

8. Health talks to the teachers should be given from time to time. 
The services of various specialists should be obtained for this 
purpose and talks should be on subjects connected with health 
and hygiene, with particular reference to their application to 
the health of childhood. Such talks might well be accompanied 
by the distribution of appropriate literature on health topics, to 
be written and published by the Division of Health. 

9. The Board of Education should accept the services of the Red 
Cross Teaching Center to carry on this work until such time as 
appropriations can be made for the purpose. 

Examination of Teachers. 

(a) Teachers should receive a physical examination on entrance into 
the service and each year thereafter. This work might be done 
by the medical staff of the school medical inspection service. 



A I'|M;U\\I K>K CHILD IlKALTII 315 

(6) The results of these physical examinations should be available 
to the respective teacher* and should be used by the Board of 
Education at a basis for proper assignment of teacher* to special 
duties. Measures by which these phytical examination* can 
be made of practical value will readily suggest themselves; for 
instance, teacher* who are anemic, undernourished or who have 
a tubercular tendency should be assigned to teach in the open 
air classes to that their health may be benefited thereby. 

Sanitation and Hygiene of School Building* and Classrooms. 
1. Adminittration: 

There should be better cooperation beween the Department of Buildings and the 
Department of School Medical Inspection The plan of organization already suggested 
would place both these departments under the same authority. The Deparment of 
Buildings should be responsible for the sanitation, hygiene and healthful maintenance of 
the schools and classrooms. This work should be its primary duty, and while it should 
act upon complaints, it should be the purpose of the department to initiate the necessary 
methods by which proper sanitation may be maintained. 

Specifically, the duties of the custodians of the schools should be as follows: 

(a) To receive reports of sanitary surveys, make proper and detailed 
investigation of all matters found to need attention, correct all 
wrong condition* so far as that may be possible, and where cor- 
rection by individual effort is not possible, refer the matter to 
the proper authorities. After completion of these investiga- 
tions and correction of wrong conditions, the custodians should 
report back the results of their inspections, and the action that 
has been taken. These reports should be forwarded on a special 
blank, through the official channels, to the Director of the De- 
partment of School Health Supervision. 

(6) To carry on a regular weekly inspection of the building and 
classrooms. This inspection should not be perfunctory but 
should follow standardized lines and should include inspection of 
all features of the school buildings and classrooms which may 
affect the health of the children. Any condition which is found 
to be below standard should receive immediate attention, with- 
out waiting for a specific complaint. 

(c) To receive and act immediately upon all complaints made by 
teachers, doctors or nurses and to report back to the proper 
authorities what action has been taken with regard to the 
complaint. 



316 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



(J) To hold themselves absolutely responsible for seeing that the 
rules and regulations of the Board of Education in regard to 
ventilation, temperature, seating, drinking facilities, toilets, 
sweeping and dusting, provision of soap and towels, are carried 
out in an orderly and systematic manner. If this is done as a 
result of weekly inspection, there would be little opportunity 
for complaint as to maladjustments or infractions of the rules. 

2. School Hygiene: 

Special consideration should be given to the detailed features of school hygiene, as 
follows: 

(a) Ventilation: 

Proper ventilation of classrooms is the most important single feature of school hygiene. 

A sufficient supply of fresh air will prevent the spread of infectious disease, prevent physi- 
cal defects, increase resistance to disease and lay the foundation for sound health not 
only during childhood but in adult life. 

It is recommended that: 
/. Steps be taken 

(a) To amend the state law so that it will be possible to 
discontinue all methods of artificial ventilation of 
classrooms, except in those cases where open window 
ventilation is impossible. 

(6) To provide for the necessary methods of open window 
ventilation by the proper types of windows and window 
boards. 

2. Open window classrooms be maintained at a temperature be- 
tween sixty and sixty-eight degrees and that in all instances where 
the temperature is below sixty degrees the necessary additional 
wraps or blankets be provided for the teachers and children. 

(6) Temperature: 

High temperatures in classrooms are found to be extremely prejudical to good health. 

It is recommended that: 

/. A thermometer be placed in each classroom and that the tem- 
perature of the classroom as registered by this thermometer be 
read twice each day by the teacher and recorded in a book kept 
for that purpose. 

2. The temperature in any classroom should not be allowed to re- 
main above sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit. When a tempera- 



A I'KCM.IMM FOR CHILD HEALTH 317 

tare above that point it registered the custodian should be noti- 
fied at once so that he may take whatever action it necettary to 
restore the proper temperature. 

(c) Seating: 

Postural defects are so definitely caused by improper seating arrangements in class- 
rooms that it is of the utmost importance to outline some plan whereby seats and desks 
may be adjusted to suit the individual children. The present system of "shifting" classes 
renders it extremely difficult to outline any method by which these adjustments may be 
made, as the same child may not occupy any given seat for two days or even two hours 
in succession. If it is impossible to adjust the curriculum in a way that will help to solve 
this problem, and since the rooms used by these "shifting" classes are likely to be used 
by children ranging in age from six to fifteen years, it is recommended 

/. That rooms used by such classes be divided into group units, each 
such unit to be occupied by children of a given age group. Once 
each term the seats in these classes should be adjusted for the 
average age groups that will occupy the rooms. In this way the 
children will use seats and desks that are approximately suited 
to their ages, even if not entirely so. 

2. That in cases where the children can continue to occupy the same 
classroom throughout the entire term, the seats be adjusted to 
their individual requirements. It is suggested that the following 
standard be used: seat to be two-sevenths the height of the child, 
desk three-sevenths, top of desk to extend over the front edge 
of the chair for a distance of at least two inches. 

(<f) Toilets: 

The standard required by the state law governing the number of toilets to 
be provided in school buildings is adequate and provision should be made for its 
enforcement in every instance where the number at present provided is below 
that required. The custodians should be held responsible for the condition of 
the toilets and this matter should not be left to the school doctors and nurses. 
The custodians should be required to carry out in detail the provisions of Rule 
VIII of the Rules and Regulations for the Government of Custodians. Such 
an inspection and supervision, if carried out in accordance with these rules and 
regulations, would be all that is necessary to keep the toilets in proper and sani- 
tary condition. Whatever criticism may be made of their condition at the pres- 
ent time must be based upon the fact that the rules are ignored, not that they 
do not contain the proper provisions for the subject. 

(e) Drinking Facilities: 

1. The proper number of drinking fountains should be provided in each 
school building. 



318 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

2. The drinking fountains used should be of a type which makes it impos- 
sible for the child to touch the nozzle with the mouth while in the act of drinking. 

3. Sufficient water pressure should be maintained at all times so that the 
flow of water from the nozzle will be of sufficient force to carry the stream 
not less than two inches in an upright direction. 

4. As fast as new drinking fountains can be installed, it is recommended 
that the type be used where the stream of water from which the person drinks 
is caused by the confluence of numerous other streams of water. Such a type 
has no part that can be touched by the mouth of the child, therefore it cannot 
in any way be considered a possible source of transmission of infectious diseases. 

5. Drinking fountains should be inspected daily by the custodians and at 
all times should be kept in a workable and cleanly condition. 

(/) Soap and Towels: 

1. The schools should be provided at all times with facilities so that the 
pupils may wash their hands. Rule X of the Rules and Regulations for the 
Government of Custodians should be adhered to. 

2. The children should be instructed by the teachers, doctors and nurses 
to wash their hands each time after coming from the toilet and before each meal. 
It should be the duty of the teachers to question the children as often as may be 
necessary in order to see that this practice is carried out. 

(g) Sweeping and Dusting: 

As rapidy as possible, in all new buildings constructed, provision should 
be made for vacuum cleaning systems, and all sweeping and dusting should be 
done by that method. Rules and Regulations for the Government of Custodians 
with regard to sweeping and dusting and other cleaning of the school building 
and its equipment should be adhered to in every particular. These rules are 
excellent and, if applied, would furnish all necessary protection to the health 
of the children. When neglected and not complied with, however, this neglect 
is a menace and immediate steps should be taken to see that provision is made 
for proper enforcement of the regulations. 

ISSUANCE OF WORK CERTIFICATES 

Recommendations for changes in the law controlling the. issuance of 
work certificates and in the methods of enforcing the law, are made in the 
report on "Children in Industry," to which reference is made, Part VII. 



A PROGRAM FOR CHILD HEALTH 319 

Conclusions 

The only adequate test as to the success of any efforts for child hygiene 
lie not in the statistics of immediate achievement but in the results to be 
seen in later years. 

The effectiveness of prenatal work must be measured, not by the number 
of mothers who reach their period of confinement in good health but in 
the number of babies who die in the early months of life from congenital 
defects and diseases, and the number who survive in good health. 

Proper maternity service must be measured not only by the reduction 
in the maternal mortality rate but by the future health of the mother and 
child. 

Efforts for the care of babies cannot be measured by consideration of 
the infant death rate alone. It is not enough merely to keep a baby alive 
during its first year. The true test of the efficiency of this work is the knowl- 
edge that these children survive the perils of early childhood and are alive 
and well at a later period than infancy. The reduction in the death rate 
under five years of age is the only sure index of the worth of the care given 
under one year of age. 

The care of the child during the pre-school age (from two to five years) 
does not finally show itself in the reduction of the sickness or death rate 
during those ages. The true test comes later. Are these children in sound 
health when they enter school? Have their physical defects been prevented 
or corrected in their incipiericy? 

Efficient school health supervision is reflected not in the number of 
defects corrected or the number of physical examinations made. If the 
health work for children has been adequate previously, and they come to 
school in good physical condition, our efforts must be directed towards see- 
ing that neither the school nor the home life at this period interferes with 
their future development, and that the conditions under which they live, 
whether in the school or at home, are in accordance with the best that modem 
hygiene and sanitation can offer. Retardation and failure to pass examina- 
tions for physical reasons are an indictment of the health work so far JKT- 
formed, but the real object is not to achieve this result. It is to safeguard 
the child. t keep it iu good health and to teach it the principles and practice 
of those measures which will assure good health not only to the child but 
to the whole community in which it lives. 

The test of all health work for children lies, then, in the prevention of 
disease during infancy and childhood, in the building up of a robust, well- 
dcveloped and physically and mentally sound boy or girl, one who is capable 
not only of withstanding the hazards of di-case during child life but who 
understands the rules of health and so applies them that soundness of body 
and freedom from dUr.iM- i- a-Mired during all of its adult life. This is the 
goal* and the ultimate object to l>e attained in our work for children. After 



320 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

adolescence they can use for themselves the information they have acquired; 
during childhood we have the opportunity to see that the foundation for 
this future good health is laid securely. It is neither a difficult nor a costly 
matter to assure to each child in each community its full heritage of sound 
health. Children are the only real wealth the nation possesses, and it is 
our privilege as well as our duty to care for our children and to give them 
with a free hand those opportunities for health which they are unable to 
obtain for themselves. 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 

These parts may be obtained, at a cost of 50c each, from 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 

THE PREMIER PRESS 

Clevenlad. O 




Education and Practice 

in Medicine, Dentistry, 

Pharmacy 



PART EIGHT 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Education and Practice in 

Medicine, Dentistry, 

Pharmacy 



PART EIGHT 



Cleveland Hospital a n'd 
Health Survey 




Copyright, 1930 

by 
THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 
308 Anisfield Bldg. 
Cleveland - Ohio 



Pref 



reiace 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBmDE, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUGHLJN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCK WOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 

and the following collaborators : 
GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D., Director of Tuberculosis Survey; 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKES, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

I. Medical Education and Practice in Cleveland. 

Medical College of Western Reserve University. Page 

Position in Community 651 

Present Problems of 

Construction 653 

Endowment 654 

Community Relations 655 

Discussion of Instruction Now Offered 656 

History of the College and the Distribution of its Graduates 659 

Post-graduate Instruction 662 

Medical Practice 

Classification of Cleveland Physicians by Specialties 663 

Hospital Staff Service _ it 664 

Professional Organizations 664 

Discussion of Autopsy^Service ^f 667 

Recommendations 669 

II. Quacks and Patent Medicines, in Relation to the Foreign Born of Cleveland. 

The Picture 

The Immigrant Susceptibility of foreign temperament "5f672 

The Quack \ 672 

How the Quack Reaches the Immigrant ^ 674 

The Objectives 

Means of Investigation and Prevention 676 

Means of Prevention 

Education of Public .-. 677 

Regeneration of Foreign Language^Newspapers 678 

Counter Attractions 678 

Recommendations 682 

III. Dentistry in Cleveland 

Private Practice of Dentistry 683 

Free Dental Work 

At public schools 684 

At 3 health centers 684 

At City Hospital 685 



TMILK OF CONTKNTS Continued 

III. Dentistry in Cleveland Cnnlinurtl Page 

Dental Service at College of Dentistry 685 

Dental Service in Hospitals 686 

College of Dentistry 688 

The Dental Hygienist 689 

Recommendations i 690 

IV. Pharmacy in Cleveland 

Number and Education of Pharmacists ... 691 

Laws Dealing with Pharmacy 

Enforcement of Law . 692 

Abuses Which Are Tolerated i _ 693 

Cooperation of Pharmacists with the Division of Health 694 

School of Pharmacy of Western Reserve University 

History 694 

Buildings 695 

Faculty __ _ 695 

Finances. 695 

Needs _ 695 

Proposed Manufacturing and Professional Service for Hospitals 696 

Recommendations 697 



Medical Education and Practice 
in Cleveland 

By. HAVEN EMERSON, M. D. 

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OF WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY 

WIIKKK there is but one institution of learning in a community, deal- 
ing with education in the liberal professions primarily concerned 
with the prevention and care of disease, the responsibility for pro- 
grams and accomplishment is easy to fix and the resources to be looked to 
for advancement are sharply limited. In Cleveland through eliminations, 
mergers and absorptions tne Western Reserve University finds itself at the 
moment the only institution in Cleveland responsible for the preparation of 
physicians, dentists and pharmacists for the legal practice of these profes- 
sions. For nurses also the only agency offering education in the public 
health field is provided by the University. 

Since public service in the field of medical practice and in preventive 
medicine can not rise higher than its source, it is natural that where failures 
of imagination, scope, technic and standards in the professions are found 
the inquirer turns to the University to seek the cause. University education 
is subject to the same three main limitations as affect education in general 
and they are apparently, in the order of their importance, the ideals of the 
teachers, the character of administrative leadership and organization, and 
the material resources to provide the teachers and the facilities for their 
development. 

For the noticeably deficient recognition by the laity and by the medica 
profession of Cleveland, of many specialties in medicine which now demand 
long preparation, exclusive devotion and constant study in order to reap the 
benefit and provide the service which modern knowledge permits, we can 
not but hold the policies of the medical teachers responsible. Under both 
medicine and surgery important and necessary special branches have devel- 
oped elsewhere which are not provided for in Cleveland. In tuberculosis, 
cardiology, neurology, psychiatry, urology, industrial and preventive medi- 
cine, and orthopedics, opportunities have been and are still lost w r hich the 
medical school owes to students, practitioners and the sick of the city. There 
is much encouragement in the fact that during the past college year de- 
cisions have been reached which should broaden the field of surgery by pro- 
viding for a department of orthopedics having a large measure of independent 
development, and under the general head of medicine will arrange for a de- 
partment of psyhiatry and neurology with obligations to provide for the 
necessary clinical teaching in these specialties. Much more could still be 
done to encourage and as.-ist undergraduate students and recent graduates 
to cultivate new and special fields in research and practice as is common in 
other centers of medical education. 



652 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The contact made with a wide circle of workers in medical and kindred 
fields, especially among those concerned with the social and preventive appli- 
cation of medical sciences in Cleveland, gradually developed the conviction 
among the members of the Survey staff that the regard, respect, dependence 
and affection felt by the public for the University fall far short of what one 
might expect. Little exact knowledge was found to be possessed concerning 
many of the important problems of medical and dental education by those 
in responsible positions as trustees and executives. 

In the Medical School the constitution and activities of the executive 
committee of the faculty seem to meet all the needs and yet contact between 
the faculty and the trustees is on an uncertain and unsatisfactory basis. 
Definite assignment of duties and responsibilities are not called for from the 
trustees. It is a matter of first importance that the appeal for support 
for education should be based on recognition by the public of eminent ser- 
vice given to it by the University, and upon entire confidence in the practical 
value of the training given and of the researches undertaken. 

In the words of the business salesman, the University has not sold itself 
to the Cleveland public. Leadership, organization and service are needed 
with this object in view. 

To this end it is suggested that much strength to the University organi- 
zation might be expected by enlisting the active interest and work of trus- 
tees who are still in the midst of the actual problems of industry, professions 
and public service, as well as those to whom the honor of trusteeship is 
rather a recognition of past accomplishments and of readiness to be generous 
in financial support. 

Among the trustees should be those chosen by the alumni of the various 
professional schools from their own professions, officially delegated to repre- 
sent the graduates. From no representative group of citizens will be found 
those who will serve the University more faithfully or bring to its councils 
more vision, ideals and influential support than from the body of graduates 
of the Medical School. 

As to the third element in determining a university's ability to meet its 
public obligations : namely, material resources for teaching and research, it is 
worth noting that at the present time when building costs are so exorbitant 
and teachers of all kinds are so ill paid, the simplest business logic will advise 
investment largely in men, brains and service with, for the time being, no 
more outlay on buildings than is necessary to give adequate facilities for the 
teachers, the classes and such research as can only be done within University 
buildings. Once the relative importance of the various financial needs 
which the professional colleges face is outlined, the generosity and pride of 
Clevelanders in their important public undertaking, the Western Reserve 
University, can be counted on to find the funds. 



TH..I i I-.N \i. Kmc ATION \\i> Pit \r-rn-K 



"I CONSTRUCTION AND ENDOWMENT 

In considering the relative importance of the two large undertakings 
which face the trustees; namely, the erection of new Medical School build- 
ings and endowment <>r more adequate financial support for the teaching 
departments of the Medic -a I School, and the erection and maintenance of a 
I'niversity Hospital (inrnp, a few fundamental statements of fact and ex- 
pressions of opinion are offered before presenting concrete recommendations 
for order of procedure, as suggested for the consideration of the Board of 
Trust 

In the first place, the I niversity now controls at City Hospital, at Lake- 
side. at the Maternity Hospital and at the Babies' Dispensary and Hospital, 
such facilities for clinical teaching as meet the most ambitious needs for the 
highest grade of medical education, and very broad opportunities for re- 
search in both laboratory and clinical branches of medical science. 

At lakeside and at City Hospital 936 beds offering clinical material in 
medicine, surgery, pediatrics, contagious diseases, tuberculosis, venereal dis- 
and mental disease are available and under exclusive University control 
for H months in the year. Twenty-two beds for maternity cases and 1,500 
confinements a year in in- and out-patient services are available for teaching 
purposes. With the proposed doubling of the capacity of City Hospital, to 
which the city committed itself by vote at the primary elections in April, 
1940, the field for clinical study at that hospital will l>e still further increased. 
The City Hospital will probably always include groups of patients who can- 
not legally IK" cared for except in such a public hospital. The City Hospital will. 
in all probability, always have a larger group of patients available for clinical 
instruction in contagious diseases, tuberculosis, venereal diseases, mental and 
nervous diseases, chronic, incurable and inoperable medical and surgical 
cases than are likely to be or should be accommodated in any privately con- 
trolled institution, even if devoted exclusively to teaching purposes. The 
value of this asset in clinical teaching can hardly he over-emphasized. 

i 

The <l(e physical situation of Medical School buildings, in relation to 
the home of other faculties of the university departments, is considered very 
desirable, if not absolutely essential, for the broadest and most catholic 
relationship between the various teaching groups. 

The control by a university medical school of its own hospital, in order 
to permit of intensive study and special methods of education in groups of 
patients selected particularly for their value in medical education and re- 
search. is considered entirely desirable and the complete dependency of a 
medical school upon a public department for its sole hospital facilities is not 
considered safe in the present crude and politically precarious condition of 
municipal uovernment in Cleveland, as elsewhere in the Tinted States. The 
physical separation of the City Hospital from the Medical School buildings, 
which it may be presumed will ultimately be located in the vicinity of the 
University campus, would not necessarily put any particular inconvenience 
in the way of its M M l.\ medical students, although the time of medical 



654 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

teachers might be wasted to a slight degree unless there were certain labora- 
tory or research facilities added to the City Hospital equipment at the ex- 
pense of the University. 

It is believed that the first project for which money should be raised and 
plans made for construction, equipment and maintenance, is a building or 
buildings for the Medical School, to include the various facilities needed for 
teaching and research, such as can be carried on outside of the immediate 
walls of the hospital. 

It is recommended that, at the same time that the project for Medical 
School buildings is undertaken, the trustees prepare a plan for the financial 
support, either by endowment or with annual pledges, which will provide 
adequately for the salaries and service needs of each department, so as to in- 
sure the provision of personnel to give the University a 100% .return for 
its investment in its greatest asset the brains of its teachers. 

It is recommended that the trustees of the University devote their best 
efforts to accomplish such changes as may be needed in the City Charter 
and such action as may be necessary from the officers of the city government 
as to insure the appointment of trustees selected from representative groups 
of citizens by. the Mayor, to be responsible for the administration of the 
City Hospital. In support of this recommendation it must be said that 
the University has a greater stake in the permanency of policy, in the non- 
political character of administration, and in the standard of equipment, 
service and support given to the City Hospital than has any other group 
in the community. It would probably cost upward of $25,000,000 at 
present construction costs for the University to obtain, through private 
means, anything approximating the range of material for clinical teaching 
that will be available and at their service at the enlarged City Hospital. It 
must be noted that the value of this material in medical education is now 
and always will be jeopardized by political mischief or accident until the 
present method of appointing the superintendent of City Hospital and his 
responsibility practically direct to the Mayor, to whom alone he is indebted 
for his appointment, is replaced by a method of appointment and adminis- 
tration which resembles more closely the system found necessary to insure 
continuous and high grade hospital policies and administration in private 
institutions under boards of trustees. It is, furthermore, felt that the Uni- 
versity owes to the public the use of its prestige and influence to get the City 
Hospital out of politics, if for no other reason than that the sick poor at 
City Hospital are entitled to as constant and scientific medical service as 
the University would expect to provide in its own privately controlled insti- 
tutions. 

When the above three main accomplishments have been successfully 
carried to completion or have been brought, by the efforts of the University, 
within promise of accomplishment, and when funds have been obtained 
which would justify undertaking a building program, at a cubic foot cost for 
construction considerably less it is hoped than prevails at the present time, 



PBOPBMIONAL EDUCATION \M l'i<\< I-K-K 655 

the plans of the University Trustees for a joint hospital project, involving 
the llaliies' Il(j)ital, Maternity Hospital and Lakeside Hospital should be 
carried through essentially as they are at present worked out hut not neces- 
xarilv as ,-i single construction undertaking. There is good reason to ex]>eet 
ubttantial benefits to result from prosecuting all these projects at the same 
time, if the relative importance of the several undertakings is kept continu- 
ously in mind. 

Of the needs of the University Medical School and of the needs of the 
community for hospital beds it is quite clear that a hospital service for chil- 
dren of all ages is much greater than is the need for beds for maternity or 
for general medical and surgical patients. It is, therefore, recommended 
that as soon as funds can l>e provided the trustees proceed with the erection 
of the so-called Babies' Hospital project, which it is understood will provide 
for children of all ages to a total of 150 beds. The next in the order of im- 
portance, and the next by considerable margin of importance in terms of 
medical teaching or community need, would be the construction of a Mater- 
nity Hospital which is planned for 100 beds. In approximately the same 
position, but perhaps slightly less urgent as a need for medical education, 
though obviously needed by the community sooner or later, is the erection 
of the new Lakeside Hospital. As soon as funds can l>e provided, therefore, 
should come the construction of the proposed 500-bed hospital for general 
medical and surgical patients, including a pavilion for patients with mental 
and nervous disorders for the department of psychiatry. 

COMMUNITY RELATIONS 

Although the minimal hospital bed needs of the community indicate 
that Cleveland will require the additional 400 beds which the University 
Group project would provide for the total bed capacity of Cleveland, the Sur- 
vey cannot recommend that $12,000,000 be spent for this purpose when 
medical teaching needs do not demand more beds and when that number 
of beds could be provided for the city through additions to other hospitals 
at a half, and possibly at a third, of this expense, if built solely with the ob- 
ject of providing adequate hospitalization for the sick. 

Among the reasons often voiced in Cleveland for lack of full professional 
and public trust in and support of the Medical School is that, under the 
reasonable argument of needs for clinical teaching, the nomination of pro- 
fessional staffs of hospitals is permitted by the trustees of certain hospitals 
to rest with the faculty of the Medical School. Whether or not there is jus- 
tice in this criticism it is apparent that no asset accnies to the Medical School 
if it is in a position of exclusive control over facilities not really needed for 
teaching purposes. It is suggested that any formal affiliations with hos- 
pitals except those now maintained at the City Hospital and the three organi- 
zations of the University Hospital Group, (Lakeside, Maternity and Babies') 
be severed, unless the boards of trustees of the hospitals specifically request 
the University through its medical faculty to relieve them of the responsi- 
bility of selecting the members of the professional staff of their hospitals. 
Further than this it is thought that the funds and energies of the Univer- 



656 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

sity and its teachers should not be devoted to operating public health ser- 
vices such as a city-wide prenatal and maternity service, to an extent greater 
than is needed in the teaching and research in medicine. To demonstrate 
rather than to operate in such public fields would seem the wiser role. 

Another matter of importance to the University in its relations to the 
public is its contribution of part-time service, supervision, and direction through 
members of its teaching staff to the work of various bureaus of the Division 
of Health. It is thought that it would be wiser for the University teachers 
to be held in an advisory capacity rather than in a financial relation as part- 
time employes of the city. The present relationship does not bring credit to 
the University although the services are of a grade which the city does not 
seem prepared to pay for at their true value. Any criticism of the public 
health service bears back upon the University teachers who share in the 
responsibility and in the emoluments. 



CURRICULUM, INSTRUCTION AND FACULTY ORGANIZATTON 

Now that there is such a strong and increasingly well-informed current 
of public opinion in matters relating to preventive medicine and health 
development it would seem a particularly propitious time for the University 
to undertake in its Medical School, education of its medical students in their 
responsibilities to the public as quasi-health officers, as private practitioners 
and as students of the broad facts of epidemiology. There is no clinical 
subject, major or minor specialty, which is not susceptible of treatment to 
the end that preventive as well as diagnostic and therapeutic objectives 
may be taught in each patient. Systematic instruction in public health 
problems and methods is now an obligation of every medical school, which 
can no longer be escaped on the plea of an overcrowded curriculum. 

In proposing that industrial hygiene be developed as a department of 
the medical school or better as a separate small school under the wing of the 
medical school the particular local need of Cleveland's employers for trained 
medical officers in their plants and the great variety of industrial hazards 
not at present adequately studied and guarded against in the interest of the 
employes, are to be particularly emphasized. It would be unwise to confuse 
the training of industrial physicians with the training of physicians for 
careers as public health administrators. 

Details of a course of lectures, demonstrations and laboratory work 
have been given to the members of the medical faculty concerned, by the 
members of the Survey staff in charge of the Industrial Health Survey. 

Special reasons for urging endowment for a department of industrial 
hygiene will be found in the section devoted to industry, Part VII. Now 
that orthopedic surgery and psychiatry bid fair to see special provision made 
for them, there remains among the major needs a special opportunity for 
urology under the aegis of the department of surgery. 



Kin < \ii<>\ AND PRACTICK 657 

dcnerous praise must be given for the quality and scope, the leadership 
product of the laboratory sciences as taught by the medical faculty. 

The study of physiology and functional pathology is well coordinated by 
special teaching in clinical study at the bedside. 

While the department of anatomy has ample provision for staff and re- 
search and is particularly favored by the State laws under which a collection 
of material of very great value has been obtained in the course of many 
years of work, the fire risk of the present unsuitable quarters gives serious 
<-aiise for anxiety. It is certainly unfortunate that the teaching of em- 
bryology and histology are not as well coordinated with general anatomy as 
are physiological chemistry and general physiology. The students do not 
at present get the best that the teaching staff of this department 
and the modern conception of anatomical teaching permit. 

Full-time teaching positions for the head of the main clinical depart- 
ments and for the chief assistants in clinical instruction are much to be de- 
sired and would be welcomed in the department of medicine as they have 
been- established in the department of pediatrics. 

Private practice ambitions will always run counter to the best tradi- 
tions and quality of medical teaching. 

There is no organization of clinical departments for staff conference, 
and the result is a feeling of detachment and lack of interest, particularly 
among those whose teaching never comes under the critical and stimulating 
eye of the head of the department. Policies and standards of instruction 
where there are several hospital services used for teaching can only be put 
on a sound basis by frequent departmental staff conferences. With the ex- 
ception of the departments of pathology and physiology there is little, if 
any, contact established l>etween teaching at the Medical School or Lake- 
side and the teaching at City Hospital. 

With the existing active executive committee of the medical faculty to 
relieve that body of the burden of business detail and to be ready for quick 
action when need arises, there is offered an excellent opportunity to democ- 
ratize and broaden the influence of the faculty and of the forces within it, 
by extending ineml>crshi|> and vote to a larger proportion of the teaching 
staff. It is of great importance that those responsible for the various divi- 
sions of teaching meet for discussion and interchange of opinions as to general 
policies of the school. Although the so-called voting faculty of 24 might 
appear to give a broad and adequate representation, a little study of its 
membership shows how restricted it is. 



658 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Medical voting faculty consists of: 

Votes Members 

1 President of the University. 

2 _ Senior or emeritus professors, inactive, 

not teaching or in touch with the 

college work. 

1 Research and elective teaching pro- 
fessor only. 
20 : Active in teaching. 

24 

Among the 20 active teachers are four who teach less than thirty-five 
scheduled hours a year. One associate professor in a clinical specialty has a 
vote but has no clinic and teaches only 16 hours a year. 

If there were departmental staff organizations so that the head of a 
department really represented his department with full knowledge of the 
opinions, teaching practices and so forth, of his colleagues and assistants, 
even this limited group (20) would give a good working representation, 'but 
there is much irrelevancy in the assignment of voting power apparently, for 
while the laboratory subject of bio-chemistry with an assistant professor is 
not represented, otology, gynecology and genito-urinary surgery have each 
a vote. 

There are four assistant professors who teach eighty or more hours each 
and yet have no voice in the faculty; not that representation should be 
based on the hours of teaching but that the faculty would be strengthened 
by the presence of men who are devoting so much of their lives to medical 
teaching, men whose youth and ambition is now rather a neglected asset. 

The danger of clique domination by clinical interests, where the great 
resources of hospital and college laboratories for private advancement are 
available, is always to be feared in medical schools, and to meet such a 
possibility prompt democratization of the voting faculty is recommended. 

Lack of sufficient junior assistants particularly at City Hospital forbids 
the thorough working up of the amazingly fertile material in clinical medi- 
cine, surgery and pediatrics. Diseases of metabolism, tuberculosis, cardiac 
disease and mental diseases appear to have but little consideration in the 
general plan of training of third and fourth year medical students. 

The teaching of surgery at Lakeside is almost exclusively carried out 
by the paid resident house officers, the head of the department confining his 
field to demonstrations and operative clinics. The surgery taught at City 
and at St. Vincent's hospitals is not brought into any definite or constant 
relation in the way of subject matter or sequence with the teaching at Lake- 
side. There is generous provision for research in both surgery and medicine. 



I B8ION M. Km ATION AM) PRACTICE 6.5!) 

The teaching of obstetrics and of pediatrics in the fields of private 
practice and of preventive medicine is excellent. Tin- department of |>cdia- 
tries lacks adequate dispensary service for children over three. The de- 
partment of obstetrics has more material than it needs for teaching pur- 
If there is to be a truly modern and just division of responsibility 
between these specialties, the new horn hahe at the maternity hospital and 
in the homes reached l>y the out -patient delivery service, should he turned 
over at once to the care of the pediatrists. A hahy should not l>e an ob- 
stetrician's responsibility once it is separated from the mother, and the 
most important age from the point of view of prevention of infant mor- 
tality is precisely the j>eriod when the babe is now under the care of the 
obstetrician. 

The Medical School lacks the attention and service for organization, 
development and coordination of its various departments and functions 
which are primarily the duty of the Dean of a professional school. The 
reason for this is not lack of understanding or appreciation of the problems, 
but the overwhelming occupation of the Dean in an absorbing ami widely 
distributed private and hospital surgical practice, and in a considerable 
amount of clinical surgical instruction and demonstration. To attempt to 
maintain adequate direction of the intricate problems of the Medical School 
requires more time and undivided attention than can at present be given by 
the Dean. His rare and invaluable services in the field of surgical anatomy, 
pathology, diagnosis and o|>erative treatment can ill be spared or his organ- 
izing ability be demanded at the expense of his professional career. 



HISTORY OF THE COLLEGE AND THE DISTRIBUTION OF ITS 
GRADUATES 

A brief summary of the important facts about the Western Reserve 
University Medical School and the part its graduates play in the professional 
life of Cleveland may properly be included here. 

Organized in 184S this school officially joined the University in 1881. 
In 11)14 there was merged with the Medical School of Western Reserve Uni- 
ty the Medical Department of Ohio Wesleyan University or the College 
of Physicians and Surgeons, itself a product of mergers of the Charity Hos- 
Hospital Medical < 'olle^e, which combined with the Medical Department of 
Wooster University in 1H70, and the latter institution which merged with 
the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1896. 

From 1814 to 1899, the Western Reserve University School of Medicine 
graduated l.ns/i physicians. From 1900 to 1919 it has graduated 571 phy- 
sicians. Then -raduated in 1920, 45, and the attendance of the school 
during the academic year l!H!-l!K0 \\as -.'-.':;. divided by daaWS, first year 
H>. M-cond year ,'H, tliird year H, and fourth year M. It is the policy of 
the school to limit its classes to fifty students. Laboratory facilities are 
inadequate for more. 



660 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The number of the teaching staff is 102 distributed by departments as 
follows : 

Anatomy 8 

Biochemistry 2 

Physiology 3 

Pathology 11 

Hygiene and Bacteriology 3 

Pharmacology and Therapeutics 4 

Medicine _ 23 

Pediatrics 9 

Surgery 37 

Obstetrics and Gynecology 12 

112 

\ 

In 10 instances teachers hold positions in two departments. At Lake- 
side Hospital forty teachers hold staff positions, at City Hospital twenty- 
three, at St. Vincent's Charity Hospital nine, and at Maternity Hospital 
four. These also include ten duplications. Forty per cent of the clinical 
teachers are Western Reserve University graduates. 

The total required hours of work in the present four year course at the 
Western Reserve University Medical School are 5,136 hours, with electives 
88 hours, or a grand total of 5,224. At Northwestern University at Chicago 
the total required is 4,322 hours. At the University of Michigan it is 4,545 
hours, and at Leland Stanford 4,182 hours. 

The following table shows the present distribution of graduates of^this 
school in the practice of medicine in Cleveland. 

WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY GRADUATES REMAINING IN CLEVELAND 

Years-Group No. of Graduates No. Practising in Cleveland Per Cent 

1860-79 596 16 2.67 

1880-89 523 38 7.26 

1890-99 297 72 24.2 

1900-09 239 90 37.6 

1910-14 128 57 44.5 

1915-19 204 58 28.4 



Total 1987 331 , 16.6 

Three hundred and thirty-one or 28.3% of 1,169 physicians in Cleveland 
are graduates of Western Reserve University Medical School. Of the 309 



Km MKIN \\i> PRACTICE 



661 



hospital staff |)ositions in Cleveland, 75 or 24.2% are held by Western Re- 
serve University uraduates and 31 or 10% by Western Reserve University 
teachers, graduates of other schools, or a total of 34.2% of hospital staff 
positions held by Western Reserve University graduates and teachers. 

The following three tables are of considerable interest to teachers and 

practitioners of medicine in Cleveland. 

TABLE /.* 
Medical Department, Western Reserve University, Cleveland 



Year 


; 3 
Estimated 2:= 3 
Popula- 
tion of <a 2*3 
City 1|J 


o. of Stu- 
dents 
egistered 


aduates 


JS : 


TOTAL 


FEES 


1| 

^ " 
C > 

s- 
|8 8 = 


Executive 
Officer 







iSS 


Z 


O 




S 


IK 


Jfe 


VR 


z5 13 




1910 


506,938 


A 


94 


21 


18 


$130 


$130 


$130 


$130 


84 34 


F.C.Waite.Sec. 


1911 


560,663 


A 


107-64J 


14 


12 


142 


135 


135 


135 


114 34 





1912 


560,663 


A 


135-41 1 


35 


29 


142 


135 


135 


135 


89 34 


" " 


1913 


560,663 


A- 


144-17f 


22 


21 


162 


155 


150 


155 


96 34 





1914 


560,663 


A- 


153-4t 


30 


30 


162 


153 


150 


155 


90 33 





1915 


639,431 


A 


169 


38 


37 


162 


155 


150 


155 


93 34 


" " 


1916 


656,975 


A 


178 


49 


49 


162 


155 


150 


155 


96 34 





1917 


656,975 


A 


165 


32 


32 


175 


160 


154 


155 


107 34 


C.A.Hamann, 
























Dean 


1918 


674.073 


A 


181 


46 


46 


175 


160 


154 


155 


111 34 


" " 


1919 


674,073 


A 


180 


41 


41 


175 


160 


154 


155 


110 34 


< 



The statistics were taken from the Educational numbers of the Journal of the American Medical 
Attoctallon, 1910. through 1919. % 

t This number represents students of Cleveland College of Physicians and Surgeons (absorbed by 
Western Reserve University in 1910) who received instruction at Western Reserve and degree from Ohio 
Wesley an. 

TABLE II*. 
Distribution of Medical Students at Wettern KeteroeBy States 



Alabama 
California 
Colorado 
Dist. of Colu. 


III 


~. 

1 





>- 
I 


^iHlHS 

JlJlJIJt 

i2 22 22 SZ 2 




1 1 


Pennsylvania 


o Q c 3 "5 '' 

co co H H 3 i 


! 11 
ilil 


Wisconsin 
Foreign 


TOTALS 


1910 


.. .. 1 


4 


? 




111 1 


69 


g 


1 1 


i 


1 1 


94 


1911 1 .. 1 . 


.. .. 3 


5 


1 


1 


. .. 1 1 1 .. 1 1 2 


139 


8 


. 1 


i 


1 2 


171 


19121 


.. .. 3 


ft 


2 


3 


.. 2 1 1 .. 1 1 2 


132 1 


11 


2 1 . 


3 


. 2 


176 


1913 1 1 .... 


.. .. 2 


9 


1 


2 


1 1 1 .. 1 1 1 1 


114 2 


16 


1 2 


3 


1 2 


161 


1914 1 
1915 


. 3 
.. 1 2 


2 

? 


3 
I 


2 
? 


. 1 ... 1 1 2 
1 2 


113 2 
121 1 


13 

13 


....113. 
11115 


4 
6 


.. 3 
1 6 


157 
169 


1916 . .. 1 .. 


1 2 2 


1 


1 




2 


138 


in 


12116 


s 


3 


178 


1917 . 1 1 


.23 


2 


2 




2 


130 


8 


2 3 


1 3 


4 


165 


1918.. .. 1 1 


.. 1 3 


4 


/ 


1 


1 1 


139 


q 


2 3 


114 


6 


181 


19191 ..11 


1 .. 2 


3 


2 


1 


... 1 2 


136 .. 


11 


.. 1 .. .. 7 . 


5 


1 3 


180 



Copied from the Journal of the American Medical A*oclatlon. 



662 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

TABLE III.* 
Medical College Graduates 



Year 


Non- 
Sectarian 


Homeo- 
pathic 


Eclectic 


Physio- Nonde- 
Med. script 


Total 


W. R. U. 

Grads. 


%of 
Total 


1910 


4,113 


183 


114 


16 14 


4,440 


21 


.5 


1911 


4,006 


152 


110 


5 


4,273 


14 


.3 


1912 


4,206 


185 


92 




4,483 


35 


.8 


1913 


3,679 


209 


93 




3,981 


22 


.6 


1914 


3,370 


154 


70 





3,594 


30 


.8 


1915 


3,286 


195 


55 





3,536 


38 


1.0 


1916 


3,274 


166 


78 


.... 


3,518 


49 


1.3 


1917 


3,134 


180 


65 





3,379 


32 


.9 


1918 


2,454 


114 


42 


60 


2,670 


46 


1.7 


1919 


2,423 


89 


28 


116 


2,656 


41 


1.5 



* Statistics compiled from Table VI. page 502, Journal of the American Medical Association, Aug. 16 
1919, and Educational Numbers of Journal of the American Medical Association, 1910 through 1919 

The Western Reserve University Medical School is classed as A, 1907 to 1919, by the 
Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association. 



INSTRUCTION FOR GRADUATES 

An important service undertaken by the Medical School during the sum- 
mer of 1920 has been the offering of systematic instruction to medical grad- 
uates in clinical medicine and surgery, including the necessary accessory 
training in anatomy, pathology, laboratory aids in diagnosis, and such co- 
operation from teachers in various specialties as is necessary. The concep- 
tion of the program is broad, the spirit of the teachers is of the finest and^the 
fees are moderate, and there may be expected from the modest beginning of 
this year with a class of 23, such steady development and appreciation of 
the work as will go far to win generous professional support for the Medical 
School and its ideals. Once endowment is provided or annual support is 
assured for the teaching of medical undergraduates, there should be a public 
appeal made to support graduate teaching in the medical sciences, not alone 
in summer but as a necessary service for the University to provide for the 
profession throughout the year. Both the short courses in c^agnosis and 
treatment such as are now being offered and courses leading to the proper 
training of specialists, taking one or two years of combined laboratory and 
hospital teaching, are urgently needed in this country. 



\\i> l'i<\ u< i 



MEDICAL I'RACTICK 

l'nv>i<i\\- i\ ( 1.1. \ 1.1. \M> < 'i. \--nii.D in- SPECIALTY 

There are} 1,1 69 registered physicians in Cleveland, distributed accord- 
ing to theirj>\vn statements ;mioii^ the different fields of practice as follows. 



General .......... _ ............................ ........................................ 878 

Surgery 

Surgery 87 

Orthopedic Surgery 4 .......................................... 91 

Internal Medicine _____ ..................................................... 16 

Tuberculosis ........ ................................................................ 10 

Neurology and Psychiatry 

Neurology 3 

Psychiatry 2 

Neurology and Psychiatry 7 ................................ 12 

Obstetrics and Gynecology 

Obstetrics 14 

Gynecology 12 

Obstetrics and Gynecology 4 _____ _ ................... 30 

Pediatrics.- ..................................................................... 23 

Ophthalmology, Otology, Laryngology and Rhinology 

Ophthalmology 12 

Ophthalmology and Otology 3 

Laryngology and Rhinology 4 

Otology, Laryngology and Rhinology 21 

Ophthalmology, Otology, Laryngology and 

Rhinology 15 _____ ...................... _ ............. ________ 55 

Laboratory Specialties 

Pathology 1 

Clinical Pathology 2 

Roentgenology 9 

Bacteriology 1 .................................... .................. 13 

Anesthesia _____ ...................... _ ...................... _ ................... 3 

Dermatology ..................... ___________ 9 

Urology ............. _____ ......................... ...... ....... ............... 11 

Public Health ..... ___ ...... ___ 1 

Not in practice __________ ................ ______ 14 

Retired ..... ___ __________ T ... .. .. ............ ________ 3 

1,169 




664 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

HOSPITAL STAFF SERVICE 

Estimating the number of internes and physicians retired or'not prac- 
tising at 119 there is left a total of 1,050 physicians in active practice (one 
to every 758 of the population of Cleveland in 1920). Of this number 309 
or 29.4% are on hospital staffs. 

233 or 22.2% are on the staff of one hospital. 
55 " 5.2% " " " " " two hospitals. 
15 " 1.4% " " " " " three " 
5 " .5% " " " " " four " 
1 " .09% is " " " " five " (as pathologist). 

That 29.4% of all the practising physicians of Cleveland should control 
the opportunities of education and personal advancement afforded by 80% 
of the hospital beds of the city is not entirely satisfactory. 

In Boston about 42% of the practising physicians enjoy hospital oppor- 
tunities. In New York it was learned from a recent study that 51.6% of 
the registered physicians have hospital or dispensary affiliations (12.6% only 
dispensary affiliations, 12.8% both hospital and dispensary affiliations and 
26.2% only hospital affiliations). 

Of 545 physicians who have served as internes in Cleveland hospitals 
chiefly within the past ten years, 196 or 36% are now practising in Cleve- 
land. These graduates who represent the best product of our present 
methods of medical education should be attached as soon as possible after 
leaving their hospital to some hospital service, at first in the dispensary or 
as assistants in the laboratory, but with a definite future of clinical oppor- 
tunity open to them through merit and the willingness to sacrifice some 
immediate financial gains for the sake of a higher professional training. 

PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS 

Professional organization in Cleveland resembles that of other large 
cities and has provided the resources in the shape of library and meetings 
which are a necessity in a rapidly developing profession and one in which 
criticism by one's fellows and discussion of results and scientific Reports play 
so important a part. 

CLEVELAND ACADEMY OF MEDICINE 

Previous to 1902 there were two medical societies in Cleveland: the 
Cleveland Medical Society and The Cuyahoga County Medical Society. 
In 1902 the Cleveland Academy of Medicine was formed by the union of 
the two societies mentioned above. The Academy membership is approxi- 
mately 600. The general meetings are held once a month oi\ the third 
Friday of the month in the auditorium of the Cleveland Medical Library 
Association. The Clinical and Pathological section meets on the first, and 
the Experimental mechcine section on the second Friday in the month. 
The Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat Section has not met for some years. The 



EDUCATION AND PBA< in i 665 

\< .nlemy is the county medical society and is the local constituent unit of 
the Ohio State Medical Association and of the American Medical Associa- 
tion. 

Recently 'a more aggressive spirit has come over the Academy and with 
the services of full-time lay assistance, the officers have undertaken the pub- 
lication of a bulletin and have declared their intention to interest themselves 
and the rest of the profession in the modern problems of health insurance 
and legislation of various kinds affecting the professional and economic status 
of physicians in Ohio. 

The responsibility for the deplorable conditions which exist practically 
unchecked among the foreign born population, due to the exploitation 
of the sick and the well by quacks and patent medicine interests, rests to 
some degree if not chiefly with the indifference of the organized medical 
profession. The attention of the officers of the Academy of Medicine is 
called to the report on Quacks and Patent Medicines in Relation to the 
Foreign Born of Cleveland, which follows at the end of this chapter. 

CLEVELAND MEDICAL LIBRARY ASSOCIATION 

In 1894 the Cleveland Medical Library Association was formed. Pre- 
vious to this time a considerable number of books, purchased from funds 
contributed by the County Medical Society, had been gathered in Case 
Library. In 1895 a contract was entered into with Case Library. The 
Library set aside space for the Association books and agreed to care for and 
bind them and, if reimbursed for the amount expended for binding, to de- 
liver the books to the Association upon demand. In 1898, on account of 
lack of space, it was necessary for the Library to terminate this arrange- 
ment. After due delil)eration the property now occupied by the Library at 
2318 Prospect Avenue was purchased by the Association. In 190fi a fire- 
proof stack-room and auditorium were added. In 1919 the j roper ty adjoin- 
ing on the west was purchased. 

The Cleveland Medical Library Association is incorporated under the 
( )hio laws. The management of its business affairs is in the hands of a Hoard 
of Trustees, who act through an Kxecutive Committee. The traditional 
policy is the re-election of officers to ensure continuity of policy and con- 
servation in the handling of funds. The working librarian serves on a full- 
time basis. The hours are !>:.S() A. M. to 10 P. M. To the general public 
are extended reading privileges. Only members are permitted to withdraw 
books. 

According to the Librarian's report for 1919 the total numlxr of volumes 
is 24,312. SV? hooks were loaned during the year and l.K/i.S visitors to the 
Library were registered. The Library receives !(>(> different journals. 

The Library is supported by the dues of its memliers about 260 in 
number and the income of invested funds, the total of the funds being 
somewhat overl$270,000. The funds are handled largely by two trust 
companies. 



666 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Srini.v 

The Library is restrained from combining with any other society or 
organization by terms of the Allen gift, the principal of which is $200,000. 

The Library which has capacity for doubling its present contents is used 
to only a small fraction of the needs of the profession. That less than six 
readers a day visited the Library and less than one book was borrowed for 
each medical practitioner of the city in 1919, is a commentary upon the 
acquisitiveness of the physicians in the field of modern medicine, and reflects 
also a lack of adequate advertisement and propaganda by the Library Asso- 
ciation itself of its own resources. 

The policies of the Library are liberal and its financial support sufficient 
to meet many more needs for medical references than seem to be felt by the 
profession in Cleveland. 

THE CLEVELAND MEDICAL JOURNAL. 

The publication of the Cleveland Medical Journal was discontinued 
during the war and has not as yet been resumed. While the Journal was the 
official organ of the Academy it had no other relation with the Academy 
and was owned and published by a separate corporation as a public-spirited 
enterprise, not for profit. The Academy contributed to the Journal, each 
year, $2.00 per member. There seems to be no urgent need for the resump- 
tion of this journal at a time when every economy must be practised to per- 
mit the survival of those which serve a wider audience and offer space for 
most of the important contributions to medical science. 

PRIVATE MEDICAL ORGANIZATIONS 

There are several private medical organizations serving to some degree 
social and scientific needs of the profession. Among these are the Cleveland 
Homeopathic Medical Society which was organized in 1865 (there are at present 
about 150 members), the Cleveland Colored Medical Society organized 
in 1916 (30 members, 18 of whom are doctors, 8 dentists and 4 pharmacists), 
and the Cleveland Public Health Association, a branch of the American 
Public Health Association, organized May 21, 1919 (the membership is 45, 
and is limited to those who are members of the national organization). 

PROFESSIONAL OPPORTUNITIES 

The medical profession has suffered severely in its development in 
Cleveland by reason of the serious shortage of hospital beds. Visiting ser- 
vices which will be needed when the necessary increment of beds is added 
to existing hospital capacities should provide openings for most of the pro- 
fession willing and trained to give a high grade of service in hospitals. 



There is lacking in Cleveland that unity of spirit among the physicians 
which comes from a just distribution of equal opportunities and from generous 
support, encouragement and advancement of the young and ambitious by 
their seniors. 



PBOFESBIONAL EDUCATION \M> l'i<\< u< i. 



A Keller trained ^roup <r with higher praleMMMUl ideals \\onld be hard 
to find than the recent graduates of the local medical school. They are 
entitled to a quicker recognition, particularly those who have dedicated 
theinselve- to various of the special fields of laboratory and clinical prac- 
tice. lines of effort not sufficiently appreciated in Cleveland. 

\< i-oniing to information obtained from those chiefly concerned 
with general medical practice and consultation work in internal medicine, 
there is a very unusual indifference among Cleveland physicians to the 
value of laboratory tests in confirmation of diagnosis or as checks upon 
clinical impressions ; md physical findings in the cause of disease. The use 
of the tests in medical practice now available in the fields of blood chemistry 
and immunology is practically unknown in Cleveland. 

AUTOPSIKS 

\ comment which could not fail to come to the lips of any visiting 
physician, particularly from European medical teaching centers, would 
certainly be that the use of the autopsy is not appreciated as, at the same 
time, the most valuable postgraduate education for hospital physicians and 
surgeons, and the cause of a respectful humility among teachers and students 
alike in the presence of the secrets of disease. 

During l!)l!) there were recorded 45.) autopsies in the hospitals of Cleve- 
land, and it is fairly clear that autopsies are rarely performed outside of 
hospitals on private patients and about as rarely, in the honest meaning of 
the term, under the auspices of the Coroner's office. 

Of the i:>.~> recorded autopsies it will be seen from the following list 
that 351 were performed in the hospitals \\here medical teaching is carried 
on: namely, at City, Lakeside, St. Vincent's and Mateniity. 

AUTOPSIES PEKFOKMED IN CLEVELAND HOSPITALS IN 1919 

City .................................................... 209 approximately 

Fairview ............................................ 

Glenville ........................................... 1 or 2 

Grace ......... __ ..................................... unknown 

Huron Road .................................... 5 

Lakeside __ ....................................... 1 10 

Lutheran.. ..... ........ 

Maternity ............................ 8 

Mount Sinai _____ ........................... 50 

Provident .......... ..................... - , 

St. Alexis .................................... unknown 

St. Ann's . 20 orphanage children 

St. Clair ......... 1 

St. John's ........ 20 

St. Luke's 5 

St. Vincent's 27 

Woman's 

Lakewood ....... a few 

455 



668 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



liven at the hospitals where post-mortem study is urged and has its best 
chance in Cleveland the percentage of deaths which come to autopsy is piti- 
fully small as can be seen from the following list. 



Year 

1914 
1915 
1916 
1917 
1918 
1919 



Lakeside Hospital 

Deaths Autopsies 

226 85 



243 
284 
273 
350 
317 



107 

114 

97 

64 

110 



Percentage 

38 
44 
40 
35 
18 
37 



Year 

1917 
1918 
1919 



City Hospital 
Deaths Autopsies 



1,168 

1,211 

863 



156 
202 
207 



Percentage 

13 
17 
24 



Year 

1916 
1917 
1918 
1919 



St. Vincent's Hospital 
Deaths Autopsies 



131 
182 
178 
331 



16 
18 
21 
16 



Percentage 

12 

10 

12 

5 



The pathologists of the hospitals are well aware of the neglect of the 
post-mortem as an invaluable educative resource, but interest is rarely as 
keen among the surgeons and physicians on duty. 

Public Health administration and the practice of curative medicine alike 
would be gainers if a post-mortem examination were required in every death 
occurring in the hospitals of the city. It is distinctly a duty of the Hospital 
Council to take a definite stand in this matter, see that hospital superin- 
tendents feel their responsibility for obtaining consent for autopsies from 
the family or friends of the deceased and apply this necessary control obser- 
vation to the clinical and operative services of the attending staff. 

No better statement as to the action it is desirable to take can be found 
than the following quotation from the writings of the leading pathologist of 
Cleveland. 



I'KMKKSSIMN \i. KIH \ 1 1>\ \\ PRACTICK 669 

"Investigations of the cause of the general shortcoming of American medicine in 
studying the accuracy of clinical diagnosis lead to a variety of explanations and an equal 
variety of suggestions for improvement. The latter may be thus summarized: 

There should be: 

1. Education of the public as to the importance of post-mortem ex- 
aminations to public health. 

2. Improvement of legislation: (a) obviation of the necessity for 
written permission to perform a necropsy, and (A) recognition of the differ- 
ence between anatomic dissection and the necropsy. 

3. Improvement of hospital regulations. 

4. Increased development of the interest of physicians in the necropsy. 

5. Encouragement of the selfish interest in post-mortems on the part 
of intelligent relatives of the dead. 

6. Assignment, in large hospitals, of certain persons whose special 
duty it shall be to secure permission for post-mortem examinations. 

7. Information given the family as to the conditions disclosed by the 
necropsy. 

8. A request for necropsy in every fatal case in hospital or private 
practice. 

9. Establishment in the hospitals of regular clinical pathologic con- 
ferences. 

We would suggest, in addition, that the subject is of direct importance to the devel- 
opment of industrial medicine and that those interesting themselves in this subject point 
out to the employers and employes the value to medicine and industry of post-mortem 
examinations. The suggested alteration of actuarial figures regarding life insurance is of 
similar importance to the so-called health insurance." 



RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that: 

1. New trustees who are still in the midst of the actual problems of industry, of the 
professions and of public service, be added to the present number of trustees or be ap- 
pointed when the terms of those trustees now serving expire. 

2. One or more trustees, chosen by the alumni of the Medical School from their 
own number, be elected to the Board. 

3. Medical School buildings be erected at a site which will permit of convenient 
contact between the medical faculty and the faculties of the other University schools. 

4. In addition to its control of the exceptionally abundant facilities of the City Hos- 
pital for the teaching of clinical medicine to undergraduates, the University Medical 
School maintain such affiliations as it now has with Lakeside, Maternity and Babies' 



070 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Si in KY 

Hospital, permitting medical research and study in methods of teaching which can hardly 
be carried out with such entire liberty in an institution of the public nature of City Hospi- 
tal, where political and financial difficulties may interfere occasionally with the best inter- 
ests of scientific medical teaching and study. 

5. The trustees discontinue formal affiliations for the Medical School with other 
hospitals than the City Hospital and the three included in the University group, so far as 
systematic teaching activities are concerned. 

6. At the same time that the project for Medical School buildings is undertaken 
the trustees prepare a plan for financial support, either by endowment or through annual 
pledges, which will adequately provide for the salaries of the teachers and the maintenance 
and service needs of each department of the Medical School. 

7. The trustees of the University devote their best efforts to obtain such changes 
in the City Charter as may be found practicable^ and such action from the officers of the 
city government as may be necessary to insure the appointment of a board of trustees to 
be responsible for the administration of the City Hospital, such trustees to be selected 
from representative groups of citizens by the Mayor and to be appointed by him. 

8. The building of the new hospital group, either as one construction undertaking 
(if ample funds are available) or in sequence (in the following order of preference Babies' 
Hospital, Maternity Hospital and Lakeside Hospital) be commenced when the construction 
of Medical School buildings, the provision of endowment or adequate annual support for 
teaching and the removal of City Hospital from the probability of political mismanagement 
have been assured, or at least have been so planned for that their accomplishment will 
parallel, if not precede, the group hospital construction. 

9. Neither funds nor the energies of University teachers or institutions be devoted 
to the operation of public facilities and medical services, except in so far as these can be made 
to contribute or are found necessary for the teaching and study of the medical sciences. 

10. The University discourage the employment of its officers on a part-time basis 
in positions under the city government. 

11. Systematic instruction in the problems and principles of preventive medicine be 
included in the curriculum of undergraduate students without necessarily adding a new 
department or increasing the number of hours of instruction now given to medical stu- 
dents. 

12. A department for the training of physicians in the field of industrial medicine 
be established as soon as adequate funds can be provided, this department and its func- 
tions not to be confused with such efforts as the University may undertake for the train- 
ing of physicians and others for the career of public health administrators. 

13. The trustees push forward vigorously with the present plans for a department 
of orthopedics, under the general department of surgery, but free to develop its own teach- 
ing and research policies, with clinical facilities independent of those of general surgery. 

14. A department of psychiatry with a similar independence under the general 
department of medicine be organized and provided with independent clinical facilities. 

15. A department of urology be added to the independent special departments 
under the department of mrgery. 



PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION \\i Pu \< 1 1 i 671 

16. The ext^sion of the principle of full-time teaching positions for the heads of 
the main clinical departments and for the chief assistants be undertaken as soon as salaries 
can be assured, adequate to attract trained teachers and to permit of their having ample 
time for research. 

17. The medical faculty adopt the policy of having staff conferences in each depart- 
ment to provide for uniform teaching policies and practice in the various clinical hospital 
services used by these departments. 

18. The voting faculty of the Medical School drop its inactive and absentee members 
and add not less than ten more members of the teaching staff, assistant professors, demon- 
strators and others, in order to make of this body a real academic forum, democratic in 
nature, and permitting a much broader representation from those carrying the major 
burden of the teaching work. 

19. To the Department of Pediatrics be assigned the responsibility and care for 
new-born babies at the Maternity Hospital and in the maternity service of the City Hos- 
pital. 

20. The trustees of the University encourage and give their active support to the 
new undertaking of the medical faculty in the field of medical education for graduate 
physicians. 

21. The Hospital Council take an active interest in increasing the performance of 
poet- mortem examinations for the sake of improving the quality of medical and surgical 
services in the hospitals. 



672 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Quacks and. Patent Medicines 

By MARY STRONG BURNS 

THERE are many perils in being an immigrant in Cleveland, but one 
of the most disastrous to his pocket, health and native faith is the 
quack medical practitioner. With an estimated 513,000 of the city's 
731,156 population either of foreign birth or foreign parentage in 1917, we 
have abundant opportunity to realize that it is not possible for the foreign- 
born with limited education and no English to pass unscathed through a 
labyrinth of new customs good, bad and indifferent. 

The doctor, as popularly conceived by the uneducated, is a mystery at 
best, something of a magician from whom the patient dares expect only a 
small part of the truth and no explanation of it. The immigrant learns 
that the reputable doctor of medicine must have "M. D." after his name (even 
though it means as little to the immigrant as to the street gamin who "guessed 
it meant More Dope"), and when he pauses before an office door placarded 
"M. T. D., D. C., D. S. T., Ph. C." he may be forgiven for imagining that 
he stands before an even greater "Professor" than the law requires. He 
finds as wide a choice of doctors as of religions, and as he hesitates, bewildered, 
the more watchful and aggressive forces find him. 

Of these the quack doctors are most successful because they set forth in 
that particular foreign language newspaper which the immigrant reads as 
the one intelligible guide to his new country, a convincing statement of skill, 
learning and sympathy, promising (with reservations so deftly inserted as 
to be almost unnoticeable) health free or at minimum cost. Even though 
the immigrant feels well and in no need of medical care the quack's repeated 
message and the long list of "troubles and diseases" is ever present and 
suggestive, so that the susceptible imagination of the future victim is soon 
won over to a conviction of some bodily frailty. The quack, at the first 
examination, finds more serious ailments, the "cure" of which will generally 
necessitate an expenditure to the limit of the patient's resources and large 
enough to include the high cost of advertising. 

The foreign language newspapers derive from 30 per cent to 60 percent 
of their advertising income from the fraudulent statements of quack prac- 
titioners and patent medicine interests. It has been conservatively esti- 
mated that the Italian paper // Progresso and the Polish paper Ameryka 
Echo circulated here derive 60 per cent of their income from these sources. 
In one of these, one advertisement of " Parto-Glory, " containing 723 words, 
cost about $125. 

There are twenty-one newspapers not printed in English circulated in 
Cleveland, published locally. These are mostly papers of national circula- 
tion. There are also eleven foreign language papers. Taking all together, 
twelve different languages are used: Bohemian, German, Greek, Hungarian, 
Italian, Lithuanian, Polish, Roumanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Swedish and 
Ukrainian. The papers published here, with the exception of three, carry 



Punl K^MitVVL, EoiTATION AND PRACTICE 673 

only advertisements of physicians and medical agencies doing business from 
;i ( 'leveland office, and nearly one-third of their advertising income is derived 
from this source. The papers published out of town hut circulated in Cleve- 
land are: four published in New York and one each in Chicago, Detroit, 
Jersey City. Middletown, Pa.; Pittsburgh, and Toledo. These do not con- 
tain advertisements of Cleveland quacks, although they are not limited to 
local advertising. They do, however, contain advertisements of 62 quack 
doctors from other cities, and of these only two from Detroit are duplicated 
in the list of out-of-town quacks who advertise in the foreign language papers 
published in Cleveland. 

Of the 2~) physicians having offices in town and advertising in the Cleve- 
land foreign language newspapers, one uses papers in six languages, one, four 
languages, three, two languages and twenty, one language. Thirteen of these 
physicians advertise only their address and office hours. This is an admit- 
tedly ethical and legitimate procedure among foreigners. The doctor iay 
thus announce his presence to people of his own race. Because of this prece- 
dent the quack practitioner may use a more elaborate form without arousing 
suspicion, the foreign-born reader often getting the idea that the newspaper 
itself is setting forth the doctor's skill and goodness. Thus eight of the 
twenty-five physicians advertised to treat at their offices "all sicknesses of 
men and women, especially sicknesses of the blood, heart, kidneys, lungs, 
nerves, nose and throat;" two treat "blood and skin diseases," and two 
others treat "men only." evading a more open reference to venereal disease. 

In this class is the ty|>e of office whose apparent head, the quack doctor, 
is under the control of an unscrupulous business syndicate. This syndicate 
manages offices in a number of large cities, guaranteeing salaries and a cer- 
tain |>ercentage to the doctor in charge, but claiming the fees of the patients. 
In one of these offices in Cleveland when business \\a> interrupted by arre-t. 
the receipts for the year were found to have amounted to $40,000. If illegal 
practice is detected the business manager of the syndicate appears, pays the 
linex, e|o>es the office and spirits his doctor away to an office in another city 
where a new name and locality will make him more valuable than ever. 
After the affair ha> slip|x>d out of the public mind, the syndicate opens its 
( Mevelaml ofiice at a different address and in charge of a new agent and the 
game begins again. The agent of tlic syndicate may or may not be a licensed 
practitioner. He may have had his license revoked in another state. In 
any < a>c hi^ medical knowledge is less in demand than his skill at getting a 
cash return for any imitation of it. If a license is necessary to avoid >u^- 
picion and the agent does not possess one, some unsuccessful, though once 
ethical, practitioner is lured into the Bailie on the promise of a small regular 
salary, and when the crash comes he is usually left to be the seajx'goat and 
MTVC the x-utence. 

The eight out-of-to\\ n physician^ advertising in foreign language papers 
published in Cleveland have o||ice> as fol|o\\>: one in Akmn. one in Chicago, 
three in Detroit, one in I'alersoii, V .1.; one in Syracu-c. V N \ private 
clinic in Neu York advertises in a (icrman paper. The Hungarian paper 
published the notices of the Paterson and Syracuse doctors and of t \\ o from 



674 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SIKVKY 

Detroit; the Roumanian those of Akron and Chicago doctors, and one from 
Detroit. The advertisements of these out-of-town physicians show that five 
would treat ''all troubles," one will treat "men only," one "rheumatism 
and kidney troubles," and one chronic diseases. One states that he will 
send medicines and advice; one offers a book, The Friend of Youth; one de- 
clares "Hundreds travel to see me, no treatment through letters;" another 
invites, "Come, or ask advice." 

The appeal of the quack is effectively adapted to the susceptible foreign 
temperament. In the picturesque phraseology of his own tongue the reader 
is tempted, cajoled, lured, warned and roused to fear; trading on his natural 
credulity, the wording of the advertisement is carefully managed so as to 
imply, rather than guarantee, a cure. The appeal of money saving is most 
frequent. "My advice is free;" "I will help you with the best medical care 
for such price as you can pay;" "I do not charge for examination if you are- 
one of my patients;" "X-Ray examinations only $1;" "Pay after you are 
cured." This type of appeal is in constant use. Other types are here set 
ddwn. 

The appeal of encouragement: "No matter what illness you have if you 
have failed to find health from others, come to me;" "With success I have 
cured many. What I have done for others I can do for you;" "Men and 
women my specialty." 

The appeal of fear, urging to prompt action: "Remember that neglect- 
ing your trouble makes it worse;" "I have saved hundreds from the operating 
table." 

The appeal through promise of a common language: "You can hold 
conversation with me in your own tongue;"- "Come to me and be well 
informed about your sickness and understand how you can be cured;" 
"Here we speak Hungarian;" "We speak Polish," etc. 

The appeal of race: One florid description of sundry abilities is headed: 
"To my sick Roumanian Brothers;" "To my sick Lithuanian Brothers "- 
the nationality mentioned changing with the language of the paper. Another 
who still practises in spite of past fines and sentences uses this subtle method, 
"A message to the Italians. Sick Italians, do not be discouraged. Thou- 
sands of our countrymen have found health and happiness by going to see 
Dr. Landis. His treatments are simply marvelous!" 

The appeal of special skill and "method cures": "I use X-Ray and 
electrical machines and my own new methods of treatment. By these 
methods you will recover health in the quickest possible time;" "To save 
the stomach my practice is to inject the medicine directly into the arteries, 
which hastens considerably the process of restoring to health." 



The appeal to the imagination: "Formerly doctor to the Czar;" "A 
Polish doctor returned from U. S. Army Service in France. Come and 
place your confidence in me." 



l'l>FE88IONAL EDUCATION AND PltACTH I. 675 

The ap}>eal to sentiment: "If you are well yourself, yet there are some 
who need help. Send us the names of others who are sick and save them 
while there is a chance." 

The type of ap]xal is more vivid and dramatic in Italian, Polish and Hun- 
garian papers; while that in Swedish, Lithuanian and (icrman is more matter- 
of-fact. 

No fake advertising was found in the Greek paper, Atlantis. 

In addition to the appeal of the quack, the foreign language press abounds 
in advertisements of patent, or more properly, proprietary medicines offered 
by "medical institutes," "medical companies," drug manufacturers and 
retail drug stores. These usually claim in the newspapers to be remarkable 
cures for almost every disease that one may have, while the label on the 
bottle is more modest since that must conform to the food and drug act. 
This act, known as the "Pure Food Law." is supposed by many to be a seal 
of perfection, whereas it merely insists that the manufacturer shall make 
no false or misleading statement on the label of the bottle as to its content ^ 
or curative power. It does not affect products made and sold within the 
state. It prohibits the use of certain dangerous drugs unless their presence 
is declared, yet allows other dangerous drugs to l>e used ami not declared. 
While the label must tell the truth the advertiser need not be so punctilious 
and in his hands the patent medicine takes on new jxnvers. Some of the 
advertisements ask the patient to send by mail to the factory for medicine. 
Others would send medicine and instructions for treatment by mail. Still 
others announce that their product may be bought anywhere. The Roman 
Medicine Company announces, "Our institution is under the suj>ervision of 
well-known medics from the old country. It was established to relieve our 
countrymen of their sufferings. After years of labor and research we dis- 
covered what is indispensable to cure our brothers of their sickness. Put a 
cross (X) on the illness from which you are suffering and send it to us. We 
will serve you free of charge with every necessity." Here follows a tempting 
array of "troubles," minor ailments and pains. One has only to choose. 

In addition to these ]>crils by newspaper there are also perils by propa- 
ganda. Cards of reputable physicians have been sent out with prescrip- 
tions by retail druggists who implied that the doctor was also endorsing the 
sample of patent medicine enclosed. Recently a young woman, whose dress 
and manner suggested that of a public health nurse, was found visiting in 
the homes of women with families. She came ostensibly to advice them on 
the care of children and ended by selling a book in which patent medicine^ 
from several large \\holesale hoii>es were repeatedly recommended for treat- 
ment. These wholesale manufacturers of patent medicines employ clever 
lauyers ;il ln-li salaries to protect their interests. If the preparation comcN 
into disrepute under one name it may be used under another. Tan-lac has 
had several name- \- a Dr. Cooper's Medical Discovery it wa> sold by a 
man in sky-blue uniform with buttons of five-dollar gold pieces, who drove 
through the country in an automobile. 



676 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The Ohio State Medical Board is, the instrument upon which Cleveland 
has relied for the detection of its quacks. There is only one state medical 
inspector for a city of nearly 800,000 people. This is obviously too great a 
task for one person. The State Medical Board publishes no report except 
for the Governor and the Secretary of State, on July 1st of each year. The 
following statement was submitted to us by the Board: 

From July 1, 1918, to June 30, 1919, certificates of four physicians 
and surgeons to practise medicine were revoked; one certificate suspended 
and certificate of one limited practitioner revoked; nine applications for 
revocation are pending; 8 midwives were prosecuted and convicted; one 
acquitted. 

One hundred and sixty-three cases investigated; 28 convictions secured; 
3 cases acquitted. 

There were two dismissals and one disagreement. 

Fifteen against whom charges were filed agreed to cease practice. 

Fifteen more left the state. 

Forty cases were pending on June 30, 1919; a number of these pending 
cases have since been tried and conviction secured. 

The state medical inspector for the city offered an informal account of 
her work, all records having been sent to Columbus as made, to await the 
compiling of the annual report in July. There have been a number of con- 
victions of doctors and midwives for illegal practice and criminal abortion, 
and other cases are being prosecuted. The work is evidently being done 
conscientiously and is as far-reaching as the efforts of one inspector can 
reasonably make it. However, a judicious and wider publicity of the ac- 
complishment of the State Medical Board might be of distinct educational 
value in the community. The patient victimized by the quack does not 
realize that his plight is the concern of anyone other than himself. 

It is difficult to state how large a number of Cleveland patients are treated 
through the mails by out-of-town quacks, but as practically every fraudulent 
scheme depends upon the mails at some time or other in its development, 
we are safe in believing that the Federal Authorities have not received 
complaints from all those who have been defrauded. 

The Federal Fraud Order Law, in use since 1014, gives the Post Office 
Department authority to close the mails to anyone using the mails in schemes 
to defraud. This may be an enormously effective weapon against quacks 
doing a large mail-order business. The post office collects evidence enough 
to be sure of conviction, then issues the Fraud Order. The quack, if he has 
not already vanished, has a right to refer to the court, but a reversed judg- 
ment has never been recorded. In a word, the Federal Post; Office will 
only attempt cases which it is sure of convicting. This law is also sharply 
limited because the Post Office Department cannot move until the mails 
have been actually used in an attempt to commit fraud. It must \\;iit until 
it receives a complaint from someone who has been defrauded. 



EDUCATION \M> l'i<\< u< i. 077 

The quack advert iscr has purposely sha|>ed his proposition to come within 
t he let ter of the law and to so avoid t he attention of the Federal eye as long as 
possible. He knows his own danger and at the first symptom of detection 
i-ollccts his bounty and "skips the country," leaving the evidence powerless 
to convict and his victims without rcdn-- 

The Fraud Order Law has proved a radical cure for the cases in which it 
has been utilized, but the miint>er of these is small. Its scope should be 
enlarged and its scheme of inspection made to include those who advertise 
with intention to defraud, for in this matter prevention is both education 
and cure. The value of this law depends largely not on its passive acceptance 
but on its aggressive enforcement. The patient who has l>een the victim 
should not be expected to make the complaint. There should be some 
unbiassed agency or group of agencies combining the knowledge of the Bureau 
of Immigration, State Medical Board and National Vigilance Committee of 
Advertising Clubs to receive the complaint and present the case to the 
Federal Authorities. Such an agency or bureau possibly and properly OJKT- 
ating under the auspices of the Cleveland Academy of Medicine, could be of 
untold l>enefit to the many cases of venereal disease who have so often be- 
come the prey of quack practitioners through lack of sufficient provision for 
treatment at hospitals and dispensaries. It could also furnish evidence of 
the need of further legislation to restrict the use of the mails from carrying 
advertisements relating to venereal disease. 

The American Medical Association has prepared and published a scries 
of pamphlets on nostrums and quackery for the use of the public. These 
have a limited circulation among those who least need their warning. With 
discriminating field work this circulation could l>e increased. The priest, 
whose congregations have had sad experiences, the large industrial plants 
and their public health nurses, the libraries and popular magazines could be 
used to good effect. The emphasis in such education might be placed first 
upon the hallmarks of honest, intelligent treatment of disease, and second 
upon the fact thai each one must stop look listen and then think for him- 
self before he trusts. 

Winning the theory that the A i 1 -niv of Medicine must not take any 
action on quack Iwhavior, we might urge tint dispensaries and prophylactic 
centers should feel free to teach as well as lo practise theethies of medical 
service, supplementing the mysteries of diagnosis and technic with a pro- 
gram of cheerful consideration for the patient and of eliminating the diffi- 
culty of an alien language by sympathetic and patient interpreters who are 
not too highly intellect uali/.ed to miss the human side in the medical interest 
of a 

The Americani/ation Committee of the Cleveland liar Association ha* 
already become interested in the dealings of shyster lawyers with the foreign- 
horn. This inn-rest could be stimulated to secure valuable coo|>eration from 
the court when quack practitioners are beinu prosecuted and defended with 
unprincipled skill by their shyster lawyer- 



678 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The foreign-language newspapers cannot afford to give up their bad types 
of advertising unless they can get something equally remunerative to replace 
it. One small foreign-language paper refused quack and patent-medicine 
advertising to an amount of $1,500 a month because its people were being 
exploited and victimized. As a result it could barely pay expenses, but the 
editor declared he "felt at peace without stained money." It has, however, 
gradually resumed much of what it once refused an instance of "the heroic 
for earth too hard." 

The American Association of Foreign-Language Newspapers was recently 
reorganized under the leadership of well known business men, one of its 
stated purposes being to improve the advertising in the foreign-language 
press of this country. They are pointing out to American advertisers the 
possibilities of the foreign-language paper as a medium for reaching new 
readers. In conjunction with the Better Business Association of the Cleve- 
land Advertising Club, this may be of assistance, providing the foreign- 
language papers do not have to surrender the control of their individual 
policy. The large foreign-born population is too valuable a field to be 
neglected by advertisers. The foreign-language press might offer to the 
future citizen the stimulus of the best the country affords of resources^ and 
responsibilities. At present its misuse amounts to almost a civic disaster. 

Should we be better satisfied to receive the immigrant who comes to our shores 
suspicious, distrustful, prepared to be duped and tricked both by Americans 
and fellow countrymen who have had a chance to learn the ways of 
the country? Can we not look upon this "ignorance, gullibility, child-like 
credulity," or whatever we call his eager belief and wonder at our world, as 
something worth saving, precious because readily convertible into citizen- 
ship as loyal and even more fervid and spontaneous than our native New 
Englander, Texan or Rocky Mountaineer will feel free to express. 

The quack has conquered where the ethical practitioner has failed to 
attract, because the quack has taken the "infinite pains" of a genius to win 
his prey. As commercialist and practical psychologist he is an expert. The 
clean honesty of the ethical practitioner is not equally painstaking. It. 
should not be asked of the ethical practitioner that he cope with quackery, 
but because he is pledged as his "brother's keeper," shall he not note in the 
successful appeal of the quack to his patient the things which are promised 
along with the cure friendly consideration as a stranger, a sympathetic 
hearing and a frank diagnosis explained so as to be understood? These are 
of value whether the cure comes or not, for to the imaginative foreign tem- 
perament a serious illness sympathetically interpreted by the doctor is less ap- 
palling than some trivial indisposition left unexplained. Is it not possible 
to have some more flexible attitude on the part of the medical profession 
and some more aggressive attitude for ourselves as the public in the matter? 
Our health regulations no longer permit people to expose themselves un- 
necessarily to contagion. Is the menace of quackery to be ignored? We 
see in our midst a multitude of people from ether worlds being fed with tales 
in their native tongue of fake cures by fake operators. We watch and think 
"It will be bitter bread for them." The doctors watch and think "It is all 



I'um i ^i<>\ \i. KDUCATION AND PKACTICK <I7!) 

wnmg but we may not s]>eak." The foreign-language newspaper counts its 
advertising cash returns and prints on. thinking "Tin- National Vigilance 
Committee of the Associated Advertising ('lnl)s of tin- World allows it, the 
city of Cleveland allows it, the public does nothing, the income justifies it." 

Only the future warns: "The immigrant's instinct for belief in his new 
country is a tremendous asset to the nation and to the city of his choice. 
The opportunity of justifying this belief and for providing education and 
citizenship is open to the foreign language newspaper. It is the written 
word, the organ of authority, but those who control its policy are in turn 
controlled by larger business interests and these are prostituting its high 
office^for commercial gain. Let the city waken and protect its right." 

TRANSLATIONS OF ADVERTISEMENTS SHOWN IN FACSIMILE ON PAGE 680 

1. "TO MY SICK HUNGARIAN BROTHERS* 

If you'have failed to find help, come to me, as I have practised many years and can 
give health with treatments to such men and women as are nervous or ill with complicated 
sickness, suffering because someone has given the wrong treatment or neglected it. With 
success I have cured such sick who could not get cured elsewhere. What I have done with 
others, Ijcan do with you. Don't spend more time but come to me today. Advice free. 

If you suffer with chronic nervousness, blood, skin, or complicated trouble, or abdomen, 
stomach and liver trouble, rheumatism, back or muscles, headache, constipation, dizziness, 
eruptions, disease of the head, throat, nose visit me. I have succeeded with such sick- 
nesses by treatment. Respectfully I will give you my opinion and after a good examina- 
tionjwill tell you what I can do. Get advice from me now as waiting is often dangerous. 
Don't forget that advice is free. 

Office hours from 9 a. m. to 8 p. m. Sunday from 10 a. m. to 2 p. m. 

Dr. Kenealy, 

647 Euclid Ave., 2nd Floor, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Over New Idea Bakery Republic Building Next Door Star Theater" 

Translation of advertisement in Hungarian published in Szabadsag. 

2. "CHRONIC AND NERVE DISEASES CURED* 

If you are afflicted with an upset stomach or kidneys or bladder, consult me today. 
Seek help where it can be found. Years of experience in the treatment of all nervous ail- 
ments, either chronic or complicated, have enabled me to give you scientific electrical treat- 
ments that will help you in cases where other methods have failed, and therefore many have 
been freed from torture and danger of an operation. Remember: that delay and improper 
treatments are dangerous. Come to me if you wish to have the services' of an expert 
specialist. 

Dr. Lewis, Specialist 

Office hours: 9 a. m. to 8 p. m. Sundays 10 a. m. to 2 p. m. 
749 Sixth Avenue (between 42nd and 43rd Streets), New York City." 
Translation advertisement in Italian published in II Progresso 





tit 

I!J 

-if 

ill 
ll 



l 

H;S 



:i s 





p&nlll* 

iiisi-nvf 




w 



E 
< 



o o . 

u : : 

S 2 

"2 SP SP 

Jg 2 2 

1 * * -I 

-n = = a. 

~ N CO ^ 



M 

. * 

C^j 

Ji! 

UJ fa 



If <*! il 

*4 i* 

J- 5= =! 

| il if i ( 

f-y |S ,== S S 

i, Ifj : II 

t- |x*3 M 

bl.' il^-l-s ?, H 



.-* S^ 

5 i ; 



SB B Va S 

I*** I :| !IS 



^2 il 

!^ 

xa - 

O 3-4 

& 1 ! 

o> ^ 



^sjlSll'agl ti-Wj 

t^fc aC"f >.>EKW fci ,5:.5 * 6 

^fli^iifii4 f e1 1 2 J 



?; 

=2 



*a 

K H 

2 



., * 



ill fiIP:!; rg 

Hi 'Hi.^l<fl |l 



II 




*J 



Qu 

< 

X 

w 

OS 

o 

u. 



CO 

rj U OS 

2 2 O W 

3 = f 

i * 



u. 2 

g 



2 < 



u 



PROU >->i>\ \i. Km < \TION AND I'KA<TICE 8l 

3. "A MESSAGE TO THE ITALIANS!* 

Sick Italians, do not be discouraged if you have not been able to obtain the desired 
cure even after having been visited by different doctors, or been in many hospitals. 

Hundreds, or rather thousands, of our countrymen have found health and happiness 
by going to see Dr. Landis. Dr. Landis with his 25 years of practice in New York, having 
studied in the greatest universities and hospitals of America and Europe, is just the man 
who will put you on the road to health. His treatments are really wonderful. His office 
is equipped with the most costly electrical machinery, which cannot be found at all doctors' 
offices and which is indispensable for an efficient cure. 

Dr. Landis has experimented with a method cure of electricity which has given wonder- 
ful results and which allows individuals to get well without having to leave their work. 

If you suffer with pains in your back, or rheumatism, or sickness of the chest or blad- 
der, with weakness or anemia or any other illness, be it chronic or recent, consult Dr. 
Landis and you will certainly find a sure cure. All consultations are absolutely free. 
Remember that in any sickness to wait is always dangerous. Why wait? Go this very 
day. Italian is spoken. 

Dr. Leonardo Landis, 140 East 22nd Street, New York City. 

(Between 3rd and Lexington Aves.) 

Office hours: Every day from 10 a. m. to 7 p. m. Sunday from 10 a. in. to 1 p. m." 
Translation of advertisement in Italian published in II Progresses 



4. 

"X-Ray examination $1.00.* 

If you are sick, notwithstanding what the nature of your sickness is, if you are dis- 
couraged, do not give up hope but come to me. 

I treat all sicknesses of men and women and especially sicknesses of the blood, skin, 
stomach, kidneys, lungs, nerves, heart, nose and throat by the assistance of X-Ray and 
electrical machines and my new methods of treatments. By these methods you will recover 
your health in the quickest possible time. 

I do not guess. The secret of my success lies in the careful research as to the cause of 
your sickness. I use X-Ray, microscope and chemical analysis and also all learned meth- 
ods to find the cause of the sickness. 

If you are bruised or injured, come to me and I will help you. 

My personal observation of the methods used in European clinics in Berlin, London, 
Vienna, Paris and Rome in my 20 years' experience with sicknesses that have grown old 
among men and women, gave me results that proved a success. 

I consider 606 and 914 great medicines for the blood. 
All treatments are absolutely painless. 

Translation of advertisement in Polish published in Polonea W. Ameryce. 



682 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

You can depend on an honest opinion, honest treatment, and the best treatments 
at the lowest prices that everyone can afford. 

If your sickness cannot be cured I will tell you. If it can be cured I will cure it in the 
quickest possible time. 

We talk in Polish and Slovak. 

Doctor Bailey, Specialist, 5511 Euclid Avenue, near East 55th Street. 
Office hours 9:30 a. m. to 8 p. m." 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

1. Legislation: 

(a) A more aggressive use and increased scope of the Federal Fraud Order Law. 

(b) A uniform Medical Practice Act between states, to be urged by the Cleveland 
Academy of Medicine. 

2. Administration: 

(a) A Local Bureau organized to receive and act on complaints of medical fraud. 
This Bureau would make known its function to the public and to all Public Health agencies, 
who in turn would report such cases. 

(b) Increased Inspection and prosecution by the State Medical Board. 

(c) Development of the Americanization Committee of the Cleveland Bar Associa- 
tion for cooperation in prosecution. 

3. Education: 

(a) Extended instruction in the ethics of medical service among medical students, 
and also to patients in hospitals, dispensaries, health centers etc. 

(b) General health education in popular courses (in a foreign language when neces- 
sary) in citizenship classes, industrial plants, churches, community centers etc. 

4. Standardization of Foreign-Language Press: 

Fraudulent advertising to be replaced by advertising and general reading matter of 
good standard, through the assistance and supervision of the Chamber of Commerce, the 
Cleveland Advertising Club and other civic bodies, for the protection and education of 
the foreign-born during his transition from immigrant to citizen. 

5. Counteraction: 

Giving all would-be patients first-aid treatment of psychology and self-qontrol. 

Democratizing the highest types of medical service so that the best shall be available 
for all. 



PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND Pu\< rid <>s:{ 

Dentistry in Cleveland 

By HAVEN EMERSON, M. D. 

ASIDE from or rather in addition to the persistent forces which tend to 
drive any profession onward and upward in public esteem, the dental 
profession in this country has been advanced in its own conception of 
service and in its scientific application of prevention and treatment of dis- 
ease by two movements of much importance. The demonstration of the 
benefits of oral hygiene and periodic cleansing of the teeth of children by 
Dr. Fones, of Bridgeport, Conn., and the proof of casual relationship between 
focal infection in root canals and other dental lesions and a multitude of 
secondary joint, cardiac and general constitutional symptoms may be said 
to have dominated much of the modern crusade for letter dentistry, for 
preventive dentistry and for the close professional cooperation between 
dentistry and medicine in private, hospital and public health work. 

In all of this Cleveland dentists have taken an active and leading part 
and the city is fortunate in having within i^s limits those who direct the for- 
tunes of the Dental College, the Research Laboratory, the Cleveland Dental 
Society and the Cleveland Mouth Hygiene Association. 

According to the best information there are about 5.50 registered dentists 
in Cleveland, of whom 290 are members of the Cleveland Dental Society, 
which is the local professional body, a constituent of the state and national 
dental societies. 

If the Ohio Dental Practice Act required an annual registration of all 
dentists, as is the case in several other states, an accurate statement of the 
number of dentists legally practising dentistry in Cleveland could be made. 
The better control of illegal practice which such law permits has proved to 
be of great value to the profession and to the public, in New York State 
among others. 

The private practice of dentistry in Cleveland presents no abuses or 
inadequacies except such as arise from the selfishness and ignorance of an 
occasional practitioner who fails to measure up to the present day standards 
of his profession. The well-to-do and those of moderate means can obtain 
adequate dental care without excessive expense and of a high grade whether 
for preventive or reparative purposes. 

From the reports of the highest type of supervUinir dental officers in the 
army during the war, it was found that well over 75% of the crown and 
bridge and root canal filling was done so poorly as to develop or jKTinit the 
development of pus pockets with all the da Hirers of secondary low grade 
sepsis and its numerous .sequelae. Mechanical dentistry, done for a price 
instead of aseptic technic used in the <pirit of modern surgical science, 
seems to be at least as much of a cause of disease as the neglect of oral and 
dental hygiene by the poor and ignorant. 

There are quacks and commercial low grade- practitioners in thi a^ in 
the medical profession, because there is often more money in such methods 



684 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

for the illegitimate and irresponsible than in a professionally conducted office. 
The Jews of the Woodland Avenue region suffer particularly from the 
services of dental quacks. 

Free dental work in Cleveland is supplied at six public schools, at three 
health centers and at one hospital (City Hospital). There are ten chairs in 
use and 156 clinic hours a week, or a total of 6,900 hours a year of service 
offered. The work is mostly for children and for hospital out-patients. A 
dental dispensary used for teaching purposes, operating 80 chairs, is main- 
tained on a more than self-supporting basis by the Dental College. The 
fees charged are similar to those charged by beginning dental practitioners. 

In Boston five institutions offer either free or at-cost, dental services 
with a total of 247 chairs used for 5,956 hours a week and 309,712 hours a 
year. In the city of Rochester, N. Y., there are 38 chairs almost exclusively 
for children's work. 

The six school dental dispensaries are supported by the taxpayer's money 
through the Board of Education. Each unit includes a dentist and an 
assistant and is open five days a week for three hours at each session and for 
40 weeks a year. Children are referred from among school children by the 
school medical inspectors and nurses. The extent to which the work has 
grown and the range of service given is seen in the following table: 

1917 Total 1918 Total 1919 Total 

Patients 1,969 3,473 4,421 

Visits 4 , 454 6 , 41 1 6 , 976 

Emergency 651 1,267 1,621 

Prophylaxis 383 661 1 , 196 

Amalgam 839 1,654 3,165 

Deciduous extraction 1,608 1,927 3,911 

Permanent extraction 142 56 18 

Surgery referred 192 15 183 

Oxyphosphate of copper 127 670 1,399 

Oxyphosphate of zinc 112 115 61 

Arsenic 126 61 5 

Roots filled _ 188 87 5 

Abscess treatment 109 136 67 

The three mouth hygiene dispensaries operated by the Cleveland Mouth 
Hygiene Association at three of the health centers are operated for fifty weeks 
of the year, five days a week and three hours at each session. The outfit 
and personnel of each is the same as that provided for the school dental 
clinics. The cost of these is met from the Community Fund as a part of the 
budget presented by the Welfare Federation. 

A dental surgery open a hah* day (of three hours) a week for out-patients 
needing operative relief and extractions, and six half days (of three hours 



1'KOh h>sl<>\ \L KlM CATION AM) PRACTICE <>K/> 

each) ;i week for the hospital patients is |>rovided by tin- city at City }\- 
pital.* 

At the College of Dentistry of ^Yestcru Reserve University a public den- 
tal clinic is o|>eratc(l for all kinds of dental work. This is more than sup- 
ported by the charges made, which arc not very different from charges of 
beginning practitioners with a clientele of mechanics, clerks and small trades 
people. The fack of adequate bookkeeping prevents any statement of the 
margin of profit earned by this dental dispensary. The profit of $24,000 
indicated in the last annual report of the University is obviously erroneous 
as nothing is charged for building or upkeep, depreciation, light, heat and 
so forth or for the overhead cost of teachers and supervisors. 

Self-supporting public pay clinics, operated under strict professional con- 
trol as to services and prices, are needed and would meet a real demand for 
those of moderate means. 

Dental care for the poor is limited largely to extraction and remedy 
of gross pathological conditions causing obvious inconvenience or pain. Lack 
of knowledge of the needs and possibilities of oral hygiene is responsible for 
the neglected teeth of most dispensary patients. Dental clinics where a 
small fee is charged arc badly needed in the congested districts. 

It is admitted that if all who needed dental care applied to existing den- 
tists for treatment, there would not be enough dentists to do the work on a 
basis and with the facilities of private practice. 

The three Mouth Hygiene dispensaries, operated five half days per week, 
are the only available and acceptable service (except the private dental 
practitioner) for thirty to thirty-five thousand parochial school children. 
Fifteen Mouth Hygiene units, each composed of a dentist, a dental hygienist 
and an assistant, operated eleven hah* days per week, would serve this group 
of children quite well; i. e., would provide the prophylactic service neces- 
sary for eighty-five or ninety per cent of these children and would provide 
for from one-third to one-half of the repair service necessary. 

The public schools of Cleveland should increase their present equipment 
from six dispensaries operated five half days per week to thirty-five Mouth 
Hygiene units operated eleven half days per week, which would care quite 
well for seventy or seventy-five thousand children. 

The amount of surgical service under anaesthesia required would l>e in- 
creased by the fifteen Month Hygiene units above referred to, to the extent 
that probably five half-day clinics will be required every week at the City 
Hospital. Should the Board of Education undertake to solve their problem 
as above suggested fully double the amount of surgical service will l>e required 
in addition. Attention should l>e called to the fact that after a very few- 
years the surgical service will undoubtedly decrease, for if the Mouth Hygiene 
movement is of real value then- should l>e little demand for the siir. 
service for school children after the first M-VCU years. It would be desirable 
to have three hospitals suitably located provide for the surgical dental s i 

A full time resident dental surgeon has been placed on duty now. and the clinic is open all day. 
s even days a week. 



686 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

We suggest that this service could well he united with the nose and throat 
service as the equipment in many respects is similar. 

All the groups with whom the Survey staff have come in contact, such as 
visiting nurses, charity and social agencies, settlement houses and the foreign- 
born have emphasized the inadequacy of dental service in Cleveland. When 
it is seen that almost as much public dental dispensary service is provided 
in Boston in a week as in Cleveland in a year, the reason for complaint is 
plain. 

It would be wholly superfluous to offer arguments for the need of mouth 
hygiene among the children in the public or parochial schools. The 
matter is amply argued by records of the incidence of dental defects in the 
office of the bureau of School Medical Inspection and by the record of ac- 
complishment a few years ago at the Marion School. 

Dispensary dental work in every case has fallen short of its possibilities 
where there has been either no supervision, or supervision by unpaid or 
underpaid men. The service in Rochester would never have been a success 
without Dr. Burkhart, or his like, as a leader; nor would the service in Bos- 
ton have been a success without Dr. Cross, or one of his kind, at the head. 
In the same way the work in Cleveland will not be a success if we expect to 
secure as a leader in this work a man at $3,300.00 a year, nor can the work 
be carried on much longer without paid supervision. 



DENTAL SERVICE IN HOSPITALS 

It is accepted in many hospitals of many cities that the professional staff 
is incomplete without dental surgery represented and sharing in staff respon- 
sibilities. A dentist should be appointed on the attending staff of every 
one of the larger general hospitals of Cleveland, with a definite service in 
wards and dispensary. 

The hospitals and other institutions in Cleveland now providing some 
dental surgery for patients are as follows: 

MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL 

There are on the staff of Mount Sinai Hospital two dental consultants. 
Dental and Oral Surgery is the only service provided. Such cases as seri- 
ously need prophylaxis are sent to the Dental College, The Dental and 
Oral Surgery dispensary is open from 8:30 to 10:00 A. M. on each Monday 
and Thursday. The Dental and Oral Surgeons, being members of the staff, 
enjoy the privilege of operating upon private patients at the hospital, for 
which they may receive fees as in all departments of the hospital; however, 
no compensation is received by the dentists from dispensary or,open ward 
patients. The present dispensary facilities are one dental chair with the 
necessary equipment, located in the annex where, with the present staff and 
time (two mornings per week), about eight hundred cases per annum may 
be cared for. Cases are admitted for dental surgery only. The hospital 



PROFESSIONAL EDUCA 1 1<>\ \M PK\< \\< i GS7 

plans the enlarging of this service in the near future, together with the 
addition of prophylactic service. There is no opportunity todevelopa purely 
dental oral surgery service for out-patients at the present time. 

CLEVELAND CITY HOSPITAL 

The City Hospital maintains a dental surgery department, the operating 
room being situated in an amphitheater in the female division on the ground 
floor of the main building. The outfit consists of one operating chair, vari- 
ous nitrous oxide machines and a fair equipment of instruments for dental 
oral surgery, together with instruments for other forms of dental service that 
are likely to be necessary in the care of the regular hospital patients. The 
staff of the City Hospital consists of a Visiting Dental Surgeon, a Visiting 
Dental Anaesthetist,, a Resident Dental Surgeon, temporarily s|>emliiig hah* 
time; and one or two nurses assigned to the service as needed. Out-patient 
service for dental oral surgery is rendered on each Friday from 1 to 4 p. M. 
An average of fifteen extraction cases are cared for each afternoon. During 
the past two years (I some fifteen hundred anaesthesias have l>een ad- 
ministered. This service is inadequate in volume and should be increased at 
the earliest possible time. The most reasonable and economic manner of 
increasing the service in the present building will be by providing two or 
more separate operating rooms (adjacent but entirely separate) and each 
having its own equipment. A waiting room should be provided for the 
dental cases. The corridor is now used. The entire service should be 
upon the level of the main floor and as near as possible to an entrance to the 
building. With the suggested arrangement the volume of cases could be 
largely increased with a minimum outlay of expense and a minimum increase 
in staff personnel. 

CHILDREN'S FRESH AIR CAMP 

A dentist sjHMids two half days j>er week at the Fresh Air Camp. He 
cares for the children of the institution only. Simple extractions are made 
under novocain. More serious work requiring general anaesthesia is referred 
to the City Hospital. 

JEWISH ORPHAN ASYLUM 

Two dentists each spend a full day per week at the Asylum. General 
-ervice is rendered the children. Simple extractions are made with the use 
of novocain. More serious cases requiring a general anaesthetic are taken 
on occasions to the dentist's private office. Service is for the children of the 
institution only. 

ST. LUKE'S HOSPITAL 

There is no official dental appointment on the staff of St. Luke's Hospital. 
However, a dentist administers anaesthetics almost constantly and is recog- 
ni/ed by the staff, but has no appointment. On rare occasions this dentist 
removes teeth, but no dental MT\ i<. is provided. 



688 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUHVEY 

LAKESIDE HOSPITAL 

At present there is no official dental service at Lakeside Hospital; how- 
ever, we are informed that such is under consideration and will probably be 
inaugurated at an early date. 

CLEVELAND STATE HOSPITAL FOK THE INSANE 

The State Hospital has not at the present time a dentist on its staff and 
has not had for a year or two past. We are informed that they have no 
appropriation for that purpose, therefore do not anticipate such an appoint- 
ment in the near future. The State Hospital for several years furnished 
dental service to the inmates. 

ST. VINCENT'S CHARITY HOSPITAL 

At the present time there is no dental service at St. Vincent's Charity 
Hospital. In many respects Charity Hospital would be an ideal location 
for a Dental and Oral Surgery. 

Mention of dental service in industry will be found in the Industrial 
Hygiene Survey, Part VII. A limited service of high quality is provided 
in five establishments approximately at cost. There is urgent need for more 
dentists in industry and the need would seem to justify inclusion of some of 
the special dental hazards in industry in the dental curriculum. 

COLLEGE OF DENTISTRY 

This professional school has passed through many financial, educational 
and administrative vicissitudes and at present is within reach of standards 
and support which will entitle it to rank with the best. 

Its present needs are more teaching room, a moderate increase in its equip- 
ment, a small outlay for a simple teaching, reference and periodical library, 
improvement in the teaching of anatomy and pathology in conformity with 
the high conceptions and standards of these departments in the medical 
school and a considerable increase (10) in the teaching staff, especially of 
full-time men in the laboratory and clinical courses. 

More students are now accepted than can properly be accommodated 
and taught. An increase of 50% in the space is needed, if an entering class 
of 75 is accepted. It is estimated that $200,000 will be needed for additional 
space in the next five years. Probably $10,000 would meet the lack of 
equipment now. 

The absolutely indispensable in the way of books and periodical* for 
teachers and students would cost about $4,000. 

To pick teachers of dentistry simply from among successful practitioners 
will continue here the same misfortunes and inadequacies which have been 
a plague to medical education. The men selected must expect to make 
teaching a career and be fit to employ permanently as such. 



Km CATION \M> I'KACTICE 



Vs soon as the obligations assumed by the University when it took over 
the school from its commercial supporters are paid off. an endowment should 
be raised for the support of dental I teaching. Within the next five years 
this school needs a million and a quarter of dollars to provide the grade of 
education for which applicants are clamoring, in numbers the University 
cannot accept. 

The College of Dentistry would profit greatly from organized interest, 
criticism and support by the Cleveland Dental Society. The school 
and the profession cannot get along without each other and for the credit of 
both they should have mutual support, which does not exist at present. 

There are no facilities for graduate education of dentists. They should 
be developed and offeree! by the college. 



THE DENTAL HYGIEMST 

In the interest of public service, to provide trained aids to the prac- 
tising dentist, to keep pace with the practice in leading states of the country, 
it seems evident that the College of Dentistry should undertake the training 
of dental hygienists and should support the efforts of the organized protVs 
sion to obtain the amendments in the State Civil Code necessary to legal- 
ize this profession in Ohio. 

Dental repair work among children has IKHMI reduced by ~>(} (J c by the em- 
ployment of dental hygienists. 

The modifications in the State Civil Code proposed by the Cleveland 
Month Hygiene Association (affecting by slight changes in the wording 
sections l.'WoA. 1:1A. i:WOH, 1:W1B, l.'ttlC, l.'WII). l:k>lF. l:W:iA. l.'J-.'lA. 
l.'k'Ui, l:>-,' 1C) are strongly approved, and it is our opinion that the changes 
might well go further and permit the practice of dental hygienists in private 
offices of dentists as well as in institutions. Such modifications have been 
made ami have met with uniform satisfaction in eleven other states, includ- 
ing Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York and Maine. 

There are two important professionally supported activities in the field 
of dentistry of considerable importance in Cleveland. One, the Dental 
I!- -search Laboratory of the National Dental Society, has been a center of 
important studies in the interest of exact scientific practice. The other, 
a distinctly local organization, the Cleveland Mouth Hygiene Association, 
must be credited with most if not all that has been done in the field of public 
education in preventive dentistry and oral hygiene in the city. From modest 
beginnings in 1S!)7, when its influence was first felt in tin- better teaching of 
sch i 1 children, this Association develojMMl increasing puplic support and 
resources. In l!)0/i it maintained the dental disjxMisary at City Hospital. 
In I!) 11 money \\as raised sufficient to pay expenses of operating >i\ -< hool 
dental dispensaries Since then the Board of Education has paid for them. 

The work of the Association has continued to be effective and their 
budget of $11,538 for IIK'O t,. defray the expenses i.f the five lis|MMisaries 
at Health ('enters was approvd |\ the \Yejfare Federation. 



690 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The Survey is indebted to officers of each of the professional groups 
above considered for information and advice. 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 
It is recommended that: 

1. Measures be taken to obtain such amendments to the State Civil Code as will permit 
the licensing of dental hygienists and their employment in private practice and in 
public institutions, under the direction of licensed dentists. 

2. The State Civil Code be amended to require the annual registration of licensed dentists. 

3. The training of dental hygienists be undertaken by the College of Dentistry. 

4. Sufficient financial support be obtained for the College of Dentistry to provide ade- 
quate increase of space, teachers and equipment, a library, and freedom from debt on 
account of obligations to commercial interests. 

5. The Board of Education aim to provide a gradually increasing service which within 
the next five years will put all school children under adequate periodical dental 
inspection, cleansing and repair. Prophylactic cleansing of children's teeth twice a 
year is adequate. Tooth brush drill should be a part of school education. 

6. Those responsible for the children attending the parochial schools institute dental 
service similar or equivalent to that advised for the children of the public schools. 

7. Administration of all public dental school and dispensary services supported by the 
tax payers be put under the direction of one competent full-time paid dentist, within 
the Division of Health or under the Board of Education. 

8. The dental surgical service at City Hospital be increased fourfold. 

9. The dental surgical service for out-patients at Mt. Sinai be increased as soon as funds 
can be obtained. 

10. The Hospital Council prevail upon at least two other of the privately endowed hos- 
pitals to establish out-patient dental service. 

1 1 . A dental surgeon be appointed on the visiting staff of each of the larger general hos- 
pitals and a dental interne be provided to carry out such prophylactic and reparative 
work on patients as their condition permits or requires. 

12. A dentist be provided at Warrensville Infirmary. 

13. Both medical students and nurses receive in their preparation to practice, instruction 
in the principles of the cause and prevention of dental disease and that nurses receive 
practical training in the technic of cleansing patients' teeth. 



PKOKKSHIONAL KIM ( \IKN AND l'n\ IK i 



Pharmacy in Cleveland* 

By HAVKN KMKHSON, M. D. 

AS the knife is to the surgeon, so the drug or chemical is to the physician, 
and there must be keenness and strength and appropriateness in each. 
Whether we look ii)x>n the pharmacist as the dispenser of package 
goods over the counter, the compounder of s]>ecial remedies or physicians' 
prescriptions, as an analytical chemist or as a wholesale manufacturer of 
standard drugs and biological products, he is as indis])ensable an auxiliary 
to the physician in the medical service of the community as are the dentist 
and the nurse. His education, the conditions of his employment, his protec- 
tion against illegal practitioners, his standards and his aspirations are all 
matters of importance to the public health and to the welfare of the sick. 

In the absence of any authoritative or official registry of licensed or gradu- 
ate pharmacists in Cleveland, and using the figures available from the roster 
of the Northern Ohio Druggists' Association and the lists in the hands of 
local wholesale drug supply houses, we can estimate that there are at the 
present time about 400 drug stores and probably 500 or more registered 
pharmacists and registered assistant pharmacists in Greater Cleveland. 

Probably ten per cent of the above number have had no college training 
and it is safe to say that seventy-five per cent have had it. What number 
have had some college training but did not graduate in pharmacy it is im- 
possible to estimate. 

The length of courses taken by those who graduated was either two or 
tline years. 

The major portion of the pharmacists here who have had college training 
received it at the Cleveland School of Pharmacy prior to the time when it 
became an integral part of Western Reserve University. Some few gradu- 
ated from Ohio State University, Ohio Northern University, the University 
'of Michigan, The Cincinnati College of Pharmacy and the Philadelphia 
College of Pharmacy. 



PHARMACY LAWS 

Prior to August. 1JH5, anyone could take the state examination offered 
by the State Board of Pharmacy for registered pharmacist or registered 
assistant pharmacist if he had served ;m apprcnt ieeship of four years in a 
retail drug store. 

If the applicant had attended a school of pharmacy lie usually received 
red it on his "experience requirement " for the time he sjM-nt in school. 

Schools of pharmacy made no rc(|iiircmcnt of high school education for 
entrance until a feu years ago when they l>cgan to require one year of high 

We are indebted to Mr. Edward Spease, Dean of the School of Pharmacy of Western Reserve 
University for valuable aid in preparing this chapter and for information dealing with drug supplies for 
hospitals and in the question of proprietary medicinal preparations. 



692 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

school training. Some few university schools have of course for some years 
past demanded high school graduation as a requisite for entrance. 

In 1915 the Ohio Legislature passed a law requiring two years of high 
school study for entrance into recognized pharmacy schools and that the 
applicant he a graduate of one of these recognized schools. The matriculant 
must also obtain an entrance certificate from the State Board of Pharmacy 
and this certificate is issued by an entrance examiner who may evaluate 
credits or give examinations to obtain them. This entrance ex- 
aminer himself must be a college graduate with the degree of A. B. or B. S. 
and must not be connected directly or indirectly with any pharmacy 
school. This examiner besides his experience as a high school teacher is to- 
day an employe of the State Department of Public Instruction. 

The legislature in 1919 passed an amendment to the Pharmacy Law 
requiring four years of high school for entrance into a pharmacy school. 
This must be upon diploma after four years of study in a high school, normal 
school or academy, or be by examination given by the state board entrance 
examiner. 

The course of study given to a student in a recognized school must con- 
form to the Pharmaceutical Syllabus of 1913, which was prepared by the 
American Pharmaceutical Association, the American Conference of Phar- 
maceutical Faculties and the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy. 
The least course given must be of two years' duration, consisting of certain 
didactic and laboratory hours totaling not less than 1,200 in all. The course 
must be given entirely in the day time and two months must elapse between 
the two school years. Not less than three full-time professors must be 
employed. 

Some of the Ohio schools and notably the Western Reserve University 
school exceed this minimum. Here the school years and hours per week 
are of university length and the work is of university grade. A total of 
more than 1,700 hours is given for this two years' course. Four full-time 
instructors and nine part-time instructors are employed. 

Among the laws governing the practice of pharmacy are to be found all 
the Pure Food and Drug laws, Narcotic laws, Prohibition laws, Poison laws 
and special regulations governing the sale of drugs in drug stores. 



ADEQUACY AND ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS 

The laws now governing pharmacy would be entirely adequate if there 
were not so many exceptions to them. As they now stand they are quite 
rigorous enough concerning what is to be sold and how it is to be sold in drug 
stores, but the exceptions to the laws permit anyone to compound patent 
medicines and sell simples, such as Epsom salts and the like, in stores other 
than drug stores or from wagons or by house-to-house canvass. Many 
poisonous substances may also be sold if put. up in packages bearing proper 
labels. 



PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND PRACTICE 693 

One of the tendencies of the present time is for druggists to cease manu- 
facturing preparations for their store use and to buy these preparations 
ready made. This has IKHMI brought about partly by the fact that manu- 
facturers have secured laws through which they may purchase tax free alco- 
hol for the manufacture of such preparations as tincture of iodine and cer- 
tain other preparations where there is absolutely no question of the alcohol 
being completely denatured. The objection to this lies solely in the fact 
that the (iovernment denies this privilege of economical purchase of alcohol 
to the retailer, by requiring this alcohol to be secured in large quantities and 
to be denatured with the iodine or other substance at the distillery. This 
enables the manufacturer to make and sell many standard drugs much 
cheaper than can the retailers. The same privilege should be extended to 
the retailer or to groups of retailers. Anything that limits the retail drug- 
gist's professional practices tends to discourage and suppress his ability. In 
like manner the prescribing of proprietary preparations by the physician 
lessens the druggist's practice and hence his ability to compound. Few 
physicians think out and write their prescriptions with a definite purpose for 
the use of each ingredient. 

The habit of "counter prescribing" is not as prevalent as is supposed 
but is always augmented in a neighborhood where a dispensing physician 
resides. Two things will overcome this practice entirely, one is strict enforce- 
ment of law relative to this practice and the other is education both of the 
physician and of the pharmacist. It is rare to see a druggist who is a thor- 
oughly educated and cultured man do very much counter prescribing or do 
more along this line than to sell medicines of the customer's own selection. 
It is not rare to find this druggist often advising the customer to go to a 
physician. 

A much better type of drug store service would be available if the law 
requiring a registered pharmacist to be actually in a retail drug store, hos- 
pital or industrial plant pharmacy, and other places where drugs are com- 
pounded and disj)ensed, were rigidly enforced. 

That these exceptions are tolerated is due to the lack of knowledge on the 
part of the public as to the danger of indiscriminate sale of drugs and poisons 
and to the apathy of physicians in supporting measures to remedy these 
conditions. 

About the only thing that may not be done outside of a drug store is 
prescription filling. 

The State Board of Pharmacy is j>ermitted to hire only one ins]>ector to 
see that drug stores have a registered pharmacist in them at all times and to 
see that proper registration of bulk JKMSOUS is made. This in>j>ector may not 
receive much over $1,400 per annum and of course he must l>e responsible 
for the entire state. This means that not even the drug stores are forced t<> 
obey the laws, to say nothing of the disjHMisiug of drugs indiscriminately l.\ 
unqualified person* in hospitals, industrial plants ;md stores other than 
drug stores. 



694 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The clause ofjthe Ohio Statutes requiring a registered pharmacist to be 
in actual and personal charge of a drug store at all times is not rigidly en- 
forced, due largely to lack of inspectors to secure evidence, and indeed it 
seems scarcely necessary to attempt its enforcement when drugs may be 
indiscriminately compounded and sold by anyone if only the vendor does 
not call his place of business a drug store. 

The city of Cleveland has no rules, laws or regulations governing drug 
stores, with the exception of the narcotic ordinance and the general sanitary 
ordinances. 



COOPERATION WITH THE HEALTH DEPARTMENT 

The druggists of Cleveland, through their organization, The Northern 
Ohio Druggists' Association, an incorporated body, have been able to aid 
the Health Department greatly in correcting many abuses in sales of drugs 
and medicines. They have appointed an advisory board who meet with the 
City Chemist, at his request, upon matters in which they are interested. 
When mistakes have been made in prescription filling, in drug stores, these 
mistakes have been brought to the attention of all the stores and aid has been 
given the department in the rectifying of these mistakes. 

The most important feature of the work is in the review of patent medi- 
cines. The druggists have agreed not to stock patent medicines unless they 
have been submitted to the City Chemist for approval of label and claims, 
and whenever the City Chemist issues an order for the removal of a patent 
or proprietary medicine from the Cleveland market the druggists have refused 
to sell this preparation until the order has been rescinded. The force of this 
is that the City Chemist need not bring suit against the druggist or druggists 
in question to restrain a sale, but that the burden of proof is upon the manufac- 
turer and he must either convince the City Chemist of the merit of his claims 
or must bring suit against him. No suits have been brought by such manu- 
facturers, nor is it at all likely that such suits will be brought, as long as there 
is judgment and honesty used in issuance of the orders by the City Chemist; 
for the bringing of a suit would require the disclosure of the ingredients of 
the proprietary medicine and at once the value of the nostrum would be 
dissipated since secrecy and the claims of a therapeutic value based on worth- 
less or inert ingredients is the basis of this whole colossal fraud. The inge- 
nuity and effectiveness of this method of repression of valueless or fraudu- 
lent patent medicines is worthy of imitation in other cities and states. This 
and the appreciation by the press of the value of honest drug advertisements 
would soon stop a national disgrace, save the public millions of loss annu- 
ally and spare the ignorant and the ailing the disappointment of useless 
medication. 

THE SCHOOL OF PHARMACY 

The School of Pharmacy of Western Reserve University was founded in 
1883 by the local druggists. At that time only a series of lectures were given 
to apprentices. From this small beginning it grew until two courses wore 



EDUCATION AND PKA<TI< i 695 

given, one of two years' duration and one of three years' duration. Until 
tlir fall of 1917 these courses were arranged so that the student could go to 
school three days a week and work on alternate days in a retail drug store. 
Since the fall of 1917 the student has been required to put in full university 
hours in school, both j>er week and per year. The two-year course is now 
perfected upon the basis of giving the student two years of college work of 
university length and quality. The school is located in a building in the 
heart of the business district, which today, due to traffic and business condi- 
tions, does not j>ermit the use of delicate instruments for instructional pur- 
poses. The surroundings detract greatly from the educational value of the 
school. 



The faculty consists of four full-time instructors, three of whom have the 
university degree of B. S. and two of whom have an additional degree of 
M. S. One of those with a degree of B. S. has no pharmaceutical degree, but 
two of them have the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist. The fourth in- 
structor mentioned above has the degree of Graduate in Pharmacy and 
the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist. 

Part-time instruction is given by nine other men, one with the degrees 
of A.B., A. M. and M. D., another with the degrees of A. M. and LL. B., 
another with the degrees of A. B. and A. M., another with the degree of 
A. B. The others are laboratory assistants, one of them a senior in the 
college of liberal arts during the past year. 

As the School of Pharmacy grows the laboratory assistants will, as op- 
jHjrtunity offers, be chosen from among the graduate students. 

The School of Pharmacy has been financed during all these years from 
tuition fees and by gifts from the local druggists. This method of financing 
does^not permit of very much development toward better things and indeed 
at present almost forbids growth. 

The School of Pharmacy needs: 

(a) Location on the University campus, a move which is planned for the 
immediate future. 

(b) Endowment of approximately one million dollars, or pledges for annual 
support amounting to the interest on that amount at five per cent. 

(c) Greenhouses and a medicinal plant garden, to serve the double purpose 
of providing live material for demonstration and research (instead of 
relying at present upon the dried "cadaver" material of the commercial 
market) and of furnishing fresh drugs of standard tested quality to the 
hospitals of the city. The value of fresh herbs, as in the measurement 
and study of the effects of belladonna and digitalis, for instance, is obvi- 
ous. The effect of soil, temperature and other cultural conditions on the 
quality of drugs could be studied with great advantage. 

(d) Expansion of the courses to permit of granting a degree of B. S. after 
four years of study, to properly qualified students, men and women. This 
expansion should permit of a four-year study of chemistry and should 



696 



include physics, mathematics and certain academic or cultural studies 
and languages to permit the pharmacist to be an educated as well as a 
trained graduate. This plan is now in existence in all the large universi- 
ties of the Middle West and West. The pharmacy schools east of Ohio 
are nearly all on the every-other-day plan, as mentioned above. New 
York and Pennsylvania schools will not go upon the basis of requiring 
high school graduation for entrance for another couple of years. 

(e) Additional instructors. The school is now doing no research and it can 
neither maintain its present standing nor progress unless its teachers be 
productive. The research problems confronting the student of phar- 
mscy are many and it is indeed discouraging to scholars to be so bur- 
dened with teaching that they can give no thought to research. Valu- 
able cooperative research facilities should be made available through 
joint studies with the Department of Pharmacology of the Medical 
School, which has already made so many notable contributions to scientific 
therapeutics. 

(f) A Manufacturing and Professional Service for Hospitals. The School 
should equip a manufacturing laboratory where preparations, liquid, 
solid and tablet form, should be produced for the hospitals. This would 
not only create an incentive for good work on the part of the students 
but would show them during their formative period that habits of exact- 
ness are necessary and that their work is directly related to public health. 

The elimination of high overhead charges and the manufacture on a cost 
basis in such quantities as the hospitals now use cannot help but materially 
lessen cost of all such materials to the hospitals. It is inferred in the above 
writing that each hospital maintains a pharmacy and complies with the 
Ohio Statutes in employing a registered pharmacist. The Survey recognizes 
that this is not a true statement of existing conditions. It may be, however, 
that small hospitals could have their ward requisitions or prescriptions filled 
at certain hours by a traveling pharmacist and his corps of student assistants, 
or could send them to a larger hospital at certain intervals and have them 
taken care of properly in that way. 

The School of Pharmacy of Western Reserve University can offer a serv- 
ice to the hospitals of Cleveland that may be said to have two direct objects. 

The first is to enable the hospitals to render a much higher type of medical 
service to the public, and the second is to lower the cost of medicines to the 
hospitals. Under the first heading, which is one entirely in keeping with 
the ideals of good hospital service, the Pharmacy School should be asked|to 
serve in an advisory capacity. 

1. It should supervise the organization and arrangement of the hospital 
pharmacies." 

2. It should aid in the purchasing of pharmacy supplies, inasmuch as it is 
impossible to buy drugs and chemicals intelligently without a direct 
knowledge of the items themselves and of the firms froir, which they are 
bought. The tendency, of modern times is to view drugs and medicines 



PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND PRACTICE 



as commodities only. This has been brought about by the rapid growth 
of "patent" and package medicines and for this reason price is sometimes 
the only deciding factor. 

3. It can advise in regard to the proprietary medicines now in use in the hos- 
pitals to avoid the duplication of preparations and to show when many of 
these preparations, if needed, can be manufactured by the hospital phar- 
macy or by the school organization as discussed later. 

C?.T i.^aiy:; and otherwise test the drugs, preparations and chemicals 
ho!- are purchased after competitive bidding, in order that sick room sup- 
plies may meet standard specifications. This will insure to the physicians 
a knowledge that the substance supplied is exactly what it should be. 

If the above suggestions he carried out it will result in systematizing the 
pharmaceutical work of the hospitals which, unfortunately, is often lightly 
passed over in perfecting the other seemingly much more important services 
of the hospital. It will also result in directing all purchasing through one 
office, such as is maintained by the Hospital Council, and llius the supply of 
any one item for a given period for all hospitals will l>e purchased at 
one time, entirely upon specification and with the result of a better price 
for the quantity purchased. Under this last, or the second heading, the 
Sehool of Pharmacy should likewise carry out two things: 

Furnish its senior students to the hospitals for internships. 

This would accomplish two purposes. It would provide clieap but 
efficient help to the hospital pharmacist, enabling him to render a service in 
the hospital that lie is unable to give under the present arrangement. This 
i^ cs|Kcially true where free or part -pay clinics are conducted and medicines 
dispensed. llesides demonstrating the value of an educated and not "rule- 
of-thumb" pharmacist to the hospitals themselves, it will send out to 
the public men better equipped to serve it by reason of this high 
type of practical training. It need scarcely be added that it will further 
tlie pharmacist's own knowledge of his responsibility to the public whom he 
serves. 

A school of pharmacy to Ix? efficient should have the same academic 
standard as a school of medicine. Unless the school of pharmacy is sup- 
ported as are hospitals and medical schools the same menace will result a's 
occurred in the era of proprietary medical schools and commercial hospitals, 
and the public health will suffer instead of gain at the hands of its graduate- 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended that : 

1. The interest of the Academy of Medicine and of the Hospital Council be united 
with that of the Northern Ohio Druggists' Association and of the Division of Health, to 
bring action through the State Legislature for adequate personnel and appropriation for 
the enforcement of existing laws dealing with the presence of the registered pharmacists 
in drug stores and hospitals. 



698 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

2. Amendments in the laws of the state be obtained which will bring to an end 
the pernicious practice of house-to-house, street vendor and other irresponsible kinds of 
drug selling and will restrict the sale of drugs to such stores as have a registered phar- 
macist on the premises during business hours. 

3. Amendment in the state law be obtained which will permit retail druggists, through 
controlled cooperative action, to obtain the benefit of the same economies in the pur- 
chase of tax free alcohol as are now the exclusive privilege of the large manufacturers. 

4. The policy of the Division of Health in suppressing the sale of fraudulent proprietary 
medicines be vigorously supported by the Chamber of Commerce, the press and by 
the advertising interests of the city. 

5. The trustees of the University move as rapidly as practicable to meet the needs as 
indicated above, particularly in the matters of providing (a) greenhouses and a plant 
garden, (b) 'teaching staff adequate to permit of research as part of the duties and 
privileges of the instructors, (c) space and equipment to permit the school to offer the 
services of its instructors and students in the process of education, to the hospitals of 
Cleveland and for the testing, standardizing and manufacture of drugs and chemicals. 

6. The Cleveland Hospital Council invite the School of Pharmacy to survey the condi- 
tions and costs of hospital purchase and compounding of drugs and chemicals, with the 
object ultimately of obtaining from the staff and students of the school in return for 
certain privileges offered by the hospitals for the training of students in practical phar- 
macy, the consultation service and economies in purchase and manufacture which may 
be expected from such a professional and educational group. 

7. Each hospital not now purchasing drugs and chemicals through the Central Purchasing 
Bureau furnish the Bureau with a list of drugs and chemicals purchased by them for 
the past five years, or failing such record, for the ensuing year, in order that the bulk of 
the trade may be estimated and action taken by the Hospital Council and the School 
of Pharmacy in the interest of economy. 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice, in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing. 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 

The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 
THE PREMIEB PBB 
Cleveland. O. 



ur s i n 



PART NINE 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



Nursing 



PART NINE 



Cleveland] Hospital and 
Heal th Survey 




Copyright. 1820 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 
308 AnisSeld Illdg. 
Cleveland - Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to^be"\directly responsible for the 
work and through whose hands this report has been received for publica- 
tion consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McEnroe, Chairman; 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 

THOMAS COUGHLIN, 

RICHARD F. GRANT, 

SAMUEL H. HALLE, 

OTTO MILLER, 

DR. H. L. ROCKWOOD, 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 

and the following collaborators : 
GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 
MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D., Director 'of the Hospital* and 

Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the\I ndustrial Hygiene Survey; 
DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D., Director of Tuberculosis Survey: 

- l<-ii'HiNE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the[MentallHygiene\Survey; 
NY. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director^ the^Vital Statistics Survey. 

lhr c\i> uses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have 
been met by appropriations received from the Community Chest, through 
the Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole, or by sections, can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 

together with prices. 



TABU-: OK CONTENTS 

Page 

Introductory Note 707 

I. Nurses' Training in Cleveland. 

Hospital Training Schools 

Standards of Comparison 709 

A University Training School 710 

Results of Field Study 712 

Organization of the Training School 713 

Entrance Requirements 715 

Capacity of Hospitals and Service Offered 716 

Instruction 

Teaching of Nursing Procedures . 724 

Teaching of Fundamental Sciences 728 

Instruction in Other Subjects 732 

Conditions of Work 

Ratio of Nurses to Patients 735 

Hours of Duty _ 736 

Vacation. 738 

Provision of Ward Helpers 738 

Living Conditions 740 

Recommendations 741 

Postgraduate Courses 

University Course in Public Health Nursing 

Origin 745 

Organization 745 

Finances _ 746 

Statf 746 

Students 747 

Instruction 748 

Field Work 748 

Recommendations. 751 

Institute of School Hygiene 752 

II. Public Health Nursing 

Introductory 

Scope of Survey . 753 

Some Elements of Success. 754 

Value of the Generalized System 754 

Some Cauyes of Failure 755 



TABLE OF COXnmjqjS Continued 

Page 

Central Nursing Committee 

Organization 756 

Activities : 757 

Recommendations : 757 

Division of Health 

Scope of Work 758 

Present Staff.. .. 759 

Analysis of Activities 759 

Analysis of Administration 764 

Recommendations 769 

Visiting Nurse Association 

Scope of Work 773 

Present Equipment 774 

Analysis of Activities : 774 

Analysis of Administration 778 

Recommendations 781 

Board of Education 

Scope of Work 782 

Staff 783 

Analysis of Activities 783 

Analysis of Staff and Administrative Methods. ... 786 

Recommendations 788 

University District 

Analysis of Administration 790 

Analysis of Activities 790 

Supervision 795 

General Summary 795 

Recommendations.. .'. 796 

Prenatal and Maternity Service 

Present Service 797 

Types of Patients to be provided for 797 

Types of Nursing Care Needed 798 -, 

Appropriate Agencies for a City-wide Service.. 798 

Recommendations 803 

Industrial Nursing 

Function of the Industrial Nurse. 803 

Types of Service Rendered 804 

Some Causes of Failure 806 

III. Some Notes on Private Duty Nursing. 

Unnecessary Employment of Full-time Graduate Nurses 808 

Employment of Trained Attendants 809 



[INTRODUCTORY NOTK 

'HE Nursing Survey and Report has been in charge of .Josephine Gold- 
mark, Secretary of the Committee for the Study of Nursing Education . 
;uul Anne II. Strong. H. X., Assistant Secretary of the Committee. 

Tin- field work for the study of hospital training schools was done by 
Mr-. A. F. Piggott, Maryland State inspector of training schools. A brief 
study of the teaching in the larger training schools was made by Miss A. H. 
Turner, professor of physiology at Mt. Holyoke College. In writing the 
report on the hospital training schoo's, assistance was rendered by Mi-- 
Pauline Angell. 

The investigation of public health nursing agencies in ( 'leveland was made 
jointly by Miss Elizabeth (i. Fo\, Director of the Bureau of Public- Health 
Nursing of the American Ked Cross, and Miss Janet M. deister. Western 
Secretary of the National Organi/ation for Public Health Nursing. To 
Mi-s F-x credit is due for outlining the plan for a Prenatal and Maternity 
Nursing Service and for the detailed recommendations to the variou- pub- 
lic health nursing agencies. Both these investigators. Miss Fox in particu- 
lar, assisted in the writing of these reports. 



The field work for the study of industrial nurses was done by Mrs. 
Anna M Staebler Secretary of the Massachusetts Committee on Health in 
Industry, and some supplement try studies in this field were contributed by 
Mi-- Wilnia I. Ball, Secretary of the Consumers' League of Ohio. 

To all the cooperating societies, who released their workers for the Nurs- 
ing Survey for varying (X'riods of time, acknowledgment and thanks are 
due. 



Nurses Training in Cleveland 

Hospital Training Schools 

THE study of hospital training schools in Cleveland has covered the 
thirteen schools recognized under the State Law. Of these, four were 
studied in much detail (City Hospital, Lakeside. Mt. Sinai and St. John's); 
the remaining nine were more briefly inspected (Cleveland Maternity, Fair- 
view, (.lenville, Huron Road, Lakewood, St. Ann's Maternity, St. Alexis, 
St. Luke's and St. Vincent's.) The investigation centered upon all those 
factors in the hospital and the training school which are related to the nature 
and adequacy of the training; the adequacy of service to patients in the hos- 
pital was considered only in so far as it bears upon the work of the students. 

The hospital training schools in Cleveland exhibit, in greater or less 
degree, the general characteristics which are found in similar institutions 
elsewhere. The excellence and the weaknesses inherent in the established 
system of instruction, both theoretical and practical, are amply illustrated 
in the various schools of the city. They share that spirit of devotion and ser- 
vice which has for a half century been the distinction and the legitimate 
pride of the training schools for nurses; they share also in varying degree 
the lack of standards and of independent organization, the inadequacy of 
teaching and equipment, and the exploitation of students, which has !>een too 
often accepted in lieu of education.* 

STANDARDS OF COMPARISON 

The objects of study and standards of comparison taken in the study of 
Cleveland training schools have in the main been those set forth as "reason- 
able and desirable" in 1919 by the Committee on Education of the National 
League of Nursing Education. Without subscribing to the details of the 
curriculum there set forth, we have measured the training schools by these 
recognized standards together with certain additions of our own. 

The standing of each hospital with relation to the desirable standards is 
discussed in this report; a separate detailed account of each hospital has been 
submitted to the authorities of the institution. 

This record brings out the strong and the weak points of nursing educa- 
tion in Cleveland, and shows concretely how much remains to be done to 
bring the training schools up to the level which they should reach to meet 
the clinical opportunity and the clinical needs of the city. 

To introduce radical innovations into any established human institution 
is obviously a slow and delicate task. In their business of nursing the sick, 
tin- hospitals cannot at once, or even within a short period of time, be deprived 
of their present labor supply. Any changes must of necessity be gradual, 
and in the following report the standards followed and the recommendations 

* The investigation upon which the report is based was made in the winter of 1919-1920. Notable 
improvements have already been made in a number of the hospital training schools since that time and 
many others are under consideration. 



710 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Si UVKV 



made for immediate adoption only approximate the conditions under whiHi 
students should ultimately he trained. 

Within the required limits, undoubtedly many desirable changes in indi- 
vidual hospitals can be indicated, which will improve the training now given. 
But these changes should be recognized as merely ameliorative. They rep- 
resent temporary improvements, not the fundamental reorganization of the 
training school under university auspices, which is needed for the future 
development of nursing education. 

A UNIVERSITY TRAINING SCHOOL 

In the possibility of a central training school under university auspices, 
Cleveland has the opportunity of making an important contribution to the 
ultimate solution of the problem, the independence of hospital and training 
school, the recognition of the nurse-in-training as a university student 
throughout.- A preliminary university affiliation has already been tempo- 
rarily and partially tried in Cleveland. The successful wartime expedient 
of providing college instruction in the fundamental sciences for 88 student 
nurses during the summer of 1918 set the precedent for an extension of such 
a university connection. 

Moreover, the university has already given proof of its broadminded 
interest in permanently providing training of college grade for young women 
who desire to enter this increasingly important branch of public service, the 
profession of nursing. A preliminary plan has been proposed by the uni- 
versity for a future school or department of nursing, subject to obtaining 
financial support for such an undertaking. 

The plan proposed, while still tentative, is highly commendable in in- 
cluding various features essential for the success of such a central university 
school. Briefly stated, it proposes to give a definite period of college training, 
chiefly in the introductory sciences but with some cultural studies, an equal 
length of time for hospital training and a final academic period for additional 
courses in the nursing specialties. For the graduates of these courses both 
the nursing diploma and the university degree are to be granted. 

In this proposal for a School of Nursing a distinctive contribution is made. 
In the few other cities in which such a five-year college and hospital course 
is offered, the courses are in combination with but one or two hospitals; the 
Cleveland plan would be offered in cooperation with several hospitals to 
start with and with as many additional ones as "can maintain standards of 
training high enough to warrant their recognition. " 

SOME BENEFITS OF THE UNIVERSITY TRAINING; SCHOOL 
Better Students and Better Instruction 

One of the main benefits of a university connection such as the one pro- 
posed would be to attract to the profession of nursing young women who 
are now repelled by the inferior teaching provided, and the subordination 
of their education to the needs of the hospitals. In the pre-nursing period 



N I K - I \ . "ill 

of instruction, it will IK- possible to give science teaching of far higher grad* 
and with laboratory equipment far better than provided in the ordinary 

hospital com 

lin/trnrini/ liistnu-t'on on tin- MVm/.s 

A second benefit, n])on which general stress should be laid, is the oppor- 
tunity alVordcd to the university to exert its influence in raising the edu- 
cational standards of the hospitals which desire affiliation. It is clear that 
one essential element of this plan must be the cooperation of the hospital 
in offering instruction in the wards of such a quality as to deserve the uni- 
versity degree. In our subsequent discussion of the Cleveland hospitals 
the success or failure of teaching in the wards is indicated. In the possi- 
bility of refusing affiliation to hospitals whose instruction in nursing pro- 
cedures, either in the class room or in the wards, is below standard or educa- 
tionally wasteful, the university school can be a potent force for good. It 
should use its power of approval or disapproval freely, for in no other way 
than by scrutiny and criticism of the grade of teaching provided by the 
hospital can the educational side of the training school be sustained against 
the exigencies of hospital needs. 

THAIMM; FOR ADVANCED WORK IN ADMINISTRATION. TKACUIN*.. 
AND PUBLIC HEALTH 

The special function of the university course will be to prepare the leaders 
in the different fields of nursing. Impartial investigation finds crying need 
for more adequately trained teachers and administrators in the hospitals. 

Such a course would supply administrative heads with better fundamental 
training and a wider background than are now general. The limited edu- 
cation of many who are in positions of responsibility in the training schools 
has been one cause of their difficulty in grappling with the perplexing prob- 
lems of the schools. 

Similarly. >ucli a course would help to provide more adequately trained 
nursing instructors. The lesser educational qualifications of instructors in 
schools of nursing as compared with instructors in colleges and other pro- 
fessional schools is very marked. In the schools of nursing the instructors 
are frequently required to teach many subjects, often more than teachers in 
country high schools; yet for this great task, they have themselves had only 
their own nurse's training, of perhaps some years past, sometimes supple- 
mented by courses at Teachers' College, New York. Even after years of 
experience ami the most painstaking work, the instruction often reflects the 
limited background of the teachers. A university training school would be 
of high value in providing teachers with more actual information as well as 
some knowledge of methods of teaching. 

Thirdly, the university training school will fill a much needed place in 
providing the training essential to meet the demands of public health nurs- 
ing. Here, the final period of academic study would include case work and 



712 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKYKY 

the many phases of social service, without a knowledge of which the nurse's 
training alone cannot fit a woman for acceptable work in this rapidly develop- 
ing field. 

A SHORTER BASIC TRAINING FOR ALL NURSES 

In addition to training for advanced work the university should assist in 
providing better science teaching for the rank and file; that is, for students 
who have either no wish or no ability for specializing in the higher branches 
of nursing, but who would take advantage of a good basic nursing training, 
especially if it were shorter than the present three-year course. Such stu- 
dents would obtain in the university the training in the preliminary sciences; 
they would, under a plan to be subsequently worked out in detail, be gradu- 
ated after a basic training of about two years and four months, with the 
diploma of nurse but without a university degree. Such nurses would be 
available primarily for bedside care. They would not have the added 
training and experience which is needed to fit for the exacting needs of 
public health nursing and for teaching and administrative positions; but by 
a reduction of the present three-years' course, the bedside nurses would be 
available in larger numbers and help to meet the present shortage. 

Such a shortening of the course would be possible both through the better 
teaching in the college and also through the elimination of non-educational 
housekeeping duties and of the present indefensible repetition of services. 

It will be noted that in the foregoing discussion no definite length of 
time has been proposed either for the full university-hospital course oi- for 
the briefer basic training. At present the 3-year course is the rule and a 5- 
year course has been suggested for the central university school. How far 
these courses may safely be reached by elimination of the non-educational 
features noted above, still remains to be determined. 

Studies of hospital training schools in other cities, of which the Cleveland 
Survey has been one, are now iri progress by the Committee on Nursing 
Education. From detailed observation of the work and instruction of first, 
second and third year students in different types of hospitals a composite 
picture will be obtained of the total careers of students and the training 
afforded at each hospital. This study will aid materially in determining 
how the present course may be reduced without sacrificing any of the essen- 
tial services. Sufficient time has not yet been afforded to complete these 
intensive studies on which will be based our ultimate recommendations for a 
detailed curriculum for both types of university students. 

RESULTS OF FIELD STUDY 

It is obvious that no general statements can cover the Cleveland training 
schools as a whole. Their procedures naturally differ with their size, their 
age, financial resources, religious affiliations, etc. The results of our field 
study are here summarized so far as possible. The standing of the hospitals 
is shown with relation to the standards regarded as desirable under present 
conditions, that is, while students are still used to staff the wards. The dis- 



\ i i< x i \ (, 718 

cussion falls under the following heads: organization of the training school. 
minimum entrance requirements, capacity of hospitals and services offered, 
instruction, conditions of work and living conditions. 

ORGANIZATION OF THE TRAINING SCHOOL 

The relationship between schools of nursing and hospitals should be 
essentially the same as that created between medical schools and hospitals. 
The school of nursing, like the medical school, exists primarily to give tech- 
nical education to students who are to obtain part of 'their training in the 
wards of the hospital. It follows necessarily that many important factors 
in the training school for nurses fall wholly outside the administrative scheme 
of a hospital. 

(a). The best organization of a school of nursing is clearly the university 
organization, in which ward training is given in such hospitals as come up 
t<> the conditions of teaching and of living required by the university for edu- 
cation of its students. 

(6). Until the university organization is formed a similar arrangement 
might be effected by an independent board, capable of directing the educa- 
tional policies of the training school, which could contract with the hospital 
to give the necessary ward training supplementing the laboratory and di- 
dactic teaching supplied. Among the Catholic hospitals or in hospitals 
administered under religious organizations which have no Boards of Trustees 
or which are subject to the Bishop of the Diocese, an advisory committee 
might be established at once to direct the educational policies of the train- 
ing schools. 

(c). In such hospitals as may still continue to keep the training school 
as part of the hospital organization, there should be appointed by the Board 
of Trustees a training school committee, composed of both men and women, 
to direct educational policies. This committee should be composed of rep- 
resentatives of the Board of Trustees and other persons known to have had 
experience in education and also members of the alumnae of the school. 
The superintendent of the hospital and the director of the training school 
in the hospital and representatives of the medical staff selected by the medical 
executive committee, though not members of the training school committee, 
should sit with the committee. 

The su|>erintendent of nursing in the hospital should be appointed by the 
Hoard of Trustees of the hospital, on nomination of the superintendent of 
the hospital, with the concurrence of the training school committee. It is 
"iisidered desirable that the superintendent of the hospital should delegate 
to the suiK-rintendent of the training school the appointment and dismissal 
of nursing personnel. 

The offices of principal of the training school and superintendent of 
nurses, that is an educational and administrative office, may or may not be 
combined in the same individual. When they are combined the head of the 
training school should be designated "Superintendent of Nurses and Prin- 
cipal of the Training School." 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Si K\ i v 



So far as concerns the niake-u]) of the committee, in Cleveland only one 
of' the 11 general hospitals studied had a training school committee approxi- 
mating the desirable form.* This hospital is St. Luke's. It is worthy of 
note that the committee has on it an alumna of the school and that it lia~ 
taken a special interest in providing, so far as is possible with unsuitable 
buildings, unusually homelike conditions of living for the nurses. 

Some variations from the above form of the training school committee 
are the following: 

At Lakeside eight of the twelve members are women. 

At Huron Road the committee consists of only three members, all of 
whom are attending physicians. One i^ also a member of the Board of 
Trustees, and one is an instructor at Western Reserve University. 

None of the ten remaining hospitals has a training school committee. 

At Mt, Sinai this lack may in part account for the fact that the living 
conditions for the students and the equipment in class rooms and labora- 
tories fail to come up to the high standards of the other departments of this 
hospital. 

An advisory board at the City Hospital has recently disbanded and the 
appointment of the chairman of a new committee was at the time of the 
investigation under consideration by the Director of Public Welfare. 

None of the Catholic hospitals has a training school committee; nor 
has Eairview, Glenville, or Lakewood. A former training school committee 
at Fairview has recently been abandoned. 

COST ACCOUNTING 

An adequate system of cost accounting is practically unknown in train- 
ing schools. Cleveland is no exception to the rule. For none of the hos- 
pitals is it possible to state the per capita cost of student nurses, including 
maintenance as well as instruction. Nor on the other hand, is it possible 
to state the financial value of work done by the students and staff and the 
saving to hospitals from the utilization of their services. 

MONEY ALLOWANCE TO STUDENTS 

The once prevalent custom of paying students a small yearly sum during 
training is gradually being abandoned. To attract students of good calibre, 
it is clearly more desirable to devote such funds to improving the course of 
training. Better teaching, equipment and living conditions are a greater 
attraction for desirable students than a small financial inducement. In- 
deed, some hospitals instead of paying their students are charging a small 
fee for instruction. 

In Cleveland the old custom of paying students exists in all but two 
hospitals, Lakeside and St. Luke's. Even in these, the system still prevails 
in the custom of providing uniforms and textbooks. 

"The two special hospitals, Clevsland Maternity and St. Ann's, are omitted in this section. 






K > i \ .. 715 

MINIMI M i:\TH\N< K m:^l IKKMFATS 



Tin- ( >hio st;ilc law requires that si udenN he ;it least IS years of age wheil 

filter the training school. Most of tin- Cleveland training schools <l" 

i.eyond this requirement, hut four, Huron Road, Lakeside, Lake- 

I and St. Luke's, make 1!) the minimum age for entrance. In four schools 

ulcnts under 18 had at the time of our investigation, been accepted; 

at the City Hospital, there were who entered under age, at Fairview 3, at 

-I \lc\is -.'. and at St. Vincent's .'5. 

The age at entrance of 4.")!) students in !) hospitals was obtained and 
-howed that in 'ill hut X of these hospitajs, the median age at entrance was 
20 or over. 



\<;K AT ENTRANCE* 

Age Required Median Agef 

Huron Road 19 22 

Lakeside 19 22 

St. Vincen.'s 18 21 

Glenville 18 20 

Mt Sinai 18 20 

St. John's _____ 18 20 

Cleveland City 18 19 

Fairview 18 19 

St. Alexis 18 18 

* Data on thit point were not obtained from Lake wood and St. Luke's. 

t That it. ranging all the ages from highest to lowest, the median is the age of the student in the middle . 



MINIMI M KDI (\noN \i. 

\''"Hlm-: I" the Ohio law, the minimum educational requirement for 
entrance into the training school is completion of one year of lii^li school. 



Of the 11 hospitals considered in this connection. 4 (Huron Road, Lake- 
>ide, Mt. Sinai and St. Luke's) require graduation from hiijh school for en- 
trance. At St. Luke's this requirement has just heen put into effect, and 
the tirst class entering under the new regulation is made up entirely of high 
-chool graduates. In the other three schools, the requirement is of longer 
-t-andhiL,', and all three make exception^ to the rule, as is shown in the fol- 
lowing taltle. 

The perv.ual histories of .V.'S students in 11 hospitals were obtained 
.nid .showed that :H7. or (I.V , , had completed four ye-tr- of high school, as 



716 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVKY 

EDUCATION AT ENTRANCE 

Total No. No. with 4 years of 

of Students* High School or more Percent 

Lakeside 133 125 93 

Mt. Sinai 64 60 93 

St. Luke's 59 50 84 

Huron Road 33 26 78 

Cleveland City 63 33 52 

Fair-view 24 12 50 

St John's 30 11 36 

St. Alexis 9 3 33 

St. Vincent's 78 20 25 

Glenville....- 22 5 22 

Lakewcod 13 2 15 ', 

Total 528 347 65 

Exclusive of the three Catholic training schools, St. John's, St. Alexis 
and St. Vincent's, and the 3 smallest training schools remaining, Fairview, 
Glenville and Lakewood (which, as i^ later suggested, might well combine 
in giving theoretical instruction to their students), the percentage of students 
qualified for college entrance is 83%. 

* In a few hospitals data is not available for one or two students. 



CAPACITY OF HOSPITALS AND SERVICES OFFERED 
Desirable Standards 

To qualify as fitted to give an adequate training of nurses, a hospital 
should provide the requisite number of patients and variety of suitable 
services. According to the standard, a general hospital under municipal 
or private endowment, neither too large nor too small, is best fitted for this 
need. As a teaching field the general hospital of 400 to 500 beds is held to 
rank first, if it gives not only the four main branches medical, surgical, 
children's and obstetrics but certain special branches, such as communi- 
cable diseases, mental and nervous disorders, etc. 

If all of these branches are not included in the clinical resources of the 
hospital, they should be made available for the students through affiliation 
with other hospitals. 

Hospitals of more than 500 beds, while they frequently offer a richer 
variety and number of services, labor under greater difficulties in the way 
of securing adequate supervision and instruction of the students. 

Hospitals having less than 400 but more than 150 beds also offer excellent 
teaching facilities. Those of less than about 50 beds cannot maintain schools 
of accepted standards. 



\IK-I\I. 717 

Findings 

1. llo>|'lT\LS OK MoHK THAN 400 HKS 

The ('it )i Hospital 

In Cleveland the only hospital of more than 400 beds is the City Hos- 
pital with 781, of which 481 beds are utilized for training. The difficulties 

curing adequate supervision for so large an institution have here been 
increased by the insufficiency of the nursing stuff for actual care of the sick. 
The shortage of students and of proper ward help has led to the divers-ion 
of graduate nurses to routine care of patients from their primary duty of 
supervision and instruction of students. 

Thus, for example, the graduate nurse responsible for the supervision of 
students having training in the children's wards of 40 l>eds, had only 2 stu- 
dents and 1 attendant for the care of these patients. In addition she was 
also head nurse in the adjoining temporary influenza, ward of 3 beds, when' 
she had only 1 student and an attendant to assist her. In this emergency, 
the Siijxrintendent of Nurses was trying to secure another graduate for the 
influen/a ward, which had just been opened. 

Supervision and instruction were clearly impossible; the first object was 
necessarily to care for the patients as well as difficult conditions permitted. 
Faulty technic on the part of the students was observed and under the 
circumstances could hardly have failed to occur. 

(a). Clinical Opportunities 

In its clinical opportunities, this hospital offers an unusually wide range 
of experience. In contrast to all the other Cleveland hospitals, it offers 
an extensive and acute medical service with definite segregation of chronics 
and a particularly adequate field for training in pediatrics and communi- 
cable diseases, including venereal disease. 

The training school, however, is not able to make the most of these 
clinical opportunities. The medical, surgical, obstetrical and children's ser- 
vices are inadequately staffed, poorly equipped, badly housed in the gloomy 
old main building, ami have been allowed to become run-down and below 
standard. 

The contagious and venereal disease services, on the other hand, might 
well be further developed to afford opportunities for affiliation for students 
from other hospitals 

The contagion* <liM-;iM service is in a new building with modern pro- 
visions for the efficient care of patients and consequent good training of 
student*. Moreover, supervision is good and theoretical instruction is given 
at the same time with the practical experience on the wards, so that the two 
can be properly correlated. Commendable precautions are taken to protect 
the students from infection and to prevent them from carrying it to other- 
For this purpose the hospital is exceptionally well equipped. 



718 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH Suit VET 

This department is necessarily more fully staffed than other depart- 
ments, even at their expense. The pupil nurse service is supplemented by 
affiliating students from two other hospitals. That the exceptional oppor- 
tunities for training are appreciated by the students is evident from a comment 
from the superintendent of Glenville Hospital, one of the affiliating schools 
afterward visited. "This service is an elective one for senior students. 
So fa/ all senior students have asked for it, and on return here comment 
most enthusiastically on their experience." 

Other Cleveland schools of nursing might well take advantage of affilia- 
tion with this contagious hospital, thus securing a much needed experience 
for their students. Such affiliations would also release a certain number of 
City Hospital students for the other services there, as the four to six months 
of contagious disease experience required of them at present could be shortened 
if an adequate nursing service in this department were otherwise provided. 

In the specific (venereal disease) wards, also, more favorable conditions 
for training are noted, and valuable experience for the student is found here, 
especially in the Women's Department, which includes 12 beds for obstetrics 
complicated by venereal disease. The capacity of the venereal disease 
wards is 50 men, 42 women and 8 children, and the building has recently 
been renovated to meet the demands of the service. The training possibili- 
ties are good and affiliation could well be arranged for students from other 
schools wishing to include this experience in their preparation for the public 
health field, or even in their general training. Such an arrangement would 
help to remedy the insufficiency of the nursing staff at present, which makes 
it impossible for the nursing duties to be properly organized. 

The buildings for the tuberculosis service and the chronic patient ser- 
vice in which the nervous and mental cases are housed, although they might 
afford valuable clinical oportunities, cannot offer adequate training .until 
radical, changes have been made. 

C 2. HOSPITALS OF BETWEEN 290 AND 110 BEDS 

The second group of hospitals considered have the following number 
of beds. 

St. Vincent's 290 

Lakeside _.,..,.. 289 

Mt. Sinai 255 

St. Alexis 250 

St. John's 158 

St, Luke's . 140 

While these hospitals offer a sufficient number of beds to comply with 
the recommendations for a good teaching field for nurses, a consideration of 
the variety of services provided is also needed in order to gauge their ade- 
quacy for the purposes of training. 



\ i trai NG 71!) 



/ -liHHinancf of the Xnryicnl 

In tin- main, the outstanding fact is the iiia<lc<|iia<-y of the medical ser- 
3 and the specialties. l>n>;ully speaking, on the one hand, and on the other 
the predominating claims of the surgical services, at the exj>ense of the for- 
mer. The predominance of surgical services is the natural result of the in- 
sufficient numler of hospital l>eds, the emergencies of surgical need taking 
precedence of medical needs, and the added fact that a higher proportion of 
surgical cases than of medical require hospital care. The predominance of 
surgical services obviously makes for a Imdly balanced scheme of instruc- 
tion. It is plainly impossible to give a well-rounded nursing education 
when so large a proportion of the student nurses' time is absorbed in purely 
surgical or predominatingly surgical work. This lack of proportion is 
amply illustrated in the records of practical experience of individual sti. dents 
at various hospitals. 



\umber of Ilcdx and I'crccHfiKjc of 

The most obvious evidence of the extent to which surgical training 
dominates other services lies in the proportion of beds assigned to each and 
in the percentage of admissions. 

At Lakeside there are 8;> surgical beds to <)1 medical; St. Alexis has 124 
surgical to 50 medical; St. John's 89 surgical to 29 medical; St. Luke's ."><; 
siir-ical to .S(> medical; St. Vincent's 12.S surgical to 42 medical. At St. 

\lc\is. on the day this hospital was visited, of the 2o beds in the women's 
medical department, 17 or over two-thirds, were occupied by surgical cases. 
At Mt. Sinai an even proportion is maintained, namely 17 surgical beds to 

Mi medical. 

Analysis of the available figures showing the admissions for two hospitals 
indicate^ still more clearly the extent to which Cleveland hospitals are given 
over U> surgical cases. At lakeside in the year 1918 surgical admissions 
\\crc :5.:>SS as c-.utrasted with 1.819 medical, and in 1916 (tjiat is. when ^ the 
entire surgical staff was available'), there were 4,](>0 surgical admission* as 
against 1 ,498 -medical. The latter figure included admissions in pediatrics, 
At St. Luke's the record of admissions for 1919 ho\vs that v>.V , of the cases 
\\ere medical as against .">.">% surgical. 

\uiither of Da i/ft Sprnt in Sun/ica! Scrria-x 

'I'he bearing of these facts on the nurses' training is shown by the record 
of their actual days spent in surgical services. 

Thus, from a study of the records at Lakeside it was found that of 17 
seniors who had been in the hospital 2 years and 9 months. 12 had already 
had from 7 to 111 mouths' training in the surgical wards and operating room. 
though the time planned for these services is (> months. Of the remaining 
five, .'J had had ( months, 1 had had ."> months, and 1 had had 4 months in 
these services, \\hen uynccologieal and gauze room experience is added, 
as \\ell as 7.V ',' of the time soent in private service, which may legitimately 
be reckoned as surgical, these 17 seniors had spent from II to 19 months 
in tin- various surgical sen 



720 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

In contrast to the time spent in the surgical wards and operating room 
(ranging from 5 to 10 months) is the time spent by these 17 seniors on med- 
ical wards, ranging from a little less than 2 months to 6 months. The 
median * is about three months and three weeks as against a median of seven 
months in general surgical experience. 



At St. Luke's, 6 seniors, who had been in training from 2^ to 2% years, 
had spent from 6 to 13 months in surgical services. This does not include 
the months spent in the private service, a large proportion of which is sur- 
gical. 

These same students had spent from 4 to 8 months in the medical wards. 
the median being between 5 and 6 months as against a median between 9 and 
10 months in .surgical experience. 

The actual experience of 12 seniors at St. Vincent's shows a similar dis- 
proportion. With two exceptions, these students had not yet completed 
^/^ years of their training, and yet already 3 had had 9 months, 1 had had 
10 months, 4 had had 12 months, 3 had had 13 months and 1 had had 14 
months in the various surgical services. 



The medical experience of these same students ranged from 4J^ to 8^ 
months, the median being a little less than 6 months (174-177 days) as against 
a median of 12 months in surgical service. 

That it is not impossible to approximate more nearly the program of 
services planned is proved by the example of Mt. Sinai. This hospital is 
more successful than any other in this group, in keeping the surgical experience 
to the specified time, even though the time planned is somewhat long. Six 
months each are allowed to medical nursing and surgical nursing, including 
nursing of private patients. 

The records of 7 seniors, who had been in training 34 months or over. 
showed that in surgical service in the wards, the students spent from 3 
months to a little more than 5 (160 days); the median is 4*/2 months. In 
medical ward service, the 7 students spent from 2J^ to 7 months, the median 
being nearly 6 months (171 days). On private duty, the students had 
spent from a month and 3 weeks to 5 months, the median being a little more 
than 3% months (107 days). 

As private duty is for the most part largely surgical, it is reasonable to 
conclude that at this hospital surgical service, which on the wards was 
slightly below the time planned, is supplemented by the private surgical 
duty, and the medical service, which in the wards approximates the 6 months 
planned, is not unduly prolonged by the private duty. 

In the operating room all seven seniors under discussion exceeded the 2 
months planned for this service. Two of these students, however, were 
specializing, and their time was purposely prolonged. Only one of the 
remaining five overstayed the time planned by as much as one month; the 
other four exceeded the time by one to two weeks. 

* That is, ranging all the months from highest to lowest, the median is the figure showing the middle 
number of months. 



N U it * 1 N G 



From this summary, it appears that with the exception of Mt. Sinai the 

teridem \ i> to devote at least twice a^ much time to surgical training as to 

(6). General Inadequacy of the Medical Service for Training 

This inadequacy is due to two causes, the predominance of the surgical 
service*. and the large proportion of chronics. The predominance of the 
surgical services and the consequent curtailment of training in the medical 
service, has been dealt with above. The proportion of chronics in the 
medical wards visited ranged from 40% to 58% in the three hospitals in which 
this condition was observed. At Lakeside, on the day when the medical 
wards were visited, 8 of the 19 patients on the men's ward, and 4 of the 11 
patients on the women's ward were chronics. In order to make the most 
of the inadequate medical service for teaching, the students at Lakeside are, 
by an excellent practice, required to hand in written case reports while on 
duty in the medical wards. 

At St. John's, on the floor assigned to medical cases, 4 were under treat- 
ment on the day of the inspection. Of these 14 were chronics and 2 were 
surgical cases. At St. Vincent's there were 14 patients in the women's 
medic. (1 ward, of whom 6 were chronics, two of them in reality boarders of 
several years' standing. At Mt. Sinai and St. Luke's no data on this point 
were obtained. At St. Alexis chronics are segregated on a special floor. 
But in this hospital, owing to the lack of graduate nurses, training is given 
in the women's wards only, so that students receive no experience either 
medical or surgical, in the nursing of men patients. 

(c). Communicable Diseases' 

At the time of the investigation, none of the hospitals in this group pro- 
vided any experience whatsoever in communicable disease, except for occa- 
sional cases which develop in the hospital and cannot be transferred. This 
failure is all the more striking, owing to the rare opportunities for training 
in communicable disease offered at the City Hospital, of which the small 
hospital of Glenville, for instance, has taken advantage. 

id). Pediatrics 

Only two hospitals of this group, Lakeside and Mt. Sinai, have an ade- 
quate number of beds for training in this branch. The other four hospitals 
either provide no beds for this service, or provide a very small number, 
which are almost all used for surgical cases and thus afford no training in 
pediatrics proper. 

(e). Obstetrics 

Of the six hospitals under discussion, three offer obstetrical training within 
their own wards. These are Mt. Sinai, St. John's and St. Luke's. Except 
at St Luke's, no provision is made for out-patient obstetrical training, the 
-Indent nurses thus failing to obtain experience in outside prenatal work, or 

Records of actual experience were not available for students at St. A'exis and St. John's. From 
the assign nent of beds, it is evident that in these hospitals, as in St. Vincent's, at least two-thirds of the 
entire hospital service is surgical. 



Hosi'ITAI. AND HEALTH S 



111 eariim for'patients in their homes. At Mt~ 'Sinai there itf a large out-patient 
prenatal clinic, hut students are not assigned to" work in the district.';- The 
follow-up work there is done by the social service department. A few stu- 
dents, who elect public health work, may have prenatal experience in the 
University District. At St. Luke's, student nurses Jr^ve training in all.three 
branches of obstetrical work, prenatal, partuin, and post-partum. 

,, Lakeside and St. Vincent's provide obstetrical training through affilia- 
tion, the .former at the Cleveland Maternity,; and the latter at Si. Ann'*. 
The Cleveland Maternity affords training. both OIL the wards and in the d^- 
t.-ii t, but Lakeside did not, at the time of the .investigation, avail itself ofYthe 
outside premiJaL and partuin experience for its students. Moreover, the 
t\l e qf ' supervision, for student nurses given by the Cleveland Maternity i 
inadequate,, and. s^carcely up. to the standards of modern public health : \v<>rk. 
Students lVom;t,<Y(nic.ent.s have no ohpoctunity for out-patient work. 



^spft^-r in th^gtoup nrtder discussion, SF. Alexis, lias afpresrnl 
no obstetrical training either within its own wards or by affiliation/ 

ff\ V- ' ;: ' > '" li ''^"li- i' i"fr *'" '' "' ' i/N 

(/). .Atfm)^a^t,4^cwai/.JPyaw.N . -.1 ,... 10 Jjw 

Except for occasional cas^s, tliese r 'nospita?s : offer no cxocricncc in Inr'^&re 
of patiewt'S 'suffertng 1 frbih ne/rvoity and ' mental diseases, nor is thefe indeed 
any tipportimify for 'offering^ sue'n training to students. At the City Ho'spifal 
there is a large 'gf hup of mental' cases, which should afl'ord a desirable field. 
for training. : Biit the ab'seric^'df Any frtodVrh mefhoUs of treatmerit malies 
this impossible at present. FA ctfhtrast to t-he' now acccotcdniethodV of 
treatment in enlightened rristlttitioh'sT - : pat ieh^s" "iiffe under close <-onh'lfehient 
and practically in custodial care in gloomy cell-like rooi,n 

(</); Private Sen-ice,:,} -..,, . -f'-f^ - : ^ . -.i.'. .< !ti MI." )A 

.The ])ublic \\ards are .the best training gnuihcj For jstudent nurses, ;i',id 
by 'far the greater proportion of their time should >>e spent there. ' 

-..('*%.' *'.'. ' . i M; . - ^ .*;".' 

It ha^ been suggestexf that the ratio of private to free bed^fduiuKI 
not exceed one to four in hospitals which tr^irt-' nurses. Two of'-th** h<- 
i)itals in this group, Lakeside and St. Vincent's, have a ratio nearly .tw,k-e as 
high as is considered desirable, the ratio in each case being 1:2.7. The ratio 
at Mt,.Sinajijis 1^5; al^St. Luke's. 1:4; at. St. Alexis .1 ;3, (exclusive (jf, beds 
ori^the^floor 1 used>f<i>r ohi)nics); at-St. .John'^ fc&fc ';; 



Ml. Sin;ii follows the excellent Dradicc of rcfvini; inainlv on gradual c 

. '( ' , i ,i- I- , i > , ' - 

nurses for the stamng of the private rooms. 

The days spent in private service by students at Lakeside range fjoi 8? 
to 306, the median being 195 days, or slightly over six months. Tl'ic lime 
planned for the service at Lakeskle is four month.s. At St. Luke's tlifr&hge 
is from 131 to ^10, and the inedian l)ctwccii HO and I,").") days. At Mt, Sii 
the range is from ;>.'! to 1 M> days, with the median 107 days, about tbrcr 
months less than the median at Lakeside, and a month less than at St .: 



Fnformation/as to the time Jietually <].(>\\\ l>y students in private service 
was not obtained from Si. Alexis. St. John's and St. Vincent's Charity.': St. 



: < * 



Vincent's Charily plans that cadi student shall devote six months to private 
iluty nursing. It is apparent that undue emphasis on the private service 
-litules .1 distinct \\cakuess in the training at Lakeside and St. Vincent's 
Charity and the yanie tendency is not iceable at St. Luke's. 

. 
X. HOSPITALS OK BKTWKKN I lo \\p .'<( HKDS 

K\< -lusive of Cleveland Maternity (6.1 l>eds) and St. Ann's Maternity 
(^A* beds), to which, as special hospitals, these standaids do not apply, there 
remain four smaller general hospitals. These can provide the necessary 
variety of services only by affiliation with larger institutions. These are: 

Fairview 100 beds 

: 'Wuron Road 87 " 

i 70 



Lakewood 53 " 

The medical service in all four hospitals is limited and affords but meagre 
triiining for nurses. In fact, it appears that the only services adequate. for 
nurses' training are surgery and obstetrics. Kven in the surgical service. 
Irttle or no experience is afforded in such important branches as orthoi.edics 
and diseases of the eye and car. In obstetrics also, training is limited. 
With the exception of the Huron Road students, who affiliate at Cleveland 
Maternity, the service is entirely lacking in partum and post-partuin care in 
the h'nncs. Students at (ilenville and Huron Road receive prenatal train- 
ing in the I'liiversity Health Districts Lakewood and Fairvievv students do 
not get this experience. In all four hospitals too large a proportion of the 
training is in the private service. 



IW- medical, communicable, nervous and mental diseases, as wcll>a& for 
I )*di& trie's, -ill of the hospitals of this group need affiliation, to give adequate 
(Ilenville makes an excellent beginning by requiring four rhturtlw' 
in pediatrics an 1 providing ele<-tfv<' courses in <-omuJiuiieuJ>lc 
l) (( ||i of these at the City Hospital, "(ileuville was at tbe'rthne of 
thj\ jj>\estigation the only hospital in Clevcliind to rccogui/r {U.i_d.t^Ue ad- 
V-fflfagft <f UK' unusual clinical facilities olJVivd there, , Tlie ij^^;lhiv<- 
ll.y.s.pitals in this group do not make irood tlieii'.oun delii'iencies by.;yry sj d, 
affiliations, thus failing to recognize the primary importance of these seV\ t 'ice>, 
in the nurses' training. 

/; 

* 0,T-l>v,,,.v, |)K,M;,M.X 



11 general hospitals. ."> have no out-patient department, tlf the 

raining institutions. Mt. Sinai ofl'ers the most (omplrte; opporl unity for 

tr^u, ilmost ill the services are represented in act i\ e./'linics,., .Ixike- 

rds shou a higher daily average of patient ;i.t tciuL-jncc .^liati" Mt . 

.but Lakeside lacks prenatal and dental service. St . Vincent '.-, Charity 

lacks pediatric, orlUopedic, nrcnatal and dental services. Tl:c \\ork a 

Luke's i> reported to be "tint of a speciali/cd industrial .clinic with .-chiefly 

siir-M-al interest - . " The medical clinic is small and an eye. ear, no-e and 

throat clinic Iris just been started. There are. however, act atal 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVKV 



nnd gyneCO'ogK'Hl Clinics, where students may receive valuable training. 
The Huron Rotiil dispensary is given over almost entirely to surgical cases; 
medical cases are only occasional. The City Hospital has a weekly dental 
rlinic, which is very active, but there is no other dispensary service. 

Since a detailed report has been made on the organization and work of 
the Cleveland dispensaries, they are not further treated in this report. None 
of them are fully utilized as teaching fields for student nurses. Likewise 
social service departments are not treated here, since a special study has 
been made of the work of these departments. 

5. PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING 

At present a very small number of students take advantage of the ex- 
ceptional training for public health work offered in the University Teaching 
District. In this District, Cleveland has made a distinct contribution 
of the highest grade to the development of generalized city nursing. In no 
city is a better opportunity afforded for training and supervision in such 
work, if sufficient time is given to take advantage of it. 

Two months of this training are now allowed by five hospitals. The 
course is elective at City, Lakeside and St. Luke's. It is required at Glen- 
ville and Huron Road. Mt. Sinai allows four months of training in the Uni- 
versity Teaching District, but the course is available for only three or four 
students each year. At City also it is possible to elect a four months' train- 
ing in the District. 

INSTRUCTION 
Teaching of Nursing Procedures 

DEMONSTRATION ROOM 

A special room for the teaching of nursing procedures is provided at seven 
of the eleven hospitals considered in this section.* At St. Vincent's, how- 
ever, the room was not in use at the time of the investigation. At Glenville, 
Huron Road, St. Ann's and St. Luke's the same class room is used for nurs- 
ing procedures that is used for other subjects. 

At Lakeside and City the class room is large; at Mt. Sinai it is adequate; 
at Glenville it is small. At the others the room is fair as to size. The room 
it St. Ann's is crowded with material used in connection with the lecture 
courses. 

At only three hospitals is the demonstration room equipped with running 
water and gas or electric stoves. These three are Glenville, Lakewood, and 
Mt. Sinai. At the City there is a stove but no running water; at Fairview 
and St. Luke's there is running water but no stove. The other hospitals 
rely on facilities in adjacent rooms. 

All the rooms are supplied with material sufficient for demonstration. 
though there are special difficulties in hospitals which have no special room. 
At Huron Road a bed is brought in when needed. At St. Ann's material 
for demonstration is said to be brought from the wards when needed. At 
St. Luke's the material is brought over from the hospital by the instructor. 

Information on most of these points was not obtained from St. Alexis and Cleveland Maternity 
Hospitals. 



\ i BSING 745 

At only two hospitals is the demonstration room supplied with material 
Mjflinent for practice by individual students. These hospitals are Fairview 
and Mt. Sinai. 

METHODS OF TEACHING 

With the exception of St. Vincent's, where students were l>eing taught 
entirely on the wards at the tims of the inspection, there is class room in- 
fraction in the theory and practice of nursing in all eleven training schools. 

All are supplied with a Chase doll for demonstration. In addition, 
students are used for demonstration except at St. Ann's, St. John's, and St. 
Luke's.* At Lakeside, patients are brought over from the wards as sub- 
jects for the demonstration of some procedures, especially for such proced- 
ures as bathing and hair- washing. Patients serve as subjects at Glenville 
occasionally, and at Fairview also patients are occasionally used, but only 
in the wards. 

PRACTICE IN THE CLASS ROOM 

Special periods for practice in the demonstration room are assigned at 
Huron Road and St. John's. At Huron Road, a practice hour of 1 hour 
daily is allowed, except on Saturday. At St. John's, 3 hours of practice a 
week is required of probationers and 1 hour a week of juniors and seniors, 
by way of review. 

At Fairview, City, and Lakeside, no special period is assigned, but part 
of the demonstration period is used for practice by individual students. At 
Mt. Sinai the study hour is frequently used for practice. At St. Luke's 
there is no opportunity for practice between classes, as the room is in use 
for other subjects and all material removed. Glenville and St. Ann's like- 
wise make no provision for practice in the class room. 

Class room practice is supervised by the instructor in the six hospitals 
which make any provision for such practice of procedures.! 

HOURS 

The hours devoted to class room instruction in the theory and practice 
of nursing by Cleveland training schools are as follows:! 

St. Luke's 170 hours 

Mt. Sinai 151 " 

Lakeside 120 " 

Lakewood 120 " 

Huron Road 100 " 

St. John's 65 " 

City 60 " 

St. Vincent's 60 " 

Fairview 50 " 

Glenville 48 " 

* At Huron Road no information wai obtained at to the use of student* and patient* as subjects for 
demonstration. At Lakewood the course was in process of organization, and the use of students as sub 
rets was planned. 

t Supervised practice is planned at Lakewood. 
:Cmirse at St. Vincent's not given at time of inspection. 



726 HOSPITAL AND HKALTH .SURVEY 

St. Ann's Maternity Hospital gives 10 hours to affiliating studentsiA At 
Cleveland Maternity 24 procedures 'are demonstrated to affiliating students. 

CORRELATION OF THEORETICAL WORK WITH PRACTICAL WORK IN THE 

WARDS 

"Obviously, the test of theoretical instruction in nursing is its application 
in the wards. The teaching of practical procedures, to be fruitful, must be 
associated not only with demonstrations and practice in class, but wrth'elose 
supervision of the student's work in the wards as soon as possible ,aft0r,\ the 
class work. Without such close correlation of theory and practice, nursing 
technic tends to be lax and unintelligent. 

::<-' t.i . 

EXAMPLE OF GOOD CORRELATION 

Of the thirteen hospitals in Cleveland a high standard of correlation \\.i- 
found only at one hospital, Mt. Sinai. Here the teaching of nursing pro- 
cedures is not only excellent in the class room, but is followed up by careful 
assignment of students for practice in the wards in the same prpc.e^ures 
w-hiflh they have just learned in the class room, with thorough supjerjy^sion 
by. the instructor. The provision of standardized equipment, both m the 
classroom and in the wards, has been a very considerable factor in inaJking 
possible uniformity of nursing procedures, and has contributed to Ihe^a^cu- 
rate technic of the students observed in the wards. 

. . MA 

, The fact that students are not hurried when on duty in the wards, r |>u-t, 

owing to the provision of ward attendants, labor-saving devices and. adequate 
equipment, have time to carry out .the procedures exactly as taught,, also 
contributes to the uniform excellence of technic, observed. 

The graduate nurses in charge of wards have been appointed on account 
of special qualifications. The head nurse of the children 'sward is a graduate 
of the Boston Children's Hospital; the head nurse of .the obstetrical .ward 
has had postgraduate training at the Chicago Lying-in Hospital; and the 
nurse in charge of the operating room is a graduate of St. Mary's, Rochester, 
Minnesota. Thus student nurses have the advantage of instruction given 
b\ v specialists in their'own departments. 

'',' ' ..:; 

St. Luke's was in the midst of reorganizing its instruction at the time of 
the investigation, but already had developed methods which should result 
in excellent correlation. For example, all procedures are demonstrated to 
the head nurses in the class room, in order to enlist their interest and co- 
operation in the teaching of students and to insure uniformity of method. 

FAILURE TO CORRELATE THEORY AND PRACTICE 

The varying lack of success in correlating theory and practice in nursing 
procedures at the other Cleveland hospitals is due to different causes. 

Lack,. of Equipment 

At the City Hospital, where exceptionally good provision is made for -h>.s 
room teaching, the entire lack of many essentials in ward equipment. .would 






\ I K r. I \ 



make il impossible <> exact good nursing teehnic, as taught in tin- <-| ; ,^ 
i. even if there were adequate supervision of wanl practice. 

>(' Organization 

\t Lakeside. owing to other required duties, tin- instructor of pra< 
nursing has not sufficient time to suporvi.se adequately even the j roba 
!>. mi MM- \\ards. Moreover, no provision is made for the immediate 
application of class room teaching. For some students there may be an 
interval of some weeks l>ofore they have opportunity to put their class room 
teaching into practice. 

'lift of Teaching iritti .l<hninistnttire Duties 

At four other hospitals, Fairview, Glenville, St. Alexis and Lakewbod, the 
teaching of practical nursing is carried by the superintendent of nurses in 
addition to her administrative duties. This arrangement obviously docs not 
allow enough time for either teaching or organized supervision of mm ing 
tedriic. The pressing demands of purely administrative interests continually 
thrust into the background the apparently less immediate needs of teaching. 

At two other hospitals. Huron Road and St. Vincent's, a sbme'What 
similar interference with proper practical teaching is found. At Huron Road 
id niirM- is exnected to give the class room and practical instruction in 
nursing procedure while her primary duty is management of a ward or floor. 
\l St. Vincent's, the supervisor of the gynecological and women's medical 
\\ards was the instructor. Obviously, the successful combination .of. two 
such func tions is impossible. 

\. opportunity was presented to see the instruction in nursing procedure.-* 
at St. John's, owing to the illness of the instructor at the time of the inve-fi 

'" 

I N-I ui < n>\ AT THE MATKKMTY Hosi'ii\i.> 



I ne n-m'iiuing im>pit;ds, Cleveland Mitternity and St. Ann's Mater-nity 

are special hospitals, giving obstetrical training to second and thibdvyuyar 

students, and to students of advanced standing. In the case of these stu- 

<, acquaintance with nursing procedures is presuoposed, excei I ii'i the 

".(] field of obstetrics. In addition, both hospitals offer coiir-r> of 1.1 

ih- in obstetrics to women who hav(> had no previ(us training in ln:r>, 

Cleveland Maternity, demonstrations, supervision and instruction 

an- given by graduate nurses. At St. Ann's, the teaching, and 

si/f&*vi*KWi arc be|o\\ .-standard, since they are in large part carried out by 

'-- of Hie fifteen months' course in obstetrics onlv. 

While far-reaching recommendat ions h.-iv- been presented in the M-ction 

on I'rcnatal ami Maternity Nursing Service, \\hich may by some be con- 

10 iui|)lying unjust criticism upon the quality of nursing service- now 

u by the Maternity Hospital, it is particularly to be noted thaMt is 

not the quality of professional care either by i hysicians or nurses \\hich is 

< ritici>ed. It i> not coiicci\-ed by the staff of the Survey that among the 

functions of a university teaching hosnital i^ the administering of a city- 



728 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



wide prenatal service. Lack of good administrative organization, inadequacy 
of supervision, lack of continuity of the present nursing service for maternity 
cases, are the main reasons for the recommendations that the Visiting Nurse 
Association and not the Maternity Hospital assume the broader functions 
proposed. Without the initiative, the standards, the demonstrations in 
this field made by the Maternity Hospital medical and nursing staff, Cleve- 
land could not now even consider such a thorough-going program of maternity 
care as is proposed. Cleveland's mothers owe much to the Cleveland Ma- 
ternity Hospital. 

OPPORTUNITIES FOR CASE STUDY 

Case study is required of student nurses only at Lakeside and Mt. Sinai* 
At Lakeside this good feature is found only in the medical wards. 

Teaching of the Fundamental Sciences* 

In most schools of nursing instruction in the fundamental sciences is 
weak, owing to the 'lack of good teachers and of equipment, and the lack of 
preparation on the part of the students. Yet the employment of teachers 
is in itself an advance over former methods of instruction. 

Most hospitals are equipped with one or more rooms in which it is pos- 
sible for students to gather around a table, view specimens, and otherwise 
witness a demonstration by the instructor, of the principles to be taught. But 
this is not real laboratory instruction, which should provide for individual 
experiment and observation. 

None of the eleven general hospitals studied in Cleveland is prepared to 
give individual laboratory instruction in all four of the fundamental science 
courses. Details of the equipment provided are given under each science 
course. None of the hospitals makes any separate allowance for laboratory 
supplies, demonstration material, or reference library. 

Instructors are often overtasked with administrative duties. The teach- 
ing staff at Lakeside is materially hampered by the necessity of attending to 
many details in the administering of the school. 

In five of the ten hospitals considered in this section, the same person 
who administers the training school is expected to carry all or at least the 
heaviest part of the teaching. At the City Hospital, the acting superinten- 
dent of the training school teaches 7 subjects, spending 19 hours weekly in 
class work in addition to the nursing administration of a hospital with nearly 
800 beds. An emergency at Fairview makes the instructor also the acting 
superintendent of nurses, though even in normal times she shares many of 
the responsibilities of administering the school. At Glenville and Lake- 
wood, the administration of the training school and the instruction of nurses 
is carried on by the same person. At St. John's, the superintendent of 
nurses carries in addition to 18 teaching hours, the administrative duties of 
her position in which she seems to have no assistance even for the clerical 
work. 

* In this section St. Alexis is omitted throughout, owing to the absence of systematized instruction 
and of records concerning the course given during the year since this training school was started. 



\ i l< - I N 



It need" no argument to prove that such duties cannot successfully be 
combined. The more pressing demands of administration take precedence: 
the teaching must inevitably suffer. If a higher standard of instruction is to 

-taMishcd. the appointment of full-time instructors is an urgent neces- 
-ity. The only alternative is a central school of nursing, to which student- 
may lc -cut for instruction. 

(a) CHEMISTRY 

Six hospitals give instruction in this subject, City, Fairview, Glenville. 
Mt. Sinai, St. John's and St. Vincent's. Four others, Huron Road, Lake- 
-ioV, Lakewood and St. Luke's, avail themselves of chemistry courses in the 
nearest high schools. Lakewood pays a fee of $80.00 for the course; the in- 
struction for the students of the other hospitals is furnished gratis by the 
city, through arrangement with the Board of Education. 

Method 

Of the six hospitals in which chemistry is taught, three have some indi- 
vidual laboratory work; City, where half the time allowed is given to the 
laboratory, Mt. Sinai, and St. Vincent's, where only a few hours of labora- 
tory instruction are provided. In the others, the instruction is almost wholly 
by lecture with occasional demonstration. 

Mt. Sinai gives a preliminary course to students who have not had 
chemistry in high school. A more advanced course is given to all students. 

The teaching of chemistry in the high schools appears to be of high grade 
though limited in scope. 



()f the six hospitals which provide their own course in chemistry, only 
one, the City Hospital, has adequate equipment for both laboratory work 
and demonstration. At Mt. Sinai and St. Vincent's, the supplies appear to 
be adequate for demonstration purposes. At St. John's, Fairview and 
Glenville, the equipment is inadequate for either method of instruction. 

Hours 

The hours devoted to this subject in Cleveland training schools are as 
follows: 

Lakewood 40 hours (High School affiliation) 

Mt. Sinai 33 " 

Lakeside 30 " (High School affiliation) 

Huron Road 30 " " " " 

St. Luke's 24 " 

City 20 " 

St. Vincent's 20 

St. John's 18 

Glenville 12 " 

Fairview 10 



7.SO HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SIHVKV 

(#'.] (6) ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY 

All of the ten hospitals give some instruction in this subject. 



Method and Equipment 

In one hospital, Huron Road, instruction is almost wholly by formal 
lectures and quizzes, with demonstrations at intervals; in the others, mainly 
by recitations on assigned texts with some demonstrations. In only two 
hospitals, Lakeside and Mt. Sinai, is there in addition some individual 
laboratory work, though the equipment is very meagre. 

'"i ;->'\ . Hours 

The hours given to this subject in Cleveland training schools are as fol- 
lows : 

Lakeside 70 hours 

Mt Sinai 62 

St. Vincent's 60 

''$ Luke's ....56 
Huron Road .51 



"City:. so 

St. John's 50 

iQlenville ....., ...... r ., : . 40 

Lakewood . ,... r .j..,,....,+ _.>.,.. 36 

Fairview 30 " 

The time allotted to anatomy and physiology in 4 schools outside of Cleve- 
land is as follows : 

University of Cincinnati 150 hours 

University of Minnesota , , .......144 4< 

Johns Hopkins 110 " 

Children's (Boston) .100 " 

(c) DIETETICS 

Of the ten general hospitals eight give some instruction in this subject, 
i. e., City, Fairview, Glenville, Huron Road, Lakeside, Lakewood, Mt 
Sinai and St. Luke's. Two other hospitals, St. John's and St. Vincent's, 
send their students to the Y. W. C. A. for instruction in this subject. With 
the exception of Lakeside and St. Luke's, all these courses strongly empha- 
size oopkery, and give a minimum amount of instruction in the basic principles 
of nutrition. 

This'failure is all the more serious owing to the growing recognition of 
the primary importance of nutrition, especially in relation to children and 
the movement for Child Welfare in which nurses bear increasing responsi- 
bility. 

Equipment 

Lakeside and City have good laboratories fitted for teaching dietetic* 
jilthough at the City it is not adequately supplied with individual utensils 



\ ( H ^ I N (, 731 

VI Huron Road tin- laboratory is fairly adequate. The remaining five hos- 
pitals provide deeidedly inferior equipment for teaching this subject. In 
M.nif instances the room provided is unsuitable (such as the main kitchen at 
St. Luke's), and in others there is a lack of utensils for individual work. 

Hours 
The time allotted to this subject in Cleveland training schools is 'as fol- 

Mt. Sinai 60 hours 

Lakeside 52 " 

St. Vincent's 45 " 

St. John's 45 

St. Luke's .44 " 

City 40 " 

Huron Road ....... 40 " 

Fairview L'. ____ _....... ............... .....32 " 

Lakewood ..CifL...v- ..... . ..... . ........ .: ...... 25 '? 

Glenville ....24 " 

, ,: 

In four schools outside of Cleveland the hours given in dietetics and 
cookery are as follows: 

j , 

University of Minnesota ...^. ...... _.70 hours 

Philadelphia General 66 " 

Children's (Boston) ..56 " 

Boston City ....56 " 



(d) 

\ll of the hospitals give some instruction in bacteriology, but in none is 
there adequate equipment for the individual laboratory work essential for 

this subject. ; 

E(f u if) incut 

Material for demonstrat ion in bacteriology is good at Mt. Sinai, and 
fairly good at Lakeside and St. Vincent's. At all the other hospitals this 
equipment is very meagre. 

Hour., 

_ 

The time (It-voted to this course in Cleveland I raining schools is AS fol- 



St. Luke's . 36 hours 

Huron Road 24 " 

Mt. Sinai .21 " 

City 20 " 

Lakeside 20 

St. Vincent's 20 " 

Fairview 12 

Glenville 12 " 

Lakewood 11 



782 N HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

At St. John's, this course is combined with hygiene. 

In four schools outside of Cleveland, the hours given in bacteriology arc 
as follows: 

University of Minnesota 99 hours 

Children's (Boston) .76 " 

University of Cincinnati 75 

Presbyterian (Chicago).. 70 

Method 

In only one of these, Mt. Sinai, is individual laboratory work given, and 
even there with inadequate space and too meagre equipment to make this 
form of instruction effective. The course is divided into half laboratory and 
half recitations on assigned texts. 

Lakeside, which has no laboratory work, could probably arrange for it 
by utilizing more extensively the possibilit ! es of the pathological department 
of the hospital. Half of the course at Lakeside is devoted to demonstration 
by the instructor and half to lecture and recitation. 

At the other eight hospitals, the method of instruction varies, being mostly 
demonstration at St. Luke's and St. Vincent's, and mostly lectures at Fair- 
view and Glenville. The others combine these methods. At St. John's the 
work in bacteriology is not given as a separate course, but in combination 
with the course in hygiene. 

Instruction in Other Subjects 

The length of the course is only one factor, and by no means the most 
important factor, in determining the value of the instruction. Yet the pro- 
portion of time devoted to various groups of subjects is highly indicative. 

Comparisons of the time devoted to instruction in the more advanced 
subjects are difficult to make, since the classification and arrangement of 
subjects show wide variation. Thus, in one school the lectures on gynecology 
are included in the course in surgical diseases, in another in the course in 
obstetrics, and in others, as a separate series. In the same way the lectures 
in operating room technic, orthopedics, and eye, ear, nose and throat dis- 
eases are sometimes given as separate courses, and at other times included in 
the general surgical lectures. 

In the same way, it is difficult to make comparisons of instruction in 
the different branches of m'edicine. Thus, communicable diseases, nervous 
and mental diseases, occupational diseases, venereal and skin diseases, and 
pediatrics, are given as separate courses in some schools, and in others two 
or more are combined into a single course. In one, all these subjects are given 
as one course, under the title of medical diseases. 

Notwithstanding these differences in classification, comparisons can 
fairly be made between groups of allied subjects. Thus, we may combine 
in one group under the general title of surgical subjects the following: eye, 



\ i USING 



car. nose and throat diseases. gynecology, operating room technic, orthope- 
.ln - ;ml surgical diseases. The numl>cr of hours of instruction given to these 
surgical snbje< -Is in !> Cleveland training schools, ranges from 34 to 73. One 
school cannot IK- included, sinee in that seh<H)l gynecology is included in 

>l>-tctrics. 

n, comparisons may fairly he made by grouping under the single 
head of medical, the following subjects: communicable diseases, medical 
disease^, nervous and mental diseases, pediatrics, and venereal and skin 
-Incases. In this group of medical subjects, Cleveland schools give from 52 
to 105) hours of instruction. 

HOURS OF INSTRUCTION IN THREE GROUPS OF SUHIKCTS 

Preliminary TOTAL 
Medical Surgical Sciences All Subjects 

City 90 43 130 472 

Fairview 61 34 76 365 , 

Glenville ................... 56 48 88 365 

Huron Road 82 65 122 596 

Lakeside ................... 92 70 162 672 

Lakewood ................ 54 59 112 469 

Mt. Sinai 52 * 176 655 

St John's 109 73 148 1 598 

St. Luke's ................ 62 44 140 572 

St. Vincent's 88 60 145 505 

In obstetrics the hours given range from 12 at St. Luke's to 31 at Huron 
Uoad. Kvrpt for Lakewood, which gives 18 hours, the time devoted to 
this subject in the other hospitals is from 20 to 30 hours. 

The total number of subjects listed in the curricula of th* 1 Cleveland 
training schools ranges from 17 to 29, in addition to the four fundamental 
sciences already considered. These four sciences, viz. anatomy and physi- 
ology, bacteriology, chemistry, and dietetics and cookery, may be considered 
the preliminary subjects, or those introductory to the specifically technical 
and professional work to follow. In nursing schools already affiliated with 
colleges and universities, the tendency is to consider these subjects pre- 
requisite to the strictly professional training. 

It is significant (hat the Cleveland hospitals devote to these four sub- 
jects from 20% to 28% of the total time devoted to class instruction, leaving 
only from 72' , to HO' ; to the subjects that constitute the main body of pro- 
"iial instruction. It is instructive to compare, for example, the time 
devoted to the group of medical subjects, which ranges from H f /o to 19% of 
the total time allowed for class room instruction, or to the group of surirical 
subjects, which ranges from 7% to 13%, with the time devoted to the pre- 
liminary group which ranges from 20% to 28%. When it is recalled that 
the time allowed for the preliminary subjects, though large in proportion to 

Figure* not comparable, since gynecology it included in course in obstetric*. 
t Include* a course in hygiene which is combined with bacteriology. 



734 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

the total hours of instruction, is in reality meagre, the disproportionate 
time allotted to purely professional subjects is a still more serious indication 
of the inadequacy of the curriculum. 

This fault, common to nursing schools in general and not peculiar to 
Cleveland schools, illustrates the emphasis that has universally been placed 
on the manual side of the nurses' training, to the exclusion of sufficient class 
room instruction. 

PROPORTION OF TOTAL CLASS HOURS DEVOTED TO MEDICAL AND SURGICAL 
GROUPS COMPARED WITH PROPORTION DEVOTED TO PRELIMINARY 

SCIENCES*. 

Medical Surgical Preliminary Sciences 

City 19% 9% 27% 

Fairview .'. 16 9 20 

Glenville 1. 15 13 24 

Huron Road 13 10 20 

Lakeside 13 10 24 

Lakewood 11 12 23 

Mt. Sinai 8 t 26 

St. John's 18 12 24 

St. Luke's 10 7 24 

St. Vincent's 17 12 28 

Method of Instruction 

In the presentation of most of the purely professional subjects three of 
the hospitals, Fairview, Glenville and St. Luke's, rely mainly on the lecture 
method. In the other hospitals there are recitation periods in connection 
with most of the lecture courses.. At two hospitals, Lakeside and St. Vin- 
cent's, periods are, in many subjects, set aside for demonstration. 

The courses in psychology and venereal and skin diseases, however, are 
purely lecture courses except at St. Vincent's where recitations and demon- 
strations are given. Likewise, the course in mental and nervous diseases is 
taught entirely by lecture except at Lakeside, Mt. Sinai and St. Vincent's. 

The correlation between class and ward instruction in Cleveland training 
schools seems on the whole to be as carefully planned as in other schools of 
comparable standing. As long as students staff the wards at need, com- 
plete correlation of theory and practice is probably impossible. Yet in many 
instances in Cleveland there was evident failure to come as near as possible 
to the best practice. Thus, with the exception of St. Vincent's, the classes 
in surgical diseases and medical diseases are given in the student's second 
year in the school, after she has presumably for many months had the care 
of both medical and surgical patients. 

The difficulty encountered by small schools in giving proper instruction 
to their students is illustrated by Lakewood which is unable to give all 

* Other subjects not specified in the composition of these groups are omitted in this section. 
t Figures not comparable since gynecology is included in course in obstetrirs. 



\ i i; - I \ . 

cour.ses each year. since the number of students in each class is small. For 
example. the course in anatomy and physiology is given in alternate years. 
Tim- instruction in this fundamental subject is not given to some students 
until their second year. In tin* same class. therefore, are students in the 
nl year, tirst year, and preliminary ]>eriod. These last are the only 
students who receive this instruction at the time when it should properly 
IK' given. 

The advantages that would result from combining with other schools 
are 



In all of the Cleveland schools* important courses are given in the even- 
ing, a highly undesirable practice. Evening classes not only deprive students 
of time for recreation, but also require mental activity when students are 
fatigued from the day's work in the wards. 

St. Vincent's makes extreme demands upon its students in this respect. 
In this hospital 94 hours of class instruction are given after six o'clock in the 
evening. In this evening work is included all or part of the following courses: 
bandaging, massage, medical diseases, surgical diseases, obstetrics, eye, ear, 
nose and throat diseases, venereal diseases, psychology and ethics. Three 
other hospitals, Fairview, Glenville and Lakeside, give 50 hours of instruc- 
tion or more in the evening. 

CONDITIONS OF WORK 
Ratio of Nurses to Patients 

The ratio of student nurses to patients which is desirable for teaching as 
well as for efficiency of service, is influenced by differing conditions in different 
services and even in different wards. 

The best general opinion places the desirable ratio in an active ward 
service at about 1 nurse to 5 patients on day duty; 1 nurse to 10 patients on 
night duty. 

In Cleveland, of the 8 hospitals for which information is available, 5 
hospitals meet this desirable ratio for day duty. These hospitals are: Huron 
Road, Lakeside, Mt. Sinai, St. John'sf and St. Luke's. Of the remaining 
three hospitals, Fairview and St. Vincent's fall short, having a ratio of 1 
nurse to 8 patients, while the City Hospital provides only half the requisite 
number of student nurses. This lack is in part supplemented by helpers in 
some wards. 

For night duty, only 1 hospital, St. John's, comes up to the desired figure. 
The others ran^e from 1 nurse to 12 patients at Mt. Sinai, to 1 mir-c : 
patients at St. Vincent's. At the City Hospital, th'e ratio was given as 1 to 
25, but examination of the hospital's own records showed on the night of 
January 22nd that it had lx*en possible to provide only one nurse to 40 
patients. 

* Information on this point was not obtained from Huron Road. 

t On the day of inspection a lower ratio wai found, i. e. 1 :9.7 on medical floor; 1 :8 in women's stiff teal 
ward. 



736 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The ratio of students to patients in private service must necessarily be 
higher because this is a room service. According to the standard, 1 nurse 
to 3 patients is correct for day duty; 1 nurse to 5 patients at night. In almost 
all the hospitals the ratio either just meets or falls slightly below the desired 
figure for day duty. Night duty shows a wider deviation from the standard, 
St. Vincent's providing only 1 to 16 patients. 

HOURS OF DUTY 
1. Day Duty 

In the past, the failure of the trainng schools as educational institutions 
has been due largely to the excessive hours of labor required. To state the 
case is to prove it. To expect study or intelligent application from students 
is manifestly impossible in addition to the "nine-to-ten-hour working day, 
the twelve-hour night and the seven-day week," which, according to the 
standard curriculum, is "still required in most hospitals." During the past 
year the introduction of the eight-hour day has made marked advances. 

EIGHT HOURS 

In Cleveland three of the thirteen training schools have nominally an 
eight-hour day. These are Huron Road (where there is, however, a nine- 
hour day in private service), Lakeside and Mt. Sinai. This good showing is, 
however, lessened by the fact that in all three hospitals class work and study 
and meal times fall, as is customary, in the students' so-called "free off-duty 
time. " At Mt. Sinai class work exceeding one hour per day is counted as 
time on duty, at Huron Road extra time is allowed off "when possible." 
At all three hospitals one hall-day off is given on Sundays. In some services 
there are additional hours off on Sunday. All three hospitals give one 
half-day off weekly. 

EIGHT AND ONE-HALF TO NINE HOURS 



At the City Hospital the hours of duty range from 8}/ to 9, and are 
reduced to 4^ on Sunday. Class time is occasionally counted as time on 
duty. A half-day weekly is allowed. 

NINE HOURS 

The remaining nine hospitals have a nine-hour day on five days of the 
week. All give one-half day off per week and vary in their hours on Sunday, 
St. John's and St. Vincent's having nine hours*, and the others ranging 
downward to four and a half. 

It should be noted that at Fairview and Lakewood, class time is counted 
as time on duty, and at Glenville this is occasionally done. In consequence, 
the work on the wards at these 3 hospitals is often less than nine hours, par- 
ticularly in the junior year. At St. John's juniors have only 8 hours on 
the wards. 

* On every third Sunday hours of duty reduced to 2 and 1 1-2 hours respectively, at these two 
hospitals. 



\ i u ^ i N o 737 

2. Night Duty 

The educational value of night duty lies in part in the added responsi- 
bility ami initiative which it entails for the students. Obviously, however, the 
benefit of this service is obtained at the cost of added physical and nervous 
exertion. The assignment to night duty should, therefore, be neither too 
long in duration nor too frequent; and careful provision should be made to 
furnish to the students on night duty quiet and privacy for sleep in the day 
time. These primary precautions in the interest of health and education 
appear often to be ignored. Moreover, the study of individual students 
shows frequent examples of exceeding the period of time planned for night 
service. 

Night duty should be assigned with special reference to the nursing ex- 
perience to be obtained which may obviously be great in medical and obstet- 
rical services, but is negligible in a surgical service. 

Length and Frequency of Night Duty 

EIGHT HOURS 

Lakeside, Mt. Sinai and Fairview have eight-hour duty. At all three 
hospitals the term of the service is nominally two months. Mt. Sinai suc- 
reedx in keeping night duty substantially within the limits set for it, but at 
Lakeside continuous periods of night duty though not intended to exceed 
8 weeks, have in fact, according to the hospital records for the present senior 
class, run as long as 16 weeks. No data on this point were obtained from 
Fairview. 

Lakeside and Fairview plan three periods of night duty, Mt. Sinai four, 
totalling respectively six and eight months. 

OVER EIGHT HOURS AND LESS THAN TWELVE 
Four hospitals fall in this group. 

Cleveland City requires nine and a half hours night service, with one hour 
off for a night lunch. The term of duty here is only two weeks at a time. 

Cleveland Maternity and (ilenville have 10 hours, Glenville having six 
terms of six weeks each, totalling nine months. 

Huron Road has 11 hours in periods of one and two months, totalling 
five months. This hospital gives one night off duty per week. 

TWELVE HOURS 

Five hospitals have a t \\elve-hour night, with a half hour off for a night 
lunch. These hospitals are Lakewood, St. Alexi>, St. John's, St. Luke's, 
St. Vincent's. Of theM-. two have a half-night off at regular intervals, Lake- 
wood monthly, ami St. John's fortnightly. The term of duty ranges from 
M\ |>eriods of eight weeks each (or nearly a year) at Lakewood, to three or 
possibly more periods of one month each at St. Alexis.* 

At the 13th hospital, St. Ann's, affiliating student* are not assigned to night duty. 



7H8 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURA 

CLASSES DURING NIGHT DUTY 

Lark of consideration for the students' health and study is apparent in 
the custom of holding classes in the early morning or at early afternoon 
hours, before the nurses have satisfied the primary need of sleep. 

In six of eleven hospitals in Cleveland, there are early morning classes for 
students on night duty. These six hospitals are: City, (ilenville, Huron 
Road, Mt. Sinai, St. Luke's, and St. Vincent's. One hospital, Fairview, has 
classes in the early afternoon at two o'clock. The four remaining hospitals. 
Lakeside, Lakewood, St. Alexis and St. John's, have classes at a more rea- 
sonable hour, that is, after three o'clock. 

TIME OFF AFTER NIGHT DUTY 

The strain of night duty is often recognized by allowing a brief vacation, 
after each term of service. With the single exception of Lakeside, this cus- 
tom is followed by the Cleveland training schools. The time off varies from 
one to two and a half days. At St. Vincent's three days off are given. 

SLEEPING QUARTERS FOR NIGHT NURSES 

To afford quiet and privacy for rest during the day to the students on night 
duty, special rooms or dormitories should be provided for them. Four 
hospitals, St. John's, St. Vincent's, City and Cleveland Maternity, have 
such an arrangement. In the other hospitals little effort is made in this 
direction. As most rooms are double, it may frequently happen that a day 
and a night nurse share a room. An attempt is made to put room-mates 
on night duty at the same time, but this is difficult and often impossible to 
arrange. 

Vacation 

With four exceptions, Cleveland training schools give a 3-weeks' vacation 
each year. The schools which allow only 2 weeks for vacation arc the City, 
St. Alexis, St. Vincent's and St. Luke's. 

Provision of Ward Helpers 

One of the most obvious wastes of the student's time and energy in the 
present organization of training schools is the excessive amount of house- 
work required, and the failure to supply ward helpers. 

The hospitals in Cleveland differ greatly in this respect. In most of 
them it is taken for granted that the student nurse performs a large part of 
such duties. From actual observation in the wards it appears that with 
the exception of one hospital, from two to eight hours d;ulv ;iiv spent by 
student nurses .-is occasion arises in non-educational duties such as: 

Making surgical supplies. 

Running sterilizer. 

Cleaning and mending gloves. 



\ RtlNG 



Dusting and cleaning wards and service rooms and rooms of private patients. 

Folding and putting away linen. 

Setting and carrying trays, washing dishes. 

Washing soiled linen, tending switchboard and front door. 

At Lakeside ,'J probationer! and 3 advanced students are regularly 

.tied ti> the gan/e room where three-quarters of the time is s|H'iit in the 
routine preparation of surgical supplies. It is planned that each student 
shall spend a month and a half in this serviee which can scarcely have any 
educational value after the first two weeks, and come- appropriately in the 
probationary |>eriod. 

The only considerable attempts to relieve the nurse by providing ward 
helpers are at Huron Road and, to a greater extent, at Mt. Sinai, where 
the students devote more time to strictly nursing duties than in other 
Cleveland hospitals. At Mt. Sinai the installation of thoroughly modern 
equipment has simplified the problems of housekeeping in general. The 
labor involved in caring for patient! is reduced to a minimum by the liberal 
provision of portable equipment and by the introduction of labor-saving 

devices. , 

Moreover, the students' time is saved at this hospital, by employing at- 
tendants to perform a multitude of routine duties, which have l>een learned 
by students during the preliminary |>eriod and are educationally valueless 
to them at a later stage. 

The failure of other hospitals to supply such service makes (he example 
of Mt. Sinai and Huron Road all the more noteworthy. It is worth while 
to describe the arrangement for ward helj>ers at Mt. Sinai in some detail. On 
private floors attendants are employed to do all dusting, caring for flowers. 
answering the telephones. Half an hour l>efore meals, they set trays in the 
lie! kitchen, the nurse serving only the hot food. The attendant carries 
trays to and from the patients' rooms. In the afternoon she is employed 
in making surgical supplies. The attendant works H hours per day, and re- 
ceives sio.oo per month and one meal a day. In the public wards |;iy hel|>ers 
are employed only during vacation period. 

In the surgical supply room two full-time women are employed at $50.00 
per month with three meals a day. and two part-time women three hours 
each day. These women were employed a> diet kitchen maids at x\.V).(M) per 
month, and asked to he employed in the surgical room at their hours off in 
the afternoon. In the o]Mrating room one full-time woman is employed at 
s.ln.UO |>er month and three meals a day. She deans instruments and the 
room, and makes surgical supplies. 

In the obstetrical department ward helpers do the same general duty as 
on the other \\ards. In addition, the attendant has charge of all clean 
linen, s \\eeps ,nid dusts the nursery, and holds the babies during supplement- 
ary feeding. Thus, the housekeeping duties of the students ,-ire reduced to 
a minimum, such as scrubbing babies' individual basins, and sterili/.ing 
them. While stud. Mils ;ire supposed to make surgical supplies in spare time, 
it was noted that in fad. their time was fully occupied with strictly nursing 
duties 



740 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Undoubtedly the elimination of routine housekeeping duties and other 
non-educational tasks has done much to foster the study by student nurses of 
cases on the wards, and their unusual intelligence in discussing these cases. 

But even "at Mt. Sinai it is estimated that the student may spend daily 
one and a half hours folding and putting away linen and about an hour 
cleaning wards and service rooms, and the unique opportunities of the dis- 
pensary as a training field are only partly utilized because students' time 
there is more than half filled with routine cleaning and arranging supplies. 

LIVING CONDITIONS 

THE NURSES' RESIDENCE* 

To counterbalance the strain of abnormal conditions met in the hospital 
wards, the student nurse needs the relief of outside interests and a wholesome 
home life. These needs are too often left unprovided for when the nurses 
are lodged in ordinary houses improvised as homes for a large student body 
without proper bedrooms or lavatory equipment, and without any special 
rooms for study or recreation. 

If thte nurses live in the hospital building, they do not have sufficient 
opportunity to shake off the ward atmosphere. Even mild social recreations 
are often made impossible by the close proximity of the patients. The 
nurses' residence should, therefore, be a separate building in the near vicinity 
of the hospital. It should be constructed to meet the needs of a nurses' 
home, with reception and recreation room, library, class room, study room 
and single bed rooms, with proper lavatory equipment and such accessory 
rooms as kitchenette, laundry and sewing room, exclusively for the use of 
the students. 

In Cleveland all of the hospitals but two, house their nurses in separate 
buildings. These two are Lakeside and Huron Road, which set aside a 
separate wing with the entrance through the hospital. At St. Vincent's 
and St. John's, although there is a separate building, it is reached only 
through the hospital, and is undesirably located in the rear. 

The nurses' residence at the City Hospital is the only nurses' residence in 
Cleveland which is satisfactory. The other nurses' homes were originally 
built for other purposes. Four of these, Huron Road, Mt. Sinai, St. Alexis, 
and St. Vincent's, provide no nurses' reception room. Four, Glenville, Lake- 
wood, St. Alexis and St. John's, provide no separate recreation room. None 
have a room set aside for study. 

The general and reference libraries are inadequate at City, Lakewood, 
St. Alexis and St. John's, either on account of lack of books and magazines, 
or owing to their inaccessibility. 

Two Cleveland hospitals, Lakeside and St. Luke's, have a social director 
for the students. 

In the nurses' homes in Cleveland, the double room is the rule, the single 
room the exception. Even more undesirable than the double room is the 

* Cleveland Maternity and St. Ann's omitted in this section. 



\ i ftfcING 741 

ilormitnry. Six of the eleven nurses' homes visited, lodge some of their 
students in dormitories. At St. Vincent's sixty -five, of a possible eighty- 
iiiiu- >hnlrrits, are housed in dormitories having from three to ten beds each. 

Obviously, the nurses' residence should have adequate hygienic surround- 
ings for the nurse and provision for personal hygiene and immaculate clean- 
liness. Ample lavatory facilities are a necessity, the provision of one bath- 
room to six students being regarded as the minimum requirement. The 
nurses' residence at the City Hospital is excellent in this respect, and, in 
addition, stationary basins are provided in each room. There is also a large 
lavatory adjacent to the dining room, though by a curious omission there 
are no toilets in this lavatory. 

The other institutions make fairly adequate provisions with respect to 
general lavatories, excepting St. Luke's and one floor at St. John's. 

DIETARY 

Since student nurses are engaged in arduous physical and mental work, 
careful selection of their food is a matter of prime importance. This api>ears 
to receive reasonable consideration in the Cleveland hospitals. 

The nutritional value of attractive service should not be overlooked. A 
cafeteria service, three meals a day for three years, is not satisfactory, es- 
pecially <n the case of persons who must be on their feet long hours every 
day. In Cleveland three of the hospitals, Lakeside, Lakewood and Mt. 
Sinai, rely on cafeteria service, good of its kind. Under existing labor con- 
ditions, it is justifiable, but it should clearly not be a permanent feature of 
the nurses' dining room. 



RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

1. A UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF NURSING 

It is strongly urged that a University School of Nursing be established at the earliest 
possible date. This school should be on the same academic basis as are other under- 
graduate schools of the University. The instructors should be members of the University 
staff. All students should fully meet the usual requirements for admission, and the com- 
bined university and hospital course should lead to the Bachelor of Science degree. The 
didactic instruction, both in class-room and laboratory, should be given by the school. 

In order to obtain the necessary ward practice, the training school should make con- 
tracts with the several hospitals whereby the latter should agree to receive students for 
training in specified branches of nursing. Affiliating hospitals should be required to meet 
the standards of instruction and conditions of work established by the University, in order 
that the training shall be of grade equal to that furnished in practice fields of other schools 
of the University. 

Time must necessarily elapse before a University School of Nursing can be success- 
fully planned and launched. In the interval the Cleveland Training Schools should take 
immediate steps to improve the present course of training. 



742 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

The recommendations which follow embody some of the obvious changes needed to 
improve working and living conditions for the student nurses and to strengthen the in- 
struction now given. 

The recommendations as to the content of the curriculum and the relative length of 
courses are not here given. On these points it has not yet been possible to formulate 
conclusions, as noted earlier in this report (see page 712). Studies of hospital training 
schools in other cities, of which the Cleveland Survey has been one, are now in progress, 
by the Committee on Nursing Education. From detailed observation of the ward experi- 
ence and instruction of students in different types of hospitals, material is being gathered 
on which the Committee will base its ultimate recommendations for a detailed curriculum. 

The recommendations which follow will, it is believed, not only improve the train- 
ing but will help to attract students of higher calibre, who have been repelled by the un- 
necessary physical hardships and inferior instruction of the present training schools. 

2. ORGANIZATION OF THE TRAINING SCHOOL 

Various proposals as to the organization of training schools are presented in detail 
on page 713 of this chapter and need not be repeated here. 

Cost Accounting 

A separate and detailed budget for the training school should be prepared, and a 
system of cost accounting should be adopted to show the total cost of the training 
school, including instruction, maintenance, etc., and covering the value of services 
rendered by the students and staff of the school. 

Money Allowance to Students 

Cleveland training schools should abandon the practice of paying students, and should 
use funds thus released to build up their educational work. 

Payment to Lecturers 

The growing practice of paying the members of the medical staff who teach in the 
school of nursing should be generally adopted. 

3. MINIMUM ENTRANCE REQUIREMENT 

The minimum educational requirement for admission to a school of nursing should 
be not less than completion of high school. 

4. SERVICES OFFERED 

Hospitals which cannot offer adequate clinical facilities for instruction in the four 
main branches (medical, surgical, children's diseases and obstetrics), as well as in the im- 
portant special branches of communicable diseases and mental and nervous disorders, 
should provide such opportunities for their students by affiliation with institutions capable 
of offering them. 

It is urged that all students who expect to enter public health work should be allowed 
to elect the eight months' course, but at the least they should be allowed the four months' 
period of training in the University District. 



\ ( i< - i \ .. . 748 

Dispensaries and social service departments should be utilized for training students, 
as soon as adequate teaching and supervision are assured. 

5. INSTRUCTION 

Instruction in the fundamental sciences and in the other necessary branches can best 
be afforded by a central training school, under University auspices, such as is recom- 
mended above. 

If such University affiliation should not prove feasible, or if there is delay in joining 
it, it is recommended that several training schools of similar grade in Cleveland combine 
in furnishing theoretical instruction to their students. No lower educational requirement 
for admission should be accepted than that required for University entrance. 

Teaching of Nurting Procedures 

Whatever combination with other schools may be made in the future, whether under 
University or other control, it is clear that a demonstration room and equipment for teach- 
ing nursing procedures will continue to be needed in every hospital that admits students 
for training. It is therefore urged that every school not now so supplied for demonstra- 
tion and individual practice, should provide these needed facilities without delay. 

The technical work of probationers and also of more advanced students should be 
supervised by the instructor. Every student should be carefully taught each nursing 
procedure in the class room before she is allowed to carry it out on the wards. Moreover, 
each student should be supervised by the instructor when she carries out any procedure 
for the first time, and she should not be assigned to any duty regularly until the instructor 
has made sure that she is proficient, and has notified the head nurse to that effect. Pro- 
cedures should be demonstrated to head nurses by the instructor. 

Similarly, the teaching of diet in disease must always be given at least in part within 
the hospital in order to correlate class instruction with the actual feeding of patients on 
the wards. It is therefore urged that every hospital not now possessing adequate class- 
room and laboratory facilities for the teaching of diet in disease should provide these 
facilities immediately. Equipment similar to that needed for teaching dietetics is needed. 

Teaching of Fundamental and Technical Subject* 

Prior to the establishment of a central school of nursing various immediate improve- 
ments in teaching and equipment should be made in the fundamental sciences and the 
technical subjects. These improvements have been indicated in separate reports to the 
different hospitals. 

6. CONDITIONS OF WORK 

Neither day nor night duty should exceed eight hours out of the twenty-four. Class 
hours should be included in this time. Students on night duty should in no case have 
classes until after a period of at least eight hours has been allowed for sleep. Night work 
should be limited to short terms of not more than one month each. To compensate for 
the strain of night work a brief vacation should be given at the completion of each term. 






744 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

7. LIVING CONDITIONS 

The provision of suitable living conditions and opportunities for recreation are ur 
as matters of first importance. 

The nurses' residence should be separate from the hospital, but in close proximity to 
it. It should contain reception and recreation rooms, library, class and study rooms, 
and accessory rooms for the exclusive use of the students, such as kitchenette, laundry 
and sewing rooms. Students should have single bedrooms, and there should be generous 
provision of bathrooms and lavatories. 

For students on night duty special sleeping rooms should be provided, which should 
be situated so that quiet and freedom from disturbance are assured. 

Special attention should be given to providing recreation, both indoors and out. 
Facilities for indoor recreation might well include a gymnasium and swimming pool, and 
should, at the least, include good facilities for dancing. If space permits, tennis courts 
should be provided for the exclusive use of the nurses. 

It is recommended that social directors should be appointed, who should be charged 
with directing the recreation and social life of the students. 

8. REDUCTION OF PRESENT THREE- YEAR COURSE 

With the practical development of the recommendations given above it should prove 
possible to reduce the present three-year course for all nurses. At this time, for the reason 
given above (see page 71 2), it is not possible to make specific recommendations as to the 
amount of time by which the regular nurses' training may safely be reduced. The higher 
standard of admission, the elimination of uneducational house work, better instruction, 
practical and theoretical, a better balanced provision of services, will enable the course to 
be reduced by at least eight months. 

The principles underlying such reduction of the present three-year course are two: 

1. That all nurses-in-training should have the same basic education, 
after which they may be graduated with the certificate or diploma of nurse; 

2. That in addition, courses should be provided leading to special 
diploma for public health nurses, for teaching and administrative positions in 
hospitals, and for specialties in private duty. 

This plan is proposed in the belief that nurses graduating from the shorter basic 
training will be available primarily for bedside care. The more advanced courses will 
attract students of higher calibre who are needed for the nursing specialties, especially for 
teaching and administration in hospitals and for public health work. It is the conviction 
of the Nursing Survey that without a thorough clinical training the responsible duties in 
these rapidly developing fields cannot be successfully met. 

9. TRAINING OF COLORED STUDENTS 

The question has recently been raised as to providing opportunities for colored stu- 
dents to obtain the nurses' training in Cleveland. At one hospital the City Hospital 
this is a question of practical moment. There can be no doubt that at the City Hospital, 
where the training school is maintained by the city, all citizens have equal rights. The 






NURSING 745 



education afforded by the city should therefore be available for all students, irrespective 
of color. So far as concerns living arrangements at the hospital, the possibility of friction 
may readily be removed by following the custom of allowing colored students to live at 
home during their training. 

Post Graduate Courses 

WESTERN RESERVE t'NIVERSITY COURSE 
IN PUBLIC HEALTH NUKSIMl 

OBICOM 

THE impulse that led to the founding and development of this course 
came from a group of lay women interested in the Visiting Nurse Associa- 
tion. To them it became apparent, as visiting nursing broadened from 
primarily remedial work into constructive efforts for family health, that 
the preparation afforded to nurses by hospital training schools was 
insufficient to prepare them for the social and preventive work required in 
this rapidly developing branch of nursing. Additional instruction both in 
tlie classroom and in the field was clearly needed. 

\N ith the same vision and energy from which Cleveland has richly profited 
in other forms of nursing and health work, plans for a course of training 
\\ere made and put into effect. For 5 years the course thus established was 
offered by the Visiting Nurse Association, with the assistance of the De- 
partment of Sociology of Western Reserve University, the Associated 
Charities, the Anti-Tuberculosis league, the Babies' Dispensary and Hos- 
pital, and the Department of Medical Inspection of the Board of .Education. 
The Visiting Nurse Association took the financial and administrative re- 
sponsibility, secured a director, and set aside as a practice field the area now 
covered by the University Public Health Nursing District. 

As the work of training develoj>ed. it l>eeame clear that direction might 
more appropriately be exercised by an educational institution than by an 
utive organization. After 5 years, therefore, the Visiting Nurse Asso- 
ciation transferred the management of the course to the University, and in 
1916 it became a constituent part of the Division of Health Administration 
in the School of Applied Social Scieiico. 

ORGANIZATION 

The organization effected was excellent. By Incoming an integral part 
of the I'niversity, the stability and educational purpose and standards of 
the course were assured. At the same time, through the appointment of an 
advisory committee and the establishment of the University Public Health 
Nursing District, the course has maintained its close connection with public 
health nursing activities, and has secured a unique field for the instruction 
of students in practical work. 

Tin- Ad\i>ory Committee is composed of l.S members, of whom a lay 
woman is chairman. The superintendents of nurses of the following organi- 
/.ation are memlK-rs: the Division of Health, the Hoard of Kducation, the 



746 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Visiting Niir.M- Association, and the Babies' Hospital and Dispensary. The 
Dean of the School of Applied Social Sciences is also a member, and the 
others are lay \vomni respresentative of the group to whom Cleveland owes 
much of its progress in various branches of health work. The Director of 
the course is secretary of the Committee. So long as such a group forms its 
policies and directs its activities, the maintenance of proper balance between 
theoretical and practical work seems assured. 

The University Public Health Nursing District is perhaps the most 
potent single factor in rendering the course one of the best in the country. 
This crowded district was selected as a practice field on account of the varied 
experience it affords for public health nursing. The course is planned on 
the principle that the students for effective training must not only observe 
the work of others, but must themselves carry responsibility, under expert 
supervision, for actual practical work. The plan presupposes that field 
work corresponds to laboratory work in other departments of the University, 
and that it should, therefore, be controlled by the School in order that it 
may be carried on according to sound educational methods. 

With the exception of school nursing, the work in the University District 
is almost entirely generalized. This arrangement is of great value to the 
student, since it eliminates the waste of time inevitably resulting from 
assignments of work distributed among several different agencies. But 
still more important, it teaches the student methods of dealing with every 
type of health problem encountered in the families she visits, and thus 
forms an excellent preparation for community work. In post-partum work, 
however, the opportunities are meagre, since much of this service at the 
present time is carried by the nurses of the Cleveland Maternity Hospital. 

The organization of the University District, and the character of the field 
work are described in a special report. 

FINANCES 

The budget is prepared by the Advisory Committee. Expenditures 
must be approved by the Committee. 

The expenses of the course, above receipts from tuition fees, are met by 
the University and contributions from the Visiting \urse Association and 
the Anti-Tuberculosis League. The Board of Health gives the supplies used 
for its own especial activities in the district, but is not empowered to appro- 
priate funds for the work of a private organization. 

STAFF 

The teaching staff consists of the director, 5 nurse instructors in the 
University District, the instructors in the several courses given by the School 
of Applied Social Sciences and a number of lecturers. 



The director of the course holds the appointment of Assistant Professor 
in the University, and teaches one course. She is directly responsible to the 
Dean of the School and to the chairman of the Advisory Committee. In 
addition to administering the work of the course, she is responsible for de- 



\ i RftING 747 

t.iilcd >nper\ i-sion of tin* work of the University District. She also lectures 
in training schools, servo mi tin- Central Committee on Public Health 
Nursing, and in her official as well as personal capacity she is called upon to 
ad\ise and assist in many nursing 'activities in. the community. It is clear 
that the responsibilities of her office arc many and heavy. 

The work of students in the University District is directly supervised by 
the five instructors. These nurses, all of whom are graduates of the course, 
have been selected for their ability to teach and to supervise. That their 
work is of a high order is shown in the report on the University District. 
One of the instructors acts as assistant director in addition to her other 
duties. Her responsibility for administration is however limited except dur- 
ing the absence of the director. 



STUDENTS 

For admission to the course, applicants must l>e graduates of approved 
training schools for nurses, and must be eligible for membership in the Na- 
tional Organization for Public Health Nursing. They must also be graduates 
of high schools, or have received an equivalent preliminary education. To 
the latter requirement, however, a number of exceptions have been made. 

Application for admission to the course is made on the regular blank of 
the School of Applied Social Sciences. Since this blank calls for no details 
of the nurse's training, it is not especially well adapted for this group of 
applicants. Letters are sent to the high school and nurse's training school 
attended by the applicant requesting a general statement in regard to her 
work and her personal qualifications. Three personal references are also 
required, and to each of the JKTSOHS whose names are given, a letter of inquiry 
is sent. 

Credentials of applicants are evaluated by the Advisory Committee in 
conference with the Director of the Course and the Dean of the School. The 
final decision in regard to admission is made by the Dean. 

Students who complete the course satisfactorily receive certificate- 

Students not registered for the entire course are admitted for four months 
of training in field work. No certificates are granted for this work, but those 
who complete the work satisfactorily receive 15 points of University credit. 
These students must have the same professional and educational qualifica- 
tions as those taking the full course. 

Pupil nurses from any training school meeting the standards set by the 
Ohio State Association of draduate Nurses may be received for two months' 
experience in the University District. These pupils must have completed two 
years of training, and must have had their training in surgery, and in ob- 
stetrics, if possible. 



748 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

During the year ending June 1, 19*0, the following number of students 
was enrolled : 

One- Year Course, Graduate Nurses ....... ...... ..... 

Four Months' Field Work: 

Graduate Nurses ........................................................ 

Pupil Nurses ......................... 



61 



Sixty -four pupil nurses were received for two months' training. These 
pupils were admitted monthly, the number varying from 5 a month during the 
summer months to 10 a month during the winter. 

The total number of nurses, not including those who graduated in 1920, 
who have received certificates, is 45. 

INSTRUCTION 

One regular course is offered, which leads to a certificate. It extends 
over one academic year, and is divided into two parts, one devoted largely to 
didactic work, the other to field work. 

The didactic work is given during the first semester, and consists of the 
following courses : 

Public Health Nursing ........................................................................ 30 hours 

Hygiene and Preventive Medicine .................................................. 24 

Bacteriology..... ................................. .............................. 96 

Household Problems .................... ......................... 29 

Practical Sociology ........................ _ ............................ . .............. :.... ..60 

Problems in American Society .................................................................... 30 

Case Work with Families ......... .72 

Mental Hygiene .......................... ....10 

During the first semester the students spend two afternoons (6 hours) 
weekly in work with the Associated Charities. 

Additional courses may be taken by students exempted on the basis of 
previous work from one or more of these courses. During the year 3 students 
so exempted took courses in psychology, government and social legislation. 

The character of the didactic work of the course could not be judged, 
since the investigation was carried on in the second semester, after the lec- 
tures had been concluded. It was, therefore, impossible to evaluate the 
class room teaching. The subjects selected, however, are those specially 
needed by nurses preparing for public health work. 

FIELD WORK 

One semester, or approximately 4 months, is spent in field work. Ordi- 
narily, this work follows directly after the semester devoted to theoretical 
work. The field work is, however, given three times during the year. In 



\IK8ING 7 HI 

some cases the students take field work in the summer months, and begin 
the theoretical work subsequently. 

The usual division of field work is the following: 

University District 1 1 weeks 

School Nursing 3 weeks 

Hospital Social Service or Humane Society, or other 

Special Agency (observation) 1 week 

Industrial Nursing (observation) _^ 1 or 2 weeks as elected 

Rural Nursing (observation) 1 or 2 weeks as elected 

During the first week a number of excursions are made in order to ac- 
quaint the students with Cleveland social agencies and social workers. 

In the University District students carry on the usual activities of the 
Visiting Nurse Association, and the nursing work of the Department of 
Health, in which anti-tuberculosis work and infant welfare work are in- 
cluded. 

SUPERVISION IN THE UNIVERSITY DISTRICT 

To each instructor is assigned a number of students, including both 
graduate and pupil nurses. Seven is the maximum number of students 
assigned to one instructor. Each student is assigned by her instructor to 
a subdivision of the district, and as her knowledge and skill develop, she is 
increasingly held responsible for the work in her particular section. 

When students begin their field work, they are taken out one at a time 
(very occasionally two at a time) by the instructor, who gives the instruction 
in the home and does the work required, while the student observes. A 
thorough discussion of the visit follows. On a subsequent visit the roles 
are reversed, the instructor observing while the student conducts the visit. 
This procedure is repeated with different types of visits, such as to prenatal 
cases, communicable disease cases, and so on, until the student has been 
gradually introduced to the various types of work usually encountered in 
the district. 

Three times daily the students report at the station, to receive assign- 
ments, to plan their work, and to carry out the necessary office detail. An 
opportunity is afforded at these times for conference with the instruc -tor.-. 
In this way the instructor is enabled to keep constant oversight of the stu- 
dents' work, and the students have an opportunity for immediate consulta- 
tion and advice upon problems arising in the families they visit. 

Every morning a conference is held by the Director, which is attended 
by all the instructors and students. These conferences, in which the students 
take an active part, constitute an invaluable part of the training. The 
program may consist of demonstrations of nursing technique, instruction in 
new procedures, consideration of social or other problems in individual 
families, or discussion of subjects of general professional interest. 

Students thus have the benefit of demonstrations given by the instructors 
in the homes, of direct supervision of their own work in the homes, of in- 



750 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY! 

dividual conference three times daily with the instructor in the office, and ol 
group discussion in the morning conferences. By this careful teaching theyj 
are enabled to derive the full benefit from their experience in field work. 

The nursing technic of the students who were observed gave evidence 
not only of good supervision, but even more important, it showed that the 
students had a knowledge of the principles of hygiene and sanitation. Some-| 
times nursing work is done in which the technic is mechanical, where the 
nurse observes the details as they were taught her but does not use intelli- 
gence in adapting the underlying principles to the special circumstances she 
encounters. 

In the University District, however, the reverse was found. In their 
scrupulous attention to detail in the home, in the beautiful care given the 
patients even in the most difficult surroundings, in their careful disposal of 
soiled linen and dressings, in their regard for the patients' modesty and 
comfort, the students in the University District showed that their work 
was not merely a routine, but was based on an application of the underlying 
principles of public health and of good nursing. 

SCHOOL NURSING 

For experience in school nursing students are assigned to the Nursing 
Division of the Board of Education. During the 3 weeks spent in school 
nursing they are expected not only to observe, but also to assume responsi- 
bility under direction for a part of the work. 

INDUSTRIAL NURSING 

The experience in industrial nursing consists mainly of observation in 3 
or 4 factories. Altogether 12 industrial concerns in Cleveland are cooperat- 
ing with the University District in offering the students opportunities for 
observation and experience. It has been possible for a number of students 
to spend a week each in observing the work in the Goodrich Tire Co. in 
Akron. 

CLINICS 

Unusually ample facilities for observation and training in clinics are 
available for the students. All students, except the pupils admitted for 2 
months only, attend the following: Clinic for Well Babies, Prenatal Clinic-, 
Tuberculosis Clinic, and the Babies' Dispensary (sick babies). 

In the University District Health Center prenatal clinics are held twice 
a week, and prophylactic baby clinics three times. These clinics are con- 
ducted by the instructors and attended by the students, who thereby obtain 
valuable experience in clinic management. Students usually spend 12 hours 
in all at the Clinic for Well Babies, and 4 to 6 afternoons at the Prenatal 
Clinic. 

Six hours for 3 weeks are spent by students at the Tuberculosis Clinic of 
another Health District (Health Center No. 8). The hours of observation 
are followed by 




\ I USING 751 

BABIES' DISPENSARY 

An imjx>rtant part of the clinic experience is the training at the Babies' 
Dispensary, where the students spend afternoons for a period of two to three 
\\ccks. I)nring this time 16 hours are devoted to lectures and discussion, 
of which S are lectures on sick babies by physicians, and 3 are classes in prac- 
tical work given by the Superintendent of Nurses. One hour each afternoon 
is spent in reading the literature of diseases of children. The practical work 
counts of attending examinations during which the cases are explained by 
the doctors, and of some supervised work in the clinics; of instruction in the 
Social Service Department; and of work in the Milk Laboratory, where 
modifications are taught. 

The excellent standards of infant welfare work established by the Babies' 
Disj>ensary are reflected in the child hygiene work in the University District. 
The effectiveness of the teaching is shown by the readiness of mothers to 
cooperate in preventive work, their ability to follow the nurses' directions 
in milk modification, and their willingness to bring their children to clinics 
for observation as well as for treatment in illness. It is clear that the work 
at the Dispensary constitutes a valuable part of the students' practical 
training. 

CONCLUSION 

The tests of public health nursing are many and various, as many, per- 
haps, as the types of people and of needs that are met. But underlying all 
the differences of race or creed, of age or individuality, is the common ques- 
tion: How does the public health nurse meet her problems? Not merely 
how well does she nurse this or that patient, or how well did she cheer this or 
that person, but what total impression does she make on her families, how 
far does she succeed in solving the total family health problem? Has she 
taught her families anything of hygienic living, has she gotten their confi- 
dence, has she observed and taken measures to deal with evidences of illness 
or failures in hah.its of health in other members of the family beside her im- 
mediate patient? 

Judged by such standards, the course in public health nursing has clearly 
achieved a large measure of success. Various factors already descril>ed have 
operated to bring about this result. Special recognition should, however, be 
given to the devotion of the professional staff, and to the public spirit and 
appreciation of the modern public health nursing movement which has been 
shown by the University authorities and the lay committee who are jointly 
responsible for this notable contribution to nursing education. 

In general, then, the Course in Public Health Nursing is admirably 
organized and highly effective. " Its usefulness could be even further increased 
by an expansion of its staff, better office facilities, and ampler provision for 
post-partum service, in accord with the following recommendations. 

RECOMMENDA T1ONS 

1. A full-time assistant director should be appointed, who should 
share the teaching and relieve the Director of j*art of her routine duties. 



752 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The Director should thus be enabled to devote more time to developing the 
work, to increasing facilities, and to extending the training. 

2. Another instructor should be appointed. 

3. A private office should be secured for the Director, and additional 
office space for the instructors and students. 

4. The number of post-partum cases nursed by each student should 
be increased as soon as possible. 

5. In view of the need throughout the country for trained public 
health nurses and the exceptional opportunities for training afforded in 
Cleveland, efforts should be made to secure the greatest possible number 
of students, and the staff and teaching facilities should be sufficient so that 
all qualified applicants may be admitted. The greatest possible number of 
pupil nurses should be enabled to take the four months' training in field 
work. 

INSTITUTE OF SCHOOL HYGIENE 

The Institute of School Hygiene, organized by the Cleveland Board of 
Education with the cooperation of Western Reserve University, gives a six 
weeks' summer course to graduate nurses who have had practical experience 
in public health nursing. This Institute includes eminent experts from 
various parts of the country upon its instructing staff and attracts several 
hundred students who are enthusiastic about the benefits derived therefrom. 
The course offered is a real contribution to graduate nursing education, and 
deserves to be generously supported so that it may be continued and ex- 
tended in future years. 






\ I K 8 I N O 75S 

Public Health Nursing in Cleveland 

INTRODUCTORY 

IN the development of public health nursing in the United States, Cleve- 
land has played a leading part, various features of which stand out con- 
spicuously for their high degree of excellence, as standards set for the 
whole country. 

Among these successful elements, the most conspicuous are the existence 
of the Central Nursing Committee for the city, the concentration of activi- 
ties in a small number of agencies, the development of generalized nursing 
and the existence of the Univeristy Public Health Teaching District. 

Underlying all these activities and essential .to their success has been the 
unusual degree of interest and responsibility on the part of the various 
authorities and boards in charge, both professional and lay members. With- 
out this sustained backing, the different organizations at work could not 
have achieved the success of which, in spite of various shortcomings and 
misdirected efforts, the Nursing Survey found proof in its detailed appraisal 
of the field. 

The recent opening of the beautiful Nurses' Club with its exceptional 
opportunities as a professional and social center, illustrates concretely the 
appreciation of nursing work in Cleveland and the generous participation of 
lay workers in the best interests of the profession. 



SCOPE OF THE SURVEY 

The organizations carrying on public health nursing which were studied 
by the Nursing Survey were the following: the Division of Health, the 
Visiting Nurse Association, the University District, the School Nurses, and 
some Out-Patient Departments of Hospitals. Nursing at the Babies' Dis- 
pensary and Industrial Nursing were also studied. Findings and recom- 
mendations as to the work of each agency are given later in this report. 

Our study covered the details of organization and administration, the 
personnel and plans of work. In addition our investigators accompanied 
nurses into the field, in the clinic and health center, the school, factory and 
home and observed their personal contacts with individuals and families. 
For by this test obviously such work stands or falls. No matter how well 
planned and administered in theory, or how lofty the aims and ambitions of 
organizations, they can ultimately be judged by nothing more or less than 
by the performance of their agents in the field, by the success of their efforts 
in preventive as well as curative work. 

The statistics of attendance at clinics or health centers, or the number of 
visits made per nurse or district does not tell the story completely without 
observation of the quality of service; the success or failure in teaching the 
elements of hygienic living as well as giving nursing care, or protecting the 
community from disease. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



SOME ELEMENTS or SUCCESS 

Common to all the organizations studied is the unusually fine spirit of 
the staffs, whose members almost without exception were found conscien- 
tious and alert. The existence of the Central Nursing Committee and the 
concentration of work in a few organizations obviously makes for greater 
uniformity of method and treatment than when diverse agencies are at work, 
and lessens the chances of duplication or misunderstanding. 

The most notable contribution, however, made by Cleveland in the 
public health field is the success of the generalized nursing system, demon- 
strated most completely in the small University District, with its high ratio 
of nurses to population, by the Visiting Nurse Association less completely 
in a larger area and by the municipal staff so far as it has been adopted for 
the city as a whole. No other city of its size or larger has ventured to adopt 
a generalized municipal system. Few smaller cities have done as much. 
Cleveland is thus leading the way in one of the most hopeful developments 
of the modern public health work. 

VALUE or THE GENERALIZED SYSTEM 

By generalized nursing is meant in this report the system by which a com- 
munity is divided into small districts, one nurse being assigned to each dis- 
trict to do all the necessary varieties of nursing and of instruction in habits 
of health in that district. 

In successful generalized nursing, the resources of the separate nursing 
specialties are pooled. Overlapping of visits for special purposes is elimi- 
nated; overhead charges for maintaining separate services are reduced. The 
generalized nurse, doing either instructive or bedside work, is enabled to 
cover the ground, to find new cases and grapple with family problems as the 
specialized nurse in many instances cannot. 

The assertion is often made that under the generalized plan, the special 
needs of public health work, such as child hygiene or the care of tuberculosis, 
is neglected or less successfully carried on than when the nurse is trained 
along one such line, and devotes herself exclusively to her one specialty. 

This is a controversy of long standing; it is undoubtedly true that demon- 
strations of the value of one special service such as the work of the Ma- 
ternity Centre Association in New York, or of many tuberculosis societies, 
are of great value in setting standards of performance or in developing a 
more perfect technic than is often possible in the excessively large districts 
and with the excessive number of patients carried by many general visiting 
nurse associations. Yet where generalized nursing has had the fairest trial 
in Cleveland, that is in the University Public Health District, where the 
number of nurses to population and the supervision of the work is most 
adequate, no branch of nursing appears to have suffered from being merged 
into the general service, but has on the contrary gained. Where the nursing 
has been partly generalized, that is under the over burdened mirsing service 
of the Division of Health, the bedside care of the sick has, as we shall see, 
been neglected; under the Visiting Nurse Association, the instruction of the 
family in hygienic habits has not received sufficient emphasis. 



N i R 8 I N a 755 

Obviously, for the success of generalized nursing, highly skilled super- 
vision is a prime requisite. Direction by specialists must keep the balance 
between the various needs of the different nursing specialties. In our 
recommendations for the organizations studied special emphasis has therefore 
been laid on methods of administration and supervision. 

SOME CAUSES OF FAILURE 

1. Inndftfuntc \ umbers of Nurses 

Where failures were found in the work they were due, in Cleveland as 
elsewhere, to two main causes: insufficient number of nurses and inadequate 
or faulty supervision. The" volume of work undertaken is far too great for 
the size of the different staffs, and too great for their combined numbers. 

According to the best opinion for a generalized service the ratio of nurses 
to population should be about in proportion of one to 2,000. In Cleveland, 
counting all but industrial nurses, the proportion is about one to 5,228 pop- 
ulation. 

The distribution of nurses is as follows: 

Division of Health (66 at work at time of investigation) 80 

Visiting Nurse Association 32 

Board of Education _ 31 

University District... 10 

Total 153 

Populafon, 796,836. 

Ratio, appioximatc'y 1 to 5,228. 

To reach the recommended figure of 1 to 2,000 population the total 
number should he 400 nurses. To reach even the ratio of 1 to 8,000 popula- 
tion, the total number should be 266, an increase of 113 nurses over the present 
figures. 

With the present shortage, it is manifestly impossible to do justice to all 
phases of the work. 

The second main cause of failure which disclosed itself in various of the 
organizations studied is the lack of adequate or correctly conceived super- 
vision. Indeed, supervision of the right order proves itself to be the crux of 
public health nursing. It is essential not only for planning the work of the 
staff and coordinating their activities but as a stimulus and guide for the 
individual nur^e in her function of teaching the principles of health as well 
as giving bedside care. 

Supervision of the right order means the actual accompaniment of nurses 
in their home visiting. It brings to their help. esj>ecially in the non-acute 
OMKft \\here little change i^ -'"''n from visit to visit, u fresh point of view, 
greater experience, an ability to see new angles of old cases. 



rEY 



756 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Again and again, as the following reports show, the presence or lack of 
intensive supervision in the different organizations studied discloses itself 
in the quality of the work. 

It is for lack of stimulating direction that the work of the school nurses 
tends to become routine; that the nursing service of the Division of Health 
tends to become an extension of a clinical service, centered on the clinics, 
rather than a true public health nursing function, going out into the homes. 

The Central Committee on Public Health Nursing 

ONE of the most valuable assets for public health nursing in Cleveland 
is the existence of the Central Committee on Public Health Nursing. 
This committee is probably unique among agencies for the directing of 
public health nursing, in its composition, and in its influence in matters of 
public health. It is not too much to say that the high rank of Cleveland as 
a center for various branches of public health nursing is due in large part to 
the existence of this committee and the interest in public health nursing 
which it reflects. To the work of the committee is to be ascribed the un- 
usually high standards of the nurses in the municipal nursing services as well 
as in the private organizations. 

ORGANIZATION 

Several years ago this Central Committee was created, representing each 
of the organizations doing public health nursing in the city, composed of two 
representatives from each, one of whom was the superintendent of nurses 
and one a trustee, board member, or executive officer, "for the maintenance 
of uniform standards of training and of public health nursing throughout 
the'city." 

The following organizations were included: 

Division of Health of the City Department of Welfare, 

Board of Education, 

Babies' Dispensary and Hospital, 

Visiting Nurse Association, 

Anti-Tuberculosis League, 

Western Reserve University Teaching District. 

Each organization selected its own representatives and the whole group 
chose a chairman and vice-chairman who might not be from among its 
members, but were added to the committee, and engaged a secretary on part 
time. 

The committee does not meet at regular times, but whenever there is a 
problem to be studied and acted upon, perhaps not oftener than four or five 
times a year at present. Its decisions are not binding, but are presented 
in the form of recommendations to the organizations represented, and have 
almost invariably been voluntarily approved and acted upon. 



NURSING 757 

ACTIVITIES 

The matters that have been considered by the Central Committee, and 
standards determined are : 

1. The receiving of all nurse applicants and securing credentials. 

2. The passing on all credentials, accepting or rejecting the applicant. 

3. The assignment of applicants to the various public health nursing 
organizations, and exchange of applicants from one organization to another. 

4 Discussion and recommendation of uniforms. 

5. Recommending salary schedules. 

6. Study of bags and equipment. 

The chairman of the Central Committee (always a layman) and the 
superintendents of nurses form an eligibility sub-committee which performs 
the duties under numbers 2 and 3. All professional standards are determined 
by this sub-committee. The assignment of applicants to the various staffs 
is determined by this sub-committee on the basis of first, expressed prefer- 
ence of applicant; second, urgency or emergency need; third, the date on which 
the request for additional nurses was filed by the superintendent. There 
has been no dissension among the superintendents over the assignments. 
Nurses arc told of the work of all agencies and allowed to express preference 
if they have any. They are assigned to the agency of their choice if there is 
a vacancy. 

RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

The Central Committee has already performed a notable service in har- 
monizing the problems of personnel, professional standards and salary 
schedules, and it is thoroughly representative in its composition. But 
additional factors must be continuously considered for the effective growth 
of public health nursing in any city : 

Coordination of the activities of the various public health nursing 
agencies. 

A well balanced development of different types of work in accordance 
with a coherent program for the city. 

Continuous study of the expanding needs of the city, and of new de- 
velopments in public health nursing. 

Maintenance of uniformly high standards. 

The Central Committee appears to be the body logically to be charged 
with the responsibility for the additional factors enumerated. Therefore, 
it is recommended that the Central Committee assume the following func- 
tions in addition to those it already has, its decisions, however, as hereto- 
fore, not to be binding upon the organization represented. 



758 



New Function* 

1. Coordinating all nursing agencies of the city and obtaining agree- 
ment among them as to the functions to be performed. 

2. Review of all plans for new projects or for modification of current 
programs of participating agencies, based on data from the Welfare Federa- 
tion. 

3- Creation of several sub-committees for research and consideration 
of special professional problems. Some of these might be for the present: 

Prenatal and maternity service, 
Industrial nursing, 
Generalized nursing. 

4. A campaign to recruit students for training schools and graduate 
nurses for public health nursing. 

5. Adding to personnel representatives from the Chamber of Com- 
merce and industrial nurses, and placing them with others on a sub-committee 

on industrial nursing. 

- . . , I 

6. Adding to personnel representatives from the proposed Obstetrical 
Council and placing them with others on the sub-committee on prenatal 
and maternity service. 

7. Appointment of a sub-committee to advise with the Division of 
Health, and with its permission to supervise the proposed extension district. 

Division of Health Nursing Service 
Scope of the Work 

THE nursing service of the Division of Health covers a wide range of 
activities including nearly every form of public health nursing coming 
within the range of any municipal health department's functions and 
many more than are usually undertaken by municipalities. Starting with 
the prevention of communicable diseases in 1909, the service has been ex- 
tended year by year until it now includes eight branches of public health 
nursing, as follows: 

Undertaken in 

Prevention of communicable diseases 1909 

Tuberculosis work 1910 

Infant Hygiene 1911 

Prevention of Blindness _ ....... 1912 

Regulation of Midwifery . 1912 

Supervision of Boarding Homes for Babies --- - 1913 

School Nursing in the Parochial Schools . 1917 

Prenatal Nursing _ .'. _.... 1918 



NURSING 759 

These services'were maintained as separate units, each with ita own staff 
of nurses, until early in 1917 when the separate staffs were combined into one, 
the field divided into smaller districts, and each nurse assigned a distri< -t and 
held responsible for all kinds of work within that district. Cleveland is to 
be congratulated on its advanced stand in thus adopting a generalized muni- 
cipal nursing system. 

The Present Staff 

The present staff (March, 1920) consists of an assistant director, three 
special suj)ervisors, seven field suj>ervisors and seven assistant field super- 
visors, in addition to a field staff of 66 nurses. There are two stenographers 
at each of the seven Health ("enters and the Nursing Service shares the use 
of several at the main office in the City Hall. 

Analysis of Activities 
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES 

In seven districts sanitary officers place and remove placards on houses 
in which there is a contagious disease. In these seven districts the nurses 
visit patients having scarlet fever and diphtheria. 

In the remaining district (District number 1) the nurses do the placing 
and removing of placards and visit patients having contagious diseases 
which are placarded as' follows: 

Cerebro spinal meningitis, 

Infantile paralysis 

Diphtheria, 

Scar'et fever, 

Whooping cough, 

Measles, 

Chicken pox, 

Typhus fever, 

Cholera, 

Plague, 

Leprosy. 

In none of the districts do the nurses visit smallpox patients <, r families 
from which a smallpox case has lieen removed. 

The nurse's duties include explanation of the sanitary code: the establish- 
ment of isolation of the patient and instruction of the family concerning the 
maintenance of isolation; the establishment of quarantine. The nurse also 
determines what persons are to have permits to leave the house ami she 
issues the permits; she takes release cultures unless the doctor on the ease 
prefers to do so himself; arranges for hospital care for the patient and the 
giving of nursing care. 



Diseases rarely occurring in Cleveland. 



760 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Conversation with the nurses and supervisors and study of the records 
leads to the strong impression that attention is largely focussed on the issu- 
ing of permits and the time-consuming taking of cultures, rather than on the 
care of the patient, the instruction of the family in caring for him, or on 
measures for their own protection. "Nursing care is rarely given," is the 
unanimous opinion of both nurses and supervisors because in their estima- 
tion, "it isn't needed." 

Typhoid patients have been visited only since the fall of 1919 and then 
only for the purpose of filling out a questionnaire in the attempt to trace the 
source of infection. No attempt is made to care for the patient, to teach 
the members of the family how to care for him, nor how to protect them- 
selves. Neither is any effort made to see that the patient has such care; 
only 5 cases out of 165 came to the attention of the Visiting Nurse Associa- 
tion last year. 

Pneumonia cases are not visited or reported to the Visiting Nurse Asso- 
ciation to be visited. 

Outside of Districts I. and VIII., no attention is paid to measles or 
whooping cough. While from the point of view of checking the spread of 
a contagious disease it may be futile to do more than to placard these dis- 
eases, from the point of view of the future health of the patients, instruction 
in nursing care and supervision are badly needed to prevent the frequent, 
serious and often fatal sequelae. Such oversight and care could be given by 
the staff of the Visiting Nurse Association. 

TUBERCULOSIS 
Scope: 

The tuberculosis work includes the maintenance of 35 tuberculosis 
clinics a week, and the follow-up work in the home. Every patient who comes 
to a clinic is visited in his home and if his case is positive or cannot be satis- 
factorily diagnosed he is "carried on the boojcs" and visited occasionally, 
if the doctors are willing. All cases reported as positive by doctors and all 
patients whose sputum has been sent in for analysis are visited. Likewise, 
all patients referred to the Hospital Admission Bureau to be sent to the 
City Hospital, the State Hospital or Warrensville, and all suspicious or 
positive cases referred by other nursing or social agencies are visited. 

Plan: 

Unless they attend the clinic regularly, an effort is made to visit all these 
patients once a month to give detailed instruction in treatment of the pa- 
tient and prophylaxis. Nursing care is supposed to be given to all those 
in need of it who are unable to pay seventy-five cents a visit. Those able 
to pay this amount are supposed to be referred to the Visiting Nurse Asso- 
ciation, but only 51 cases were cared for by the Visiting Nurse Association 
between October, 1918, and October, 1919. The statement is made that 
there is little need of nursing care. It is intended to have the whole family 
and other persons who have been exposed, especially the children, examined 
at the Health Center or by a private doctor. If a very suspicious or posi- 



N U R 8 I N < , 761 

tive case fails to return to the clinic, a form letter is sent. If there is no 
response a second is sent containing a threat to send an officer after the 
patient. This is often efficacious, but if it brings no response, the officer is 
sent. Apparently this method is used with some frequency. 

Performance: 

While diagnosis and instruction at the clinic and the effort to secure 
clinic attendance are emphasized, study of the home conditions, the arrange- 
ment for prophylactic mode of living at home, careful itistriu-tion and nurs- 
ing care are inadequate and home visits are far too infrequent. Nursing care 
is rarely given. The nurses do not have time to hunt up incipient or ad- 
vanced unreported or undiagnosed cases. 

The records show that there is an average of about 100 tuberculous 
patients to each nurse. The reports show that in one month the average 
number of visits made by the nurses to patients tuberculous, suspicious and 
non-positive was .47 per patient. 

In a second month it was .64 per patient. The supervisors stated that 
it was not possible to visit even the positive cases once a month, and the 
suspicious and contact patients were visited at intervals varying from two 
to six months. The records verify these statements. It is, therefore, evi- 
dent that the patients are not seen frequently enough for effective curative 
or preventive work, and that little attention can be given to securing exami- 
nation of the family and others exposed. There is no easily applied cheek 
in the records to show the frequency of clinic attendance and home visits 
Nor is there any study of the sources from which the cases come to reveal 
areas of the city which should l>c. brought under surveillance. 

In accompanying nurses in their districts much time was lost in attempt- 
ing to locate some tuberculous patients who had moved away a month 
before. If the nurses were able to call on their patients more frequently it 
would be easier to keep in touch with them when they moved. 

CHILD HYGIENE 

Scope: 

This service included the maintenance of well baby elinics at IS prophy- 
lactic stations; follow-up visiting of these babies in the homes; visiting all 
babies attending the Babies' Dispensary and Hospital; visiting all babies 
whose births are reported, and visiting babies discovered in the course of 
routine work in the districts or reported by doctors and neighlxirs. 

Performance: 

From the records it appears that each nurse has under siqtrrvi.sion an 
average of about 200 babies. Study of the records shows that an average 
of .4 visits is paid each baby each month; that is, each baby is visited about 
once in every 2 to 2^ months. One in every babies romes to tin- < liui 
once during the month. 



762 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Attention is largely concentrated on feeding ef babies; instruction in 
infant hygiene both at the clinic and in the home is somewhat neglected. 
Home visits are too infrequent and irregular. From the records it appears 
that nursing care is rarely given and then very inadequately. These condi- 
tions are due to the fact that th.e nurses have too large a number of patients 
per nurse to care for. 

Yet individual instances of good home visiting were found. Thus, in 
accompanying one nurse in a visit to the mother of twin babies, the investi- 
gator was impressed with the nurse's sympathy and good teaching. With 
three older children and a husband to take care of, the mother, herself half 
sick, had prepared the babies' milk modification excellently, and showed the 
results of thorough instruction. She brightened at the nurse's entrance. 

PREVENTION OF BLINDNESS 

Baby eye work was done by the Babies' Dispensary and Hospital until 
January, 1917. At that time it was turned over to the Division of Health. 
It was done at first by a special group of nurses until August, 1919, and was 
then put into the general service. 

Nurses are sent to care for ophthalmia neonatorum cases the same day 
they are reported, and they try to return as often as necessary. Where the 
case is acute and home care inadequate it is sent with its mother to the hos- 
pital. 

There are no figures to show the number of such cases or the care given. 
The opinion of the director of the staff is that it is well done. 

Trachoma is a reportable disease and all cases reported by doctors or by 
the Board of Education are visited by the nurses. 

MIDWIFE SUPERVISION 

This work is entirely under the control of a special supervisor. There 
are 160 licensed midwives and 110 practising without licenses. The licensed 
midwives are visited in their homes at irregular intervals for the purpose of 
giving them instruction in prenatal and infant hygiene, technic, and exami- 
nation of their bags and stubs. Some are visited frequently; some not 
oftener than once a year. They are not supervised during delivery, nor 
do they receive demonstrations. There is little time or opportunity for the 
discovery of illegal practitioners. Much more frequent visits are necessary. 

(For further discussion of the midwife situation see report on child 
health work, Part III.) 

SUPERVISION OF BOARDING HOMES 

The nurses are supposed to visit each home in which babies are boarded 
out under license from the State Board of Charities and to send a report to 
the Humane Society. There are no records to show the frequency of these 
visits or the thoroughness of the work done. All these babies get special 
milk free from the Health Center, and the matron is expected though not 
compelled to bring the babies to the Health Center regularly. 



NURSING 753 

A visit to a boarding home with one of the nurses in tin* course of our 
investigation, gave evidence of good home teaching. The baby was anaemic, 
with an acute vaginitis, had broken places on lips and irritation of mucous 
membrane in mouth, the latter indicating a probable digestive disturliance. 
Instructions in regard to vaginal care evidently had been very good, for the 
trouble was clearing up rapidly. 

PAROCHIAL SCHOOL NURSING 

In March, 1917, the Division of Health Nurses undertook some work in 
17 Parochial Schools, increasing to 41 schools for the school year 1918-1919. 
9323 pupils in these schools received one physical inspection (by a nurse 
alone). In addition to sending a note to the parents, an effort was made to 
follow up all children found to have defects. No tabulation has been made 
to show what percentage of defects the nurses succeeded in having cor- 
rected. Incomplete as this service was, it consumed a good deal of time and 
effort, and no doubt certain appreciable results were obtained. 

For the school year 1919-1940 all the remaining parochial schools were 
added to the list making a total of 68 with a school population of approxi- 
mately 35,000. To have carried on the work at all for so many schools 
would have consumed the full time of at least twelve nurses and twice that 
number would be needed to get real results. As the entire field staff of the 
Nursing Service averaged only about 50, it was obviously impossible to de- 
vote the necessary time to school nursing in addition to the many other 
heavy duties. No attempt was made, consequently, to carry out Uie pro- 
gram of the previous year. A single observation was made of each school 
room full of pupils to discover any evidences of contagious disease. A visit 
was undertaken once a week to each school to get a list of absentees ami to 
give the sisters an opportunity to consult the nurse about any sj>ecial cases. 
The nurses undertook to visit as many as |x>ssible of the children who were 
seldom absent or whose absence was not explained. 

Such work cannot be called school nursing. Util the staff can be in- 
creased to devote the equivalent of the full time of twelve nurses to this 
service, it would seem better to concentrate all the work in a few schools 
(those in one district) where it can be done intensively and adequately. 

PRENATAL NURSING 

The extension of advice and supervision to all prenatal patients except 
those under care of a private physician was undertaken in 1918. Those 
unable to have a private doctor were carried until visited by the out-patient 
nurse from St. Luke's or from the ( Meveland Maternity Hospital. No definite 
routine has been established and no attempt is made to do urinalysis or take 
blood pressure. 

Little effort has heen made to work up this service, the nurses frankly 
admitting that they have too much to do to undertake this additional bur- 
den. Less than one visit IMT month is paid each prenatal patient. Tho- 
rough work (aecording to the standard of the .\.-\\ York .Maternity Center) 



764 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

is not undertaken. Again until the staff can be augmented in sufficient 
numbers to make thorough work possible, it would seem advisable to dis- 
continue this service except for one district and in that district to make 
it a part of the city- wide service elsewhere described. 

Analysis of Administration 

ORGANIZATION 

The chart of organization of the Division of Health places the Nursing 
directly under the Commissioner's office, serving all bureaus as needed and 
directly under his control. For budget purposes the nurses are distributed 
among the bureaus of Child Hygiene, Communicable Disease, and Tuber- 
culosis. As a matter of fact there is a single staff of nurses doing general- 
ized work under one director, who is responsible to the Commissioner. 

HEADQUARTERS STAFF 

At present the staff at Headquarters consists of: Director of Nurses, 
Assistant Director and three Special Supervisors, one having supervision of 
parochial schools, one of eye work and midwifery. The third is responsible 
for various duties, compiling the monthly statistical reports, such as bi- 
weekly Health Center staff meetings, visiting nurses who are sick, and per- 
forming several other odd duties. 

The work is so arranged at headquarters that none of the staff are charged 
with responsibility for analyzing the character and results of the work, for 
studying the needs and personalities of the staff and developing them, for 
promoting true leadership in supervision and for extracting the maximum 
value of generalized work through building up family health work. The 
headquarters staff instead are engaged in more or less routine duties which 
give them no time or opportunity for these broader, fundamental duties. 

The absence of a special office for the director tends to immerse her 
constantly in unimportant det lils that should be carried by others. 



STAFF AT HEALTH CENTERS 
Spirit of Staff 

The present staff at each Health Center consists of a nurse supervisor 
and an assistant supervisor and from 6 to 12 field nurses. 

Each center has a fine spirit of team work and loyalty The helpful, 
generous cooperation of nurses and supervisors calls for commendation. 
The cooperation between the Health Centers and other social agencies is 
close and productive of good results. In discussing their cases, the nurses 
have their information well in hand, and are not easily confused. 

The spirit of the work cannot be criticized; on the contrary, the spirit of 
service that dominates the work is admirable. All of the supervisors and 
nurses who were seen are evidently working very hard and against the odds 
of having too much to do, and of trying to do it without carefully organized 
plans. 



NURSING 



Organization of work 

The large burden of administrative detail put on the supervisors when 
they were given charge of the Health Centers has developed a faulty system 
of supervision. The supervisors and their assistants spend practically all 
their time within the Centers, and have virtually Ixroine Health Center 
Managers. The assistant supervisors were appointed with a view to re- 
lieving the supervisor, to enable her to devote more time to the instruction 
of the nurses. The assistants, however, have also IMVII absorlx'd in the 
administrative detail of the Center, without noticeably relieving the super- 
visor. This means neglect of one of the primary needs, the supervision and 
teaching of nurses in the homes, without which generalized service is not 
successful. 

Thus, for instance, sufficient care is not given to fitting nurses into their 
districts. One nurse accompanied by our investigator in her home visits 
proved to be totally out of sympathy with the Polish people in her district 
and their apparent stolidity. She is enthusiastic over the Italians. With 
better supervision she might be transferred to another district; her approach 
to her people might be improved. 

Again, in another visit the need of instructing the nurses in their home 
visits was well illustrated. Here the last culture of a little girl who had been 
ill with diphtheria had proved negative. She was of no further interest to 
the nurse, though looking pale and sick. "There is no use trying, the mother 
is ignorant, " was her response to a suggestion about the little girl's health. 

Various times in the investigator's presence, a nurse consulted the SUJMT- 
visor at the Health Center concerning difficult tuberculosis cases, usually 
concerning refusal of patients to go to the sanatorium. Each time, the 
case seemed to the investigator sufficiently serious to warrant a visit to the 
home by the supervisor in order to confirm the nurse's findings. The super- 
visor, however, had either no time or no inclination to do more than advise 
the nurse at the Center. 

In Center routine, each supervisor has a different method. Yet this 
work can be systematized without in any way destroying the initiative of 
the supervisor. The supervisors appear tired and worried by their resixm- 
sibility. Two of them have recently had extended leaves of absence owin^ 
to illness. This is probably due as much to lack of system as to too much 
work. The burden of administrative detail could be lightened without giv- 
ing up any supervisory functions. Much of the management of the Center 
could be better done by an experienced office manager. 

The nurses' time in the Center, which should be devoted to consultation 
with the supervisor, telephoning doctors and other agencies, and record 
work, is very much interrupted by affairs of the Health Center. Clinics are, 
for instance, often held in the same room. 



of Supervision of Nurses in the field 
The nurse is well supervised in clinic procedure, and she is free to confer 
with the supervisor on her troublesome cases. The routine method of dis- 
missing cases only after careful consideration by the supervisor and on her 



76*5 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH -SURVEY 

approval, is excellent. In the field, however, the nurse works alone; it is 
only when a definite problem has developed that the supervisor accompanies 
her. 

In but one of the Centers is there any effort on the part of the supervisor 
to go over a nurse's cases with her regularly, to remove the closed cases, and 
to check up on the frequency of visits. The supervisor checks iip the nurse's 
work by reading her dictation, or by laboriously going over her charts in the 
general file. 

There appears to be a tendency to shift the emphasis in health work 
from the home to the Health Center, and to make the visits to the Center, 
on the part of the patients, the end and object of all the work. 

While the majority of the supervisors expressed the wish that more home 
visiting with nurses were possible, apparently few of them realized what this 
should mean. Indeed, several stated that little home visiting was neces- 
sary since they trusted their nurses. Several others felt that only where 
definite home problems existed, supervision of home work was necessary. 

There appears to be little realization of the need of supervision of non- 
acute cases, where no obvious problems exist, but where adequate direction 
rs essential for constructive public health nursing. Many health problems 
are obscure. The nurse in a continual rush of work is apt to get into a rut, 
and. unsupervised, to follow the path of least resistance. The experienced 
eyes of a supervisor are essential for a fresh point of view. This is especially 
true of the subtle or non-acute cases that constitute a majority of the Di- 
vision of Health calls. These patients, where little change is seen from 
visit to visit, call for greater skill, quicker perceptions, more alertness, than 
do those requiring only bedside care. Such skill and perception and alert- 
ness are stimulated by personal visits of the supervisor, which, when done 
in the proper spirit, are welcomed by the nurse. 

The number of supervisors and clerical assistants is not too small. One 
director of nurses, ten supervisors, seven assistant supervisors, at least four- 
teen full-time stenographers, are now available, yet both supervisors and 
nurses seem to be submerged in the mechanical details of the work. The 
average number of nurses per supervisor is unusually low for such a large 
group. 

With the addition of an office manager and a possible curtailment of the 
administrative work in the Centers, it would be possible for the supervisor 
to spend at least half of every day in the districts. If a careful analysis were 
made of the activities of the supervisor and her assistant, recording every 
detail of their work for a definite length of time, many duties, now con- 
sidered essential, could be eliminated or shifted to others, thereby allowing 
the supervisor time to make home visits with the nurses. It should be pos- 
sible to divide the clinic work between three persons, the supervisor, the 
cliniotnurse, and the office manager. Well trained volunteers might siJso.be 
helpful in clinics. 



\ ( BBI-NG 



rd 

In spite <' li,- fact that in every Center l,ul one. the SIIIMT\ isor. her 
^tant. and !uo full-time stenographers s|x-n<l practiealk all their time 
in clerical and administrative work, the nurses find it neccs^ry t.. spend an 
average of two hours daily, out of their seven-hour day. in work'in the Center. 
Observation might possibly show the time so spent to be r\rn greater. 
.-specially in the (.-liters where the nurses return at noon or at four o'clock 
tor new calk There is only one Center of which this statement does i,,,t 
hold true. Much of this time is taken up in clerical work. A simplified and 
coordinated system of records would eliminate a large amount of this routine 
work. 

The compilation of the monthly statistical report* is a very difficult task 
l>eeause of the cumbersome and confused method of reporting. The record 
system, having been developed piecemeal and service by service, is far from 
coherent. Many figures are gathered which serve no useful purpose, and 
figures necessary for a proper appraisal of the work and an accurate measure- 
ment of results are not obtainable. An altogether unjustifiable amount of 
the nurses' time, both at the City Hall and in the Health Centers, is . 
sumed in keeping up this complex ami voluminous system of bookkeeping. 
Reorganization is needed, but it is doubtful whether anyone in the Division 
of Health is qualified to evolve a pro|Hrly simplified method of record keep- 
ing. An ex|>ert should be engaged to reorganize the system, both in the 
City Mall and the Health Center, and thus save valuable time now Ix'ing 
wasted iu unnecessary clerical work. The proper person to provide forms. 
to organize records and to analyze the tabulated information received through 
the nurses' reports, would be the statistician of the Division of Healtl, 
proposed in the chapter on Vita! Statistics. 



After such a system had l>een installed it should, so far as 
turned over to an office manager. It is highly desirable that such an office 
manager le appointed in the office at the City Hall and one at each Health 
Center, to whom the greater part of the detail work could In* shifted in order 
that the. supervisors may have an opportunity to attend to their more im- 
portant duties of direction. 

The laborious work now spent in keeping the milk book to mention 
only one instance could IK* turned over at once to the office mana. 



THK STAFF OF FIELD Ni K-I - 

Abundant evidence is available to .show that the nurses ;t re heavily over- 
loaded with work and are carrying far too many patients per nurse, and 
covering too large a territory to do effective work. They average -(50 fam- 
ilies, each. The mimlKT is considerably higher when estimated by indi- 
viduals. They are overburdened with the intricacies of the complicated 
record system and the large amount of time spent in the clinics leaves in 
siifh'cieni time to develop home visiting. As a result, the nurses are often 
discouraged. The average numl>cr of home visits jx over SMI JMT nur.se |x-r 
month. The patients sea reek receive an average >f one visit |*>r month 



768 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

The nurses are doing their best under this accumulation of overwork, but 
cannot be expected to obtain substantial results when they are able to give 
so little attention to constructive teaching to patients in their homes. 

NEW NURSES 

New nurses do- not receive proper introduction to their work. They are 
sent out with another nurse for a day or two and receive only such instruc- 
tion as a very busy Supervisor can find time for in the Health Center. No 
other instruction is given. The character of the nurse's work is not studied, 
her weaknesses found and methods of correction pointed out, nor is there 
any way of developing the abilities of a nurse. No efficiency records are 
kept. Such a record should not only analyze the nurse's ability and work, 
but it also should demonstrate the supervisor's ability to know the nurses, 
to fit them into districts, to develop strong points and to direct enthusiasm 
and energy into proper channels. The record of the nurse should be dis- 
cussed by the Center supervisor and the director of nurses, and the nurse 
put into the district she can best serve. At present the supervisors have no 
regular method of trying to fit the nurse to the district. If it is apparent 
that she is not getting cooperation, she is transferred, but this happens in- 
frequently. . 

UNIFORMS 

The nurses wear any kind of street clothes they choose. They go in and 
out of district homes giving nursing care in suits and woolen dresses. This 
is not only exceedingly bad practice but detracts from the usefulness of the 
nurse, since she is not readily recognizable as a nurse while at work in the 
district, and her costume is not suitable for giving nursing care. 

Probably one reason that so little actual nursing occurs is the fact that 
the nurses do not wear uniforms. Even though they are protected by a 
gown, they are over cautious in approaching the bedside of a contagious or 
infectious case. If effective work is to be done in home visiting, teaching 
by actual example must take place, and this cannot in wisdom occur unless 
the nurse is in a washable uniform. Moreover, the smart uniform adds to 
the dignity and impressiveness of the nurse. 

GENERAL CONCLUSIONS 

The principles and plans of the Nursing Service of the Division of Health 
are, in general, excellent. Its performance, however, does not equal its 
ideals, mainly because it has not increased its staff sufficiently to carry the 
ever increasing volume of work. The majority of its shortcomings can be 
laid at the door of the insufficiency of numbers. The rest are due to a top- 
heavy plan of management and insufficient supervision. 

At present emphasis centers around attendance at Health Centers, diag- 
nosis and prescription for treatment. The nursing service is in reality an 
extension of a clinical service rather than a true public health nursing serv- 
ice. Home visiting is an adjunct rather than the prime activity of the nurse. 
What is needed is greater frequency of visits in the home, and also longer 



N U R8 I N <; 7<;> 

visits so as to enable the nurses to pay more careful attention to the health 
of the family, to the teaching of hygienic habits, and the giving of nut 
care. 

A PROPOSED EXTENSION DISTRICT 

In order to afford an opportunity for the city to extend its nursing serv- 
ice further in the direction of a generalized system, without at present im- 
posing further duties upon the staff as a whole, it is desirable that such ex- 
tensions be undertaken in one district only, which might be designated the 
Extension District. One of the present Health Center Districts might be 
devoted to this purpose. 

In this district two experiments making for a completely generalized 
service might be tried. In addition to the present activities of the nursing 
staff, the following services might be undertaken: 

1 . Prenatal nursing as a part of the city -wide plan. 

2. School nursing in the parochial schools. 

If these experiments prove successful there might later be added: 

1. General medical and surgical nursing service. 

2. Obstetrical and post-partuin nursing. 

In order to provide every opportunity to make such an extension dis- 
trict successful, it should have the following favorable factors: 

1. A district of approximately 50,000 people. 

2. The direction of a well trained public health nurse who has had 
experience with generalized work, including visiting nursing. 

3. A supervisory staff of four supervisors. 

4. A nursing staff of 18 nurses (1 to 3,000 population). 

A sub-committee on'generalized nursing of the Central Committee might 
be requested by the Health Commissioner to act as an advisory committee 
for the Extension District and expected to exercise close oversight of its con- 
duct and results. 

RECOMMEND A TIONS 
It is therefore recommended as follows: 

ACTIVITIES 

/. Communicable Diteate Prevention: 

That more attention be given to protection of members of the family other than the 
patient, to arranging for adequate nursing of the patient, and to instruction regarding 
prevention of sequelae. 

That pneumonia, measles, whooping cough and typhoid cases be reported to the Visiting 
Nurse Association, which will seek permission of the private doctor to give nur.ing. 



770 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



2. Tuberculosis Work: 

That this service be continued and greatly increased, especially in the field of home 
visiting for instruction and nursing purposes, and in an effort to discover new cases. All 
tuberculosis patients should be visited at least once a month and those in need of care 
much more frequently. Much more effort must be given to having the family and those 
exposed examined. 

3. Child Hygiene: 

That this service be continued and amplified. Much more home visiting is impera- 
tive for careful instruction in infant and child care and for nursing care. That a standard 
routine be adopted and mechanical methods devised to check it up. All babies should be 
visited at least once a month and sick babies daily. 

4. Supervision of Midwives: 

That this work be increased; visits be made more frequently; time be provided for 
hunting illegal practitioners, for demonstration and for inspection of technique and de- 
livery. 

5. Prevention of Blindness: 

That the present routine be continued, but it should be made certain that the care 
given is adequate in frequency and quality. 

6. Supervision of Boarding Homes for Babies: 

That a definite routine of visits and procedures be established, extending to these 
babies constant oversight in all matters of health and general care, as well as feeding. 

7. Parochial School Nursing: 

That the present entirely inadequate and nearly futile effort of providing service for 
all parochial schools be discontinued. That all parochial school nursing be concentrated 
in the proposed Extension District, wh^re an intensive piece of work may be done. 

8. Prenatal Nursing: 

That this service be restricted to the proposed Extension District, as a part of the 
City -wide maternity system. 

9. Extension District: 

That one of the present Health Center districts be set apart as an Extension District 
for the purpose of initiating new projects or methods before undertaking them on a city 
wide basis, in accordance with the detailed suggestions made above. 

ADMINISTRATION 
/. Organization: 

(a) That all nursing service now carried on or to be carried on by the Division of 
Health be under the direction of a Director of Nurses, who should be immediately respon- 
sible to the Commissioner of Health. 



N ; i u s i \ ( , 77 | 

(b) That the nursing service for the Bureaus, whose work requires th services of 
nursing (such as the Bureau of Communicable Disease, the Bureau of Child Hygiene, 
and the Bureau of Tuberculosis) be performed by the general staff of nurses, and that the 
proper relations shall be maintained through consultation by the Director of Nurring. 
and the Directors of the three mentioned bureaus, all policies and decisions being subject 
to the approval of the Commissioner of Health. 

2. Headquarters Staff: 

(a) That the positions of Director and Assistant Director be continued as at present. 

(b) That the present plan of special supervision be discontinued and reorganized as 
follows: 

That four assistant supervisors be appointed, each to have charge of 
the general oversight of certain activities, as follows: 

1. Baby and child hygiene. 

2. Communicable disease. 

3. Tuberculosis. 

4. Midwifery, boarding homes, eye work. 

The fourth assistant supervisor to have an assistant. 

(c) That these supervisors should have two functions, acting as special consultants 
in their own field, and as instructors in their special services. These supervisors should 
work out and conduct a scheme of continuous education for the staff They should be 
responsible for the instruction of new nurses in the routine policies and procedures of the 
work and in the special technique and practices of each special service. They should also 

be responsible for classes, consultations and conferences for the whole staff. 



In their capacity as special consultants they should be responsible for the study and 
analysis of the nursing work accomplished, both as to quality and quantity, and the de- 
velopment of this work in their own special services. They should make studies in co- 
operation with the directors of the various bureaus of the Division of Health, and should 
act as liaison officers between these bureaus and the nursing service. They should act as 
a connecting link between the Nursing Service and the special outside institutions related 
to their work. 

(d) That there should be an office manager responsible for all the business details 
of the office, and for all the records. This position should be sufficiently well paid to 
make possible the employment of a thoroughly competent woman. 

(e) That the Director of Nursing should have a privat; office. 

3. Record*: 

That the record system be simplified; that a record expert or the statistician of the 
Division of Health be employed to set up a simple, practical and effective record system 
and that the statistical work be done by the office of the statistician of the Division of 
Health rather than by the nurses. 

The record system for the Health Centers and Headquarters should be uniform, and 
the office manager should be held responsible for it. In order to secure continuity and 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



high grade service there should be assurance o f promotion and increase in salary for all 
the clerical staff, based on merit. 

4. Health Center*: 

(a) That there should be a district supervise., who should be responsible for the 
administration of the Health Center, but whose principal duty should be the supervision 
of the staff nurses and their work in the homes. Fully two-thirds of her time should be 
given to field supervision. She should not be subordinate to but chief over the clinic 
nurse and the office manager, suggested below. 

(b) That there should be a clinic or dispensary nurse whose full time should be de- 
voted to the Health Center, for the purpose of running the clinics and talking with patients 
who come out of clinic hours. She should have no responsibility for home case work or 
for field work. 

(c) That there should be an office manager (not a nurse but a competent business 
woman), who should have charge of the business management of the center and of all the 
mechanical and record work, and receiving calls and relaying such of them as are emergent, 
to the nurses in the field. There should be a uniform system for office management and 
record work in all the centers. Salaries should be paid in these positions high enough to 
.nsure a thoroughly reliable, intelligent and businesslike personnel. 

(d) That the practice of having two or three nurses in attendance at clinics be dis- 
continued; that the clinics be conducted by the dispensary nurse with the possible assist- 
ance of one staff nurse; that if more assistance is required, it be provided by a clerical worker 
and not by a nurse. 

(e) That a routine of field supervision be established, and that the field supervisors 
render to the Director a weekly record of their work. 

(f) That a separate room be provided in the Health Centers for the field supervise 
and her field nurses. 

* 

(g) That districts be greatly reduced in size, possibly cut in half. 

5. Field Staff: 

(a) That the staff should be increased until no nurse carries more than 125 patients, 
preferably 100. This will mean largely increasing the present staff. 

(b) That the staff nurses consult with the field supervisor daily concerning their case 
work and that she in turn take up any special case problems with the special supervisors 
at Headquarters. 

(c) That an efficiency report be prepared by the field supervisors monthly for 
each nurse, to be submitted to the Director and kept on file. 

(d) That each staff nurse prepare a monthly statistical report of her work. 

(e) That new nurses spend the first two or three days of their service in the mam 
office to receive instructions from the special supervisors in the routine, the records and the 
general practices of the work. 



N u K 8 i N c; 



(f) That new nurses be taken out by the field supervisor for at least two or three 
days before they are allowed to go alone, and that they be then visited at frequent 
intervals by the field supervisor (once a week for a month) while at work in their district. 

(g) That new nurses attend weekly classes at the City Hall, to be conducted by the 
special supervisors, to be trained in the technique and methods of work in the special fields. 

(h) That the weekly conference now being held for the whole staff at the City Hall 
be continued, and be included in the scheme of education worked out by the special super 



6. Salariet: 

That the salaries of the staff nurses, the field supervisors and the special super- 
visors, be increased to meet the schedule recently recommended by the Central Nursing 
Committee. 

7. Uniform: 

That a wash uniform be adopted and worn by all members of the staff (except the 
Headquarters Staff, if so desired). 



The Visiting Nurse Association of Cleveland 
Scope of the Work 

THE Visiting Nurse Association of Cleveland undertakes to extend home 
nursing care, except in communicable disease, to anyone in the city not 
cared for by any other public health nursing agency. This service is 
given free to those unable to pay for it; part |>ay is charged to those unable 
to pay the regular fee; all others pay the full fee. The pay sirv'cs is not 
restricted, but may be used by anyone except that it cannot be obtained at 
a regular fixed hour, nor extending over one-half day, nor for cases in which 
only attendance is wanted and no nursing care for illness is needed. Visit- 
ing nursing is also provided for policy holders of the Metropolitan Life In- 
surance Company, for which the company pays the Association at the rate 
of sixty cents (60 cents*) per visit. 

Nursing care in tuberculosis is given only to those patients able to pay 
75 cents or more j>er visit; care is given in diseases of babies under three 
years, attended by private doctors, but not to babies attending the clinics 
of the Division of Health; and care is not given in illness among industrial 
workers who are provided with home nursing service by their employers. 

With these exceptions the Association undertakes to rare for patients of 
all ages and patients with all types of disease, acute and chronic, medical. 
Musical and obstetrical, including also the making and teaching of milk 
modifications for infants under the care of private <lo< \ 

Like all visiting nurse associations of equal grade, the ( 'lev eland Associa- 
tion has placed chief emphasis upon the primary need of caring for the poor 

Chine HM now been changed to $1.00 recommended by the Survey 



774 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEV 

who cannot pay for nursing service. Second, is felt the need of caring for 
persons of small means who may be able to pay a very small fee. 

For persons of moderate income a pay service at cost has been recently 
introduced and should be widely extended. The extension of pay service 
is not alien to the policies and purposes of any Well organized visiting nurse 
association, but is a natural and logical development of its work. Such a 
well organized hourly service, at a moderate price, under centralized 
management is not unlikely in the future to solve the problem of the de- 
creasing number and increasing cost of private duty nurses. 

One of the striking developments in paid service, which the Cleveland 
Association, like a few other leading nursing organizations, has recently taken 
up, is a paid day and night service during delivery. This work fills a need 
than which none is more important, but with which for lack of the necessary 
personnel and funds, visiting nurse associations have in the past not attempted 
to grapple. 

The value of teaching family hygiene and giving attention to the health 
and hygienic habits of the whole family is recognized by the Association, 
but is not sufficiently emphasized as a definite function of the nurse. 

THE PRESENT EQUIPMENT 

In order to perform this work a staff is maintained consisting of a super- 
intendent of nurses, an assistant superintendent, three supervisors, and at 
present 21 regular staff nurses and six substitutes, and a clerical staff con- 
sisting of one office secretary and one clerk at central office and one stenog- 
rapher at each sub-station. There are a central office and three district 
offices, all of which are ample in size and equipment for their functions. 

Analysis of Activities 

Study of the work performed by the Visiting Nurse Association proves 
it to be of highest grade so far as it goes, but that it does not go far enough. 
The spirit manifested by the whole organization is lofty, and the work is 
thorough, painstaking and kindly. 

This Association has been of great value in demonstrating many activi- 
ties to the municipality, such as the care of tuberculosis, industrial nursing, 
and, together with the Babies' Dispensary, work for babies both sick and well, 
etc. By turning over these successive activities to municipal and private 
agencies, the present scope of the work appears to be narrowing and to lack 
extension into the new fields of services waiting to be developed. 

The Board of Trustees of the Visiting Nurse Association has never lacked 
vision for new opportunities of service. It will doubtless continue its policy 
of extending into new fields as occasion offers. 

CARE OF THE SICK 

The care of medical and surgical patients occupies the greatest part of 
the nurses' time. Approximately four-fifths of the patients are medical or 



\ i it s, i N 77.', 

surgical cases, only a very small |>ercentage i>** than I 1 , . of whom ar. 
chronics. The kinds of illness cured for are many, hut include verv few 
cases of tuberculosis or other communicahle diseases or intestinal diseases ,,f 
infancy. Hetwecn October, 1018, and October, 1919, 51 tulicrculosis pad, 
and Ifl intestinal eases among huhies were treated. Yet Uie records of tin 
Division of Health show that the second highest cause of death in flic cit\ 
of Cleveland in 1J)17 was tul>ereulosis, and the third, diarrhoea and cut eriti- 
among children under two years of age. 

While it is true that the Division of Health provides for the care of all 
contagious diseases and for tuberculosis patients not able to pay 75 cent 
visit, and of sick babies whose parents are unable to pay 75 cents, it ne\ r 
theless is surprising that so few tul>crculous patients over the 75 cent limit 
were found in need of nursing care, ami so few sick babies outside the scoj*- 
of the municipal staff. While the city record shows only 105 cases of typhoid 
<luring the year, a negligible numlter of these, only five, are on the visiting 
nurse list. 

Moreover, few post-operative cases discharged from hospitals before com- 
plete recovery are under visiting nurse care. Many hospitals dismiss sur- 
gical patients as soon as they have recovered from the operation itself, who 
still require dressings of the wound for weeks and possibly for months. For 
patients of little or no income these dressings should be done without cost. 
Visiting nurse service would seem to l>e the solution. Frequently, also, 
private doctors are glad to turn over such dressings to the visiting nurse, 
doing the dressings themselves only often enough to keep track of the prog- 
ress of healing. Apparently, little such service is rendered by the Cleveland 
\-ociation, although there is presumably considerable need for it. Indeed 
the Association should l>e called on for a wider service of the kind. 

It is desirable that the hospitals should send the regular clinic agents to 
call on patients merely to secure their return, or where there are special mcdi 
cal or social conditions which the hospital has studied and with which it i- 
in touch. Hut all patients leaving the hospital who need medical or surgical 
care are appropriate patients for the Visiting Nurse Association and an effort 
should l>e made to have the hospitals refer them to the Association. 

Observation of a limited numlicr of home visits showed the quality and 
character of nursing care to be excellent, being careful ami thorough, and 
done with much gentleness, where the work of the nurses in their dist: 
was observed by the investigator. Marked kindness, sympathy and interest 
\\as shown by the nurses in most cases. It was apparent, however, that tin- 
actual nursing care given was of first importance in the eyes of the nurses; 
and that they failed to consider the health of the whole family as part of their 
responsibilities and did not take sufficient advantage of opportOBttHi to 
teach prevention of illness, or home and family hygiene 

The records of the Association. ho\ve\er. show that a substantial amount 

of attention was devoted to social diagnosis and treatment, since practical!} 

25 per cent of the patients cared for between October, U'ls. and ( 

1911). were referred to hospitals, dispensaries. ,r other health or six-ial agrn- 



cies 



776 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

While undoubtedly the giving of nursing care is the prime function of a 
visiting nurse association, it seems clear that more teaching could be done 
by the Cleveland staff without lessening the quality or quantity of nursing 
care. 

Many opportunities also present themselves to secure or advise treat- 
ment medical, surgical, dental, optical or hygienic for members of the 
family not coming within the range of the school, municipal or industrial 
nurses. While the statistics in Cleveland do not show the /amount of such 
work done, none of the visiting nurses who were accompanied in the districts 
seemed to be taking advantage of these opportunities as vigorously as they 
might. 

In the opinion of the Superintendent of the Association the sick among 
the poor are receiving adequate care and are being brought to the attention 
of the Association, through its cordial relations with other social remedial 
agencies and their frequent calls. There are, however, no statistics to show 
the number of patients so referred. The Superintendent thought that the 
pay service had not reached its maximum usefulness, and that a decided ex- 
tension of this service was needed, and would be of benefit to and well re- 
ceived by those of small and moderate income. 

PRENATAL NURSING 

It was found that prenatal care was being extended to patients under the 
care of private physicians and to patients expecting to go to the hospital for 
confinement or to have a midwife. It was not given to patients under the 
care of an out-patient maternity service. It was stated that, although they 
engaged the doctor some time ahead, very few of the pregnant patients 
carried by the visiting nurses had medical oversight until the time of con- 
finement. Hence the prenatal instructions given to those patients by the 
nurses, with the doctors' consent, are of special value as safeguards. 

With the wide possibilities of benefit inherent in prenatal nursing both 
for the individual mother and for the community, this nursing service should 
go further than it now does. Visits are a month or more apart, instead of 
every ten days or two weeks as they should be for the best results; no urin- 
alysis is made or blood pressure taken, and instruction might be somewhat 
more thorough. The reason given was that the nurses did not have time to 
make frequent calls of sufficient length upon these patients. They would 
be glad to enlarge this service and could do so with great advantage if the 
staff were increased sufficiently. 

MATERNITY SERVICE 

The post-natal care given by the regular staff nurses was excellent. The 
work of the special obstetrical nurses was not observed, but judging from the 
high quality of the work of the rest of the staff, it is presumed that this was 
well done also. This service is provided at any time to any home patient 
under the care of a private physician and able to pay the fee of $5.00* It is 
not provided to patients unable to pay this fee, since such patients are not 

This fee has been changed to $7.00 since the investigation was made. 



\ i it s i \ , 777 

usually tinder the care of a private physician. Imt have hospital or out-patient 
maternity care, which provides nursing service. The maternity service of 
the Visiting Nurse Association, though still on a small scale (SS4 confinements 
in 1919), is steadily growing. It should he increased as rapidly a* the staff 
can lx increased to care for it. 

FACTORY SERVICE 

Two factories are in affiliation with the Visiting Nurse Association through 
contract, one being supplied with two nurses and the other with one through 
the Visiting Nurse Association. These nurses were former members of tin 
visiting nurse staff and are still supervised by its superintendent and her 
assistant. They send to the Association a monthly statistical report and 
attend the staff meetings. During the factory nurses' illness or vacation, 
the Association supplies a substitute. The factories pay the Association for 
this service, including salary, equipment and carfare, and the Association 
pays the nurses, who wear its uniform. In the past such an arrangement 
was maintained with six factories, but four have discontinued it. It is 
highly desirable that the Central Nursing Committee work out a plan, for 
some agency to assume this activity. Supervision of the 104 industrial 
nurses in Cleveland is urgently needed. (For further details of nurses in 
industry see Part VII.) 

OUT-PATIENT MATERNITY AFFILIATION 

Up to January, 1920, both the out-patient maternity service of Western 
Reserve and of St. Luke's were in affiliation with the Visiting Nurse Asso- 
ciation. Formerly this meant that the Visiting Nurse Association selected 
the nurse, but recently the hospitals have selected the nurses, and they have 
had their selection "regularized" by passing their credentials through the 
Central Committee and the Visiting Nurse Association. This affiliation has 
come to be only a form since the Association does not select or supervise the 
nurses or have any authority over their work. All that remains is that the 
nurses' salaries are paid through the Association. There appear to be no 
advantages in this arrangement, and it is clearly a disadvantage to the Visit 
ing Nurse Association to be responsible for a piece of work over which it has 
no authority. January 1st this affiliation was discontinued with St. Luke's, 
but continued with Western Reserve. 

The Medical College had a gift some years ago for a memorial nurse, the 
"Powell Nurse," for its out-patient maternity service. The College believe* 
there was a stipulation that the nurse should come through the VMtJBf 
Nurse Association, and is therefore unwilling to discontinue this perfunctory 
affiliation for fear of losing the right to this tfift. It would seem that such 
arrangements should be abandoned in favor of a city-wide single prenatal 
service, recommendations for which are given elsewhere. 

PILGRIM CHURCH SERVICE 

Pilgrim Church pays $500.00 a year towards the salary of one nurse to 
care for the people in the neighborhood of the church. The church endeu \ 
to serve a non-sectarian group. The nurse has her office in the church.build- 



778 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

ing, at the request of the church, in order to make a place where the neigh- 
bors can be cared for. She does many dressings in her office, and also in- 
spects and watches over the church kindergarten. The church has marked 
out the area in the city which it wants her to serve. This area is not an 
appropriate one in relation to the rest of the West Side district. Nurses 
going into one district must frequently cross this district. The western sec- 
tion of it is more accessible to one of the other districts. 

The nurse does not report to the West Side office or keep her records there, 
the latter being kept in the church office.* The supervisor of the West Side 
district, therefore, must come to the nurse's office in order to see her or to go 
over her records. The result of this arrangement is that the nurse works 
almost alone and receives very little supervision and assistance. 

This arrangement appears to be inadvisable, both from the point of view 
of policy and of administration. As a matter of policy, it would be awkward, 
if contributions were to be received from other churches, to permit them to 
determine the location of the nurse's district, and to have her office in the 
church. This would result in confusion and disorganization of the present 
well planned system of the Visiting Nurse Association. The precedent, 
therefore, seems to be a bad one. From an administrative point of view, the 
result is the undesirable isolation of one of the members of the staff cutting 
her off from intercourse with other members and from the assistance and over- 
sight of her supervisor; also the necessity of maintaining district boundaries 
which are exceedingly disadvantageous to the management of the work in 
the West Side district. 

SERVICE OUTSIDE OF THE CITY 

Lakewood has its own Visiting Nurse Association, which is affiliated with 
the Association in Cleveland. It has a separate Board of Trustees, who raise 
funds, determine policies and administer the work. The nurses, however, 
are supplied by the Cleveland Association, which also supplies substitutes 
when needed. Salaries are paid through the Cleveland Association. These 
Lakewood nurses attend the staff meetings of the Cleveland Association, 
and are supervised by the superintendent of the Association or her assistant. 
They wear the Cleveland uniform and send a monthly report to the Cleveland 
Association. 

Bratenahl Village, a well-to-do residential section, pays the Association 
$250.00 a year to have a nurse call twice a week at the school to inspect the 
children. There is also a school doctor, who attends occasionally. The 
nurse does little home visiting. 

Analysis of Administration 

The administration of the activities of the Visiting Nurse Association 
seems to be well planned, systematized and carried out. The. main office 
and sub-stations are managed in a smooth, businesslike way and for the most 

* Since the recommendations of the Survey were received the records have been removed from the 
Pilgrim Church and the Pilgrim nurse reports three times a week to the West Side Station. ' 



N u K > i \ . 771) 

part tin- record systems seem to In- adequate. tairK simple ami kept .up-to- 
date. The amount of clerical work required of tin- nurses lias IH-CII reduced 
to a minimum 

No record is kept of the source of calls, making it im|>ossihlc to analyse 
the frequency and amount of the use made of tin- Association ly other a 
cies. An annual analysis of the sources from which calls come would IK- illunii 
nating. It frequently shows that certain agencies arc not calling upon the 
Association at all, or not as frequently as they might, or that agencies with 
whom close relations were supjM>sed to exist have in reality made few calls 
upon the Association. It gives definite evidence of the numl>cr of dismissal 
patients turned over to the Visiting Nurses hy the hospitals. It slio\\s to 
what extent the doctors are making use of the nurses. All the meml>ers of 
the Visiting Nurse staff interviewed indicated that the doctors were giving 
the Association excellent cooperation, l>ut there were no statistics to prove 
this fact. A tabulation of the sources of calls would give all this information, 
and afford a definite basis on which to determine where the service could In- 
built up. 

Then' is a cheerful, dignified spirit among the members of the staff, 
both in the stations and in the districts. Devotion to the work seems to IK- 
genuine and whole hearted, and it is quite evident that the officers and staff 
of the Association are working constantly to insure a dependable quality of 
service. The harmony that exists among the supervisors and their constant 
oversight of the work in the h'eld tend to stabili/e the service and to insure to 
the patients skilled and carefully planned services. The sujxrvisors make 
every effort to insure the best of care to the patients without overworking 
the nurses While only four nurses were accompanied in the districts, one 
of whom did not come up to standards, the work observed bore the marks of 
consistency, honesty and well grounded preparation. 

"I'wo or three factors, however, tend to diminish initiative and ability to 
plan and manage on the part of the staff nurses. These factors are the fol- 
lowing:* 

(a) In two districts the supervisors allow the nurses too little planning 
of the day's work. The nurses make out a list of their calls, and the super- 
visor then changes the arrangement of them as she sees fit. or decides which 
patients are to be seen and which are not. This takes away from the staff 
' ; nurse the necessity of planning her own work and of managing and perform- 
ing it in a way to bring about the best results It lessens her sense of respon- 
sibility and makes her very dependent upon her supervisors. 






(b) The unit of the organization so far as records are concerned is the 
supervisor's district and not the staff nurse's district. The districts occupied 
by the staff have no name, letter, or distinguishing mark and no identity 
The list of patients and the statistical report of the work is made out for 
the whole district covered by the supervisor .and not for the smaller div 
m which the nurses themselves are working This means that there is no 



780 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

way of picturing the work in each nurse's district as a single piece of work; 
no method of measuring the work performed by individual nurses, conse- 
quently no basis of comparison and no basis for pride in accomplishment. 
This does not tend to build up individual initiative, or the spirit of competi- 
tion with the work of other members of the staff. No use is made of the 
census tracts of the city in outlying districts, either for the individual nurse 
or for the supervisor's district. These fundamental districts as arranged 
for use by the census should be used as units or by multiples for the Visiting 
Nurse Association administration as for the district subdivisions of every 
other private and public health agency. 

(c) In two districts many of the nurses make a practice of returning to 
the station three times a day.* This is a waste of time, and again weakens 
the nurse's sense of responsibility for her work. The tendency is for her to 
go to her supervisor constantly for advice rather than to think out her prob- 
lems herself. 

While there is thus no lack of supervision and in some cases too much 
supervision in the administration of the work, there might to advantage be 
even more supervision than there is in the home visiting. A study of the 
supervisors' record for two months showed that during one month super- 
visors went into the districts with the staff nurses 33 times, and the second 
month 34 times, visiting in the first month 64 families, and in the second 114; 
yet in one month four nurses were not ever accompanied by the supervisor, 
and in the other month six nurses were unaccompanied. 

According to this record the supervisors spent an average of about one- 
third of their time in the field, but not more than half of this was spent 
in accompanying the staff nurses. The supervisors appear to make visits 
alone in the district. This is not desirable practice, as it means that the nurses 
are deprived of the supervisors' guidance in such cases and that the super- 
visors are handling alone the most difficult situations, instead of using them 
as teaching opportunities. 

A good feature of the work is that the supervisors regularly attend the 
case conferences held by the Associated Charities. It is desirable that the 
staff nurses who occasionally attend these conferences, should also do so 
regularly. 

The nurses average seven and a half calls a day. If the nurses did not 
return to the office so often more work might be accomplished without inter- 
fering with its finish. With an enlarged staff and a saving of the nurses' 
time in going back and forth, especially in the outlying districts, the activi- 
ties of the Association might be doubled and many more persons get the bene- 
fit of the fine services offered. 

Experience in many communities has proved that until the city is able to 
take over these nursing services in full, private organizations must perform 
this function of helping save life and restore health. The overwhelming 
majority of sick persons must be cared for in their homes; a very small pro- 

* The nurses now are required to go to the station but once a day. 



N U K s I \ (. 7N| 

portion are rared for in hospitals. Tin- visiting nurses must IM- supportr.l 
since to them the community must look for tliis home nursing care. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

It is recommended: 

ACTIVITIES 

(a) That care of the sick be extended to a larger proportion of the population, espe - 
cially to persons of small and moderate income, through vigorous advertising and other 
campaign methods. The work may well be extended district by district as the staff is 
increased, rather than to undertake it at once for the whole city with inadequate staff. 

The full fee for the pay service should be increased to $1.00 to cover the cost of a 
visit. It is believed that this service will never be attractive to persons above the poverty 
line, unless they are able to pay its full cost. 

(b) That the affiliation now existing with the Maternity Hospital be discontinued. 

1 That responsibility be assumed for a city-wide prenatal and ma- 
ternity nursing service, elsewhere recommended in detail. 

2 That the present paid day and night maternity service be expanded. 

(c) That greater efforts be made to reach sick babies and tuberculous patients through 
the pay service. 

(d) 1 That arrangements be made with the several hospitals to refer to the 
Association all patients leaving the hospital who are in need of nursing care 
either surgical or medical, and also all dispensary cases needing nursing 
care and unable to return to the clinic. 

2 That the doctors who seem to have the majority of such cases be 
offered the services of the visiting nurse. 

(e) That if the Division of Health is willing, the Association be notified of all 
typhoid, pneumonia, measles, whooping cough, scarlet fever and diphtheria case* re- 
ported, and such patients be visited wherever the doctor in charge >s willing. 

(f) That arrangement be made with the Division of Health to have district phy- 
sicians, as a routine practice, notify the Association of all patients visited, excepting only 
cases referred at once to hospitals, and those discharged on the first visit. 

(g) That more attention be paid to the health of the family and the teaching of hy- 
giene in the homes. 

ADMINISTRATION 

(a) That the staff be enlarged to meet the needs of the extended activities recommended 
above. This will probably mean doubling the staff now. and as these activities grow, 
doubling it again. 

(b) That as the staff is increased the number of supervisors be increased to k*p 
tltt ratio at approximately one supervisor for every ten nurses. 



782 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

(c) 1 That one automobile be provided for each sub-station for use especially in the 

outlying districts; thus also making possible more frequent visits of the super- 
visors, especially to the outlying districts. 

2 That as an alternative, the nurses in the outlying districts be provided with a 
sub-station, and come in to the district station only two or three times 
a week. To these outlying districts the older and more experienced nurses 
should be assigned. 

(d) That the Pilgrim nurse report to the West Side station and that the boundaries of 
the Pilgrim District and the neighboring districts be changed to bring about a more advan- 
tageous arrangement. The nurse could still maintain a dispensary service at the church if 
desired. 

(e) That the individual nurses' districts be made the unit of work, giving them a 
fixed number or letter, and requiring a statistical report for each of these units monthly, 
and that the unit of district work be the official census tracts, singly or in multiples. 

(f) That the individual nurse report to the district office only once a day. 

(g) That the amount of supervision of the nurses in the field be increased and be 
lessened in the station. 

(h) That the nurses attend Associated Charities' case conferences more frequently. 

(i) That methods be devised of developing the individual initiative and resources of 
the nurses (a weekly round table is suggested for the discussion by the staff, of district 
problems, case work, and allied subjects.) The nurses themselves might well plan and 
conduct these round tables. 

(j) That a record of the source of calls be kept. 

Nursing Service of the Board of Education 

IN school nursing, as in the other branches of public health nursing, Cleve- 
land is fortunate in having, through the agency of the Central Nursing 
Committee, a high professional standard. In school nursing, as in the 
other branches, a valuable demonstration of work has been made. A fine 
spirit and diligent application have been found throughout the department. 
The failures which have disclosed themselves in the course of this investi- 
gation are in the main due to the same causes as those in various other organ- 
izations studied: that is inadequacy in numbers and faulty supervision. 
Yet there is every reason to think that with adequate enlargement of the 
staff, with proper supervision, and with a change of emphasis in the work to 
reduce some of the less important activities and strengthen the more essen- 
tial features, a school nursing system second to none can be built up. 

Scope of the Work 

1. Assisting medical inspector with physical examination, of children. 

Every school child receives one examination a year; some of 
those found to be defective are examined more thamonce. 



\ I l< > I \ ( . 



*. Ins >ection of pupils by class rooms. 

After the summer, Christmas and Kaster vacation^, the children 
are inspected, a room at a time, by the d<x -tor and nurxc. f,, r - 
Of communicable disease, skin disease, running ears, or peclim!., 
Once a month the nurse makes a similar iris|>eetion, devoting about 
7 to 10 minutes to an entire roomful of children. 

3. Securing oorreetion of defects found through the examinations by 
means of: 

Notes and messages sent to parents, 
Consultations with parents at the school house, 
Visits to the home. 

4. Maintenance of "dispensary hour" in each school for: 

Treatments, 

Dressings, 

Emergencies, 

Inspection of excluded children. 

5. Health talks to individual pupils. 

6. Health talks to classes in class rooms. 

The Staff 

The staff of the nursing bureau consists of: 
1 supervisor of nurses, 
2 field nurses, 
30 staff nurses, 
6 junior health workers, 
stenographers (part time only). 

There is a central office in the administrative building, luit there are no 
branch officex. 

Analysis of Activities 

KXAMINATION OF 



Since these examinations are made by the medical inxp<-ctor> they need 
no comment in a study of nursing work. They are made rather rapidly. 
usually without the taking of medical histories, and except in a few iiixtai 
they are not complete examinations. Moreover, most of tin- correct 
recommended are routine recoinniendationx. xu< h ax removal of tonsils and 
adenoids, and treatment for dental and visual defects It would 



784 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

therefore, that the school nurses might be released from attending the doc- 
tor during these examinations, and be replaced by junior health workers, 
thus saving much of the nurses' time for more productive work. Where 
less obvious and simple conditions are found, and treatment is more tech- 
nical and personal, the nurse should consult with the doctor, in order to 
receive more detailed instruction than is written on the record. 

INSPECTION OF PUPILS BY ROOMS 

The nurse spends an hour or more each school day in making room in- 
spections, for the purpose of detecting skin lesions, running ears, pediculosis, 
and symptoms of communicable diseases. These examinations of an entire 
roomful of children are completed in 7 to 10 minutes. On account of the 
preoccupation of the nurse with other duties, even these necessarily super- 
ficial inspections can be repeated only at intervals of about 4 weeks. Be- 
tween examinations the teacher must be relied upon to notice symptoms 
and to refer children to the nurse during the "dispensary hour." Since 
previous training and experience in such work cannot be expected of teachers, 
the nurse should not only determine the physical condition of the children 
at the time of her visit, but should also confer with the teacher and instruct 
her, so that she may render this service to the best of her ability during the 
long intervals between the nurse's visits. Teachers who are cooperative and 
become fairly proficient will need less frequent visits from the nurse, and 
more attention can be given to school rooms of those who are new or less 
interested. This cooperation between the nurse and the teacher should 
result in more effective supervision of the health of the children day by day, 
than is now possible. 

CORRECTION or DEFECTS LACK OF HOME VISITING 

The most important activities of school nurses are arranging for the 
correction of defects, the improvement of conditions personal or environ- 
mental causing defects, and the establishment of better health habits. 

In the case of many children, a real remedy for an abnormal condition 
cannot be prescribed until the child's environment has been studied. Change 
in the mode of living is often essential not only to the correction of physical 
defects, but also to the complete restoration and maintenance of health. 
These changes in living can be accomplished in most cases only by thought- 
ful persuasive visits during which the nurse may talk over the child's condi- 
tion at length with the parent, may discover what influences in his home 
life are harmful, or what may be wrong in his hygienic habits, and may 
advise the mother thoroughly and carefully concerning any changes needed. 
Such visits are the very heart of school nursing. 

Thus, for instance, a boy in one of the Cleveland schools, who had had 
skin trouble since babyhood, had been to many doctors and dispensaries 
without relief. It was discovered by the nurse in a home visit that his diet 
consisted chiefly of tea, coffee and sweets. "We've plastered him with the 
things the doctors were experimenting with," said his family, "but nothing 
helped until you got after his food." 



\ I 1C - I N . 7S.-, 

In Cleveland, at present, much tinu- i> ^i\en to finding defects and to 
recommending treatment; little time is given to seeing that those del. 
are remedied and that the child's mode of life and surroundings are improved 
Reliance is plaeed largely on sending notifications to the parents, and on 
consultation with parents in the schools. If U apparent that the results of 
this praetiee arc not wholly satisfactory. The school records for the war 
ye:ir I!H7 l!Ms shou thai :{.'.) IS children were found to have defects, of 
which l-'./iU. or 38.1% were corrected. <i.:;:7 consultations \\ith parents 
wen- held, and many of these consultations may have been return visits 
of the same parents. During that year the nurses made only !).0l() visits 
to the homes. This small numlxT should IM- in part ascribed to the fact 
that the nurses assisted in a very large mitnl>er of vaccinations during 
the year, over 45,000 as against approximately H5.OOO in the next year 

During 15)18-191!). only *,781) consultations with parents uere hel-1. 
liut the nurses made 13,544 visits to homes. The defects corrected num- 
bered l.'J <>' , of the total iiuiiil>er. So many factors enter into the correcting 
of defects that it would IK* unjust to draw final conclusions from the numbers 
given; nevertheless the increase in the nnmlier of corrections is striking 
when compared with the increased number of home visits, even though 
the number of consultations with parents at the schools shoucd a decrease. 

Various duties within the school buildings engage the nurses until the 
middle of the afternoon. They are consequently unable to sj.end more 
than one hour and a half a day, and one half-day, in visiting the homes of 
the children, a total of jH'rhaps ten hours a week out of thirty-eight and a 
half. Furthermore, constructive cast* work appears to IM- almost unknown. 
The follow-up in the homes appears to consist chiefly of brief visits, or, as 
the nurses describe them, "flying visits" made to obtain the parents' 
consent to an operation or other correctional treatment, instead of careful 
repeated health teaching without which a high degree of success is im- 
possible. The need for more ami better home visiting is dearly indicated. 

DLSPKNSAKY SKUVKK 

Nearly half of the nurses' time is spent in the dis|>cnsancs. win-re much 
of the work consists in giving treatments and doing dressings. Just how 
necessary it is for the nurses to spend so large a share of their time in disjxn- 
sary work can only be determined by further observation. A careful 
analysis should IK- made to determine whether the time could not be re- 
duced without detriment to the work. 

l\iu\ IDI u. HKM.TH 

The disjM-nsary work observed uas too hurried to jK-rmit individual health 
talks to the pupils. In some of the smaller schools it is possible that more 
time may be given. To be effective such talks should IK- simple, slow, 
painstaking, and related more than on.-e. A single, rather hasty health 
talk to a chili! needing correction is of doubtful value. Kven a 
talk would be far more efficacious if related to him at home, after 1-dking 
\\ith his mother and studying his home life. 



786 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

HEALTH TALKS TO CLASSES 

These talks on health habits could be very valuable if given according to 
a definite graded schedule and system, in a regular orderly fashion. There 
is a great difference in the subject matter and manner of presenting it to 
first grade pupils and eighth grade pupils. The present unstandardized. 
ungraded, and unsystematic method renders these talks of little value. 
They should be made a definite part of the curriculum of every grade, and 
should be given by the teachers whenever the nurses do not have time to 
give them in this way. The present staff would not have time to give swh 
systematic instruction. 

Analysis of Staff and Administrative Methods 

SUPERVISOR 

The supervision of this nursing service is lodged in the hands of one super- 
visor and two field nurses. While the spirit and intentions of the supervisor 
are excellent, there are certain marked shortcomings in the conduct of/ the 
work. Not only are there too few supervisors for the size of the staff, but 
the purpose and aims of supervision are apparently misconceived. 

It would assist the supervisor to carry the responsibilities of her position 
if she were advanced in rank. She should have the title and salary of director 
or superintendent of nurses. 

FIELD NURSES 

One field nurse has eight nurses assigned to her, and in addition is respon- 
sible for staff nurse duties in one school and one eye clinic. She therefore 
gives only half her time to supervisory duties. The other field nurse has 
22 nurses under her. 

The field nurses in their supervisory capacity are expected to visit only 
those staff nurses who have been newly appointed, or who are thought to 
need special supervision. Last year several of the staff nurses received no 
supervisory visits from a field nurse. 

Both of these nurses spend much of their time in substituting for sick 
nurses and the rest in training new nurses and laboring with poor ones. 
The good nurses have, therefore, none of the benefits of supervision. 

Radical change is needed here. These nurses should have the rank, 
title, position, and salary of supervisors. None of them should have any 
staff work to do as is now the case on the West Side. As a matter of routine 
they should spend two half-days a month with each of their staff nurses, 
one half-day with her in the field, and the other half in the school. 

To make proper supervision possible, it will be necessary to increase the 
number of supervisors. There should be one supervisor for every ten nurses 
at most. 

Each supervisor should have an office in her district. She should be 
responsible for the management of her district, and the work of the nurses 
in it. She should hold definite office hours, when any of her staff can find 
her for consultation. The staff should be encouraged and expected to 
consult her frequently about case work. When the value of case work is 



N u R s i N <; 787 

taught and practised, the staff will have many problem- to consult JUT about 
At present they have few. 



It is important to have monthly statistical report* made by earl. 
nurse, stu<lied and corrected by each supervisor and thru referred to tin- 
superintendent or director. At present daily reports are made by the nurses, 
and these are summarized monthly in the main office. A j>crsonal reeord of 
efficiency and personality of each of her staff should l>c prepared by the 
supervisor, after careful observation of the nurse am! study of her work. 
and transmitted every three months to the director, for permanent record 
Such records should l>e prepared monthly for new nurses for the first three 
months. 

In some measure the deficiencies apparent in the work are due to the 
fact that the number of nurses and supervisor! is inadequate. Hut from the 
analysis of administration it is clear that the most serious weaknesses in the 
system arise from the failure to appreciate that the supervisor is to be a leader 
and consultant, whose duty it is to develop her staff, to help them see and 
meet their problems, to train their faculties and correct their mistakes, to 
analyze their work and its results. The absence of such supervision is evi- 
dent in the nurses' work, which is often routine in character, lacking in origi- 
nality and in grasp of opportunity. 

NURSES 

The staff nurses seem to be faithful, honest workers, |>crforming their 
duties conscientiously, but it is quite obvious that they lack sufficient super- 
vision. They clearly show a lack of leadership and development. 

They have too many children (approximately 3,000 per nurse) and too 
many school duties to accomplish the very necessary home visiting. The 
staff should be increased to give a ratio of 1 nurse to every 2,000 children. 
if a junior health worker is provided for each nurse. Otherwise the ratio 
should be one nurse to every 1,500 children. There might l>e provided \\ith 
much benefit to the service one "floating nurse" under each supervisor to 
fill the place of sick nurses. 

JUNIOR HEALTH WORKERS 

These workers seem to be of a unique type, originated and develo|>ed in 
Cleveland, on the whole with very good results, which are largely due to 
their being well educated. All of them are college graduates. 

They have relieved the nurses of much routine work in attending the 
doctor during examinations, have been responsible for getting dental defer tx 
corrected, and have taken many children to dispensaries. Then- M.-IHX (,, 
be no reason why all of this work could not IK- given to them. Placing one 
health worker with each nurse would result in freeing the nurse for more 
important duties. 

On the other hand, to allow home visits to be made by these workers. 
to secure information about children to whom P.inet text* |i ;t \- l,r.n -i\. -n. 
and those referred to dispensaries, appears to lie a mistake. Surh \ isiU, 
especially the first named, give much opportunity for constructive health 
work, and require a trained discrimination in observation of health as well 
as social conditions. They should, then-fore, be transferred to the nurses. 



788 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

CONFERENCES 

In order to promote the enthusiasm and inspiration which comes from 
the rivalry, competition and spirited discussion of new and live topics. 
weekly meetings of the nurses are hejd each Saturday morning, of the whole 
group or of sections of the nurses according to the size of assembly rooms 
available at the headquarters or elsewhere. Unless interest in these meet- 
ings is well maintained, perhaps in part by bringing in outside speakers 
as occasion offers, but chiefly by prepared discussions by members of the staff, 
the object of the meetings, that is, the building up of esprit de corps and 
unity in the staff, will be missed. From time to time these should be turned 
into carefully prepared case conferences, at which certain cases presenting 
difficulties, solved or unsolved, should be presented. Such conferences will do 
much to arouse in the nurse a sense of the importance of good case work and 
a knowledge of the way to go about it. For the same reason the nurses should 
be encouraged to attend the case conferences of the Associated Charities. 

RECORDS 

At present there is little coordination in the records. The child's indi- 
vidual record is kept in the school room. This record is very brief and tells 
little of what is done for the child. The doctor's orders are on this card. 
The work done by the nurse is usually, though not always, entered on the 
correction slip in her file. Home visits are kept on still another card. An 
effort to check the nurse's accomplishment against the doctor's recommenda- 
tion is almost hopeless. 

The individual health record of the child is kept on the teacher's desk, 
supposedly to keep the teacher informed of the child's physical condition. 
These records follow the child from room to room together with his school 
record. The teachers, however, are uninterested because nothing appears 
on this record that would give them a clear idea of the child's physical con- 
dition. Therefore, it would seem much more intelligent to have this record 
kept in the dispensary with the other records, and have them so arranged 
that it would be possible to know the entire performance of health work in 
regard to each child, unless, as proposed on page 312 of the child health 
report, the records in the school room include all items of the child's health 
'history as they should.* 

The method of using the correction slips for notations of home visits 
and corrections accomplished is exceedingly bad. It does not make for per- 
manency, and there is no way of using them as a basis for statistical study. 
The absence of a monthly report from the nurse is also a factor in making it 
difficult to know what the nurse has actually accomplished. A simple, 
accurate, and comprehensive report should be made by the nurse every 
month as a part of the whole statistical report. In no other way can 
she keep a check on her own activities, know what she has accomplished, 
and measure her progress. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

The following recommendations are directed toward concentrating the work of the 
nurses on the more essential activities, which they alone can conduct. 
* A new cumulative record card has already been developed. 



NURSING ;s-i 

ACTIVITIES 

(a) Staff nurses should be released from assisting doctors with examination of the 
children, and replaced by junior health workers. 

(b) Room inspection should be made by nurse and teacher in cooperation. 

(c) In correction of defects, efforts should be concentrated on home visits, thus chang 
ing the present emphasis. 

(d) The work done during the "dispensary hour" should be further analyzed, and the 
time reduced, if possible. 

(e) Individual health talks should be given to children at home, with explanations to 
the mother. 

(f) Class room talks, graded and standardized, should be given as a regular part of the 
curriculum. 

(g) An elementary course of instruction in the principles of teaching should be ar- 
ranged for the nursing staff. 

ADMINISTRATION 

(a) The present rank of supervisor should be advanced to that of superintendent or 
director. 

(b) The two field nurses should be advanced to rank, title and salary of supervisors, 
and the number of supervisors increased in the ratio of 1 to every 10 staff nurses. 

(c) Each supervisor should be held responsible for the management of her district 
and the work of her nurses. 

(d) Each supervisor should have an office in her district. She should keep office 
hours for consultation with her staff. 

(e) The staff should be increased by 30 nurses. The number of schools under each 
nurse should be decreased. . 

(f) The number of health workers should be increased in proportion to the increase 
in the nursing staff, but only in case well educated women can be obtained for these 
positions. 

(g) Weekly staff conferences should be continued. 

(h) The staff should attend Associated Charities' conferences frequently 
(i) The record system should be reorganized to provide coordination of the individual 
child's records. A monthly statistical report should be made by each nurse. Every 
four months an efficiency record for each nurse should be made by the supervisor. 



A 



The University Public Health Nursing District 
S described in the rei>ort on Nurses' Education in Cleveland, a c 
in public health nursing is given by Western Reserve 1'niversity under 
the School of Applied Social Science. The details of the organisation. 
management, finances, etc., of the University District, are described in that 
record and need not be repeated here. 

The unique character and opjx>rtunity of the University District as a 
practice field have been commented on. It remains- d dcsrribe the Uni- 
versity District as a community service of the first order; that is, a>- a demon- 
stration of nursing almost entirely generalized and carried out with a marked 
degree of success. 

The University District is an area set aside for the practical training of 
public health nurse students in which the activities ebewhera earned on by 
the Nursing Service of the Division of Health ami the \ isitmg Nurse Asso- 
ciation, are performed by the students under the direction of an 



790 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

teaching staff. The area coincides with Health District No. 8, estimated at 
60,000 to 70,000 population. It is one of the most congested and poorest 
parts of the city. 

Analysis of Administration 

STAFF 

The director of the course and of the field work is a public health nurse 
on the University payroll as an assistant professor. She teaches one course 
at the University and is in general charge of the district, teaching and super- 
vising the students and performing all the administrative duties. The direc- 
tor's duties are many and difficult, and are indeed beyond the capacity of 
one person. A full-time assistant director is needed to take over many 
routine matters, so that the head may have free time for the more important 
duties of her position. 

Assisting her are five nurse instructors, one of whom is designated assist- 
ant director, with limited administrative duties. Each instructor is a pub- 
lic health nurse in charge of a part of the district and responsible for the 
students assigned to her area. The district is thus divided among these five 
supervisors, as is also the management of the clinics held in the district. 
Each instructor is in addition responsible for the teaching of certain practical 
subjects, particularly those in which she has had special experience. 

There is no other permanent staff. With the exception of school nursing 
and out-patient materiiity work, nursing in the district is done by the stu- 
dents of the course as a part of their training. The number of students actu- 
ally at work in the district at any one time varies. There are graduate 
students who are taking the full course, and others who are taking only the 
four months' practical work. There are also ten undergraduate students 
sent from nurses' training schools for two months' experience. The highest 
number in the field during the past year has been 33 and the lowest 10. 

There are also an office secretary, a business woman, who is responsible 
for many business details, and three typists. 

PLAN 

The district is divided into five sections, each in charge of an instructor. 
These sections are again divided into sub-sections, one for each student nurse. 
The number of nurses in each section ranges from two to six or seven. Each 
student nurse has full responsibility for her sub-section in which she carries 
on a generalized service, under the direction of her instructor. 

Analysis of Activities 

VISITING NURSING 

General visiting for free, part-pay and full-pay patients and for Metro- 
politan Life Insurance policy holders is carried on in this district exactly as 
done elsewhere by the Visiting Nurse Association, with the exception of 
attendance at confinements and minor operations. The student staff is also 



N u i< s i \ ., 791 

entrusted with the nursing care which in other parts of tin- city is given \t\ 
the nurses df the Division of Health. Owing to the character of the popula- 
tion there is little call for hourly nursing. 

Because of the difference in the size of their resf>eetive districts, it is diffi- 
cult to compare the amount of nursing done by the I 'nivcrsity District 
Staff with that of the Visiting \urse Association. Apparently there is little 
difference either in volume or quality, except that, because of the generalized 
character of their nursing, the University students are able to give more 
attention to the family as a whole. Certainly visiting nursing has not suf- 
fered by being made a part of this generalized service. 

Owing to the higher ratio of nurses to population in this district, the at- 
tention given to sick babies and tuberculosis patients can be more regular 
and thorough than that given elsewhere by the nurses of the Division of 
Health. As much emphasis is put on nursing care as on any other aspect of 
the work, and full provision is made for it. In fact, as high a standard of 
care is given to these patients as to other bed patients at home. 

CHILD HYGIENE 

This service in the University District is similar in scope to that of the 
Nursing Service of the Division of Health. One or two exceptions are noted; 
all babies whose births are reported are visited and cases under the care of 
a private doctor are not dismissed. 

In January, 190, there were .510 well babies attending the Prophylactic 
Clinic, 1,8S.5 well babies not attending the clinic, 843 sick and convalescent 
babies attending the Babies' Dispensary and Hospital, and 1 babies under 
private doctors; a total of 3,259 babies under three years of age, or about 100 
babies to each student nurse. Two or three children are often in the same 
home. The babies attending the clinic regularly are visited two or three 
times every six months. Sick cases are seen daily, or as often as necessary. 
Well babies liot attending clinic are seen when possible, sometimes two to 
six months elapsing between visits. The director and instructors think it is 
worth while to carry these well babies even though they are not seen fre- 
quently. The records show that the average is five visits a month per 
baby. The record also shows that a large proportion of the new babies 
taken on each month are discovered by the nurses them>cl\ -s as they go about 
on other errands among their families. The best of nursing care, as has l>een 
stated above, is given to sick babies. It would IK- desirable to have well 
babies likewise visited more frequently. 

TUBERCULOSIS 

The scope of tuberculosis work done by the University District corre- 
sponds with that done by the Nursing Service of the Division of Health. 
There is no tuberculosis clinic in this district, patients being referred to 
Health Center No. 2, unless able to have a private doctor. 

It was evident that the patients were l>eing well cared for and kept under 
watchful suiKTvision. But although the nurses are willing and able to give 



79 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

all the bedside care necessary, they find that little is needed. Most of their 
cases are ambulatory, many of them working, and very few* bedridden. 
Advanced cases are persuaded to go to the hospital. It is believed that if 
there were' many bedridden cases in the district not under the care of the 
nurses, the fact would be known. The nurses are eager to find all such pa- 
tients. Just as in the case of children, the nursing is far more adequate and 
of a higher standard throughout than that given by the nurses of the Division 
of Health. 

| <jr The nurses believe that they are in touch with the majority of cases 
showing marked symptoms, but that there are probably a number of other 
cases missed for the following reasons: 

1. Because the men are away at work all day when the nurse is about, 
and no one in the family thinks that they are sick enough to report to her. 

2. Because early cases conceal the fact that they are losing weight or 
showing symptoms, and unless a nurse happens to see them she is not told of 
them by the patients or family. 

3. Because patients, both incipient and advanced, have more money 
than before the war and go to private doctors who often fail either to diag- 
nose the case, or to report it. Patients, moreover, change doctors frequently 
and are often not under observation long enough to give them a chance to 
diagnose or report the case, or else the doctor does not tell the patient what 
is the matter, for fear he will go to another practitioner. Many such cases 
used to go to the dispensary. 

4. Because the district includes many people of limited education and 
opportunity, the last to appreciate a subtle or hidden danger. 

For the same reasons the nurses believe that they are getting only fair 
results in their efforts to persuade positive and suspicious cases and those 
who have been exposed to infection to go to the tuberculosis clinic. 

Similarly the nurses find it difficult to persuade members of the family 
to be examined ; they refuse to see the necessity of going to a clinic if they 
feel well. 

Patients soon grow restless in the hospitals. They complain of poor 
food or of being lonesome, and come home as soon as they are a little better, 
long before their malady is arrested. Many go back to work soon after 
returning home. 

A report of January, 1920, shows that out of 209 positive cases on the 
books, 159 were attending a clinic; and out of 1,060 suspicious, non-tuber- 
culous and exposed cases, 881 were attending a clinic. 

The records further show that the average number of visits per month 
per patient for the whole group is only .3. If the visits were restricted to 
the positive cases only, the average would be 1 visit per month per patient. 
From this it is plain that the visits should be more frequent. At present 
each nurse averages 30 patients, under observation. 



\ I K S I \ <. 



COMMUNICABLE DI-I on < 

The Division of Health reports all communicable diseases, except small- 
pox, promptly to the University District. Tin- nurses visit ; ,|| ,,f tl 
reportalile and not reportable, for the following pnrp.-. 

To place and remove placards. 

To instruct in care, isolation and prophylaxis. 

To issue work permits. 

To give nursing care. 

To take cultures. 

To maintain quarantine. 

r |The nurses find that through this work they have an excellent chance to 
give care, to teach, and to be helpful to the family when most needed. Tin 
nurses perhaps lose some of their popularity because of restrictions which 
they must place on freedom of movement, but on the whole the family does 
not harbor resentment against them. 

No great amount of nursing care is needed because lx>th private and city 
doctors send most of the very sick cases to the hospital. The District serv- 
ice is willing and prepared to give as much nursing care as is needed. Teach- 
ing the family and caring for the patient are considered of as much impor- 
tance as maintaining quarantine, issuing permits, or taking cultures. Mur- 
ing care has been given to the few cases of typhoid which have been reported. 
Pneumonia has not been reported to the University District by the Divi- 
sion of Health. It would seem well to have these cases reported also 

This work occupies alxnit one-sixth of the nurses' time. 

PREVENTION OF BLINDNEHK 

The University District provides care for trachoma cases, but ha> not 
undertaken to be responsible for opthalmia neonatorum. 

MIDWIFE SUPERVISION 
This service has not been taken over for the Division of Health 

Sri'ERVisiON OF BOARDING 1 1 OMEN FOR BABIES 

There are only four of these homes in the District, and they receive the 
same oversight and supervision as other homes in the District in which then 
are babies. There is no doubt that more care and su|>er\ ision should In 
given to this group of infants. 

I'HK.N ATM. Ni KMN<. 

The nurses find most of the pregnant cases while tl t m (I.- 

trict and in the homes. Doctors do not report very many, and mid* 



794 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

only a few. Births reported from this district to the Division of Health in 
1918 were 1,618; for 1919 the figures were not obtainable. In 1919 the Uni- 
versity District had 479 pregnant women attending clinic and almost as many 
more under supervision at home.- In the opinion of the director, one in 
every two pregnancies in the district is carried. About one-third of the births 
in the district are delivered by the Out-Patient Maternity Service, one-third 
by midwives and one-third by private doctors. Private doctors send many 
of their cases to hospitals. 

The nurses urge women who are not consulting a doctor to go to the 
prenatal clinic. They also send to the clinic private physicians' cases with 
the physicians' consent, and patients who expect to have midwives. A pre- 
natal clinic is conducted twice a week at Health Center No. 8. The nurses 
try to visit prenatal cases at least once a month, and when possible once in 
three weeks. 

The cases reported to the Maternity Hospital Out-Patient Service still 
attend the clinic and are cared for by the University District nurses. If 
they develop abnormal symptoms they are turned over to the nurses of the 
Out-Patient Service. There has been some duplication of work by the nurses 
of these two organizations. 

Patients are referred to private physicians for maternity care, if able to 
pay the fee of $50.00. If not, they are referred to one of the two Out-Patient 
Maternity Services. Post-natal care is given by the Out-Patient nurses. As 
this service is popular there is not much maternity service left for the nurse 
of the University District. This is a disadvantage, as the students need 
adequate practice in this field. On the other hand, the University District 
alone has as many pregnant patients under supervision as there are under 
prenatal care in all the other districts of the Division of Health combined. 

SCHOOL NURSING 

No school nursing is done by the University District. It does not seem 
possible for the present staff of the University District to undertake as inten- 
sive work in the parochial schools as is now given in the public schools by the 
Board of Education. The students get their education in this branch of 
work under the Board of Education. It is deemed a wise decision that the 
University District should not undertake school nursing, unless the number 
of student nurses is increased. 

CLINICS 

No tuberculosis clinics are held in the University District. It is hoped 
that it will soon be possible to hold such clinics. Prophylactic baby clinics 
are held three times and prenatal clinics twice a week. These clinics are con- 
ducted for all purposes except medical services, by the instructors of the Uni- 
versity District for the purpose of giving the public health nurse students 
experience in managing clinics and familiarity with clinical resources. This 
experience is indeed valuable for the students, but it puts a great deal of 
responsibility upon the nurses who are already carrying a heavy burden as 



NURSING 795 

instructors and supervisors of the districts. One instructor spends on an 
average eight hours per week in her clinic, and another spends a.i average 
of fifteen hours, in addition to the full day given every month to balancing 
the milk book and compiling the milk re|x>rt. These instructors must pre- 
pare for the clinic, do a large share of the clerical work (volunteer help has 
not been satisfactory and paid clerical help has been irregular), teach nurses 
who are on duty in the clinic and assume the entire responsibility of its man- 
agement and success. A physician is in attendance at each clinic session. 

In order not to have the burden too continuous, rotation has been arranged 
among the instructors, but this does not lighten the volume of work. It 
merely changes the personnel. If the high standard of work in the teaching 
district, for which the instructors are largely responsible is to be kept up 
they should not be required to give thi. time to the dispensaries. In order 
to keep this service under the University District, however, a special instruc- 
tor for the dispensary should be appointed. This will in any case be neces- 
sary if a tuberculosis clinic is opened. Such an instructor would very mate- 
rially relieve the pressure on the other sujxrvisors and make possible the 
development of newer principles and procedures in this important activity. 

Supervision 

The object of supervision in public health nursing is to detect weaknesses 
and develop strength in the nurses; to protect the patients; to prevent 
exploitation of the nurses; to coordinate and utili/e to the best advantage 
the energies of the staff. 

The criticism has been brought against the University District that it 
employs too many instructors or suj>ervisors. This question received earnest 
consideration, but evidences of over su|&rvision though carefully sought, 
were not found. 

The director of the District, in accepting the responsibility of furnishing 
nursing care to everyone who needs it within this District, must first consider 
how, with a constantly changing stuff of nurses the standard of nursing ran 
be kept consistently high and uniform. She must also consider how tM 
heavy demands for nursing can best IK- met without exploitation of the 
nurses, who in this District are all to >e regarded as students in training. 

Ample proof was given that the character of the supervision is excellent. 
Thi> excellence was shown by the way in which the possibilities of nurse* 
necessarily of different calibre were developed. Even the leM Pefl tnme. 
or those of less native ability showed in their work clear evidence! of good 
teaching. It is probably due to the intensive work of the staff of instruct 
that the nursing standards of the University District have Ix-en high, that the 
patient's interests are most can-fully guarded and that the nurses have 
fully protected from too much work in the Held. 

General Summary 

The character and volume of the work in the I n. verity 1 ).,tri. t prove 
that a nursing program which i* almost ,-o,, M ,letely pMntind except 



796 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH STKVKY 

school nursing can be carried out with excellent results. No branch of nurs- 
ing undertaken has suffered from its merging into this general service. An 
excellent quality of service is given in all types of disease. Prenatal nursing 
is more vigorously developed than in any other district. Care of tuberculous 
patients and sick babies is as thorough and constant as for other patients. 
It should, however, be said that visits for instruction and prevention should 
be more frequent. A larger number of students would make this possible. 
All communicable diseases, except smallpox, are attended and preventive 
measures are emphasized. In fact, the work throughout is painstaking, 
conscientious, intelligent and of high quality. 

The University District has proved also that it is possible to care for a 
district satisfactorily without a permanent staff other than the instructors. 
It has been shown that continuity of service can be maintained through the 
instructors and that the students are capable of carrying responsibility for a 
part of a district and receiving the best training and development by so doing. 
The supervision, training and leadership given by the director and instructors 
is of the highest quality. 

It is evident, however, that the director and instructors in their efforts 
to be fair to patients and nurses alike are carrying very heavy responsi- 
bility. The method of remedying this has not revealed itself in so short a 
study, but requires careful consideration. In spite of the constant burden 
of work there is a cheerful devotion to duty that reflects itself in the work of 
the nurses in the field. An assistant director and instructor in charge of the 
clinics would relieve the tension appreciably. 

The University District has been looked upon as an independent labora- 
tory for experimentation in policies and methods. In so far as this adds to 
the teaching advantages, it is sound and advisable. Experiments which 
might jeopardize or injure the success of the students' experience and educa- 
tion should be tried elsewhere. 

The fact that the district is a teaching district and that the work must 
have educational value has always been recognized and kept clearly in 
mind. For this reason the responsibility for the field work has, with success, 
been placed directly upon the students. On the other hand, the needs and 
prerogatives of the patients have never been minimized or lost sight of. The 
educational character of the work has proved to be to the patient's benefit 
rather than detriment, just as it is true that medical attention in hospitals 
attached to medical schools is usually better than in other hospitals. The 
students are, in fact, receiving thorough practice in public health nursing; 
the patients are receiving a very excellent quality of nursing service. Close 
study failed to disclose any indication of the exploitation of either group. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 

1. That the director be provided with an assistant on full time. 

2. That an additional instructor be secured to take charge of the clinics. 

3. That the number of students who can be accepted be increased. 



N I l< ^ I N G 7D7 

4. That the University District continue its prenatal nursing and undertake port- 
natal nursing as a part of the city -wide maternity service. 

5. That instructive and preventive work among sick babies and tuberculous patients 
be developed more thoroughly. 

Prenatal and Maternity Nursing Service 

FROM the foregoing accounts of public health nursing in Cleveland, it is 
evident that one of its most important phases is the least coordinated, 
that is, the nursing provided for maternity care, including prenatal, 
part inn and postpartum services. Five separate agencies are at present 
carrying on these services, in whole or in part in Cleveland. These are: 

Maternity Hospital, 
St. Luke's Hospital, 
Mt. Sinai Hospital, 
University District, and the 
Visiting Nurse Association. 

In addition, since 1918, the nursing division of the Division of Health has 
been charged with the duty of prenatal care, but, as shown in the report of 
that Division, little work as yet has been done along this line. 

In the report of the Cleveland Survey on Dispensaries and Hospitals. 
details of the organization and of the medical work of these agenries are 
given. Part X. Here we are concerned only with the character of the nurs- 
ing services needed and provided. 

As we have seen, a consistent effort has for some years, with a large 
measure of success, been made in Cleveland to develop the systrm of general 
ized nursing, concentrated under as few agencies as |>ossiblc. It is. there- 
fore, high time to plan for a maternity nursing service on a city-wide plan, 
to consider how it may best be organized and administered. 

TYPES OF PATIKN n 

In any comprehensive plan, various ty|>es of patients must Ix- provided 
for. Figures are available to show the total number of births registered |,\ 
type of delivery, and the proportion which each type forms of the total 
number of births registered for the year l!M!>. vi/.: IM.K'M. (,n.ii|K-.| l,\ 
their arrangements for confinement, the following tyjMvs of patients n,--.| 
nursing care: 

1. All patients who are to be confined in hospital beds; accounting in 
1919 for 4,980 registered births, or 25.5'',' of the total. 

2. All patients who are to be confined by out-patient service; account- 
ing in 1919 for 1.257 registered births or 6.5' , of the total. 



798 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



3. All patients who are to be confined by mid wives; accounting in 1919 
for 5,903 registered births, or 30.8% of the total. 

4. Some patients who are to be confined by private doctors who are 
not giving prenatal care and consent to have the clinic extend such care. 

5. Some patients to be confined by private doctors for whom consulta- 
tion is desired. 

The cases delivered by private physicians, both in institutions and in 
patients' homes of whom groups 4 and 5 form a large part, acccount for 13,- 
196 births registered, or 69 per cent of the total registered births for the 
year 1919. 

TYPES OF NURSING CARE NEEDED 

For the first group, to be confined in the hospital, prenatal care in the 
home is needed. 

For the second group, who avail themselves of out-patient departments, 
nursing care is necessary in addition, during the confinement and post- 
partum period. 

For the third group, who are delivered by midwives, prenatal care is 
needed. 

For the fourth and fifth groups, comprising patients of private doctors, 
the three types of care are needed. 

Moreover, experience proves that besides adequate clinical equipment, 
vigorous continuous propaganda work in the home is needed. Without it, 
few take advantage of the clinic, unless in need of free services, or until late 
in pregnancy; many improvident women, relying on hospital care at the 
last moment, never go to the clinic or have any prenatal care; midwife cases, 
which comprise a third of the total registered births in Cleveland in 1919, 
have no prenatal care at all; many patients engaging a private doctor during 
the last month or two have no prenatal care or medical supervision. 

A study of about one thousand records from the three main agencies 
giving prenatal care and with available statistics (Western Reserve Univer- 
sity District and St. Luke's) showed that only about 12 per cent of all these 
cases had prenatal care before the fifth month, while 62 per cent of the cases 
had prenatal care during the last three months of pregnancy. 

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES FOR A CITY SERVICE 

In proposing a city-wide plan for a complete prenatal maternity service, 
the question at once arises, to what agent or agencies it should be entrusted. 
Obviously, no one of the five agencies now in the field could, with its present 
equipment, take over so large an added responsibility. Is it, then, de- 
sirable to create a new agency for the purpose, or to propose the expansion 
of one of those already taking part in this work? And if so, which of the 
present agencies is best fitted for such an expansion on the basis of its present 
methods and equipment? 



\ i B8ING 7,,., 

The municipal nursing staff, is, as we have seen, greatly overburdened, 
and in need of reorganization in the assignment of work and SIIJXT\ ii..n 
Tin- Division of Nursing is at present grappling with tin- prolilnn of al.s,,rb- 
ing the duties with which it has been newly charged each year. It \vould, 
therefore, IH inadvisable at this time to propose to add to it another and still 
larger undertaking. The city has neither funds nor facilities at this time to 
undertake responsibility for obstetrical and postpartum nursing care. More- 
over, the city might not succeed in reaching patients under the care of pri- 
vate doctors, large numl>ers of whom have only moderate incomes, so that 
they cannot afford private nurses and must dej>end upon visiting nursing 
care. In 1919, as we have seen, the total number of births delivered by 
private doctors numbered 69 ]>er cent of all births registered. 

Only two other agencies have been seriously considered for city-wide 
maternity nursing service. These two are the Maternity Hospital and the 
Visiting Nurse Association. 

MATERNITY HOSPITAL 

The proposal to extend the nursing service of Maternity Hospital so as to 
offer a general preiiatal and maternity service, does not commend itself for 
various strong reasons. It would indeed appear to be a fundamental mis- 
take. The Maternity Hospital has in the past ]>erformed a valuable sen 
such as is the function of a University hospital, in teaching the possibilities 
in this field and demonstrating the actual saving of life which goes with a 
prenatal, part urn and post-partum service. 

This hospital should continue to be, fundamentally and increasingly, a 
training field for nurses as well as for medical students, in the obstetrical 
field. To attempt to extend its community work and to establish a city 
service, instead of developing and extending its valuable function of train- 
ing, would be to miss its proper office. 

Moreover, the nursing service of a hospital by its nature does not cover 
the great majority of registered births, that is, those occurring neither in the 
wards nor under the out-patient department, but attended in their homes 
by private physicians or midwives. In 1919, of the total confinement cases 
reported in Cleveland, 37.2 per cent were delivered by physicians in the 
homes of private patients, and 80.8 per cent by midwives in the patients' 
homes, or an estimated total of babies delivered by these two groups. <>f 
13,000 or 08 per cent. 

But even if these points were not conelusivc, eertain weaknesses IP tin- 
methods of work as at present carried on. would in a larger area be a serious 
drawback to good service. The nursing care of this hospital is eharai ter- 
ized by a lack of continuity in the nursing ]>crsonnel and by a lack of the best 
conceived type of supervision as deserilwd in other sections ,,f this report. 

LACK OK ( MI\I \]\ 

The lack of continuity is shown by the division of the u.,rk. Details 
of the organization of the Maternity Hospital din ven in the I 



800 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

pensary Report, Part X. Here the chief points of the nursing service are 
described. 

The prenatal nurse, with headquarters in her prenatal station calls on 
the patient and makes observations until the time of delivery. The patient 
is then turned over to the delivery nurse of the hospital, who is taking a 
special course in obstetrics. She may be a pupil nurse, or she may be a 
graduate. She accompanies the medical student for delivery in the case 
of each primipara, in all other cases the delivery nurse goes, if any one of 
them is available. Thus all the advantages gained by the prenatal nurse 
from knowing the patient and having won her confidence are lost. The 
post-partum nurse must begin the acquaintance over again. The record 
system is not such as to give the help which might be given in keeping up the 
connection. The prenatal records appear to be inadequate in scope and 
poorly kept. 

LACK OF SUPERVISION 
Prenatal Care: 

For prenatal care, four full-time graduate nurses are employed. They 
give service at the six prenatal clinics now operated, and spend the rest of 
the time on home visits. They average about ten calls daily, rising in some 
cases to fifteen calls. Where districts are densely settled and the cases 
happen to be so grouped that transportation does not require much waste 
of time, fifteen instructive visits may not prove to be impracticable, but in 
general more than ten prenatal visits a day will be found to result in sacri- 
fice of thoroughness. 

Moreover, though all patients are supposed to be visited every two 
weeks, and acute cases daily, it was stated in the course of the investigation 
that these visits are not regular. A normal case, attending the clinic regu- 
larly, may be seen at home only two or three times during pregnancy. The 
nurses carry in their bags blood pressure apparatus and equipment to make 
urinalysis. But these are not used for every patient visited, as the best 
practice requires. Abnormal cases are seen daily or every other day as indi- 
cated. 

The Director of Nurses makes an effort to see every case which is re- 
ported to the clinic, but not necessarily with the nurses. Of supervision in 
the field, as developed for graduate nurse staffs in the best public health 
work, and essential as a stimulus as well as a guide, there is here none. Any 
abnormal cases are discussed with the Director of Nurses. Abnormalities 
found in home visits are reported verbally to the Director, who enters this 
information on the prenatal index card, made out when each new 
case is admitted; but there is no detailed weekly or monthly report kept 
by the nurse as a record of her own performance. There is no system by 
by which the frequency of the patient's visit to the dispensary or the nurse's 
visit to the home is automatically checked up. 

Delivery and Post-Partum Care: 

This care is given by the student nurses under supervision of the assist- 
ant director. Each new ntf%i PKjrfa ken into her district by the assistant 



NURSING 801 

linn-tor, but for only half a day. Thereafter, the assistant director drops in 
on her daily during a |>eriod of about a week. 

There are four nurses doing post-partum work, each averaging about 
eight cases daily. This number is, again, too large for adequate care and 
instruction in the home. If labor occurs during the day, either the director 
or the assistant director makes an effort to get into the home before the 
baby is delivered. Each newly delivered case is seen by the assistant di- 
rector the day after the confinement. Oversight of the patient's condition 
is thus assured; but regular supervision of the nurses who, it must be remem- 
bered, are here students-in-training, is not accomplished. 

From observation of five post-partum cases, it was evident that while 
the essentials, such as care of the breasts, external irrigation, care of the 
baby, etc., received careful attention, the work was not up to the nursing 
standards observed by the Visiting Nurse' Association or in the University 
I )ist rid . Doubtless the unusually large number of cases carried by the Western 
Reserve students Accounted for this fact. The rooms were not left in as good 
onlrr as desirable, no uniform is required, one nurse being observed at work 
in a chiffon waist. 



PRENATAL AND POSTNATAL WORK IN A GENERALIZED SERVICE 

In contrast to the specialized work of the Maternity Hospital, there is 
available in Cleveland the example of an agency which includes prenatal 
work in a generalized nursing service. This is the University District, 
which in 1919 had 142 dispensary cases, which may be compared with 485 
dis|Mnsary records studied at the Maternity out-patient department. The 
home visits of the University District nurses upon 442 dispensary cases 
numl>ered 1 39 1 or 3.1 per cent per patient as against 271 visits upon 483 
dispensary eases or .6 per cent per patient by the Maternity nurses. In the 
generalized service, therefore, the home visits recorded were 5 times greater 
in number than in the s|>ecialized service. The average number of dispen- 
sary visits IMT patient recorded in the generalized service were much more 
numerous than in the specialized (2.4 in the University District as against 
1.5 at Maternity). 

In comparing the |M>rcentage of cases reached early in pregnancy, the 
University District is again far in advance according to the records studied, 
having brought almost half (46%) of its total cases under rare by the sixth 
month, while Maternity had only 19.2 per cent under care at that period 
of pregnancy. 

It seems apparent that the Maternity hospital records studied do not 
truly represent the quality of the service rendered by this institution, but as 
the permanent records of any service should be available as a basis for evalu- 
ation of that service, the results of this study of records are given. 



I 



802 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



Records of No. Dis- 

Dispensary pensary Aver- No. Home Aver- 

Cases Studied Visits age Visits age 

Maternity 483 708 1.5 271 .6 

University District 442 1084 2.4 1391 3.1 

St. Luke's 141 No record of home or dispensary visits. 

Mt. Sinai _ No record of home or dispensary visits. 

The University District thus in a small district and with a high ratio of 
nurses to population illustrates the possibility of including prenatal and 
postnatal care in a general nursing service for the sick which gives family 
care and instruction. , 

While it is true that fruitful demonstrations of special maternity services 
have been made in other cities, nevertheless an extension of the generalized 
nursing service for the sick is especially appropriate, since Cleveland has 
proved its ability to conduct generalized public health nursing with a con- 
siderable measure of success, as well as a true generalized nursing service in 
the fields of sick nursing and public health nursing in the University Dis- 
trict. 

THE VISITING NURSE ASSOCIATION 

In the Visiting Nurse Association there is available an agency, doing 
generalized sick nursing in homes on a city- wide plan, with adequate and 
skilled supervision, which already makes a specialty of medical, surgical 
and maternity nursing, excellently done and capable of further expansion. 

This Association now serves all groups of patients, the poor and those 
of moderate income, midwife and private doctor's patients, as well as those 
intending to have hospital care. 

For an extended program to provide general maternity care, this Asso- 
ciation could provide service by a graduate nurse trained in' visiting nursing, 
and could also provide supervision for student nurses if necessary. It would 
afford uniformity and continuity of service, the same nurses being available 
for all three types of care. Because of its large staff, small districts, and 
other nursing contacts, it could greatly increase the usefulness and adequacy 
of the clinics through the early discovery of pregnant patients, who would 
be urged to seek medical oversight at once, at the clinics. Such patients 
would also receive careful prenatal nursing at home if they could not be 
persuaded at once to attend a clinic. 

For these reasons, the Visiting Nurse Association appears to be the logical 
agency in Cleveland to which the extended prenatal and maternity services 
for the city should be entrusted. It would mean a large expansion for this 
Association entailing large expenditures, and responsibilities with which 
the Association is well fitted to cope. No greater opportunity to serve the 
community, and indeed to demonstrate such a service to the whole country, 
could be offered. 

After the demonstration had been made, it would be desirable and in 
line with past policy in Cleveland gradually to turn over this service to the 



\ i 



municipal ^(ufi. If the proposed Kxlctision District of th<- Division ofjHcalth 
is established as is suggested elsewhere (page 7(>!M for the extension of the 
municipal nursing work, it would l>e desirable to substitute for the Visiting 
Nurse Asso.-iation the municipal nurses in that district, except for attend- 
ance at delivery. 

A- the assumption, of this service in the Kxtension District ofthe Di- 
vision of Health proves practical and successful, and as the whole nursing 
enriofl of the Division of Health is built up to meet its present activities, 
and becomes able to assume new functions, the service might l>e turned 
over district by district to the Division of Health, or the prenatal service 
might first be turned over, the transfer of care during confinement and p<>,| 
part inn care l>eing postponed. 

RECOMMENDA TIONS 
It is therefore recommended: 

1. That the Visiting Nurse Association give prenatal instruction and nursing care 
in the homes, reporting findings to and receiving instruction from the clinics daily. This 
service could be provided by the Visiting Nurse Association as a uniform service to all 
clinics. 

2. That clinics be maintained under the proposed Obstetrical Council to serve the 
entire city by zones or districts according to agreement among the various hospitals, 
nurses for service within the clinics to be provided by the hospital wherever possible, by 
the Visiting Nurse Association where impossible. 

3. That nursing care during confinement be provided by the Visiting Nurse Associa- 
tion (a continuous graduate staff for deliveries to be provided by the Visiting Nurse Asso- 
ciation for this purpose), or by students of the hospitals under the supervision of the 
Visiting Nurse Association. 

4. That post-partum nursing be provided by the Visiting Nurse Association for all 
clinics, or by student nurses under the Visiting Nurse Association. 

5. That in the University District, for the Visiting Nurse Association, the university 
staff be substituted, except for attendance at delivery. That in the proposed Exten- 
sion District of the Division of Health the Visiting Nurse Association be replaced by the 
municipal nurses, except for attendance at delivery. 

6. That a uniform procedure be established for all districts and observed by all staffs. 

7. That if the proposed Obstetrical Council is formed, a sub-committee on prenatal 
and maternity nursing from the Central Committee act as the sub-committee on nursing 
of the Obstetrical Council, and that the Central Committee be represented on the Ob- 
stetrical Council and vice versa. 

Industrial Nursing 

THE Survey of Industrial Hygiene in Cleveland has shown that there 
were, at the time of the investigation, scvtn full-time industrial phy- 
sicians and 101 industrial and mercantile nurses. In 36 plants, 66 
nurses were working with part-time physicians. 

These figures indicate clearly enough the responsibilities of the nurse in 
industry. and the possibility's which lie before her in her contact with the 



804 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

large bodies of men and women who are congregated in industrial establish- 
ments. 

Obviously, no hard and fast rules can apply to all types of industrial 
nursing; it must vary with conditions, with the size of plants, the type of 
management and of employe, etc. But under all these differences and with 
all the varied duties which the industrial nurse may legitimately perform, 
there should be one essential aim, common to all good public health nursing, 
that is, the maintenance of health and the teaching of hygienic habits. 

With so wide a field before her and in a branch of public health work so 
new and unstandardized, it is not surprising that the industrial nurse has as 
yet, broadly speaking, scarcely found herself. She stands too often between 
the industrial physician, who for the most part regards her as a mere adjunct 
to the surgical dispensary, and the employer or his representative, in whose 
mind she is vaguely to function in creating better industrial relations in his 
plant. 

The danger, therefore, is that industrial nursing will be diverted on the 
one hand into pure dispensary assistance, or on the other, into pure welfare 
work. In neither of these, though both may be part of her duties, lies the 
sole function of the industrial nurse. On her training and personality it 
will in many instances depend whether she develops a constructive type of 
work, enlisting the management's and workers' cooperation, or is submerged 
in the routine of first aid or of factory housekeeping or recreational activities. 

The Nursing Survey made a detailed study of twelve representative in- 
dustrial nurses in Cleveland to observe their work, the types of duties per- 
formed by them and the emphasis on prevention of illness and of accidents 
as well as on treatment. The establishments visited included metal working 
plants, food and clothing factories, public utilities, and department stores. 
Three of these plants had full-time physicians, the others had either a part- 
time or no physician. 

WORK CONFINED TO FIRST AID 

Several of the nurses observed were confined in their activities wholly to 
the first aid room; they were strictly dispensary nurses with no thought of 
responsibility beyond dressing injuries and no encouragement on the part 
of the management to expand their interests. The limitations of this type 
of work were well illustrated by one of these nurses whose business-like dis- 
patch enabled her to handle quickly and efficiently the large number of cases 
passing through the dispensary, but whose lack of interest and coldness re- 
pelled any further advances on the part of the girl employes in illness or 
trouble. 

In contrast to this nurse was an older woman, also of the dispensary 
type and less well equipped technically, but of warm human sympathies who 
had gained the confidence of a large body of workmen in another plant 
through the contacts made in the first aid room. 

An extreme instance of failure to connect first aid work with prevention 
of injuries was observed in another plant where a man was treated three 
times in one day by a nurse for cutting his hand at the same machine. Here 



NURSING 805 

the nurse was not allowed to leave the dispensary. She was regarded by 
the management, and had learned to regard herself, as a permanent 
fixture of the first aid room, a mere mechanical agent for binding up cuts or 
wounds. 

WORK OUTSIDE THE DISPENSARY 

Ranging upward from this most limited performance, there were ob- 
served in Ceveland many varieties of work and of responsibility carried by 
the industrial nurse. In some plants the nurse had in charge, under the 
standing orders of the attending doctor, the entire first aid and emergency 
treatment, and was responsible for all records, follow-up, re-dressings, etc. 
In one such establishment the nurse made a rule of having the doctor, in 
his daily visit, see all new cases and all infections. 

Procedures naturally differ as to the nurse's responsibility for such mat- 
ters as plant sanitation and the safety of employes. While supervision of 
these matters is, in large plants, in the hands of specialists, in smaller fac- 
tories such supervision was found to be a valuable part of the nurse's work, 
especially when combined with instruction of the employes in matters of 
sanitary equipment and safety. 

SHARING IN PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS 

In contrast to the dispensary nurse and the repetition of cuts cited above, 
other nurses in Cleveland were taking part in the prevention as well as cure 
of accidents. One nurse regularly inspected the scene of accidents. WTiile 
this might lead her beyond her field, when technical knowledge of machinery 
was needed, yet she had been able to point out obvious, overlooked causes 
of accidents such as bad lighting or the presence of an obstruction in the 
way of the employes. 

The industrial nurse should have sufficient knowledge of the technical 
processes used in her plant to know and advise on the safeguards provided. 
Yet she is often totally uninstructed in such matters. On one occasion in 
Cleveland the nurse was found wholly ignorant of certain types of respirators 
provided for a certain process and hence incapable of advising the workers 
with regard to using them. 

SHARING IN PREVENTION OF DISEASE 

Constructive health work and ability to gain the workers' confidence so 
that they will consult her in matters of ill-health, incipient as well as acute, 
should clearly be the center of the industrial nurse's business. The other 
aspects of her work-first aid, safety, sanitation and welfare work should 
all be directed to this general end. The aim of maintaining health and 
educating the workers -men and women alike in matters of health should, 
indeed, distinguish the industrial nurse from other types of welfare workers. 
Individual instances of good work along these lines were observed in Cleve- 
land, but as elsewhere, it was on the whole slighted and too often ignored in 
the multiplicity of other duties. 

In many plants the nurse spends far too much time on recreational and 
welfare activities. Absorption in these is as alien to constriK-tive health 



806 HOSPITAL, AND HEALTH SURVEY 

work as absorption in surgical routine. In one establishment the nurse 
devoted two evenings a week to social meetings, while failing to note obvious 
health hazards in certain rooms and making no effort to educate the girls by 
talks on health either individually or in groups. 

The transfer of workers from jobs for which they are physically unfit to 
other positions better suited to their physiques is a genuine health measure 
which nurses may well recommend to the management. Such transfers had 
been successfully recommended by nurses in Cleveland for various cases of 
flat-foot and varicose veins. Some girls affected by a necessarily cold work- 
room and others who were suffering from dermatitis had been benefited by 
a change. These isolated examples show how great an influence the nurse 
may have in prevention of the illness before it becomes acute, if she is per- 
sonally familiar with the workers and on terms of confidence with them. 

Education in hygienic habits is also clearly one of the nurse's first duties, 
as yet little developed. One nurse had recently regained a valuable girl 
worker and had lessened her susceptibility to constant colds, by persuading 
her to give up chiffon waists in winter-time and to dress more warmly. 
Another nurse encouraged hygienic habits in a good factory by making 
daily inspections, providing clean caps and aprons and urging personal 
cleanliness. In one room unaffected by the artificial ventilation, she had 
arranged to have the windows opened ten minutes, morning and afternoon. 

Another example of good preventive work, along a somewhat different 
line, was the nurse's successful insistence upon installation of a sterilizer in 
the lunch-room of a plant in which employes known to be suffering from 
tuberculosis and venereal disease were in contact with the other workers. 

SOME CAUSES OF FAILURE 

Too often, however, instead of trying to teach hygienic habits the nurse 
relies merely upon giving drugs. Contrary, to all good medical and nursing 
practice, nurses were found habitually giving sedatives and medication for 
many minor ailments. This widespread practice should be abandoned at 
once. 

Another serious fault in industrial nursing in Cleveland, which it shares 
with industrial medical practice, is the lack of records and statistics. In 
many cases neither the management nor the industrial physician encourages 
or indeed takes any interest in the nurse's reports. Yet without reports and 
records, the nurse cannot gauge her own progress or be in a position to prove 
her points to her superiors. A simple and effective system of records, adapted 
as necessary to the conditions of individual plants, and showing so far as 
possible the relation of nursing care to such matters as compensation claims, 
statistics of accidents, illness and absence of employes, is one of the most 
urgent needs of industrial nursing in Cleveland. Provision of lay assistants 
in record keeping as well as in the dispensary is greatly needed and would 
release the nurse for her more important duties. 

Lay assistants are desirable also for all routine following up of absentees. 
In all cases of illness, too .little emphasis on home visiting was found in Cleve- 
land. This lack is unfortunate since a knowledge of home conditions and 



\ I USING SO? 

good contacts in the home are of first importance in obtaining the genuine 
confidence of the workers. The services of the Visiting Nurse Association 
of Cleveland should he called on for bedside care if necessary, after j>erhaps 
one or two visits by the industrial nurse. 

The isolation of the industrial nurse keeps her from contact with the 
rapid developments of public health nursing and of industrial hygiene, with 
which she should l>e acquainted and in which she should share. Few indus- 
trial nurses have had adequate training for their special field, most have at 
best learned through their own experiences and their native abilities. In 
cities in which industrial nurses are a part of some agency, such as the 
Visiting Nurse Association, they, like the rest of the staff, benefit from 
belonging to such an organization and sharing its general standards and 
pract ; 

The Nursing Survey has recommended the inclusion on the Central 
Nursing Committee of a representative of industrial nursing. The Industrial 
Nurses' Club might be of much more technical professional value to nurses 
than it has Keen in the past, and either it, or some similar organization, 
should be actively organized. It should be a real center for developing this 
most recent, and one of the most important, branches of public health nurs- 
ing as it is capable of being developed in industry. 

A discussion of Industrial Nursing also appears in the chapter on Indus- 
trial Medical Service, Part VII. 



808 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Some Notes on Private Duty Nursing 

UNNECESSARY EMPLOYMENT OF FULL-TIME GRADUATE NURSES 

IT is often asserted both by physicians and by trained nurses that in 
many cases of minor illness or of convalescence, the services of a graduate 
nurse are unnecessary and that such cases can be adequately cared for 
by less highly trained persons, or indeed by members of the family. 

With the object of obtaining some more concrete information as to such 
possible substitution, a brief inquiry was addressed to a small group of 
private duty nurses in Cleveland. The number of cases reported on is too 
small to be at all conclusive, but the replies received are suggestive and in- 
dicate that a wider investigatic n might yield valuable conclusions. 

Inquiries were addressed to 25 nurses. They were asked whether, dur- 
ing the past year, any of their patients could have dispensed with the care of 
a full-time graduate nurse, either altogether or for part of the time. Replies 
were received from 15 nurses. They were also asked which if any of the fol- 
lowing substitutes could have replaced the graduate nurses, viz: a so-called 
"practical" nurse, members of the patient's family or an "hourly" nurse, 
that is, a graduate nurse engaged for an hour or two per day. 

USE OF HOURLY NURSE RECOMMENDED 

Of 275 cases nursed during the period reported on, 68 or a quarter (24.7%) 
might, in the opinion of the nurses, have done without their services for all 
or part of the illness. 

The outstanding fact which emerges from this brief inquiry is the agree- 
ment among the nurses that of the 46 patients who could have dispensed 
with their services for part of the time, 34 or almost three-quarters (73.9%) 
could have been cared for by hourly nurses. This estimate is no doubt 
in part due to the large number of acute surgical cases represented in the 
total group. For in such cases expert continuous nursing may obviously be 
needed for only a short time, after which an hour or two per day might readily 
suffice for the necessary daily nursing care. 

NATURE OF CASES 

Of the total 'number of cases reported, about three out of five were hos- 
pital cases, and of these almost all were surgical. The remaining two- 
fifths, mainly medical cases, were nursed at their homes. Only about one 
in nine of the home patients was surgical. 

Acute cases reported upon far outnumbered chronic cases, both at home 
and at the hospitals. The proportion of acute to chronic cases at home was 
95 to 9, and in hospitals it was 159 to 12. 

Two of the nurses stated that they did not take any except acute cases. 
The inclusion of the reports of these nurses makes the proportion of cases 
which could have been cared for without graduate nursing care less than it 
would ordinarily be. 

NUMBER OF NURSES REPORTING UNNECESSARY EMPLOYMENT 
Thirteen out of the fifteen nurses reported that they had been unneces- 
sarily employed at some time during the period reported on. (For various 



\ i B81 HO!) 

P isonal reasons the period reported on varied from four to seventeen months, 
the average being somewhat over ten). The two nurses not having had such 
cases were among the four reporting on a very short period, viz: from four to 
six months only. 

AMOUNT OF UNNECESSARY EMPLOYMENT 

As has been stated, in 68 of the 275 f cases reported on, the graduate full- 
time nurse might have been otherwise replaced. Omitting one nurse whose 
service consisted of an exceptionally rapid succession of acute cases, the 
total number of cases of unnecessary employment amounted to 67 out of 226, 
or 29.6%, which is more nearly representative of the group. In individual 
reports, the j>ercentage of cases of unnecessary employment varies greatly, 
ranging from 74.7% of all cases cared for by a nurse in the period in ques- 
tion, down to 2% of all cases, the median being 44.4%. In other words, one 
nurse had 11 such cases out of 20 cases in all; another had 8 out of 11; the 
lowest projwrtion being 1 out of 49. 

Similarly, the length of time spent in unnecessary employment by the 
15 nurses varied greatly. No definite statement can be made on this point, 
as information was sometimes lacking and sometimes uncertain. One 
nurse reported as much as three months' unnecessary nursing in a year's 
experience, or 25% of her total time; another 4 months out of 11 } > months 
or 34.8%. The average length of time so s])cnt for 10 nurses who were 
able to give an estimate, amounted to something over l 1 ^ months j>er nurse 
per annum. 

PoaSIBLE SUBSTITUTES FOR FuLL-TlME GRADUATE NORSE 

Of the sixty-eight cases on which these graduate nurses reported un- 
necessary employment, about one-third could have been cared for by some 
other arrangement during their entire illness. In fourteen of these cases a 
practical nurse, in s'even cases a member of the family, and in one case an 
hourly nurse, would have sufficed. 

The remaining two-thirds (46) could have dispensed with the full-time 
graduate nurse's services during a part of their illness only. As has already 
been stated, in thirty-four cases, she could have been replaced by hourly 
nursing. In seven, it is believed that a practical nurse would have sufficed, 
ami a member of the family in the remaining five ca>< - 

Thus, in the opinion of the 15 nurses consulted, the cases cared for dur- 
ing the given period were divided as follows: 

(a) A large proportion of cases in which hourly nurses could have relieved the full- 
time nurses after the most serious stage was passed, and one case which could have been 
entirely cared for in this way. 

(b) A considerable proportion of cases which could have used a practical nurse dur- 
ing the entire sickness, and a few in which such nursing could have been utilized forepart 
of the duration of the case only. 

(c) A few patients who could have been nursed during their entire illness and a few 
during part of their illness by members of their own families. 

I \ll'l.(h MIAT OF TKAINKI) ATTENDANTS 

In Cleveland ;is e|se\\hcre flic employment of trained attendants has 
been a subject of controversy. ( )n the one hand there is undoubted need 



810 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

of persons capable of rendering personal service and some small degree of 
nursing care to those who are ill but who do not need the services of a grad- 
uate nurse. The present shortage of nurses for bedside care emphasizes the 
desirability of making available the services of such a class of workers, in 
order to release the graduate nurses for duties which they alone can compass. 

Our brief inquiry into possible substitutes for the full-time graduate 
nurse shows that in the opinion of these private duty nurses themselves, a 
part of their cases might have been carried by attendants or "practical" 
nurses as well as by "hourly" nurses. 

The Nursing Survey recognizes the value and need of the trained at- 
tendant. It has been urged to formulate an educational plan and short 
courses for the training of such workers. But to this plan there appear to 
be at present several valid objections. For it must be recognized that the 
employment of the trained attendant brings with it unmistakable dangers, 
especially when, unequipped, she assumes the part of the fully trained 
nurse. Against this danger the patient must in some way be protected. 

The experience of the Visiting Nurse Association of Cleveland, in dis- 
continuing its attendant service after almost three years' trial, appears so 
far as it went, to have been conclusive. The faihire was due to causes oper- 
ative elsewhere as well as in Cleveland, that is to the difficulties of retaining 
control of the work and the charges of the attendants, while responsible for 
their employment. 

That the pay of trained attendants can be very much lower than that of 
the graduate nurses, it is probably unreasonable to expect, since their cost 
of living is not materially less than that of the graduate nurses. That there 
is a genuine demand for the trained attendant in her own sphere, the experi- 
ence of the Visiting Nurse Association has amply demonstrated anew. 

The question at once arises whether safeguards cannot be devised to re- 
tain the benefits and minimize the dangers of such a service. From experi- 
ence in other lines of work it would appear that no better safeguard has 
been devised than through legislation defining the status of, and licensing, 
both graduate nurses and those trained to give services of a different but 
no less necessary order. 

A precedent for such legislation already exists in many states but not 
yet in Ohio, in the laws licensing the practice of dental hygienists (Connecti- 
cut, New York, Massachusetts) that is, of persons authorized to practise 
dental cleansing without use of instruments and only under the supervision 
of a licensed dentist. Here there has been established successfully the 
licensing of two different grades of workers, for different grades of service 
in the same profession. Penalties for fraud, or for practising under any but 
the appropriate name, should obviously be provided for in such legislation. 

At the present time, and until the necessary regulation by city or state 
ordinance, has been enacted, it does not appear desirable to recommend the 
establishment of courses for further training of attendants in Cleveland. 
The framing and enactment of suitable legislation should take first place, 
in plans for action in this matter. 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTHlSURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 

The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 

THE PREMIER PRESS 

Cleveland, O. 



Introduction 

General Environment 

Sanitation 



PART ONE 




Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 



I 






Introduction 

General Environment 

Sanitation 



PART ONE 



Cleveland Hospital and 
Health Survey 




fe T~l 



Copyright. 1920 
by 

THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL 

Cleveland, Ohio 



Published by 

The Cleveland Hospital Council 

808 Anisfield Bldg. 
Cleveland Ohio 



Preface 

The Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland was made at the request 
of the Cleveland Hospital Council. 

The Survey Committee appointed to be directly responsible for the work 
and through whose hands this report has been received for publication 
consisted of the following: 

MALCOLM L. McBuiDE, Chairman 

MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER 

THOMAS COUHLIN 

RICHARD F. GRANT 

SAMUEL H. HALLE 

OTTO MILLER 

DR. H. L. ROCKWOOD 

HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary 

The staff responsible for the work were: 
Director HAVEN EMERSON, M. D. 
Assistant-Director GERTRUDE E. STURGEB, M. D. 

Cleveland Division of Health 

Study in charge of HAVEN EMERSON, M. D. 

{W. G. MOOKEHOUSE, M. D. 
G. B. GASCOIGNE 
I. S. OSBORN 

Consultant in Orthopedics ROBERT B. OSGOOD, M. D. 

Hospitals and Dispensaries in Cleveland 

Study in charge of MICHAEL M. DAVIS, Jr., Ph. D. 

I ANNA M. RICHARDSON, M. D. 

Assisted by \ MRS. MARY STRONG BURNS, R. N. 

[Miss H. L. LEETE, R. N. 

Consultant in Hospital Administration W. L. BABCOCK, M. D. 
Consultant in Convalescent Care FREDERIC BRUSH, M. D. 

Nursing in Cleveland- 
Study in charge of Miss JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, B. A, 

Miss ANNE STRONG, R. N. 
MRS. ALICE F. PIGGOTT, R. N. 



Assisted by 



Miss ELIZABETH Fox, R. N. 
Miss JANET M. GEISTER, R. N. 
Miss A. H. TURNER, A. B. 
MRS. ANNA STAEBLER, R. N. 



Industry in Cleveland 

Study in charge of WADE WRIGHT, M. D. 

Assisted by /Mas. MARIE WUIGHT 

s FLORENCE V. BALL 



Venereal Disease in Cleveland 

Study in charge of W. F. SNOW, M. D. 

{ALEC THOMSON, M. D. 
ALLISON FRENCH 
MRS. M. P. FALCONER 
BASCOMB JOHNSON 

Child Health Work in Cleveland 

Consultant in Child Health S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H. 
In charge of Sanitary Survey of Children's Institutions 
HENRY G. MACADAM, M. D. 

Tuberculosis in Cleveland 

Study in charge of DONALD B. ARMSTRONG, M. D. 

Mental Hygiene in Cleveland 

Study in charge of THOMAS W. SALMON, M. D. 

Assisted by JESSE M. W. SCOTT, M. D. 

Vital Statistics in Cleveland 

Study in charge of Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D. 
Pharmacy in Cleveland 

Study made by EDWARD SPEASE, B. S. 

The entire staff is under obligation to Miss ELIZABETH R. CUMMER and 
Miss JOSEPHINE COLEGROVE for secretarial work in assembling and pre- 
paring reports on individual hospitals, in proof-reading and in indexing the 
completed report. 

Bibliography of Surveys prepared by Miss JULIA T. EMERSON. 
Publicity for the Survey in Cleveland 
In charge of CARLTON MATSON 
Assisted by Miss GEORGIA BOWEN 
Special Reports were contributed by 

National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness. 

MRS. WINIFRED HATHAWAY, Executive Secretary. 
American Society for the Control of Cancer. 

F. J. OSBORNE, Executive Secretary. 
Association for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease. 
Miss M. E. WOUGHTER, Executive Secretary. 

The expenses of the Survey and of the publication of the report have been 
met by appropriations received from the Community Chest through the 
Welfare Federation, of which the Hospital Council is a member. 

The report as a whole or by sections can be obtained from the Cleveland 
Hospital Council. A list of the parts will be found in the back of this volume, 
together with prices. 



Letters 

of 
Transmittal 



Letters of Transmittal 

To THK ( i I \ i LAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL: 

Tlu>r< is presented herewith the report of the Committee on the Hospital 
and Health Survey >f Cleveland, appointed on October 1, 1919, as recorded 
in the minutes of the Cleveland Hospital Council: 

"Moved by Mr. Anisfield: 

"That the action of the President of the Cleveland Hospital Council in 
appointing a committee consisting of the following persons: Malcolm L. 
McBride, Chairman; Otto Miller, Richard Grant, Dr. H. L. Rockwood, 
Thomas L. Coughlin, Samuel H. Halle and Mrs. A. A. Brewster, to conduct 
a health survey of the City of Cleveland, be ratified and endorsed, and that 
the general outline of the Hospital and Health Survey as prepared by Mr. 
Wright and attached hereto be used as a guide by the committee in conduc- 
tion of the Survey, which outline shall be subject to modification as may 
he needed. 

"The Committee will have full power in the premises to engage per- 
sonnel and proceed with the Survey. It is emphasized that there should be 
specific and definite recommendations regarding the building programs and 
the character of the future work of the existing hospitals, such recommenda- 
tioiis to be made at as early a date as possible. 

"Throughout the whole investigation the committee is asked to be as 
specific as possible in its recommendations. 

onded by Mr. Hildreth and carried unanimously." 



GENERAL OUTLINE 

FOR HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Hospital and health activities have a common purpose. 
It is better public health and fewer preventable deaths. There are four 
fundamental contributing factors to the efficient work of all hospital and 
health organizations working to this end. 
These are: 

Development of medical education, both post graduate and 

under graduate. 

Development of nursing education, both general and special. 
Advancement of public health and preventive medicine. 
Care of the individual sick. 

Due consideration must be given to each of these four factors in con- 
NHlrring tlu> work of any individual hospital or health organization or group 
of such organizations or community hospital or health needs. 
The work of this committee may be divided into two parts: 

I. A survey and study of the existing hospital and health activities public or pri- 
vate of Cleveland. It should determine the contribution which is now being made to 
the common end by the different institutions individually and collectively, discover ways 
in which these institutions may be made to contribute more by reasonable changes either 



8 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

in the division of labor with other institutions, the volume of work done or contemplated , 
or in the way of doing work. This involves a survey and study of: 

1. Medical education in Cleveland as at present conducted. 

(a) Use of clinical material and facilities in Cleveland by the Medical 
School for under-graduate instruction, for post-graduate instruc- 
tion of young medical men, for instruction and development of 
the medical profession in general. 

2. A study of nursing education as conducted at present in Cleveland. 

(a) Training Schools giving general nursing education. 

(b) Facilities for providing nurses with special education and training. 

3. The Division of Health of the City of Cleveland and its relation to the 
hospitals, dispensaries and other medical institutions and the profession in 
general. Its activities in the care of contagious diseases and in preven- 
tive medicine. 

4. A study of the existing hospitals and their plans for extension to determine: 

(a) The available and contemplated facilities for 

Pay or private room patients, 
Part-pay and ward patients, 
Free patients. 

(b) The probable normal needs of the community for each of these 
classes of accommodations. 

5. A study to determine the present and contemplated facilities as well as 
the probable normal needs of the city for the care of certain classes of sick: 

Contagious, including venereal diseases, 

Acute surgical, 

Acute medical, 

Chronic surgical and orthopedic, 

Chronic medical, 

Convalescent, 

The immediate development of facilities for chronic and con- 
valescent patients as a means of saving hospital space. 
Insane and mental diseases, 
Aged and infirm, 
Maternity, 
Babies and children, 
Accident and emergency. 

6. Dispensaries. A study of their location as to their availability to all 
Cleveland citizens in need ; the type of cases receiving treatment therein ; 
the facilities of the various dispensaries to do properly the work undertaken. 

II. The second part is a more extended study of the community to determine the 
ideal number, grouping, location, character and functions of the hospital, medical and 
health institutions which can best serve Cleveland at present and during the reasonable 
future development of the city. This entails the following: 



LETTI EUB 01 '!';; \\^MITTAL 



1 . Morbidity, accident and mortality rates for the city, as a whole, and by dis- 
tricts, based on city statistics, questionnaires to doctors, hospital and 
dispensary records, Industrial Commission reports, U. S. Census figures on 
occupations, races and ages and morbidity census in other cities, per- 
haps house-to-house canvass of selected districts to learn amount of sick- 
ness, total and classified. 

2. Care secured by the sick, economic ability to secure care. Home condi- 
tions affecting care. Knowledge or ignorance of existing facilities. Efforts 
of agencies to reach those needing their care. Constituencies of various 
hospitals or attraction of hospitals for various groups. Survey of ade- 
quacy of home care in typical neighborhoods. 

3. Capacities and facilities of existing agencies for giving the amount of 
remedial care shown to be needed by studies of the amount and present 
care of all sickness, accidents, and by prospective increase of population. 

4. The estimated reduction in sickness from extension of preventive medicine 
and health insurance, based on European experiences. 

5. The Medical School's relation to present and future hospitals, dispensaries, 
sickness prevention and the health department. 

6. The relation of nursing training schools to present and future hospitals, 
dispensaries, sickness prevention and the health department. 

On October 3, 1919, arrangements were made to undertake the study as 
proposed in the communication appointing this committee. 

The Survey staff was organized and began its work in Cleveland on 
November 9, 1919. The field studies, the public meetings and the con- 
ferences with representatives of the organizations and agencies, both public 
and private, concerned with the various aspects of the field of inquiry were 
completed early in July, 1920. 

The accompanying text, now printed and available for distribution, has 
been passed upon and approved by the committee. 

The subjects treated of include those specified at the time the committee 
was appointed and several others which it seemed desirable to add during 
the progress of the studies. 

It is recommended that the Cleveland Hospital Council use its influence 
in support of the proposals and conclusions of the report. 

Your committee requests its discharge with the completion of the serv- 
ices expected of it. 

(Signed) MALCOLM L. McBiUDE, Chairman, 
MRS. ALFRED A. BREWSTER, 
THOMAS COUGHLJN, 
RICHARD F. GRANT, 
SAMUEL H. HALLE, 
OTTO MILLER, 
DR. H. L. ROCK WOOD, 
HOWELL WRIGHT, Secretary. 
Cleveland, Ohio, September, 1920. 



10 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

To THE HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY COMMITTEE 

OF THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL: 
Sms: 

There is herewith presented to you in its completed form and prepared 
for publication the report of the several members of the Survey staff who 
have, under my direction, and with your approval, studied the Hospital 
Service, Education in the Medical and Allied Professions, and the Facilities 
for Health Protection in Cleveland. 

At the risk of criticism for failure to* seize the opportunities presented to" 
obtain and report all possible facts bearing upon the care of the sick and 
the protection or development of health, only such material has been collected 
and only such portions of the collected data have been prepared for publi- 
cation as appeared to contribute substantial force to the discussion of the 
problems and to the recommendations arrived at. 

Wherever information reliable in source and for all practical purposes 
comparable to what would be found in Cleveland was known of, it was 
accepted and used without attempt at duplication or repetition. 

From the beginning of our studies all of the investigators and consultants 
engaged in the work have acted upon the assumption that personal discus- 
sion, argument, demonstration and persuasion upon the spot with those 
directly concerned with administration or service in the health or hospital 
field, was sure to contribute more to change in method or improvement in 
results than could be expected from the reading of the printed page at a 
later date. 

There have been no pains spared to insure a broad and intimate contact 
with all groups of citizens concerned in any way in the multitude of services 
comprised in the hospital and health problem. 

Recognizing that Cleveland has been a generous contributor to each of 
the national movements now engaged in attacking the causes of ill health 
and in spreading knowledge of self-protection against disease and disability, 
it seemed reasonable to expect in return collaboration by these same national 
groups in Cleveland's effort at self-analysis and a share in the responsibility 
and privilege for providing a plan and program for so typical and aggressive 
an American municipality. Either through direct assumption of the entire 
cost of services obtained, or by sharing the cost of officers temporarily as- 
signed to the Cleveland Survey, or through the generous gift of time and 
attention at no expense to the Survey, we have been so fortunate as to obtain 
for incorporation into our report the studies and conclusions of representa- 
tives of: 

The National Tuberculosis Association, 
The American Social Hygiene Association, 
The National Committee for Mental Hygiene, 
The National Committee for the Control of Cancer, 
The Society for the Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease, 
The National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, 
The National Committee for Study of Public Health Nursing 
Education. 






1.1 I I I m "I I I \NMM1TTAL 11 

The American College of Surgeon v 
Our investigators have been drawn also from the 
Harvard School of Industrial Hygiene, 
Boston Dispensary, 

New York City Department of Health. 
American Red Cross, 
American Child Hygiene Association. 

From Cleveland itself we have obtained continuous, helpful and devoted 
MTV ice, not only from those whose occupations, professional and lay, placed 
them in a position to assist or contribute to the volume and success of our 
study, but from that great group of well informed men and women who are ready 
to devote their time and capacities to any undertaking which offers assurance 
of improvement in the conditions of life of their fellow citizens. Among the 
most important sources of assistance have been the officers of the Division 
of Healtn, the Board of Education, the Welfare Federation, the Academy 
of Medicine, Western Reserve University, the Central Nursing Committee, 
the Visiting Nurse Association, the Associated Charities, the Consumers' 
League, Y. W. C. A., the Junior League and the Women's City Club. 

During the course of the Survey there was opportunity to supplement 
and cooperate with: 

(a) A special committee on Social Hygiene whose work was drawing 
to a close about the time this Survey was begun. 

(b) The Welfare Federation, which undertook a study of the social, 
educational and recreational functions of the institutions for children, while 
the Survey analyzed the sanitary, medical and health services provided. 

(c) The Consumers' League in its study of the use of milk in Cleveland 
and in its recently inaugurated study of the employment of children. 

In submitting this report it is a pleasure to pay tribute to the breadth of 
vision and the public spirit shown in the objectives which the Cleveland 
Hospital Council set before you, its committee, for accomplishment. It 
seems reasonable to expect that such benefits as may accrue to Cleveland 
from the study of the local situation are not to be confined to this city alone, 
but will stimulate similar studies elsewhere and will prove of practical value 
to that large group of executives, trustees and their financial supporters 
throughout the country, who are carrying the responsibility for health de- 
velopment and its protection, for disease prevention and its treatment, for 
education in the field of medical services. 

For the support, encouragement and critical judgment of the committee 
I wish to express the gratitude of those engaged upon the Survey. There 
have been offered to us full freedom of opportunity and a spirit of coopera- 
tion and helpfulness without which our friendly contact with the institu- 
tions, agencies and branches of the civil government would have been diffi- 
cult to obtain. 

It must be apparent that in no single subject of our report has the field 
of study been exhausted. Our conclusions may well be modified in the 
future by what we trust will be undertaken in the way of further self -analysis 



12 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

and research in the methods and results of medical social service which now- 
adays fills so important and costly a function in the structure of community 
life, safety and progress. 

The cost of the Survey has come within the amount originally set aside 
for this purpose: namely, $53,000, of which $3,000 had been spent on a 
study and report of social conditions which contribute to venereal disease 
incidence before the general plan of the hospital and health study was com-, 
pleted. The total cost of the Survey, estimated at the time of going to press, 
including publicity service and publication of the report, has been $52,668.98, 
under the following functional headings: 

Direction and Administration $24,902.38 

Tuberculosis 938.63 

Hospital and Dispensary 5,117.54 

Child Hygiene 1,026.27 

Statistical _ 562.00 

Venereal Disease 3,586.04 

Nursing __ _ 3,829.85 

Mental Disease and Mental Deficiency _ 385.00 

Industrial Hygiene 4,429.68 

Children's Institutions 891.59 

Publication .... 7,000.00 



Total $52,668.98 

In addition to the services paid for under the above headings there have 
been contributed, as indicated previously, the services of the representatives 
of a number of the national and local organizations interested in some aspect 
of health protection. It would have been impracticable to engage and pay 
for those directing and participating in these contributed services, but the 
following statement gives a very conservative estimate of the financial 
burden which has been borne by these organizations in the interest of the 
Survey of Cleveland: 

National Committee on Mental Hygiene.- $3,813.52 

Committee for Study of Public Health Nursing Education 2,210.00 

American Social Hygiene Association 1,500.00 

The Welfare Federation, Cleveland 1,400.00 

The Consumers' League of Ohio._ 800.00 

American Red Cross Bureau of Public Health Nursing 250.00 

American Society for Control of Cancer _ 100.00 

National Society for the Prevention of Blindness 100.00 

Association for Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease 100.00 



$10,273.52 



Owing to the fact that the work of the Survey has extended over a con- 
siderable period of time, and since continuous progress hi the development 
of services for the sick and facilities for disease prevention has occurred in 
Cleveland during the period of our study, it will be found that the present 



I.I PTEBfl "I Tli \\SMITTAL 13 

report, consisting as it does of contributions made by investigators at dif- 
(Vrriit periods of time between November, 1919, and July, 1920, does not in 
all resjH'C'ts describe the conditions as they are on the date of publication. 
Furthermore, it will be a matter of satisfaction to you, as well as a matter of 
intcrr.-J to the reader, to know that many of the recommendations which 
are proposed in the various chapters of our report have already been adopted. 
It has l>een a privilege to be associated with the investigators who have 
shared the work and to have played the part of coordinator in the under- 
taking. 

Respectfully submitted by 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director. 

Cleveland, Ohio, 

Hospital and Health Survey, 

September 22, 1920. 



Table of Contents 



PART I. 

Introduction General Environment, Sanitation 

I. Introduction Page 

General Remarks on Report - 

Summary of Parts of Report 

Summary of Recommendations of Report ~ 35 

II. Environment and Sanitation 

Population and Area _ 39 

Topography and Climate..... _ ~ 46 

Housing 48 

Water Supply ~ 

Sewage Disposal 60 

Street Cleaning and the Collection and Disposal of Garbage and Refuse.... 67 

Flies and Mosquitoes 83 

Smoke and Its Prevention 85 



PART II. 

Health Services 

I. Introduction 103 

II. Public Health Services 

Division of Health 

Administration 110 

Bureaus - 122 

New Activities Proposed 173 

III. Private Health Agencies 

Anti- Tuberculosis League 193 

Visiting Nurse Association 193 

Day Nursery and Free Kindergarten Association 193 

Hospital Council 193 

Society for the Blind and a Program for the Prevention of Blindness 193 

Associated Charities 196 

Association for the Crippled and Disabled and the Program for the Care 

of Cripples 197 

Proposed Agencies and Programs for 

Prevention and Relief of Heart Disease ~ 213 

Prevention and Cure of Cancer _ - 221 

IV. Summary of Recommendations : 226 

PART III. 

A Program for Child Health Work 

I. Present Organization 267 

II. The Problem 269 

III. Proposed Organization. 270 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



IV. Functional Activities .................................................... 

V. Conclusions ......................................................................... 319 

PART IV. 

Tuberculosis. 

I. The Story in Brief. ................................................ . .................... 

II. Objects and Methods ............................................................................ 

III. Statistical Record of Tuberculosis in Cleveland .................................. 

IV. General Provisions for Attack and Defense against Tuberculosis ............ 346 

V.^ Special Provisions for Fighting Tuberculosis ................................................................ 355 

VI. A Summary of Activities and Equipment .......................................................... 

VII. Recommendations .......................................................................................... 

PART V. 

Venereal Disease. 

I. General Statement .......... ............................... v ............................................................. 395 

II. Medical Phases .......................................................................................................... 398 

III. Legal Aspects .................................................................................................................... 419 

IV. Protective Social Measures .............................................................................................. 429 

V. Sex Education ......................................... . ...................................................................... 43 1 

PART VI. 

Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

I. Introduction .......................... _ ............. _ ............................................................................ 443 

II. City Facilities for Diagnosis and Treatment ..... ________ .................. ............................... 446 

III. State Facilities for Diagnosis and Treatment .............................................................. 467 

IV. Courts and Correctional Agencies ....... ......................................................................... 476 

V. Mentally Atypical Children ............................................................................................ 488 

VI. Welfare Organizations ............... _ ................................................... . ................................... 497 

VII . Prevention Mental Hygiene ...................................................................................... 501 

VIII. Summary of Recommendations .................................................................................... 503 

PART VII. 

Health and Industry. 

I. \ Industrial Medical Service 

Introduction .............................................................................................................. 525 

The Industries of Cleveland .................................................................................. 525 

Medical Service in Industry .................................................................................. 526 

Medical Service in Non-Industrial Establishments ............................................ 535 

Medical Service Beyond the Plant ..... ................................................................. 536 

Industrial Medical Records .................................................................................... 537 

Absenteeism Due to Sickness ................................................................................ 541 

Physical Examinations ............................................................................................ 542 

Special Service* ........................................................................................................ 544 

The Small Establishment .................................................................. .. ................ 550 

Industrial Hospitals ............................. .............. _ ................ 552 



TABLK OF C<>\ 1 1 HT8 17 

Pate 

The Training of Industrial Physicians and Nurses 552 

Public Health Authorities and Industrial Hygiene _. 553 

Recommendations..._____ .._ _ 554 

II. Women and Industry 

Introduction 557 

Conditions in Various Occupations Employing Women 558 

General Discussion 571 

Recommendations.. 575 

III. Children and Industry 

Introductory '. 579 

Legal Provisions for Children 15 18 Going to Work 581 

Statistics for Children in Industry in Cleveland 583 

Where Children Work : 588 

Health of Children at Work .' 603 

Education's Responsibility 613 

Junior Vocation Departments 615 

Suggested Plan of Organization for a Vocational Guidance Bureau 617 

Summary of Recommendations 619 

PART VIII. 
Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentittry, Pharmacy. 

I. Medical Education and Practice in Cleveland 

Medical College of Western Reserve University 651 

Classification of Cleveland Physicians by Specialties 663 

Hospital Staff Service 664 

Professional Organizations 664 

Discussion of Autopsy Service 667 

Recommendations 669 

II. Quacks and Patent Medicines, in relation to the Foreign-Born of Cleveland 

The Picture 

The Immigrant 672 

The Quack 672 

How the Quack Reaches the Immigrant 674 

The Objectives 

Means of Investigation and Prevention -. 676 

Recommendations 682 

III. Dentistry in Cleveland 

Private Practice of Dentistry 683 

Public Services 684 

College of Dentistry 688 

The Dental Hygienist 689 

Recommendations 690 

IV. Pharmacy in Cleveland 

Number and Education of Pharmacists 691 

Laws Dealing with Pharmacy 691 

Cooperation of Pharmacists with the Division of Health 694 

School of Pharmacy of Western Reserve University .... . 694 



18 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Page 

Proposed Manufacturing and Professional Service to Hospitals.- _ 696 

Recommendations 697 

PART IX. 

Nursing. 

I. Nurses' Training in Cleveland 

Hospital Training Schools 709 

Post-graduate Courses ~ 745 

II. Public Health Nursing 

Central Nursing Committee 1 756 

Division of Health 758 

Visiting Nurse Association 773 

Board of Education 782 

University District 789 

City-wide Prenatal and Maternity Service 797 

Industrial Nursing '. 803 

III. Some Notes on Private Duty Nursing 

Unnecessary Employment of Full-time Graduate Nurses 808 

Trained Attendants _. 809 

PART X. 
Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

I. The Care of the Sick 

Resources for Care 819 

Some Definitions . 822 

II. Hospitals 

Hospital Provision and Community Needs 828 

Organization for Service 838 

The Human Problem of the Hospital Patient 849 

The Medical Profession and the Hospitals 858 

Finances and Administration 868 

Some Practical Points of Administration 877 

III. Dispensaries 

Dispensaries in Cleveland 890 

The Public Health Dispensaries 901 

Policies and Needs 912 

The Down-Town Dispensary __ 922 

IV. Special Problems 

The Convalescent and the Hospital 926 

A Community Program for Convalescent Care 938 

Chronic Illness and Its Care 944 

Social Service in Hospitals and Dispensaries 952 

The Ambulance Service of Cleveland 961 

V. Hospital and Dispensary Planning 

Community Planning 966 

Individual Hospital Planning 973 

Organization to Carry Out Plans 979 



>F CONTENTS 



19 



PART XI. 
Method, Bibliography, Index. 

I. Method of Survey Page 

Introduction 1003 

Preliminary Steps 1004 

Scope 1005 

Aims and Methods 1009 

Conclusions 1016 

II. Bibliography of Surveya 1038 

III. Index .... . 1061 



TABLES 

Part II. Pages 

I. Number of births by sex, race and character of professional 

attendance, by health district 231 

II. Analysis of all deaths by race, under one year, and for the 

diseases upon which the "sanitary index" is calculated 232 

III. Communicable disease morbidity reports 233 

IV. Endemic indices for Cleveland 234 
V. Group of diseases included in the list upon which the sani- 
tary index is based 236 

VI. Report of the work of the district physicians, 1919-1920 237 

VII. Official record of raw milk in Cleveland during the past six 

years 238 

VIII. Official record of pasteurized milk in Cleveland for the past 

six years 239 

IX. Synopsis of classified report of bacteriological examination 

of Cleveland market milk 240 

X. -XXX VIII. Outline of a complete system of vital statistics for the health 

department of a city of the size of Cleveland 242255 

XXXIX. -XLII. Summary of the survey of sanitary conditions in child car- 
ing institutions and of medical examinations of institu- 
tional and boarded-out children 255-258 

Part IV. 

I.-V. Tuberculosis deaths by age, years, sex, occupation and 

forms 378-379 

VI.- VII. Attendance at Health Centers 379 

VIII.-XIII. Tabulation of Milk Consumption Study 380-382 

Part VII. 

I. Classification of Industrial Organizations 622 

II.-V. Analysis of Medical Service in Industry 622-623 



20 



Page 

VI.- VIII. Analysis of Accident Frequency and Severity Rates 624-625 
IX.-X. Classification of Industrial Establishments Employing 

Women 626-627 
XI. -XV. Classification of Conditions under Which Women Are 

Employed 628630 

XVI.-XIX. Employment of Children, by Age and Sex 631-632 

XX.-XXII. Employment of Children, by Occupation 633-635 

XXIII. Analysis of School and Physical Records of Newsboys 636 
XXIV-XXVI. Tabulation of Examinations of Children Seeking Employment 637-639 

Part X. 

I. Listing of Hospitals and Dispensaries 984 

II. Percentage of Occupancy of Hospitals 986 
III. -IV. Relationship of Hospital Locations and Admissions and 

Health Districts 987-988 

V. Source of Request for Admission of Hospital Patients 988 

VI. Expenses and Earnings of Hospitals 990 

VII. Summary of Study of Convalescent Cases 991 

VIII. Length of Stay of Hospital Patients 991 
IX. Suggested Summary Report Form for Hospitals 

and Dispensaries 992 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

Part /. 

Typical housing conditions in Cleveland's congested districts 50-51-52 

Illustrations of failure of Street Cleaning and Garbage Disposal systems 6970 

Part IV. 

Where Tuberculosis comes from 358 

Where Tuberculosis goes to 359 

Part VI. 

Illustrations contrasting treatment of mental cases at the Cleveland City 

Hospital with their treatment elsewhere 448-457459 

Part VII. 

"Declaration of Dependence." Children and Industry 578 

Part VIII. 

Typical patent medicine advertisements 680 




T \itt.i "i COM i \ i- 21 



DIAGRAMS AND MAPS 

Part I. Page 

Map showing population distribution and health districts Facing page 38 

Charts of Cleveland's comparative and expected growth of population 40 

Map showing water supply, sewerage and sewage disposal developments 63 

Part II. 

Diagram of Cleveland city government organization. Fig. I. 167 

Map showing census tracts (sanitary areas). Fig. II. Facing Page 114 

Map showing location of facilities for prevention and treatment. Fig. III. 117 
Map showing birth rate, stillbirth rate, infant death rates, estimated num- 
ber of mothers under prenatal care and number of children under care of 
prophylactic stations, by health districts. Fig. IV. 118 

Graph showing the death rate of each of 25 cities in the United States. 

Fig. V. 120 

Graph showing "Sanitary Index" for the years 1885-1920. Fig. VI. 128 

Graph showing deaths in Cleveland from all causes for diseases on which the 

Sanitary Index rate is calculated. Fig. VII. 129 

Graph showing death rates for eight important communicable diseases in 
Cleveland and in all cities included in the registration area, for the years 
1913-17, and the death rates during 1917 for these same diseases in Cleve- 
land, the cities and the states of the registration area. Fig. VIII. 130 
Graph illustrating the morbidity incidence of tuberculosis, four common 
acute communicable diseases of childhood and of venereal diseases, by 
health districts. Fig. IX. 131 
Figure illustrating same data as Fig. IX. by health district map. Fig. X. 132 
Graph illustrating the relative position of the health districts by registered 

births and deaths. Fig. XI. 133 

Graph showing an analysis of death rates from all causes and from various 

communicable diseases, by health districts. Fig. XII. 134 

Illustrating same data as Fig. XII. by health district map. Fig. XIII. 135 

Graph representing suggested organization of services for boarded-out chil- 
dren. Fig. XIV. 179 

Part III. 

Diagram showing organization of Proposed Central Child Hygiene Council 271 
Graph showing incidence of defects in children by age and sex 304 

Part IV. 

Map showing distribution of tuberculosis facilities 330 

Graph showing death rates from pulmonary tuberculosis and non-tuberculous 
pulmonary diseases from 1852 to 1917 341 

Part V. 

Map showing attendance at venereal disease clinics, by health districts 405 



22 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Part VII. Page 

Two maps showing location of industrial establishments 548549 

Part X. 

Map showing location of hospitals, dispensaries and health centers. Fig. I. 823 

Chart showing provision and need for hospital beds. Fig. II. 836 
Map showing residence of 2,500 dispensary patients by health districts. 

Fig. III. 891 

Chart showing inter-relation between hospital and dispensary. Fig. IV. 898 



Hospital and Health Survey of Cleveland, Ohio 



A Report Presented to the Committee on Survey of the Cleveland 

Hospital Council . 

By 

HAVEN EMERSON, M. D., Director, 
and the following collaborators: 

GERTRUDE E. STURGES, M. D., Assistant Director; 

MICHAEL M. DAVIS, JR., Ph. D., Director of the Hospital and 
Dispensary Survey; 

JOSEPHINE GOLDMARK, A. M., Director of the Nursing Survey; 
WADE WRIGHT, M. D., Director of the Industrial Hygiene Survey; 

S. JOSEPHINE BAKER, M. D., D. P. H., Director of the Infant 
and Maternity Survey; 

T. W. SALMON, M. D., Director of the Mental Hygiene Survey; 
W. F. SNOW, M. D., Director of the Venereal Disease Survey; 
Louis I. DUBLIN, Ph. D., Director of the Vital Statistics Survey. 



r . 



Introduction 

By HAVEN EMERSON, M. D. 

"A few great points steadily reappear, alike in the poverty of the obscurest 
farm and in the miscellany of metropolitan life. * * * * . These few are 
alone to be regarded: the escape from all false ties; courage to be what we 
are; and love of what is simple and beautiful; independence, and cheerful 
relations, these are the essentials these and the wish to serve to add some- 
what to the well-being of men." 

THE habit of mind or of work which prevails in the United States is 
rather to move from the practical to the theoretical than in the reverse 
order. As is natural in a young nation free from the established pro- 
cedures and precedents of government and personal conduct which domi- 
nate the life of older countries, we see a need, we move to meet it, we pres- 
ently suspect our method or results might be improved, we collect records, 
study, evolve a theory and perhaps then begin to apply the principles evolved 
to new undertakings in the same direction. We have not evolved a theory 
and principles of health development, of health protection, of disease preven- 
tion, of death postponement. It has been one of the illuminating educa- 
tional features of our contact with the keenly analytical, the intellectually 
honest minds of our French colleagues during the war that we have met a 
system of education and practice which begins with theory and principle, 
and gradually through individual and ultimately through government action 
arrives at application of theory to practical needs. 

This report is a contribution to the study of current facts, accomplish- 
ments, undertakings in the field of medico-social service. Theory is not 
within the plan of this presentation, but it is hoped that by the study of 
facts, by the application of recommendations, theory may be tested and the 
philosophy of social organization for the attainment of health and its main- 
tenance may be advanced. 

Those of us who have shared in this study are perforce enthusiasts, if 
you will, fanatics, crusaders in what we believe is to prove the greatest con- 
tribution of this generation to the success of a representative and demo- 
cratic social order: namely, civil and social organization for health. Neither 
forms of government nor systems of society will long endure unless the health, 
mental and physical, of the people is accepted as a matter of official and 
individual concern, in importance second only to the administration of jus- 
ticc, provision of education, liberty of speech and of religious observance. 

This is not the place to press the argument. Personal experience and 
government documents in abundance provide the data from which students 
will decide the amount and distribution of wastage from sickness and pre- 
mature death. No expression, in terms of money equivalent of human 
la I >r, of this burden upon life, this deficit in happiness, adequately repre- 
sents the true total, but even to the so-called practical man, that much 
abused man-in-the-street who is supposed to be merely a mechanical adding 
machine without sympathies, emotions or imagination, the figures are im- 



Expressed for the population of Cleveland and its suburbs, roughly a 



26 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

population of 1,000,000 within Cuyahoga County in 1920, and using the 
death and sick rates experience of 70 per cent of the total population of 
continental United States in 1916, and the sickness census in various 
cities, such as Pittsburgh, Boston and Rochester in recent years as appli- 
cable to the experience in Cleveland in 1920, we must picture about two per 
cent of all the people all the time too sick to work or be up and about, from 
causes of which one-half are certainly preventable. 

In 1919 the cost of illness and death from communicable diseases alone 
in Cleveland, based on the very conservative estimates of value of life and cost 
of sickness, burial, etc., used in a study in Illinois* must have been not less 
than $25,000,000. To this must be added, among other items, the cost of 
death and disease due to preventable but non-communicable forms of disease 
and the cost of $200 a year for each insane person and $160 a year for each 
feeble-minded person cared for in institutions. 

Further, we must recognize that not less than 35 per cent, and in some 
places as much as 75 per cent, of dependency seeking relief from public or 
private sources, is due to sickness. To say that dependency is in large meas- 
ure due to sickness is merely the corollary of the statement that the average 
of independence is everywhere lowered by sickness, and upon independence 
our whole social, family and labor structure is based. 

Three services we shall always need if we intend to provide the best that 
science affords to heal the sick and to guard the well against disease. Each 
service although indispensable by and for itself is, however, necessarily de- 
pendent upon the other two for its complete usefulness and application, and 
no one can be omitted without sacrifice of much of the value of the others. 

Diagnosis and Treatment of the sick comes first to mind as it was first 
to be provided, but first by a narrow margin of time before the Teaching of 
Medicine. These two led by many ages the third, the Prevention of Disease. 

We have won our way from an attitude of passive submission or accept- 
ance of disease and disability as inflictions of fate, of some evil genius, or by 
the gods or our own Divinity, through the self-respecting and upright posi- 
tion of self-defense against disease, using the weapons of science, until we 
are now moving aggressively forward attacking disease and determined to 
overcome it by all the resources of society as well as of science, by instilling 
into people the hope, the promise, the certainty of health, as well as by as- 
sembling, coordinating, directing with our knowledge of preventive medicine 
and organized government a continuous warfare upon all the physical, 
biological, economic and spiritual handicaps against which man and child 
cannot successfully make progress alone. 

First, and first by a long interval among the weapons of attack, comes 
education, not alone the training of the intelligence, the distribution of facts, 
but the development of the feelings, the emotions, the instinctive reactions 
which guide us chiefly in the emergencies and great decisions of life. The 
channels of this education are not alone the schools and colleges but the indi- 
vidual field workers, the physicians, the nurses, the public health officers, 
the social workers, the school teachers who make contact with the homes. 
Health, its attainment, its defense, its prolongation, cannot be taught all 

Hemenway, American Journal of Public Health Vol. 10, Number 2, February, 1920. 



I \ I ii 1) t ( T ION 27 

tin- time to all the people, and to but few and for but short periods, through 
I In- public press or the distribution of so-called "literature" and propaganda 
by pictures, posters, etc. 

Rarely there comes the great teacher, one who compels attention by his 
knowledge or his art, a Franklin, a Pasteur, an Osier, but, in the main, 
health teaching, except to the few training for certain professions, will be 
given effectively only to those who are for one reason or another teachable. 
Children are teachable because youth is acquisitive and interested in itself 
and all that concerns its body and its playmates. Mothers are teachable 
for the sake of their babies. Perhaps one may include both parents some- 
times in this class, while their children are still dependent. The sick and 
suffering are generally teachable from self-interest, from hope, from humility. 
In the presence of epidemic disease of the kinds such as influenza and infantile 
paralysis, against which we have no reliable measures of defense, everyone 
can be taught the elements of personal hygiene and good health habits 
because of the fear of death. 

The first three groups include all the community at some periods of 
their lives and we owe them guarantee that the physicians, nurses, teachers 
and others whom they are beholden to at these periods for care and instruc- 
tion, themselves know what must be taught and furthermore practise what 
they preach. 

In this guarantee we fail at present. What can be done to protect those 
who are uninstructed must be done for people rather than bij them, and here 
we come upon the functions of the public and private agencies for disease 
prevention. In this field we are emerging from the era when the health 
officer was a lawyer, a policeman, a scavenger, a mere clerk, to the concep- 
tion of the health officer as a leader in social organisation, a student of dis- 
e.iM- as it occurs in groups, an administrator of services which make life 
more secure and happier in every household, in reality the family physician 
of the community, its trusted advisor and protector. 

For those whom our education and our devices for prevention have been 
of no avail, the sick and injured of medical practice, the wastage resulting 
from our ineffectiveness in protection, we provide the physician, the visiting 
nurse, the dispensary, the hospital, the convalescent care. That there should 
be so much more needed to pay the cost of repair work than is thought suf- 
ficient to spend for prevention is a commentary upon our intelligence, a sharp 
reminder of our wastefulness, of our undeveloped business acumen. 

In the chapters which follow there will be given a description of the 
services provided in Cleveland for the prevention of disease and for the 
care of the sick, including description of the facilities for training those w r ho 
contribute to this care. Where there are defects they w'\\\ be pointed out, 
with, where possible, specific recommendations for their remedy. So a 
diagnosis and treatment for the city will be developed in a way similar to 
the method used in the physician's office or hospit-d. 

We were invited to Cleveland to learn and to state the facts and if more 
emphasis appears to be put upon shortcomings than upon excellencies it 
is not because the latter were not observed and admired, but that extensive 



28 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

comment upon the bright eyes and rosy cheeks of the patient seems mal- 
apropos when there is a dressing to do for a broken arm. 

For convenience in distribution of the report to students and workers 
in the various special fields of hospital and health work the text is divided 
into eleven parts. 

Under General Environment and Sanitation, Part I, will be found de- 
scription of those elementary factors upon which are based an estimate of 
the standards of living attained by a community. The reader will wish to 
know the area and population, something of the geology and the nationali- 
ties, and what the history of growth predicts for future needs. As life and 
the success or failure we make of it is largely a matter of our ability to adapt 
ourselves to natural and artificial variations in environment, we are inter- 
ested in Nature's allotment of weather to this man-picked site for a great 
human aggregation. What man does to his fellow-men is certain to be more 
of a menace than what the elements dispense, and his home, where his chil- 
dren are reared, where he and his wife and the little, ones spend the major 
part of their time, is found here as it is elsewhere in our cities commonly 
far below the limit either of our means or of our knowledge or of our legal 
requirements for healthy living. 

The blessing of pure water is within his reach, and in the main there is 
good provision for disposal of his wastes, for man, like bacteria, cannot live 
long in the midst of his own offal and dirt. 

With his air the Clevelander is not so fastidious and, although it is sup- 
posed to be the only remaining necessity of life still free for the humblest 
citizen, yet we find a filthiness of air which robs the child of its breath, the 
sun of its strength, the sky of its precious color, and simply because of habit 
and unneighborliness, the habit of ignoring coal smoke as a public nuisance 
and indifference to the inconvenience caused to the other fellow by your 
own belching chimney. 

In Part II. we deal with the dual machinery of public and private organ- 
ization for health protection. After outlining the basis in law and in local 
government administration for the powers and services of various depart- 
ments which contribute to health in Cleveland, the Division of Health and 
its bureaus are described and analyzed. The parsimony of public appro- 
priating bodies in matters of insurance against disease and death through 
investment in the services of doctors and nurses is in striking contrast with 
the liberal use .of tax money to protect property against violence and fire. 
There are defects in personnel, organization and inadequacy of resources, 
but that there is a record of important and encouraging accomplishment 
cannot be doubted. 

Without a service for public education for legitimate civic advertising of 
needs and opportunities in health protection any health service is sadly crip- 
pled. This is the case in Cleveland. 

Official protection of industrial workers against health hazards is needed 
and would be welcomed, but it is not offered in the present health service. 

The childien of the parochial schools, the children of pre-school age, 
the expectant mother, all lack the life saving service which *is offered at 
public expense in some other cities. 



INTRODUCTION 29 

A- tin- family physician of the city the Commissioner of Health should be 
provided with physicians to maintain supervision over the health of those 
children whose lives arc spent in the unnatural environment of institutions. 
This he cannot do at present. 

Among the existing bureaus there is none needing such a radical overhaul- 
ing as the Bureau of Vital Statistics. An adequate record of human liabili- 
tics and assets is indispensable to intelligent public health work. A concep- 
tion is presented of the possibilities, the necessities, the advantages of a true 
demographic office and reports for the city, a model for a municipality, an 
example which if followed would elevate the city, the state and the nation 
in the estimation of thoughtful people here and abroad. 

One of the archaisms of our civil government is disclosed in the per- 
sistence of the coroner's system. Tutil Cleveland follows the example of 
Boston and New York in establishing this function under non-political, 
competent pathologist s there will be inefficiency, graft and the cloaking of 
crime under the forms and appearance of law. 

Everywhere we find private energy and sympathy organized to supple- 
ment public service. This is particularly the case in preventive and relief 
work for the sick. The crippled, the blind, the lame in heart and mind 
always will be sought out and assisted to such happiness and occupation as 
they can attain. Sooner or later the wish to prevent rises into effective effort 
and real health protection develops. There are in Cleveland as elsewhere 
special agencies for the care of the many handicapj>ed, and the special merit 
of Cleveland is in the successful coordination of support and direction of 
many of these medical and social services maintained by private resources. 
These are described in some detail in the chapter on Private Health Services 
and the total of undertakings is certainly impressive, in spite of the gaps, 
which it is hoped will soon be filled. 

Although the subject matter of Part III. deals with many important 
functions and accomplishments of the Division of Health, and as well in- 
cludes description and discussion of auxiliary private agencies, the leading 
role of the child's health as the objective of the great majority of private and 
public health services made it seem wise to set apart this program in its 
entirety from the general field covered in Part II. Probably in no subject 
of public health work will the results of a logical and thorough integration 
of the public and private agencies bring such economies in cost and per- 
sonnel and such large returns. A good beginning has been made in pre- 
natal care of expectant mothers; a start upon service for the children be- 
tween two and six years, the pre-school child, is assured; important im- 
provements in public protection of the child in industry are under way. In 
the public schools, and more particularly in the parochial schools, there is 
need of thorough medical examination and home follow-up by nurses. 

Kxccpt for the defects of development, nutrition and exposures to infec- 
tion which result from the child's handicaps of home environment, the most 
MTIOUS defect in the provision made by the public for children during the 
years of compulsory school attendance is the quality of air permitted in the 
school rooms. In the majority of school rooms and in all those in the newer 
school building! the systems of so-called mechanical ventilation are in con- 
trol of the child's vitality. Laws, more in the interest of building contrac- 



30 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

tors and engineers than of children's health, impose a plan of so-called venti- 
lation which is really a kind of slow .strangulation process. The open window 
has been shut by law. Children's health requires open window ventilation 
all the year round. The laws must be changed and school management be 
so arranged that the air in class rooms may be freely flowing, cool and fresh, 
with as nearly as practicable the relative humidity of outdoor air. 

Tuberculosis in Cleveland, which is dealt with in Part IV., is, first of all, 
a study of incidence and distribution, necessarily incomplete because of the 
inadequacy of the records of population, deaths and sickness, but sufficient 
to show the unfinished work, the need of renewed attack and the ways which 
have proved helpful elsewhere. In this subject, as in the following one of 
Venereal Diseases, we are face to face with a problem of social contacts. 
No mere medical knowledge, no public or private health organizations alone 
will accomplish the reduction or control of the spread of tuberculosis. As 
man's own habits, his customs, his environment artificially created, are the 
multitudinous contributory factors both to infection and to active expression 
of the disease, so it must be through a spread of knowledge, through intelli- 
gent, clean living, through the abatement of injustices which tax the nourish- 
ment, the rest, the peace of mind of those of modest means that we must 
look for diminution of tuberculosis, as well as through the greater skill of 
physicians in the early detection and in the arrest of active tuberculous 
disease. 

While tuberculosis remains the cause of something over 12 per cent of all 
deaths and responsible for the most costly of all sicknesses, and while we 
do not know the fact of sickness before death in at least 30 per cent of all 
persons dying of tuberculosis, there needs ao elaborate exposition of our 
social and official shortcomings. The report upon the exact conditions in 
Cleveland will certainly lead to a stronger determination and a more 
generous support for medical and social agencies engaged on this problem. 

The so-called American Plan for the control of venereal disease is used 
in Part V. to measure Cleveland's accomplishment. From being a subject 
of technical discussion among specialists at medical society meetings the 
problem of control of syphilis and gonorrhea has aroused open discussion on 
the floor of Congress, has enlisted the joint action of three of the most power- 
ful departments of the Federal Government, is accorded earnest considera- 
tion and intelligent discussion in state legislatures and has been raised from 
shame and silence into the range of decent educational publicity. 

It is not for physicians, nurses, hospital superintendents and health officers 
that this subject is here dealt with. The origins of syphilis and gonorrhea 
are so intricately beset with social factors that although the scientific facts 
of etiology and diagnosis, the course of the diseases and their treatment 
have given the courage of knowledge in our campaigns, still by education 
in character, self-restraint, control of the brute in us by our better natures 
and by sparing our children the unfavorable contributory factors in employ- 
ment, conduct, recreation and opportunity which have generally prevailed 
until now, we can do as much through social organization as through health 
services. As the text of the chapters will show there is ample opportunity 
for advance along lines to suit the inclinations of the lay worker, a? well as 
the practitioner or student in laboratory research. 



INTRODUCTION '*! 



Part VI. irives a picture which will develop humility in thinking 
With our vaunted humanity and practical eflicieucy we prove ourselvc- 
inhumau in our collection and treatment of the most pitiful of human wreck 
age and inefficient in our indifference to the debt of feeble-minded ness and 
insanity we are permitting to be piled up for the next generation, by failure 
to provide for segregation and institutional care for the thousands now at 
in the homes of the city. 

No more scathing comment upon civil administration could be made 
than the description of the kind of care provided for the mentally afflicted at 
City Hospital. Could this have occurred if there had been an active, alert, 
interested group of physicians and others organized to help the problems of 
mental hygiene, the interests of the mentally lame, the opportunities for 
prevention and education in Cleveland? Probably not, and <-ertain!y one of 
the results of the present brilliant statement of the situation should be the 
establishment of a local mental hygiene committee affiliated with the national 
body of this name. 

Part VII., the volume on the Medical Services in Industry, Women 
and Industry, and Children and Industry, represents the first effort in this 
country or, so far as we are aware, elsewhere, to see the broad landscape of 
this new professional country. Where are the workers? How distributed 
in large and small plants? What the quantity and quality of the profes- 
sional care provided for them? What is to be expected from reasonable care 
of the workers in terms of production and of producers? Such are questions 
that await answers. To quote from the first chapter of the report, "Cleve- 
land is an industrial community; the greatest common interest of her people 
is her industries, and those of her people who labor therein are the life of 
the city. The future of Cleveland depends upon the well-being and the 
happiness of her industrial workers and to secure and safeguard their health 
is the vital task of industrial medical service." 

Such services are understood by the few leaders and the methods and 
results are matters of record for those who wish to learn. The city awaits 
and needs the advantages of these services, the results of which can be 
guaranteed. 

That there should be more than twenty-two thousand women occupied in 
industry may seem a small quota to take from the home makers of a city of 
800,000 people, but as a unit exposed to varied and serious risks, as a great 
army of possible or prospective or present mothers, the interest of the state 
in their safety and continued health is large. That there are special physical 
disabilities acquired by women in apparently safe and reasonable work is 
well known. That fatigue plays a more serious part in the damage to 
women's health than is generally found among men, or at least expresses 
itself in a variety of troublesome nervous affections, is seen in some industries. 
That women should Ix? excluded from night work is perhaps too obvious to 
argue. Now with the facts l>efore us, it is safe to say that with the increas- 
ing power of women in organi/.ation and self-determination it will not be long 
before remedies are found for the worst evils. The women of Ohio certainly 
need the rights of suffrage. 

How loosely we count our treasures, how careless we are of the strength 
of our men and women in the making, is told in the story of children in in- 



32 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

dustry. Not a lurid tale of child slavery but an inventory of the pros and 
cons of this undesirable element in national wealth. The strengthening of 
laws will accomplish something, their better enforcement still more, but the 
final answer to the question of children in industry will be given only when 
parents see that in education and vocational training there is a greater return 
in maturity than the early earnings of children can provide. 

In Parts VIII. and IX. the profession of medicine and its associates, in 
service to the sick are dealt with, the training provided for them and the 
relations of their licensed practitioners to preventive and curative medicine. 
This involves a consideration of the University which mothers them all, her 
limitations, and wherein her children suffer from lack of educational pabu- 
lum. Much is asked of the University in the way of new undertakings in 
the educational field, all depending on the sinews of war the state of the 
University treasury. Much is expected, however, by the injection of a 
more active leadership and initiative among trustees and teachers. The 
governing and teaching bodies need a generous dose of democracy and a 
sense of personal responsibility for a closer touch with the needs of the com- 
munity. The visions of a great installation will all in time come true, but 
even without fine structures, conditions can be provided which will attract 
and hold that quality of brains upon which alone great schools are built. 

In the practice of medicine certain characteristics are apparent which 
pertain more to the era of small town existence than to the service of physi- 
cians in a modern metropolis. Lack of use and consideration for the special- 
ties in medicine and surgery are striking to those familiar with practice 
farther east in the United States, and in European cities. Entertainment as 
well as cause for serious action will be found in the study of those harpies 
who fatten on the credulity and ignorance of our foreign tongue immigrants, 
the irresponsible and illegal practitioner, the advertising quacks. 

Dentistry and Pharmacy each present professional problems of impor- 
tance which cannot be ignored without loss of some measure of help to the 
public in the care of the sick. Their contributions to preventive medicine 
also are considerable and increasing in value. 

So extensive has the field of nursing become, so dependent are we in all 
directions of medical and public health practice upon this army of the trained 
sisterhood, that a study of their profession by a rarely well equipped group 
of their own graduates and leaders is particularly appropriate and most 
fortunate for this Survey. Nothing comparable to this has been done for 
the nursing profession before, and although studies of national extent are 
under way, Cleveland will now be in a particularly favorable condition to 
make good its present lead in strategic features of nursing education and 
practice, while waiting for the report of the National Committee from which 
we borrowed the director and several of the workers for our own study. 

Nurses training in the past and often still presenting a rather sorry pic- 
ture of mingled exploitation of willing labor and amateurii-h teaching, is 
worthily described. Practical means are proposed to meet'the obligations 
of hospitals to both patients and nurse pupils. 



I NT l> li I CTIOM 



l'nl>!ic Health Nursing includes thorough discussion of tlic services ren- 
dered in the many public and private organizations engaged in educational 
and bedside work through field nurses. 

Private nursing, too, though not a matter of chief importance from the 
point of view of the Survey has had an illuminating brief study put upon it. 

It was in the minds of the Trustees of the Cleveland Hospital Council that 
the conception of this Survey originated, and it was their declaration that the 
hospital is really a public service institution, responsible alike for prevention 
and for care of disease, that l>ecame the keynote of our program. Since pre- 
vention is the spirit of modern medicine the machinery for its accomplish- 
ment has had precedence in the order of chapters over the description of 
those services which have always been primarily devoted to cure, relief or 
post] o lenient of death amongst the seriously ill. 

In Part X. will be found not only a recital of the physical and profes- 
sional resources of the community in the shape of hospitals, dispensaries 
and their accessory services beyond their walls, but the spirit, the philosophy, 
the ideals which imbue the present-day executives of these centers of skill, 
tenderness and teaching. From cellar to garret the investigators have 
searched for the good and the poor in hospital management. From the 
admitting desk, or rather from the doorstep, of the hospital where the dis- 
appointed applicant is declined admission, to the report of complete conva- 
lescence by the patient at the dispensary or to the social service worker 
weeks and months later, the path of the patient has been followed and the 
quality of attention accorded him has been scrutinized 

While estimates of the hospital needs of a community will vary with the 
education of people in the possibilities and advantages of hospital care for 
their own particular variety or for all varieties of ills, there is yet a basis of 
experience, a pragmatic test of adequacy to be offered. By this test Cleve- 
land's shortage of beds is manifest. The remedy is, in the first place, ade- 
quate buildings and personnel and disinterested administration of its great 
City Hospital, now a travesty upon hospital service. 

Private endowments and initiative will, as far as one can see into the 
future, always be required and generously supplied to meet the call for hos- 
pital lx*ds, and as soon as the present apparent extravagance in cost of con- 
struction subsides there will certainly be undertaken great new hospital 
buildings and expansions of the present admirable ones, all justly held in 
affectionate regard by a grateful public. The shortage of dispensary service 
in Cleveland, as compared with service in other leading cities, constitutes 
another limitation of medical care for a considerable proportion of the popu- 
lation and for the facilities for consultation and diagnosis available to the 
medical profession. 

If one need beyond that of more beds for acute general hospital patients 
is to lie mentioned, it must IK* the lack of convalescent facilities. This is a 
typical shortcoming of American cities the meeting of which will go far to 
abate many of the present troubles of hospital administrators and the pro- 
fessional staffs, and at the same time complete the now unfinished work so 
well begun in the hospital* themselves 



34 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKV i-n 

There is no part of the present report which is so certain to appeal to a 
broad public as this section on Hospitals and Dispensaries. The public 
that is served, the public that contributes for the support of hospitals, the 
responsible trustees and their representatives, the hospital superintendents, 
the professions (medical, nursing, dental, pharmacy) in the field of education 
and service, the health officers and the private health agencies, all have an 
interest in the results of this study and the recommendations presented. 

Although individual reports to the trustees of the several hospitals have 
already been presented to them, the general hospital situation as described 
will add to the understanding of each in the solution of their separate and 
particular problems. 

What follows is for the convenience of students of sociology, a sketch of 
methods used, a list of analyses of kindred subjects made by other survey- 
ors, and the inevitable index of subjects to save the reader's time. 

Part XI. contains what may be likened to the description of technic in a 
physician's approach to his patient, the items to be included in his history 
and physical examination, etc. Although lists of publications dealing with 
surveys have been issued by libraries it has seemed wise to include here such 
'as have been found useful to our present purpose or have in one way or 
another been levied upon for information or comparison. 



I N I ...MM ( I ION 



Summary of Recommendations 

T1IK Cleveland Hospital Council sjM'cifically requested that detailed and 
definite recommendations for action be prepared by those responsible 
for the Survey, in tin* course of the following chapters the discovery of 
facts and the discussion of policies have been directed towards as definite a 
solution for each difficulty or inadequacy as \\a^ found practicable. At the 
-nd of each chapter there has been placed a summary of recommendations, 
subject by subject. The full extent of the program which is conceived and 
the tearing that such a program of medical and social endeavor has upon tin- 
fabric of government and upon organized private effort can best be seen by 
an av-cmbly of the various recommendations in certain main groups. An- 
alysis of those presented in the text shows that they fall logically under 
four headings. 

The first group deals with laws, both state and local (that is, as passed 
by the state legislature and affecting Cleveland, either directly or through 
charter provisions, and ordinances enacted by the legislative body of the city 
the City Council). The variety of changes thought desirable to suggest 
is such that it is believed nothing short of an organized effort in the interest 
of this supplementary program of social legislation will suffice to obtain con- 
sideration by the state and local law makers. It is, therefore, recommended 
that the Welfare Federation request the volunteer >er\ ices of a committee 
of lawyers and public officers of the State Legislature and the City Council 
to consider and act upon the recommendations of the Survey dealing with 
amendments or additions to the laws. 

A study of the recommendations under the various chapters shows 
that suggestions are made which affect the State Child Labor Law, the 
State School Code and the local city ordinance dealing with street trades, in 
the interest of the health of children; the Civil Code and Medical Practice 
Act in dealing with irresponsible and unlicensed medical and dental prac- 
titioners, the annual registry of dentists, the licensing of dental hygienists 
and nurse attendants and of various state statutes dealing with the sale of 
drugs elsewhere than in drug stores and the privilege of purchasing tax-free 
alcohol by retail druggists; the Injunction and Abatement Law, the laws 
dealing with prostitutes in the interest of control of venereal diseases; the 
laws covering the diagnosis and treatment of mentally defective persons who 
come in contact with the courts and the laws dealing with the licensing and 
supervision of hotels, both of which affect in some measure the social program 
for venereal disease control; a law providing for supervision and licensing 
of hospitals under the State Department of Health; the modification of 
the city charter to permit of the appointment of a Board of Trustees to be 
responsible for the administration of the City Hospital; the enactment of a 
revised Sanitary Code for the city of Cleveland. 

The second and very extensive group of recommendations deals with the 
manner of conduct of existing departments of state and city goverment and 
with the additional activities which it is thought suitable or necessary for 
them to undertake. Many of the recommendations presented have been 
discussed in detail with the administrative officers, particularly of the city 



36 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

government, and in some instances with those of state departments within 
whose power it is to modify procedure or activities to meet the suggestions 
made. Many of the recommendations cannot, however, be carried out 
without generous increase of appropriations and some must wait for authority 
from elected executive officers by whom the administrators are appointed and 
from whom they have received their authority. 

It may be said in general that there is ample authority but insufficient 
appropriation and personnel to carry out the wishes which the voters and 
legislators evidently had in mind in framing the laws. The recommenda- 
tions, as they affect the state government, propose an adequate inspection 
service to protect the licensed practitioners of the various medical and 
associated professions; adequate inspection service for the institutions of 
the state hospitals, institutions for children and others; adequate inspection 
service to protect women and children in industry and to enforce the child 
labor law; and the transfer of the responsibility for supervision of food hand- 
lers in restaurants from the Department of the State Fire Marshal to the 
State Department of Health. 

General recommendations dealing with the city government include 
approval of the activities of the City Plan Commission; the investigation 
of sewage collection, treatment and disposal; investigation of the methods 
of collection and disposal of rubbish and garbage; a suggestion that the 
sum of $1,000,000 be provided annually for the next fifteen years for sewer 
construction. The departments of the city government which the recom- 
mendations particularly affect are the Department of Public Welfare, the 
Board of Education, the Department of Public Service and the Department 
of Public Safety, under all of which departments there are activities which 
deal more or less intimately with some or all phases of health protection and 
care of the sick. It is believed that the most effective way of obtaining im- 
provements of service or extensions of service as suggested in the recommenda- 
tions bearing upon the departments of city government will be by organizing 
a Public Health Association in the city of Cleveland, as proposed in the 
Introductory Chapter of Part II., and it is particularly suggested that one of 
the most important activities of such an association would be to maintain 
friendly and cooperative contact with the officers of the city government 
so that they may feel the support of the citizens, may get the benefit of criti- 
cal comment upon their activities and will be stimulated to their very best 
effort by the knowledge that their activities are being analyzed and tested 
by high standards. By those means of education properly included in the 
terms propaganda and publicity such an association would materially aid 
the officers of public departments to obtain adequate funds from the appro- 
priating body, the Board of Control, needed to carry on the activities recom- 
mended and desired by the tax-payers. The extent and detail of the recom- 
mendations are too great to lend themselves to any summary in this place 
and the reader is referred to the summaries of recommendations, especially 
at the ends of chapters dealing with public health services, child welfare, 
venereal diseases, tuberculosis and mental hygiene. 

The third group of recommendations deals with the private agencies. 
In almost all instances the recommendations as printed in the report have 



I \ I l> DUCT ION 37 

been discussed with the officers or governing bodies of the private agencies 
which contribute to health protection and the care of the sick. In the case 
of all the hospitals, in addition to the recommendations here included, a 
special report, with detailed treatment of all the aspects of hospital work, 
has been prepared and submitted to the trustees of each of the hospitals in 
conference and by written statement. In the same way those matters 
bearing upon educational policies and practices in the various professional- 
schools for medicine and the associated professions in Western Reserve 
University have been presented by word of mouth and in written report to 
the University authorities. 

The several coordinating agencies, such as the Welfare Federation, the 
Cleveland Hospital Council, the Academy of Medicine, the Association for 
the Crippled and Disabled, the Central Nursing Committee, the Kinder- 
garten and Day Nursery Association, have special responsibilities in further- 
ing the recommendations which deal with their component organizations or 
personnel. Similarly, the Chamber of Commerce, the Rotary Club and the 
Cleveland Advertising Club have very broad duties in support of all the 
movements which contribute to the well-being of the public. To these co- 
ordinating agencies, both those dealing with professional fields and those of 
a general business nature, are assigned certain obligations in the recom- 
mendations as presented. 

Upon industry a considerable burden is placed in suggestions that it meet 
the modern conception of responsibility to the employes by organizing for 
their protection against industrial hazards, and for their medical care, the 
professional and community resources which are mentioned in considerable 
detail in the section on industry in Cleveland. In addition to certain recom- 
mendations which deal with the activities of the Anti-Tuberculosis League 
the recommendation is made that a number of new and coordinated public 
health agencies, based on private initiative and support, should be established. 

Under the fourth heading would fall naturally the recommendations for 
new activities. Among these the most important is the Cleveland Public 
Health Association above referred to, planned as a parent and centralizing 
force in all private health activities for the city, with section activities to deal 
with child welfare and its subdivisions prenatal, pre-school, school child 
and child labor features venereal diseases, tuberculosis, cripples, obstetrical 
care, and so forth. Two of the fields of preventive medicine are not as yet 
occupied by any private effort in Cleveland; the first, the field of prevention 
and relief of heart disease, and the second the prevention and cure of cancer. 
Both the education and the technical professional sides of these two prob- 
lems need the same kind of organized support that has been provided to 
develop public services in the fields of tuberculosis, venereal disease and child 
hygiene. 

Two new institutional activities for which the sick of Cleveland are now 
really suffering are: a well organized central dispensary and provision for 
convalescent care outside of the general hospitals and under suitable con- 
ditions of space and occupation. 



38 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

In offering such a series of comprehensive suggestions it is recognized 
that no community however willing, however wealthy, how r ever well edu- 
cated in its social responsibilities could put into effect all the proposals, 
without a sacrifice of much that is good in the existing agencies and institu- 
tions, which must be used to build upon, and not be destroyed in the process 
of reconstruction. That all the recommendations can be made, even at the 
very considerable expense which this will involve, is the confident belief of 
the staff of the Survey, based upon its contact and experience with the citi- 
/ens of Cleveland in all walks of life who have been a continuous source of 
encouragement and inspiration to the investigators throughout the past year. 
When the program here presented has been carried out it will be found that, 
in terms of human lives and happiness, Cleveland has greatly increased vital 
assets although its financial liabilities may be found to have been increased 
beyond the point to which communities are now accustomed to spend the 
money of either the tax-payer or the private contributor. 



General Environment and Sanitation 

Population and Area 

C LEV K LAN I), founded in 1796, incorporated as a village in 181.5, and 
chartered as a city in IKM. is the largest city of Ohio and the fifth in 

si/e in the I'nited States, its population in January, 1920, being 796,836. 

York, Philadelphia, Chicago and Detroit are larger. With 1,07.5 
people in 18150, Cleveland grew steadily hut slowly until 1872, when, from a 
population of lo:),o;n, it began a more rapid development. The city and 
its immediate suburbs have very close to 1,000,000 population now. The 
favorable commercial and economic conditions existing in Cleveland, to- 
gether with its advantageous geographical location, combined with its past 
consistent record for steady growth, warrant the belief that within the next 
20 to 2.5 years a population of one and a half or two million people may be 
expected. 

The characteristic of steady growth in Cleveland is probably due largely 
to the diversity of business and manufacturing enterprises of the city and their 
relative stability. The fact that the city is favorably situated on both 
water and rail routes of national importance with short haul on raw mate- 
rials and that it is also centrally located for direct distribution of manufac- 
tured products to all parts of the country, has .undoubtedly been the basis of 
this steadiness of growth. 

There is a very marked separation of the residential districts into groups, 
the separation being caused primarily by the Cuyahoga River and the 
valleys and hills typical of the area covered by the city, and, secondarily, by 
the grouping of population around, or near the factories which are located 
principally along the steam railway lines. 

A vigourous, educated, ambitious tyi>e of early settlers gave a distinctive 
character to Cleveland's early existence, and the junction of coal and iron 
with a favorable harbor and excellent rail and water transport, combined 
with a rich farming country and fortunate climate, have brought to Cleve- 
land the industrious immigrant and the laborer from our Southern states 
until it now represents as typical an American city as can be found, with the 
excellencies and shortcomings in government, living standards and accom- 
plishments which alternately make us proud and mortified. 

There is no good reason to believe that the age and race composition of 
Cleveland have been materially modified in the past ten years unless it be 
by the addition of large numbers of Negroes. This has been a folk movement 
and no important preponderance of males has been observed, the families 
following soon after the arrival of the wage earner. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



COMPARATIVE GROWTH OF 
METROPOLITAN AREAS 



PROBABLE MAXIMUM. MINIMUM 



AND EXPECTED GROWTH CURVES 
POM GREATER CLEVELAND 



I84O 50 6O 70 80 9O I9OO 10 1180 9O 1900 io 20 30 40 X 60 TO 80 "90 ?000 




KNVIUONMIM AND SANITATION 41 

The 1910 census report shows the following age and race distribution for 
Cleveland and for the total urban population of the Registration Area of 
the United States. 

All Clauei Native White Foreign-Born White Negro 

Native Foreign or 

Parentage Mixed Parentage 

Cleve- U. S. Cleve- U. S. Cleve- U. S. Cleve- U. S. Cleve- U. S. 
Age* land Urban land Urban land Urban land Urban land Urban 

All 100', 100';, 23.6% 41.6% 39 9',r 28 9% 34.9% 22.6% 1.5% 6.3% 

Under S 11 1 98 33 4.7 74 43 29 2 09 .5 



514 
15 24 


17.4 
20 5 


17 3 
20 


48 
4.75 


82 
8.6 


10 3 
9.2 


69 
6.3 


2.0 
6.2 


3 


1 
9 


16 

28 


11 

1.4 


2544 
45 64 


34 4 
13.4 


33 2 
15 2 


73 
2.6 


12 5 
5.8 


9.9 
2.8 


80 
31 


16 5 
7.7 


10 
5 


2 

4 


7 
2 


23 
8 


65 and over 


30 


40 


6 


18 


2 


3 


2.0 


1 


7 


03 


2 



For original nationality of Cleveland residents and further details of 
population, for the city as a whole and by districts, the reader is referred to 
the forthcoming data of the 1920 census, which should be published soon 
after the publication of this report. Re-publishing here the facts of the 
1910 census seems superfluous. 

Neither the Negro nor the Irish are present in Cleveland in sufficient 
numbers to materially affect their particular racial susceptibility to pul- 
monary tuberculosis and other diseases of the respiratory tract, or the mor- 
bidity or mortality of the city. 

The following, compiled from the best information obtainable of the 
population and area of this district for the period from 1900 to 1918, inclu- 
sive, was made up before the 1920 census figures were available and indi- 
cates an overeat imation of population: 

POPULATION OF CLEVELAND AND SUBURBS 



City Within Population City Population 

Co.-por; te per and per 

Limits Acre Suburb* Acre 

1900 381.800 17 5 421.834 5.5 

1905 459,500 17.4 514.205 6.7 

1910.._ 559,900 19.0 630.577 8.2 

1915. 734,000 21.8 836,089 109 

1918 855.000 228 971,380 12.7 

The population per acre in the above table in the case of corporate Cleve- 
land is based upon the area within tin- corporate limits as of each date, 
being 84 square miles in 1900 and 58.70 square miles in 1918. The popula- 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



tion per acre for the city and suburbs in the right-hand column of the same 
table is calculated upon the basis of 119.1 square miles as the area occupied 
by the 971,380 estimated population of 1918. 

Politically, the city is divided into 26 wards and 488 precincts, but since 
there are no continuous or reliable vital statistics available (i. e., births, 
deaths or sickness) by these subdivisions, the only subdivisions which will 
be used in this report will be the eight health districts as established in 1917, 
for which much useful information has been recorded. It is thought to be a 
matter of much importance to future municipal government, especially in 
the field of public health, and for the private health welfare, and relief agen- 
cies of the city that the census units or forty-acre tracts, or as they are called 
in other cities, sanitary areas, used by the Federal Census Bureau for the 
tabulation of population data in 1910 and 1920, be made the basis of all 
administrative areas of the city, and that both public and private agencies 
in arranging their field services use districts which include multiples of the 
census units. In this way the cumulative value of orderly collection of facts 
will soon contribute to the development of logical programs of action. At 
present there is little or no data available except by the city as a whole, a 
unit too large for the detailed analysis now required in intensive public 
health work. A map showing the sanitary areas will be found in Part II. 
(Fig. II.) 

The densest quarter-mile square sections are found in wards 11 and 12, 
south of Euclid and east of 14th Street, where the population ranges from 90 
to 95 persons per acre. North of Euclid and east of 55th Street there are dis- 
tricts ranging from 50 to 55 persons per acre and on the West Side, in the 
4th and 5th wards, the population ranges from 50 to 75 persons per acre for 
relatively small districts. It will be seen, therefore, that these maximum 
densities are far below what are termed tenement districts in New York, 
Chicago and Philadelphia, where 250 persons per acre are quite frequently 
found over considerable areas. In limited districts as many as 640 people 
per acre are found in the dense East Side sections of Manhattan Borough of 
the city of New York. 

In Cleveland, therefore, we have no acutely crowded districts and the 
general average population per acre is about 18 as against 20 for the city 
of Chicago, 19 for the city of Detroit and 164 for Manhattan Island in New 
York City. 

Greater New York for the whole metropolitan district has about 26 per- 
sons per acre as against 13 persons per acre for a similar territory in Cleve- 
land. 

The fact that the city has developed east and southeast of the central 
retail and business districts to a greater degree than west and southwest is 
accounted for largely by former absence of convenient bridges across the 
valley of the Cuyahoga River and to lack of development of the water and 
sewage systems in the southwest side of the city. The general characteristic 



F.N\ IU<>\\!( N I VM> S\\l I \TK>\ 



of Cleveland's residential districts is that of detached cne and two-family 
re-idenccx ,iii<l tin- roiilt of using this form of homes is to create a city with 
relatively l<>\\ population densities and consequent extended areas. 

A fad of sonic possible importance in health development and main- 
tenance of the industrial workers of Cleveland is that a larger portion of them 
live within easy daily walking distance of their work than is the case in 
Chicago or Detroit. To quote from the report of the Rapid Transit Com- 
mission, "A general inquiry made by us into the question of employment 
districts and residential locations, develops the fact that there is an unusu- 
ally large residential grouping of factory workers about their places of 
employment throughout the city of Cleveland. Thus, two groups of fac- 
tories on the West Side have 35% and 50%, respectively of their employes 
within walking distance. On the East Side a factory group in the 79th Street 
district has 60% walking employes and another in the same district has 75% 
walkers. Taking the whole East Side group of factories apparently only 
15% to 0% of the employes live on the West Side of the city. 

This condition is unusual compared with other large cities. In Detroit 
an exhaustive canvass of the factories showed only one group with 75% of 
walkers, the balance of factories showing from 16 % to 40% of their employes 
walking and the average being only 28.2% for the city. In Chicago the situa- 
tion was similar, the average walkers out of 850,000 factory employes being 
only 24.4% and any group showing over 40% was unusual. Cleveland has 
48% of walkers." 

The report on Housing Conditions of War Workers in Cleveland made 
by the Committee on Housing and Sanitation of the Cleveland Chamber of 
Commerce and by the United States Home Registration Service in October, 
1918, states: 

"TIME SPENT IN GOING TO WORK" 

"Out of a total of 21,832 wage earners, 10,364, or 48' ,, walk to and 
from their work. This proximity of industry to the home is desirable, and, 
in a city like Cleveland, with its factories well distributed and accessible to 
residential sections, it ought not to be impossible. Out of the number who 
walk, 945 spend from 30 to 60 minutes walking to work or from one to two . 
hours a day in going to and coming from work. ***** 52% of the 
wage earners ride to their work. Of this number 5,059 spend from 30 to 60 
minutes riding one way, or from one to two hours going to and coming from 
work each day. 1,411 spend more than one hour going to work, or more 
than two hours going ard coming from work each day. More than 300 
spend more than three hours a day in going to and coming from work each 
day. These latter figures indicate a waste of time and energy on the part 
of the worker that must be detrimental to his efficiency as a worker." 

For reference there is included here a table of population density per 
square mile and per acre for Cleveland and its suburbs included within 
Cuyahoga County. We wish here to acknowledge our debt to the Board of 
Rapid Transit Commissioners for the privilege of quoting freely from their 
report in the foregoing pages and for the use of the two charts 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



POPULATION AND AREA OF CLEVELAND AND SUBDIVISIONS IN 
CUYAHOGA COUNTY 1918 

Report to Board of Rapid Transit Commissioners 

Population Area Sq. Population Populatio 

Corporate Name Estimated Miles Per Sq. Mile Per Acre 

Cleveland East Side 607,400 39.4 15,416.2 24.1 

Cleveland West Side 247,600 19.3 12,829.0 20.0 

East Cleveland 25,000 30 8,333.3 13.0 

Lakewood 42,800 5.4 7,926.0 12 4 

Bay Village 608 4.8 126.5 0.2 

Bedford Township 1,620 18.7 86.7 0.1 

Bedford Village 2,796 23 1,215.1 1.9 

Beechwood 325 4.5 72.3 0.1 

Berea 3,500 1.3 2,692.3 42 

Bratenahl 1,252 10 1,252.0 2.0 

Brecksville Township 1,063 28.0 38.1 0.1 

Brookpark Village 896 10.2 87.8 0.1 

Brooklyn Township 855 4.6 185.6 0.3 

Brooklyn Heights Village 592 2.8 2114 0.3 

Chagrin Falls 2,164 25 865.6 1.3 

Chagrin Falls Township 300 4.8 62.6 0.1 

Cleveland Heights 1 5 , 00? 7.6 1 , 973 .7 3.1 

Claribel 1,593 3.5 455 1 07 

Dover Village 1,800 16.5 109.0 0.2 

East View..,.- 422 2.2 191.8 03 

Euclidville..., 1,500 2.8 535.7 08 

Euclid Village 3,236 11 4 283.8 04 

Fairview Village 600 3.5 171.3 0.3 

Glenwillow..._ 250 2.8 89.5 0.1 

Goldwood Township... 498 24 207.9 03 

Idlewood 90 1.9 47.3 0.1 

Independence Township 329 50 65.8 0.1 

Independence Village 1,280 10.0 128.0 0.2 

Linndale 366 Q.I 3,660.0 5.7 

Maple Heights Village 2,200 45 488.9 08 

Mayfield Township 1 , 160 23 . 8 48 . 8 0.1 

Middleburg Township 1,838 11.7 1573 02 

Newburgh Heights Village, 

including 

Cuyahoga Heights Village 3 , 300 . 38 6 , 600 103 



ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION 45 

North Olmsted Village. 1,232 11.9 103.5 0.2 

North Randall Village 70 05 1400 02 

Olmsted Township 1,880 15.6 120.5 0.2 

Olmsted Falls Village 560 0.8 700.0 1.1 

Orange Township 860 23 . 5 36 . 6 0.1 

Parma Township 1,866 204 898 0.1 

Parma Heights Village 355 39 91 2 01 

Rocky River 1.855 4.3 431 4 0.7 

Royalton Township 1,132 25.5 44 5 0.1 

Shaker Heights Village 3,000 4.4 681 8 1.1 

South Euclid 2,400 5.8 4138 0.6 

South Newburgh 2,400 13.7 175.2 0.3 

Solon Township 990 200 49 5 0.1 

Strongsville 1,540 24.5 629 0.1 

Warrensville 391 10.3 380 0.1 

West Park 8,000 12.9 620.1 1.0 



Total 1.002,728 464.1 



Average 2161 3 376 



46 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Topography and Climate 

CLEVELAND occupies an area of 58.7 square miles, extending for about 
20 miles along the southern shore of Lake Erie and situated on both 
sides of the Cuyahoga River where it empties into Lake Erie. Its 
altitude is 600 feet above sea level. 

The gravel, sand, clay and shale which compose the various benches and 
valleys of the glacial drift deposit which makes the plateau upon which the 
city is built, vary greatly in their surface drainage qualities from what may 
be called perfect subsoil drainage in the sand and gravel regions, to imper- 
meable clay and a high ground-water level, for instance in the Collinwood 
region. The surrounding country is rolling hills with extensive woods 
and clear open farms. Deep gullies and valleys cut across the plateau in 
many places within the city limits. 

The city is divided for political purposes into 26 wards and 488 pre- 
cincts. 

For purposes of the Federal Census the city is divided into 131 Sanitary 
Areas, as indicated in Fig. II., Part II. 

For convenience in local health administration the city is divided into 
eight health districts, as indicated on the frontispiece map of this part show- 
ing distribution of population. 

The watershed is, of course, solely into Lake Erie. The only important 
relationship between the geological formation and the health of the people 
is the same that is noticed widely in the lake region where the water supply 
comes wholly or in large measure from the glacial drift; namely, the preva- 
lence of endemic goitre, which can be found congenitally in young children 
and widespread among girls and women who have lived continuously in this 
general area for many years. 

CLIMATE 

The data obtained from the offices of the United States Weather Bureau 
in Cleveland show a mean temperature of 26.8 F. for January and of 70.1 F. 
for July (1871-1918) and for the year 49.0 F. The mean daily range of 
temperature is 14.7 F. Sudden changes are not uncommon in the fall and 
winter with northwest winds. 

Temperature extremes have varied in the past 48 years from -17 F. in 
January, 16 F. in February, 4 F. and zero F. in November and 12 F. 
in December to a maximum of 92 F. in May, 96 F. in June, 97 F. in July, 
100 F. in August and 98 F. in September. 

There are few instances where the temperatures below zero F. or above 
90 F. were recorded for more than four days consecutively. 

The mean annual precipitation at Cleveland since 1871 has been 34.39 
inches, distributed with remarkable evenness throughout the year. 







8 A.M. 






8 P.M. 




Cleveland 


Buffalo 


Detroit 


Cleveland 


Buffalo 


Winter 


79 


77 


84 


75 


75 


Spring . 


76 


73 


76 


68 


70 


Summer .... 


73 


75 


75 


66 


69 


Fall 


77 


75 


81 


70 


71 


Year .... 


76 


71 


79 


70 


75 



K\ \1KO\MKNT AM) S \MTATION 47 

The mean relative humidity in Cleveland. Ruffalo and Detroit at 8 A. M. 

.mi I H i>. \i have Keen recorded as follows: 



Detroit 
80 
68 
64 
71 
71 

Cleveland, as measured by relative humidity in the morning, stands 
between Buffalo and Detroit, but according to relative humidity at night, 
Cleveland has less than either of the other two lake cities. 

The prevailing winds are westerly, which accounts for the greater clean- 
ness of air and exposed building surfaces and the better vegetation on the 
west side of the city. The smoke of the valley and the center of the city 
causes a serious nuisance and menace to health most of the time well out In 
105th Street on the East Side, and at some times extending in an appreciable 
curtain offensive to smell even to the Heights and select residence district 
further east. At the present rate of industrial development and with the 
existing indifference to the smoke nuisance, the prevailing winds will in a 
few years make the fine buildings, Museum, University, etc., on both sides 
of Wade Park unsightly and the use of them far from attractive. The aver- 
age velocity of the wind is 13.6 miles per hour, a rate somewhat less than 
that prevailing in New York City (15.5). 

There is nothing important in Cleveland's climate in relation to health. 
It is a moderate northern climate, typical of the Lake Region, but without 
excessive humidity, precipitation, winds or extremes of temperature, on the 
whole a good climate, but its effects for good to a considerable degree offset 
by the changes produced in the air and light by the constant fall of smoke 
and fumes that are characteristic of the city and are seen from afar on ap- 
proaching the city by water. 

At a latitude of 41 30' and longitude 81 4*', Cleveland is credited with 
a possible total hours of sunshine in the year of 4,457.4. By actual meas- 
urement Cleveland has in a year 2,367.2 hours of sunshine, or 53.1% of the 
possible. In the four months of December to March Cleveland has the bene- 
fit of only 34% of the theoretically possible hours of sunshine. How much 
of this loss is due to the unfavorable conditions of smoke pollution of the air 
cannot be stated. 



48 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Housing 

THE work, the publications, the influence upon public opinion, upon 
laws, building construction and sanitary enforcement of ordinances, 
of the Committee on Housing Conditions of the Cleveland Chamber 
of Commerce since its appointment in 1912, makes it unnecessary to treat 
of more than a few of the features of existing housing inadequacies. The 
City Plan Commission, which is at present developing the necessary maps, 
the principles and detailed description of uses upon which a zoning ordi- 
nance for the city can be approved, is the great constructive force preparing 
to prevent repetition of past errors and to insure an orderly and safe develop- 
ment of building construction and property uses for the future. 

In this interesting American method of municipal control of building 
and use of property, there is fortunately a common advantage and value 
appreciated by real estate interests and by those concerned with community 
health. To eliminate or reduce to the least practicable minimum the erection 
of tenements is one of the objectives to be desired by sanitarians, because 
although sanitary conditions may be maintained in premises technically tene- 
ments, the lot crowding and the room crowding that usually occur to a greater 
degree in buildings occupied by three or more families than in single or two- 
family houses, are found to be accompanied by the three important evidences 
of unsuitable living conditions: namely, high incidence of communicable 
disease, high infant mortality rate and high general or crude death rate. 

These three conditions prevail in Cleveland as they do in other cities 
where there is the greatest density of population. Where there is the greatest 
density of population there is found the worst condition of lot and room 
crowding. The races found in the worst houses in Cleveland are the Negroes, 
the Italians, the Jews and the foreign-born Slavs, Slovaks, Lithuanians and 
Poles. The poor, those ignorant of their rights under the law, in the main 
the negroes and the foreign-born, suffer not only from the economic disad- 
vantages from which they are emerging, but they do not receive that protec- 
tion from the law to which they are entitled. 

Careful and repeated inspection of what is known as the Hill district, of 
the Woodland district, of the downtown lodging house district on the East 
Side, and of the so-called Triangle at the west end of the Superior Ave- 
nue bridge, during the winter and spring of 1920, disclosed conditions in 
violation of all of the important sections of the ordinances dealing with 
tenements and sanitation of occupied premises. 

It was often said by city employes and by others in excuse of the intol- 
erably bad conditions of occupancy in the Hill region that this is all to be de- 
molished in the course of railroad improvements. In the meantime it cer- 
tainly points to astonishing indifference on the part of the Bureau of Sani- 
tation, which is held responsible for the enforcement of Articles III., IV. and 
V. of Section A, Articles 76-84 of City Ordinance 32186-A, which was passed 
October 18, 1915, and in force January 1, 1916 that the conditions reported 
below could exist, and yet from the evidence of district physicians, sanitary 



K\\ 1KO.NMENT AM) SANITATION 49 

inspectors. visiting nurses and resident^. tin- conditions have existed as re- 
ported and found for many years past without any evidence of effective re- 
medial action by the city ant Imrit irs <r by the owners of the properties. 



nut.-- of the investigator on May H, 19^0, follow. These observa- 
tions were verified by a medical officer in the city employ, a physician who 
had had considerable experience in sanitation and epidemiology in the army 
here and abroad, and whose present work has convinced him of the intimate 
causal relationship between the filth, neglect, darkness, lack of ventilation 
and crowding found in the homes, and the amount of invalidism among 
children and adults in these premises. 

Berg Street 

Garbage piled high, obstructing the gutter and sidewalk. The pile was 
two feet high, 10 feet wide and 16 feet long. Maggots were developing in 
this pile of garbage, human and animal excrement and food waste. 

Between Berg and Jerome Court 

Yard privies with broken seats, fecal deposits on floor, seats and side of 
privies, obstructing drain. Bowl filled with human waste. (No lights in any 
of the halls visited through this inspection trip, neither fixtures nor tips for 
lighting). Had typhoid fever case here last year. 

Jerome Alley 

Garbage bins at 707 filled with rotting accumulation of winter. In the 
house, husband and wife and six children in two rooms. No gas, no lamps: 
yard closets, no water running, privies have broken bowl surface, rotting 
wood sides, floor and roof, general distribution of human and animal fecal 
waste. 

Between Berg and Jerome Court 

Garbage in mass, acrid, stinking, fly breeding. 

703 Berg Street 

Three rooms, two adults and three children. No provision for lighting; 
cooking, washing and sleeping in same room. In sheds, under stairways, 
rabbits, pigeons and chickens breeding and at large. Privies in foul, un- 
sanitary condition; surface and privy drainage washing upon alley where 
children are playing. 

General Area 

Central, Hill, Berg and Commerce down to the flats. A mass of shacks 
not fit for cattle to be kept in. Spaces between buildings from six inches 
to two feet wide, packed with rotting accumulations thrown in from the 
alleys above. Privy vaults and sink holes that are not protected against 
leakage of fecal accumulations to surrounding area, accessible to children 
and occupants of premises. 



Hosi-ii \i> AND HKAI.TH STKVKY 



1. BACK OK BKK<; STKKKT, 

OVERLOOKIN(i .1 I UiiMI. Cot HT 

Thin truant hoy "get* airay 
from the kids" in his "read inn- 
room" at the rear of mi 
mi lierg Street. 




K\\ IBONMEM i \\n > \M i \ i l>\ 




HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVEA 




6. PASSAGEWAY UP THE HILL HUJM THE 
RIVER BETWEEN TENEMENTS. 

It is possible to walk up from Canal Road 
to Andes Alley on five streets through such pas- 
sages. No sunlight can reach the rooms irhich 
open ojf these passages. 

7. MENCKEN AND HILL STREETS, HAYMARKET 
DISTRICT 

This view shows how houses are built up the 
East Ninth Street hill between Mencken and 
Hill Streets. Some of the dwellings are nothing 
more than burrows in the ground. One can go 
into a tenement on Mencken Street and by 
means of rickety stairs wend his way across 
Jerome Court, Berg Street and out on Hill 
irithout seeing the light of day. 



I : \ V 1 K< )NMENT AND SANITATION 53 

From observations made it would appear that Article III., Section .">:>. 
54, 55, 56-2 and 4, and 59, referring to buildings used as tenements^before 
January 1, 1916, were violated on most of the premise inspected. 

Complaints and reports of the conditions as noted alx>ve had been made 
at intervals over a period of a year with no remedial action l>y thc_Hureau 
of Sanitation. 

In another section, where the excuse of impending demolition of premises 
couldnot be offered, quite similar conditions were found, as follows: 

Orange Avenue, opposite Depot 

Broken toilets, garbage accumulation which has been on premises since 
August, 1919. 

2003 Orange Avenue 

Broken toilets, ho lights in hall, alley with all winter accumulation of 

garbage. 

i 

25/5 Orange Avenue 

Privy with leaky sewer outlet where bowl waste discharges into open 
pit, rotting boards on floor of shanty. Pile of manure in yard since August. 
1919. 

25/5 Orange Avenue, Second Floor 

Toilet opening into the kitchen and living room. No ventilation except 
through the kitchen. Dangerously loose flooring. No lighting in halls. 

The worst conditions were found in lodging houses. With the exception 
of the lodging houses maintained by the Salvation Army, which complied 
with legal requirements and presented a picture of order and cleanliness, 
the lodging houses in Cleveland, including the one maintained by the New 
York Central Railroad in the basement of the Orange Avenue Freight depot, 
violated all reasonable provisions for sanitary living and disease prevention. 
Among the most important nuisances found were inadequate light and ventil- 
lation, old, soiled, stained l>ed covering, filthy floors, overcrowding, lack of 
space between bunks, etc. The licenses issued by the State Fire Marshal at 
Columbus, Ohio, are obtained without compliance with reasonable standards 
of cleanliness. There is no routine periodical inspection of lodging hou>es 
by state or city authorities. The cheapest lodging hou< > operated in the 
densest areas of New York's lower Mast Side shine I comparison with 
Cleveland's "flop-houses," which are a disgrace. 

In response to the frequent specific complaints by tl.c district physicians 
of unsanitary conditions in lodging houses, the Burc.-iu of Sanitation offers 
the excuse that there is no authority under the law l<> abate the nuisances 
described. 

The following extract.- from notes of the investigator give a typical pic- 
ture of Clevel;nnl % N lodging houses, the clear ami the filthy: 



54 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

Salvation Army Citadel 

Has provision for 166 men, each in single partitioned rooms, the parti- 
tions going to within two feet of the ceiling, the space above being divided 
by an iron grill. Each room has 48 feet of floor space and 480 cubic feet 
of air space. Toilet seats clogged and foul because of use ot toilet paper instead 
of towels for drying hands in the wash places. Premises otherwise clean, 
with clean linen on beds, clean towels supplied each night. License to 
operate obtained from the Department of State Fire Marshal, at Columbus, 
$15.00 a year. Original inspection of premises is made by representative 
from Columbus. No re-inspection. Occasionally visited by sanitary officer 
of Cleveland Health Division. 

Metropole 

Another Salvation Army lodging house where a license of $20.00 a year 
is paid, having accommodation for more than 200 men. Some single rooms 
as described above (Citadel), others large, well-ventilated, high-ceilinged 
dormitories, the beds being double-tier iron-spring bunks. Each separate 
room having a floor space of 40 square feet and air space of 400 cubic feet, 
the dormitory having 45 square feet of space per individual and 450 cubic 
feet air space per capita. Premises in clean condition. Shower baths in 
cellar. Laundry tuts for men to wash clothes and drying room for then- 
use. Usual standards of simplicity and adequate cleanliness that one finds 
in Salvation Army quarters. Occasionally inspected by the Health Division . 
Charge of 50 cents per room and 35 cents per bed in dormintory. 

Palisades, 2146 Ontario Street 

One flight up to pool room, lunch counter, general lounging room and 
a few unlighted, unventilated cabins with semi-partitions, the ceiling of each 
being formed by wire gratings on which newspapers, rags and rubbish have 
accumulated almost to the exclusion of air. Two floors above this used 
for lodging purposes, the rooms being wholly inadequate as to light, floor space 
and cubic air space. The washrooms are filthy, the bedding old, the single 
sheet and so-called pillow case being grey and brown with dirt and discharges, 
the mattresses stained and torn, the coverlets filthy with stains of vermin 
and men. The per capita floor space allowed was 35 square feet and the 
air space 280 cubic feet. There was no light in the separate rooms and many 
of the rooms were pitch dark in the middle of a bright afternoon. Kerosene 
lamps were had by some of the men in the rooms and some of the rooms 
were furnished by the men with all kinds of personal belongings. Men were 
found who had lived in these rooms for months at a time at $2.00 a week. 
No proprietor or clerk on the premises and did not learn whether place was 
licensed. Neither as to cleanliness, air space, bedding or lighting does this 
building comply with what are recognized standards for even the cheapest 
lodging houses in New York City. 

131 West Prospect Avenue 

Two-story building. First floor occupied by lunch counter, kitchen, 
lounge room and card room. Crowded with Negroes, Italians, Poles, etc. 
Eleven sleeping rooms on the second floor in rear; the proprietor occupying 



ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION :,:> 

the front. These rooms are furnished with beds with filthy mattresses and 
bedding. Some beds double. Some rooms with two cots. Floor space 
35 square feet per capita. The rooms with the exception of one had each 
an outside window. This place has no license because the inspector from 
Columbus said that with so small a number of rooms it was unnecessary to 
have a license. 

The serving of food in the restaurant on the ground floor was under the 
foulest imaginable conditions. Butter was picked out of the bowls with 
dirty hands. Food for serving was standing around on the floor in the 
kitchen and behind the lunch counter. No order, cleanliness or provision 
for decent washing of dishes or hands. The apparently total neglect of all 
provision for decent food preparation is one of the striking features observed 
on visiting a large number of eating houses and lunch counters feeding the 
transient or lodging-house public of the city. 

Lodging House maintained at the New York Central Freight Depot 

132 men were in one cellar space entirely below ground excepting for a 
space of six inches which permits of partially open windows, looking out at 
street level on one side and on car tracks upon the other. Cubic space 
240 feet per capita. Double-deck bunks, some for two people each; bunks 
two and three tiers deep, so close together that a sick man must be reached 
over the foot of the bed for examination and treatment. Only artificial light 
possible. Provision for toilets and wash basins excellent and adequate. 
Another room for 72 men, 290 cubic feet per capita, with the same double- 
deck bunks in two and three rows, a place with insufficient ventilation and 
light to permit of the requirements of housing and unfit for human habitation 
according to the Building Code of almost any of the cities of the United 
States. Reported by district physician to be a constant source for medical 
care at the expense of the city through the winter, when the condition, due 
to lack of ventilation, was beyond belief. There was no medical care pro- 
vided by the company for this group of not less than 200 and frequently 250 
to 300 men. One exhaust fan opening out at the level of the railroad tracks 
offers opportunity for change of air, but in winter the windows were kept 
shut constantly, and the intake of air must come in any event from the 
street level with all the dust of the large truck spaces of the freight yard. 



RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

It is recommended that: 

The activities of the Chamber of Commerce in the interest of suitable housing in 
single or two-family buildings be continued, and that there be added to the present impor- 
tant financial undertaking to facilitate home building for wage earners, educational prop- 
aganda among householders as to proper and legal standards of construction, equipment 
and occupancy of living premises, so that those owning or renting homes may know their 
own duties and privileges or rights, as well as the degree and kind of protection they are 
entitled to at the hands of the city government for the protection of their health. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



The undertaking of the City Plan Commission to establish a plan by zones for the 
construction and use of buildings be vigorously and continuously supported by all civic 
agencies such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Welfare Federation, the Consumers' 
League, etc., until the city government has enacted into law adequate restrictions and 
provisions for the future. 

The existing laws affecting the occupancy of premises, whether tenements, lodging 
houses or single-family houses now used for multiple family use, be enforced consistently, 
impartially and vigorously, to the end that the existing disgraceful conditions in and 
about living quarters of the poor in Cleveland be abated. 

The proposed Sanitary Code be enacted into law at the earliest possible date to give 
the Division of Health the necessary authority to take action in lodging houses and to 
enforce the abatement of nuisances. 

The authority to license, inspect, control and close lodging houses in Cleveland be 
vested in the office of the Commissioner of Health or the Director of Welfare of Cleveland, 
if necessary, as the agent of the State Fire Marshal at Columbus. 



ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION 5? 

Water Supply 

WITHOUT repeating the historical record of events, it may be briefly 
stated here that Cleveland has been through the same phases of in- 
difference, alarm, actual fear, confidence and now pride with regard 
to its municipal water supply which has been characteristic of many lake 
cities. Cleveland's water supply is now protected by the location of intake 
in the lake, by filtration and by chlorination, so that the citizens receive, 
except in a small part of the city for which filtered water cannot be obtained 
until const ruction already planned for is completed, a safe, potable water, 
attractive in appearance and suitable for all domestic and commercial uses. 
There is no reason to believe that communicable disease of any kind is now 
distributed by the public water supply. No one in Cleveland needs to buy 
bottled waters, except to satisfy some whim of taste or appearance. 

The source of supply is obviously adequate through the two intakes 
about four and one-half miles from the shore in Lake Erie. One crib is of 
the exposed, the other of the submerged type. Tunnels connect these 
cribs with the pumping stations at the foot of East 49th Street and on Divi- 
sion Avenue, at the foot of West 45th Street, 90 per cent of the pumpage being 
done at present at the latter station, where the filtration plant is in operation, 
with a daily capacity of about 150,000,000 gallons. Steel pipe lines carry the 
raw water to the chemical house whence it passes to the mixing chamber. 
Sulphate of iron (110-140 Ibs. per million gallons) and lime (85-100 Ibs. per 
million gallons) are supplied automatically in solution to the raw water in the 
steel pipe lines, according to the rate of flow and the condition of the water. 
Coagulation of removable matter is facilitated in the mixing chambers, and 
the settling out takes place between the mixing chambers and the filter build- 
ings. 

The filters are cleaned every 10 to 40 hours, according to the condition 
of the water, by reversing the flow through the beds. The filtered water is 
stored in a 20 million gallon reservoir, whence it is distributed by pumps 
through the city pipe system. The lake water carries but little suspended 
matter for most of the year and purification is needed chiefly to reduce the 
bacterial content of the water. There is a reservoir for surplus water. At the 
matter for most of the year and purification is needed chiefly to reduce bac- 
terial content of the water. There is a reservoir for surplus water. At the 
pumping station on the East Side the process is identical except that filtra- 
tion is not yet provided, though planned for. Most of the water distributed 
to the East Side of the city, as well as all that for the West Side, comes from 
the West Side station and has been filtered as well as chlorinated. 

Complaints of unpleasant taste in the water have been found justified at 
times, not because of excessive or irregular use of lime or chemicals applied 
at the pumping stations, but because of pollution of the water in the vicinity 
of the intake cribs by melting ice or obstructed flow from the Cuyahoga River, 
which occurs under certain conditions of wind and temperature, and alway^ 
in the winter season. 

The -water is tested daily both by the laboratory of the Water Division 

of the Department of I'uhlic I'tilities and by the laboratory of the Division 



58 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

of Health, samplei being taken regularly from points at the pumping station 
before and aftei filtration and chlorination, and at various police stations 
and other suitable points in the city. Tables giving the results of chemical 
and bacteriological tests made at the two laboratories show consistent find- 
ings in the effect of chlorine treatment (.271-.454 parts per million) in dimin- 
ishing the occurrence of the presumptive test for fermentative organisms 
(according to standards proposed by the American Public Health Associa- 
tion), and also give evidence of the uniformity in tests made of water collected 
at widely distributed points on both sides of the city. 

One of the very considerable economies to the householder is the degree 
of softness of the public water supply provided by the method of treatment. 
The saving in soap alone to the people of Cleveland is worth many times the 
cost of chemical treatment of the water. When the plans already decided 
upon are completed there will be pumped and filtered water in abundance 
for one and a half to two million people. 

The city sells water to Lakewood, East Cleveland, Cleveland Heights, 
Shaker Heights and West Park. The city is metered and wasted water is 
paid for. Water is now furnished for a population of about one million 
people who reside in an area of about 110 square miles. The average rate 
of consumption is estimated at from 130 to 135 million gallons daily and the 
maximum rate of consumption at 200 million gallons daily. Nearly the 
entire pumpage is accounted for, a fact which would indicate that the dis- 
tribution system is in good condition. Improvements in the water supply 
and distribution have always been more than met by the water rates, which 
are not excessive. 

The growth of Cleveland and its vicinity is an assured fact, consequently, 
at intervals water facilities must be increased to meet the growing demand. 
With sewage treatment provided only to the extent of safeguarding bathing 
beach waters and minimizing the foul condition of the Cuyahoga River, 
the contamination of the lake shore waters will increase with the growth of 
the city. Therefore, in completing present plans and in making future ones 
the filtration of the city water should be considered of paramount importance. 

With two filtration plants, each with a capacity of 150 million gallons 
daily, it seems that pure and wholesome water will be furnished this com- 
munity for a number of years. However, recently a committee of Engin- 
eers, Messrs. Hoffman, Herron & Frazier, studied the future requirements 
of the Water Department and concluded that by the year 1940 two addi- 
tional filtration plants, one east and one west of the Cuyohoga River, would 
probably be necessary. 

There is no reason to believe that the water supply is responsible for any 
of the typhoid fever, dysentery or other diarrheal diseases reported and 
analyzed, since chlorination of the entire supply was established. The very 
low typhoid rate of Cleveland during the year 1919 is an excellent proof of 
the safety of the public water supply. 

With regard to private unauthorized and individual well supplies of 
water used in the outlying districts of the city and its suburbs not yet reached 



K\\ II\MI vi \\nS\\ii \ii<>\ 59 

by the public supply, the situation is unsatisfactory. There is no map or 
census of these supplies, and there is no system of inspection, or permit 
>\ stem controlling the use of other than public water supplies by the Division 
of Health. Some of the cases of enteric infection, for which the source ha- 
not been traced in the great majority of cases may well be due to individual 
\\ell supplies exposed to surface or other contamination regularly or occa- 
sionally. No one should be permitted to use water supply other than the 
public source unless the quality of water and the sanitary safety of its en- 
vironment and drainage area are known to the Division of Health and a 
permit or license for the use of such water is issued and only on the basis of 
bacteriological and sanitary control at frequent intervals. 

It is recommended that: 

The plans for filtration as prepared for the East 45th Street pumping station be 
carried to completion and that the present chemical and bacteriological standards for 
quality and purity of the water supply be maintained. 

The Division of Health make a careful survey to locate all sources of water supply in 
Cleveland other than the public supply and permit the use of only such as are found by 
chemical, bacteriological and sanitary standards to be continuously fit for human use. 



(>0 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SUKVKY 



Sewage Disposal* 

WHERE, as in Cleveland, the drinking water is taken from the .same 
natural source into which surface drainage and household and indus- 
trial sewage naturally empties by gravity, the collection, treatment and 
disposal of sewage becomes of almost as much importance as the purification 
of the water supply. Moreover, the use of the lake shore and beaches in 
and near the city for recreation purposes, boating, paddling, bathing, etc., 
is an added reason to exclude or reduce to a safe dilution the sewage effluent. 
Cleveland's present sewer system for collection, the facilities for treatment 
and the location of discharge outlets in deep water far from shore, as con- 
structed or planned for, and under contract, represent the best engineering 
opinion and the result of important practical experiments with a great variety 
of treatment and disposal methods. 

Until the city has so treated its own sewage from the areas which will 
contribute to the discharge into the upper part of the Cuyahoga River as to 
escape criticism and avoid nuisance, the industrial plants along the banks of 
the river cannot be required to abate the nuisances they are so obviously and 
so offensively guilty of at present. The opportunities for the great indus- 
tries of Cleveland to contribute to the cleanliness of air and water are so am- 
ple that one would think they might tempt the imagination of some engineer 
among them. 

The bird that fouls its own nest is a true "white-wing" in comparison 
with the collection of industrial plants upon the flats of the Cuyahoga River. 

The Cleveland program includes the controlling of the purity of the drink- 
ing water by treatment during the immediate future in two large filtration 
plants and the safeguarding of the bathing beach waters from sewage pollu- 
tion by treating the sewage in three large treatment plants. Treating the 
sewage is the first major step in eliminating the foul and objectionable con- 
ditions existing in the water of Cuyahoga River, while another benefit to be 
derived pertains to the prevention of the overtaxing or overloading the reason- 
able performance of the water purification plants. Another important bene- 
fit to be expected, although chiefly sentimental, is the meeting of the opposi- 
tion of the public to the use of a source of water for drinking purposes in 
which there exists even a suspicion of sewage pollution. 

The policy which has been adopted in Cleveland is similar to that in 
general use in this country and abroad, namely: controlling the purity qf 
the water by filtration and treating the sewage only to a partial extent. 
Lake Erie waters near centers of population are becoming, year by year, 
less reliable as a source for a water supply without treatment. Filtration 
in conjunction with sterilizing agents will alone make the public water supply 
of this community satisfactory under existing conditions, and it is with this 

* The Survey is indebted to various officers in the employ of the city for most of the information 
regarding water supply and sewage in Cleveland, and in particular we wish to acknowledge the impor- 
tant statements of fact obtained from 

Mr. George B. Gascoigne, Sanitary Engineer, Division of Engineering of the Department of Public 
Service, and 

Dr. Roger Perkins, Chief of the Bureau of Laboratories of the Division of Health and Pr^ rssor of 
Bacteriology and Hygiene at the Western Reserve University Medical School. 



KNVIKONMENT \M> S \\ITATION 01 

viewpoint in mind that the problem of sewage treatment has been dealt 
with. With efficient operation of both water and sewage plants two bar- 
lien against the contamination of the water supply will be established. 

The program adopted is representative of the progressive spirit in the- 
community and it should be consummated in its entirety. It demands the 
attention of the public until all of the contemplated structures are in use, 
and it should be stated that the efficient operation of the sewerage and sewage 
treatment works is just as important as the installation of tlie works. 

SEWERAGE 

The city of Cleveland is sewered upon the combined plan, i. e., one set 
of sewers cares for the storm water and sewage. Lake Erie is the ultimate 
dumping ground for all the sewage flowing through the city system, which 
may l>e described as a series of main sewers having outlets for excess storm 
water emptying either directly into the lake or into streams tributary thereto. 
The sanitary sewage, together with the first flush of storm water, is to be 
collected from the above-mentioned main sewers by means of a system of 
intercepting sewers which discharge at the selected points for treatment. 
These treatment sites are three in number, two on the lake front and one 
<m the Cuyahoga River. 

The first sewers were built in Cleveland about 70 years ago. and today 
we find very few of these in use. The rapid growth of the city has made 
necessary the construction of many miles of sewers. However, the increase 
in sewer mileage apparently has not kept pace with the increase in street 
mileage. There are many factors governing this condition, principal among 
which is the inadequacy of financing. 

The demand for sewers includes projects for main sewcr^. some of which 
are partially completed, sewers for recently annexed portions of the city 
and sewers for undeveloped portions. Furthermore, there are many sewers 
needing rebuilding in advance of paving, and there are a numl>er of streams 
which must l>e maintained as storm water channels which should be con- 
verted into storm sewers. The city now has about 17 miles of streets and only 
about 15 miles of sewers to the square mile. In order to make the sewer 
mileage equal to the street mileage, an additional sewer length of about 106 
miles would be required. 

It is found that the city has been exjMMiding for sewer purposes about 
xl. 000,000 each year. Mr. Robert Hoffman, Commissioner of Engineering 
and Construct inn. estimates that the city will need to expend about 1,000,000 
each year for the next 10 to 15 years before it can provide sewerage facilities 
commensurate with the present and future demand. Available data tend to 
show that at the present time the city is about HK |x>r cent sewered, a ratio 
which compares favorably with that found in most of the larger cities. 

Under existing laws the city as a \\liole must pay the cost of sewers 
located within street intersect imi> and at least two per cent of the remaining 
ost. Abutting property can not l>< >d for more than would he 

required to pay the cost ,,f a local se\\er. M> that the excess <-<^t <.f any branch 



62 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVKY 

or main sewer over or above what a local sewer would cost must be borne by 
the city as a whole. This portion of the cost is substantial and accounts in 
large measure for the amount the city must pay. The city's portion of the 
cost is usually financed through the sale of bonds issued for such purposes, 
but the amount of bonds which can be issued is limited in a number of ways. 

SEWAGE TREATMENT 

There is evidence that the bathing beach waters along the lake front are 
polluted by sewage now discharged at the main sewer outlets and at times 
by the storm-water emergency outlets discharging diluted sewage. Proof 
of the origin and spread of communicable diseases by sewage-polluted water 
used for bathing purposes, is difficult to obtain, but sufficient instances of 
typhoid fever, non-specific intestinal infections and of infectious conjunc- 
tivitis have been observed in New York City and elsewhere as the result of 
unrestricted use of bathing beaches near sewer outfalls, justify our pro- 
tecting bathing waters against pollution or forbidding bathing when the 
pollution can be demonstrated. Bacteriological proof of the degree of 
sewage pollution is usually unnecessary, for sight and smell suffice to give 
warning and evidence. The locations for the sewage plants, together with 
the degree of treatment necessary and the type of sewage plants best suited 
to local conditions, were determined from tests on the sewage discharged 
at the East 140th Street and the West 58th Street outlets. 

The city, as may be seen from the accompanying map, has been divided 
into four main sewerage districts: the Westerly, Easterly, Southerly and 
Low Level. Each district, with the exception of the Low Level, has a main 
intercepting sewer to deliver sewage to the treatment site, and the population 
served in each district amounts to, approximately, 27 per cent, 50 per cent, 
22 per cent and 1 per cent of the total population of the city, respectively. 
The sewage of the Westerly and Easterly districts will be treated at two 
lake-front plants, while the sewage from the remainder of the city will be 
treated at a plant located on the Cuyahoga River, about seven miles from its 
mouth. Since lake water is not available at this site, it appears that ulti- 
mately structures which provide a higher degree of treatment than at the 
lake-front sites will be necessary at this site. Since contemplated river and 
harbor improvements along the Cuyahoga River involve an extensive plan 
for straightening the river channel, the problem of sewage disposal for the 
Low Level district which bounds the river is rendered especially uncertain at 
this time. 

The primary results to be accomplished by sewage treatment works 
may be listed as follows: 

Preventing the pollution of bathing beach waters along the lake front. 
Eliminating the foul condition of the Cuyahoga River. 

At the Westerly site there has been constructed a submerged outfall, and 
a complete sewage treatment plant is now under construction. It is expected 
that this will be completed and in continuous operation by the bathing 
season of 1921. At the Easterly site, shore protection works, outfall pipes 



K\\ 1 1{ \\H.\T AND SANITATION 



Ij ^ 
ii 

u 



64 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



and a building for the housing of disinfection equipment have been con- 
structed. There is now under construction at this site a sewage plant for 
partial treatment which is expected to be completed and ready for operation 
by the bathing season of 1921. At the Southerly site the river has been 
straightened and a portion of the excavation has been made for the sewage 
plant. 

When the two lake front plants are completed they will provide for 
removing the inorganic matter of sewage by sedimentation in grit chambers, 
and the removal of settleable organic matter by settling in two-story tanks. 
During the bathing season the tank-treated sewage is to be chlorinated and 
dispersed in wide areas about one-half mile off shore by means of submerged 
outfalls. Should it be possible to proceed at this time with a plant at the 
up-river or Southerly site it would probably provide, in addition to the 
tank treatment mentioned above, oxidation of the sewage in sprinkling 
filters. However, the final selection of the type of plant to be constructed 
at this site will be deferred until funds are available. Thus it is seen that 
definite and substantial progress is being made to prevent the sewage pollu- 
tion of the bathing beach waters. 

FINANCIAL ASPECT OF PROBLEM 

The Water Department of the city of Cleveland is able to charge rates 
which are consistent with the cost of supplying a purified water to all parts 
of the city. This applies not only to providing funds for operating the 
water works in an efficient and economical manner, but also for retiring bonds 
incident to new construction work. The cost of constructing and operating 
filtration plants necessarily increases the cost to the city of supplying water. 
In addition to this increase the cost of labor and supplies have also advanced. 
To take care of the additional cost, the water rates were recently increased 
,50 per cent, so that domestic consumers within the city are now charged 60 
cents per thousand cubic feet. This charge is reasonable and is in line with 
that found in other large cities of this country. 

The problem of additional funds for sewage and sewage disposal works 
may be classified under two headings: namely, funds for construction work 
and funds for the operation and maintenance of the various sewage plants. 

Funds for constructing the sewage disposal plants were provided by bond 
issues and their authorization was approved by a vote of the people. Since 
such bonds were provided in compliance with orders from the State Depart- 
ment' of Health they were issued in addition to the usual limits governing 
the bonded indebtedness of the city. When an increase in the tax levy 
beyond the prescribed limits sufficient to provide for the sinking fund and 
interest charges upon sewage disposal bonds becomes necessary, it requires 
a vote of the people. 

There had been expended by January 1, 1920, upon the sewage disposal 
project about $2,650,000 and there was available at that time $1,330,000 
additional. The cost of completing the two lake front plants, is estimated 
at $1,260,000, which means that available funds will be practically depleted 
when the two lake front plants are in operation. 



KNVIUONMIM \\n S \M i \TI<>\ 65 

In order to complete the Southerly Interceptor Sewer, with connections, 
<ind the Soutlierly treatments works, additional funds to the extent of prac- 
tically $2,000,000 must be provided. 

The statutes of the state of Ohio do not j>ermit levying taxes outside the 
usual limits, for the operation and maintenance of sewage disposal improve- 
ments. The time is rapidly approaching when the question of increasing 
the present tax levy to provide operation funds for this purpose must receive 
consideration and be settled. 

The problem of providing funds for any sewers is difficult, yet it should 
l>e appreciated that the city must keep pace with the demand. This demand 
is great enough to require, during the next 15 years, an annual expenditure 
by the city of approximately $1,000,000. The real problem confronting the 
city as regards sewerage facilities j>ertains to the method m \vhich shall be 
adopted in financing such improvements. 

The result of failure to supply sewers and keep pace with the settle- 
ments and building projects in the outlying parts of the city can be seen, 
perhaps, in its typical expression in the Collinwood region, where the kitchen 
waste and overflow from numerous shallow cesspools and privy vaults is 
carried in oj>en gutters behind rows of houses across sidewalks and through 
deviou * channels, until the foul-smelling stream seeps away if the ground 
is dry or reaches Nottingham Creek if the clay soil cannot absorb it. Noth- 
ing can so successfully discourage attempts by the householder and the 
smitary police to maintain decent surroundings for the little children of 
such regions as the absence of sewers while the public water supply is every- 
where available. A sewer is about as essential as a trolley line to develop 
suburbs and distribute families away from the packed tenements of the city. 

One particularly foul spot was found adjacent to the city filtration plant: 
namely, at Bent ley Court, where a small area inhabited fairly densely by 
people of small means is entirely unsewered. Here the slops and privy 
vaults overflow and leakage from a row of houses has made a small swamp 
alongside of what serves as a roadway, where domestic animals and children 
find entertainment, and where the passerby holds his nose for the stench. 
It takes a high grade of intelligence, constant industry and real discipline 
to live at close quarters and not create nuisances, where sewers are lacking 
and water supply is provided. 

-M M.MAHV 

The problem of >alc^uanling the health of any community by supplying 
a pure water and by removing the sewage pollution from bathing beach 
waters warrants considerable attention by the public. This is especially 
true in a large and growing community. During the past few years these 
problems have Keen studied actively and conscientiously in Cleveland, with 
the result that comprehensive plans for providing suitable water supply. 



66 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

sewerage and sewage disposal facilities have been adopted and are being 
carried out with substantial progress to date.* The situation may be sum- 
marized as follows: 

1. While the domestic supply of water in the City of Cleveland and 
vicinity can not be considered entirely satisfactory, physically and hygieni- 
cally, without treatment, excellent progress has been made to furnish a pure 
water supply by means of intakes suitably located off-shore and by adequate 
nitration and chlorination. 

2. Progress is being made in providing sewerage facilities. However, the 
demand for sewers is extraordinary at this time, and this demand, because 
of the rapid expansion of the city, will continue during the immediate future. 
In order to meet this demand expenditures of large sums must be made 
for sewers. 

3. The bathing beach waters along the lake front are subjected to con- 
tinuous pollution from sewage discharged at the outfalls, and to occasional 
pollution from diluted sewage discharged from storm water overflow outlets. 

The foul condition of the Cuyahoga River has long been a source of 
complaint. While correcting this condition may be considered partly a 
sentimental or comfort problem, sight should not be lost of the fact that 
this stream with its polluting materials is a direct menace to the water supply. 

4. An investment of approximately $4,000,000 for sewage treatment 
devices will be rendered practically worthless unless funds are provided to 
operate and maintain such works in an efficient manner. The question of 
providing such funds should be given serious consideration in the imme- 
diate future. 



RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

It is recommended that: 

The City persevere with its present excellent plan for sewage collection treatment 
and disposal. 

For sewer extensions the sum of $1,000,000 be provided annually for the next fifteen 
years, to permit of a wise and consistent development of the present plan and_to^ permit 
of economies in construction. 

Cooperation be arranged for between the Park Department, the PublicJService De- 
partment and the Division of Health to assure protection of the public against risk of 
infection from bathing at the public beaches in or near the city when there has been direct 
or emergency overflow contamination near the beaches, due to heavy rainfall in summer. 

Funds be provided to operate and maintain the sewage treatment works in the manner 
intended at the time of construction. 

* For those who wish to test th; standards Cleveland has set for itself in its present plans for proper 
collection and disposal of sewage, an excellent summary of standards methods and authoritative reference 
to the best present-day American practice can be found in the special article on this subject by Hommon, 
Hoskins, Streeter, Tarbett and Wagenhals in the U. S. Public Health Report (January 16, 1920,|Vol. 
35, No. 3). 



K\\ i:>\MENT AND SANITATION 67 

Street Cleaning and the Collection and Disposal of 
Garbage and Refuse* 



o 



NE of the most important municipal problems in any city is the clean- 
ing of streets and the collection and disposal of garbage and other 
refuse. 

The streets may be efficiently lighted, well paved and .-ewered, but from 
a health standpoint how much more essential is it that they be well cleaned. 
Houses are constructed with all modern improvements, including provision 
for ventilation, with sewer connections, etc., but it is essential for the occu- 
pants that the refuse he s|>eedily and systematically removed. 

NYc hear much at present in regard to park.- and playgrounds for con- 
gested districts, in order to secure for the i>eople who live and work in these 
districts better hygienic conditions. Dr. Peterson, former supervisor of 
playgrounds of Cleveland, estimated that the supervised playgrounds in 
Cleveland would accommodate 20,000 children; more than 105,000, he said, 
will have to play in the streets. In discussing parks and playgrounds how 
little we hear of keeping the streets, alleys, yards, courts and premises in a 
cleanly condition, to secure cleanliness of the streets for the people who 
live in the congested sections, to protect the air they breathe, the houses 
they live in, the shops they work in, their recreation grounds. Tndoubtedly 
a large number of people spend their lives from beginning to end in an area, 
the healthfulness of which is controlled for good or bad, according to the 
method adopted for cleanliness. 

The work in connection with the cleanliness of the city, consisting in the 
cleaning of streets and the collection and disposal of refuse and garbage, is 
under the direction of the Director of Public Service, carried on by branchc- 
of the Service Department. 

GARBAGE COLLECTION AXD DISPOSAL 

Prior to 1897 there was no systematic method for collection and dis- 
posal of garbage the garbage being collected by contractors, who made 
collections from all portions of the city and disposed of the material by 
taking it several miles out into the lake and there dumping it. The method 
of disposal was not satisfactory on account of the excessive cost and the 
littering of the shores with floating debris. During the period previous to 
1897 a portion of the garbage was disposed of by feeding to swine on farms 
in the outlying districts. This method was not satisfactory and was 
finally condemned by the local health authorities 

In 1897 a contract was awarded for collection and disposal for a period 
of five years, the contract being sublet t<. the Newburgh Reduction Com- 
pany, with a plant located at Willow, on the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad 

This chapter was prepared from report written for the Survey by Mr. I. S. Osborn. an engineer at 
Cleveland recently engaged by the city government to make an exhaustive study of the problem of municipal 
collection and disposal of waste*. The Survey it privileged to present this statement before the completion 
of the official report. 



68 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



just south of Cleveland. At the expiration of the contract it was not re- 
newed but the contractor continued to perform the work until January 1, 
1905, at the same price specified in the contract, $69,400 per year. 

On January 1, 1905, the entire equipment for collection and disposal of 
garbage was purchased by the city, and since then has been operated by the 
municipality. 

The methods of collection have remained, with few changes, the same as 
when the work was taken over by the municipality. The original horse- 
drawn wagons purchased by the city from the contractor had a removable 
box, which was removed from the wagon when filled and shipped to the 
disposal works, with an empty box returned and placed on the wagon for 
use in the next collection. 

In 1907, two years after the purchase of the equipment by the city, 
changes and improvements were made by the purchase of new collection 
wagons and new steel garbage cars, as made necessary by improvements in 
the methods of handling the garbage at the disposal works. 

At present the garbage is collected from the various sections of the city 
in steel-body wagons, in which it is delivered to the central receiving stations 
where it is dumped into steel cars and shipped to the reduction works at 
Willow. 

The collection and disposal of garbage are supervised by two superin- 
tendents, one having charge of collection and the other of the final disposal. 
The superintendent of collection has general charge of the equipment and 
work of the collection department. Under him are employed 250 men, en- 
gaged in the work of collection and maintenance of equipment and stables. 
The superintendent of disposal is in charge of the reduction works. Under 
him are employed approximately 100 men, including foremen, mechanics, 
operators and laborers. 

Garbage is collected from all sections of the city, which has an area of 
58.7 square miles, and a population of 796,836. The total area of the city 
is divided into 101 collection districts. The areas of the districts vary from 
a quarter square mile to one square mile or more, depending on the density 

of population and quantity of material to be collected. It is the intention 
in establishing collection districts to limit the size so as to permit the making 
of regular collections on schedule. 

The collection equipment consists of the collecting wagons, horses, trucks 
and trailers, receiving stations, stables, railroad cars and miscellaneous minor 
equipment. The receiving station and stables are located near the geo- 
grarhical center of the city on Canal Road. The site comprises approximately 
one-third acre, on which the buildings are conveniently located as to railroad 
facilities on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, for shipment of garbage to 
the disposal plant. The property on which the building^ and loading 
platform are located, is leased for a short term, so that extensive improve- 
ments would not be warranted. The location is objectionable from the 



K\\ Ili'\\lt \ I AM) S\M I \ I l"\ 




A winter's collection of garbage and rubbi-ih under the kitchen n-iit Imr. 



coUt'i 




Eren thr rat became ii.tnl in it. Thiji garbage ha* trailed under t^r dinina-rimm ie imbue 
for Imlf thf irinter fnr the rollrctor 



70 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 




This collection of old food watt the winter s decoration of a prominent corner in 
Cleveland's congested district 




Just at the back door. Barrel nearly buried by pile of food and rubbish. 



ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION 71 

standpoint of approach, due to the fact that it must be reached by steep 
grades by wagons arriving from all sections of the city, causing considerable 
trouble, esj>ecially in slippery weather. 

Most of the buildings are the same as formerly used by the contractor. 
The buildings are of frame construction and in a rather dilapidated condi- 
tion. The stable is of wooden construction, and in a poor state of repair. 
The size is not sufficient to accommodate the required number of horses, with 
a resulting crowding. The stables are poorly ventilated and lighted. One 
other stable is rented for service in the western part of the city. 

The wagons are constructed with strong running gears, holding the steel 
tank body, having a capacity of ^i._, cubic yards. The tank body is hinged 
to the rear axles' and by means of a hoist the front end is elevated, dis- 
charging the material at the rear. The body is strengthened by arched ribs 
across the top, which supports a sectional canvas cover. In addition to the 
wagons, a number of trucks and trailers are used. The trailers are equipped 
so as to be drawn by either horses or tractors. The cars, sixteen in number, 
used for transportation of the garbage, are constructed entirely of steel and 
consist of a semi -cylindrical body supported upon trunnions. The cars have 
a caj>acity of 54 cubic yards or 35 to 40 tons. 

The ordinances of the city require the provision by householders of 
suitable water-tight covered receptacles for garbage to be placed in accessible 
location for collectors. These ordinances are not enforced, especially among 
the poorer classes and in districts having foreign population, and in many 
cases boxes, buckets, baskets, etc.. are used, which are not suitable recep- 
tacles. 

The Municipal Reduction Plant situated at Willojv is about two miles 
south of the southerly corporation limits and nine miles from the garbage 
loading station. It occupies a tract of land 50 acres in area and is situated 
in the Cuyahoga River Valley. 

The buildings, comprising the present plant, consist of the Green Garbage 
Building, when- the material is unloaded from the cars; the Main Building, 
which contains the digesters and dryers, to which is connected the building 
containing the grease-separating tanks and evaporators; the Percolating 
Building, containing the grease-extracting and separating machinery; and 
the Power HOII-C. containing boiler equipment and electric generating plant. 
The plant, as originally purchased from the contractor, was installed in 
1898 and consisted of buildings of wood construction. The present buildings 
are constructed of brick and steel. 

The plant, as remodeled by the city, was increased in capacity at the 
same time that improved equipment was installed for making recoveries of 
by-products. The old method of unloading the garbage from tanks by 
cranes was abandoned, and is now replaced by the Green Garbage Building, 
where the garbage from the car* is emptied by direct dumping. The cars 
enter the building on an elevated track and are dumped by means of chain 
hoists. The car bodies rotate on roller lx>arings, and the garbage is dis- 



72 HOSPITAL AND HKALTH SURVEY 

charged on the concrete floor underneath the tracks. The garbage in the 
unloading building is shoveled upon scraper conveyors and discharged 
through chutes into the digesters, of which there are 33. 

After digestion for a period of six hours, by using 70 to 80 pounds of 
steam, the steam pressure is applied at the top and the free liquor driven off 
through drains at the bottom to the settling basins, where the grease rises 
to the top and is skimmed off. The liquor from the bottom of the settling 
tanks is pumped to an evaporator for recovery of the solids in solution. 

The tankage in the digester is removed through a side outlet and dis- 
charged into a conveyor leading to the driers. The driers are of two types, 
known as the rotary direct-heat drier, through which the material is passed, 
eliminating approximately half of the moisture contained in the tankage. 
It is then passed through a combination steam and air drier to remove the 
remaining moisture. After drying, the dried material is conveyed to the 
extractor building, where it is placed in percolators and the grease remain- 
ing is recovered by percolation, using gasoline as a solvent. The combined 
grease and gasoline are then pumped to stills where the solvent is evaporated, 
leaving the grease ready for storage. The gasoline, driven off from the stills, 
is condensed and returned to storage for further use. The tankage, after 
percolation, is returned to the driers where the stick or concentrated solids 
which were in solution coming from the evaporator, are mixed with the 
fibrous material, dried and then passed through the screening and grinding 
room before going to storage, awaiting sale of shipment. 

It has been shown by figures, based on reports of New York garbage- 
reduction results, that one ton of garbage yields the following products: 
from the grease enough glycerine is obtained to furnish high explosives for 
ten French 75-millimeter shells, and soap stock sufficient to make 125 pounds 
of laundry soap; from the tankage or fertilizer enough plant food in the 
form of nitrogen, phosphate and potash is secured to raise ten bushels of 
wheat. 

Many improvements have been made in the plant since it was originally 
purchased by the city, although very few changes have been made in the 
methods, or types of equipment used, during the past ten years. 

As the city has grown, surrounding the plant, there has been increasing 
objection raised to the odors given off by the processes which originate from 
the vents on the digesters and from the gases from the driers. To eliminate 
the odor, special treatment must be given to the gases carrying odors, which 
will eliminate the nuisance. Attempts have been made from time to time 
to deodorize the gases. Plans are under way at present for the condensa- 
tion of the gases or vapors given off by the digesters. The gases, which are 
of large volume, coming from the driers, are passed through a scrubber which 
consists of a horizontal brick chamber, where they are subjected to water 
sprays which wash and condense them. The efficiency of the' scrubber is 
not sufficient to eliminate entirely the sweetish or caramel odor carried by 
these gases. It is realized by the city that steps are necessary to improve 



EN viu< > \\IK\T AND SANITATION 78 



the present conditions at the plant, both from the standpoint of capacity 
and for the elimination of undesirable features and odors. Tin* problem i^ 
under study at present. 

The collection and disposal of dead animals were formerly handled by 
the city, but at present are done by private rendering companies, who re- 
move and dispose of the large animals dying within the city. The small 
dead animals are disposed of with the garbage at the Reduction Plant. 
About 500 dead dogs are collected each month. 

The following table gives the quantity of garbage collected and disposed 
of during the past ten years; also the cost of collection, cost of disposal, 
receipts from sale of by-products and the net cost for collection and disposal. 

TABLE GIVING TONS OF GARBAGE HANDLED, COST OF COLLECTION, COST OF 

DISPOSAL, RECEIPTS FROM BY-PRODUCTS AND NET COST PEK 

TON FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL 



Year 


Tons 
Garbage 


Cost 
Collection 


Cost 
Disposal 


Gross 
Income 


Net Cost 
Collection, 
Disposal 


Net Cost 
Per Ton 


1910 


44,747 


$124,701 


$101,936 


$190,652.00 


$ 35.985 


$0 804 


1911 


46,562 


139,456 


110,094 


189.894 00 


59,656 


1 281 


1912 


43,550 


139,379 


107.015 


151.162 00 


95.232 


2 187 


1913 


52,354 


143,672 


113,057 


157.705 00 


99 . 024 


1 891 


1914 


55 , 730 


165,858 


141,415 


195.221 00 


112,052 


2 Oil 


1915 


62,357 


181,556 


151,503 


224.691 00 


108. 3C8 


1 738 


19W 


60,717 


195,266 


155,584 


304,072 00 


46.778 


77 


1917 


56,121 


236,035 


191,001 


292,745 00 


134,291 


2.393 


1918 


57,754 


304,183 


265 , 243 


437,842 00 


131.584 


2 278 


1919 


60,932 


355.175 


238,202 


296.361 00 


297.016 


4 874 



AsilKS AM) Hi UHISI1 

Previous to 1906 ashes and rubbish were collected entirely by private 
scavengers, who were not licensed and only in a general way under the 
supervision of the Division of Health. The collections were not regular. 
the city was incompletely covered and the service very inefficient. Tin 
material was disposed of by dumping on vacant lots, side streets and road- 
ways, or in such places as it could be disposed of without musing immediate 
complaint. In 1906 the city undertook the collection of ashes and rubbish. 
in order to eliminate the nuisance caused by the littering of streets ard alleys, 
also in order that the places of disposal could l>e controlled ar.d more sati- 
factory results obtained. 

The work, in connection with the collection and di>p>al >f rubbish and 
ashes, is under the direction of the Commissioner of StrceK \Oio-e superin- 
tendents and assistants have charge of the work. The work f collection is 
carried on by the same organization that performs such work ;is is done in 
cleaning the streets. ;m<l men ami teams used in collection are also employed 
at times in street cleaning. 

For convenience the city is divided into six districts with a district super 
intcndcnt in charge of collection service as uell as street r'eaning. < 'ollec- 



74 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

tion of ashes and rubbish is provided over the entire city. The frequency of 
collection varies and work is not regularly scheduled. In some sections 
there is a collection once in six weeks, in other sections more frequently. 
Collections are made by wagons or trucks. Additional trucks have been 
purchased for this service. The wagons are of the bottom dump type, 
having a capacity of four cubic yards. 

Rules and regulations have been adopted by the Department to facilitate 
the work, which require householders to provide suitable receptacles and the 
tying of loose refuse into bundles. The rules have been difficult to enforce 
and in many cases are not complied with. 

In order to eliminate the dumping of waste paper and at the same time 
to realize upon its commercial value, the Department collects waste paper 
separately. This is baled and sold. This applies to street boxes and some 
of the larger producers of waste paper, but as a rule, the waste paper from 
residences is collected at the same time as the ashes, and is disposed of by 
dumping. 

The disposal of rubbish and ashes is made by dumping. The location 
of the dumps depends upon the land available for this purpose. In many 
cases dumps are made available by owners desiring their property filled. 
There are twelve principal dumping grounds now in use. 

The lake front, near East 9th Street, is the largest dump. It was first 
begun by dumping directly into the lake, after which a breakwater was 
constructed. There have been made over one hundred acres of land from 
dumped material at this point. The principal filling has been with ashes, 
street cleaning dirt and material from cellar excavations. 

At all the dumps the method is practically the same. The material is 
dropped from the wagons or trucks at the edge of the slope and then shoveled 
over the edge by hand. Considerable complaint is made of nuisance caused 
by the scattering of material, and the odors and smoke from fires in many of 
the dumps. These have generally been justified and their abatement is the 
duty of the Sanitary Bureau. 

The following table gives the quantity of ashes and rubbish as collected 
during the past five years, together with the cost for labor and teams for the 
service, as reported by the Division of Streets : 

Cubic Yards Cost Per 

Year Collected Cost Cubic Yard 

1915 318,390 $181,296.13 $0.57 

1916 356,336 209,920.85 0.59 

1917 335,769 227,249.03 0.677 

1918 477,967 277,650.03 0.58 

1919 495,834 284,286.26 0.5734 

The above cost includes only expenditures for teams and labor, and not 
any fixed charges, maintenance, overhead or allowance for use of trucks 
owned by the city. 



K\\ IKONMENT AND SANITATH '\ 75 

The Director of Public Service is now having a complete study and sur- 
vey made in order to determine what steps should be taken to remedy and 
improve the conditions of collection and disposal of garbage, ashes and rub- 
bish. This survey and study considers what steps can be taken to improve 
the collection service and at the same time reduce the cost for long hauls 
and the present expensive methods of handling. 

The investigation and report will cover the various methods necessary 
for collection, delivery and disposal of ashes, rubbish and garbage, including 
substantially the following subjects: 

1. Analysis of data contained in the records of the Department of 
Public Service with reference to collection of garbage, ashes and rubbish. 

2. Study of population and future growth of the city to provide for a 
comprehensive plan for future needs. 

3. Comparison of various methods of collection and types of equipment 
suitable to systematize that service for the City of Cleveland. 

4. Comparison of various methods of disposal for different classes of 
waste, adaptable to Cleveland's needs. 

5. Outline of essential features necessary to produce a sanitary and 
economical collection and disposal of garbage, ashes and rubbish by various 
methods. 

6. Quantities and plant capacities with proper allowance for future 
growth and local conditions. 

7. The advisability of collection and disposal of waste in a central plant 
as compared with a number of plants. 

8. Determination of and advisability of a number of transfer stations 
and methods of transfer and delivery of material to points of disposal. 

9. Comparison of costs by various methods of collection and disposal, 
giving capital cost, annual operating and maintenance charges, also the 
total plant charges and revenues. 

10. Recommendations. A discussion of the various projects adaptable 
to Cleveland, with recommendations covering the most feasible plan for the 
collection and disposal of waste from a sanitary and economical standpoint. 

The complete study, as outlined above, will take into account 'all prac- 
ticable plans that might be adopted, each developed so that the most feas- 
ible plan can be recommended, taking into account the sanitary J and 'eco- 
nomical advantages to be gained to take care not only of present conditions 
but the future needs of the city. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 




A "Front Door" on a Cleveland Alley. 
The pile is made up of mixed gar- 
bage and rubbish. 




Stahlt rrjuxi- an an dlli-i/ in Cleveland's most congested auartir In tin- Spring a natural 
hrer ding place for millions of flirx. 



K\\ IHONMI N I \\H S\MTMKiV 



77 




'tMxl anil rnMiixh. Tin- trial' r rnllfcliun of n Clrnl mil l> irki/iinl. 




\i-rl </(Kir In a ffrnri-ri/ stun- in Cli-nlnnifx cnngrxtnl district 



78 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

STREET CLEANING 

The work of cleaning -the streets is under the direction of the Street Com- 
missioner and directly under one of the deputy commissioners. The work 
is carried on by district gangs, who are in charge of the collection and dis- 
posal of ashes and rubbish. Men and teams interchange for each class of 
work. 

The city is divided into six districts for refuse collection, with a foreman 
in charge of each district. The city is divided into three districts for street 
cleaning, by a "white wing" patrol, with a foreman of "white wings." 

The catch basin cleaning under the direction of a foreman, includes the 
whole city, except for parks and boulevards, which are under another de- 
partment. 

There is also a foreman in charge of equipment, including wagons, trucks 
and automobiles. In addition, there is the office force and a corps of inspec- 
tors and investigators of complaints. To each foreman is assigned such 
assistants, subforemen, laborers and teams as required. 

There are 609 miles of paved streets in the city, and the methods of clean- 
ing consist principally of "white wing" patrol, pickups and flushing. The 
cleaning of streets in the downtown section and the streets at more impor- 
tant intersections is done principally by "white wings." 

The patrol districts are not established, and the number of "white 
wings" employed Varies with the funds available for cleaning work, with 
the result that the thoroughness of cleaning varies. No record is kept of 
the areas cleaned daily or left uncleaned, and the records are made up by 
assuming that each "white wing" has cleaned his allotted area at least once 
a day, irrespective of the work actually accomplished. The work is reported 
for "great squares," which contain 10,000 square feet each. 

The following table gives the work of the "white wing" patrol and the 
cost of it for the past five years, as given in reports of the Division of Streets. 

Squares Total Average Cost 

Year Cleaned Cost Per Square 

1915 438,606 $119,421.15 $2723 

1916 448,387 104,327.78 0.2326 

1917 300,083 135,389.83 0.4512 

1918 312,094 105,358.34 0.3375 

1919 313,497 139,055.72 0.4435 

The above cost covers only labor and teaming, and does not include 
any fixed charges, maintenance or overhead. 

The method of pickups, in addition to flushing, is used n streets not 
included in the "white wing "areas. The men and equipment used in ash 
and rubbish collection are used largely in pickup work, which consists prin- 



ENVI: >\\IKNT AND SANITATION 7!) 



cipally in cleaning gutters and picking up tin- accumulation of dirt on tin- 
streets. This method is used largely in outlying and residential streets. 

The following table gives the work by the pickup method as reported 
for the past five years, including the lal>or and teaming cost for the work. 

Square* 
Year Cleaned Cot 

1915 93,993 $59,544 78 $0.74 

1916 112,091 75,073 04 0.67 

1917 75,342 78,49782 1.04 

1918 84,653 69.563 54 0.82 

1919 85,624 75,967 96 89 

One of the principal methods of cleaning is by flushing the streets, which 
is employed occasionally in the warm months of the year, on the main 
thoroughfares. The city has two motor driven flushers employed in this work 
and eleven street car flushers, rented from the street railway company. 

The motor driven flushers are used in the City as a whole, and assigned 
for work as needed. The street car flushers, when used, an* operated on 
streets having trackage. 

Aside from the cleaning done by "white wing" patrols, the most effective 
work is done by flushing, although this is not extended so as to cover terri- 
tory outside the main thoroughfares. 

The following table gives the work and costs for flushing during the past 
five years. 

Square* Average Cot 

Year Flushed Cot Per Square 

1915 329,319 $36,351 93 $011 

1916 310,384 34,971 99 0.113 

1917 163,168 20,250 47 0.124 

1918 247,306 13,966.63 0.056 

1919 336.340 18.165 68 054 

During 1D1J) there was retried flushed by strevt ear flushers 451,00? 
squares at a cost of $H,(i?<5.">;i, or an average cost of $0.0.0"> per square; 
and by motor flushers H;>,*43 at a cost of %'>. W>. M. or an average of $0.<)<>ll 
per square. 

The above costs include the rental paid the Street Railway Company 
but do not include any fixed charges, maintenance, overhead or cost for water, 
which, if added to the total, would increase considerably the c.M for motor 
flushers. 

The following table gives the direct expenses during the year 1919 for 
labor and team hire in the Street Cleaning Division, but not including tix.-.l 
charges or replacements: 



80 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

EXPENDITURES OF THE DIVISION OF STREET CLEANING DURING THE 

YEAR 1919 

Household refuse collection $284,286.26 

White wing patrol 139 , 055 . 72 

Pickup gangs 75 , 967 . 96 

Supervision and inspection 58 , 734 . 08 

Catch basin cleaning 39,994.38 

Maintaining dumps 29 , 486 . 93 

Mechanical repairs 27,233.90 

Watchman 25,695.40 

Market cleaning 15 , 786 . 56 

Street car flushing 12,676.25 

Waste paper 10 , 508 . 70 

Motor flushing 5 , 489 .43 

Snow removal 2 , 599 99 

Cinders 799.03 



Total $728,314.59 

Labor payroll : , 526 , 650 . 49 

Team payroll 192 , 998 . 85 

Rent of car flushers 8 , 665 . 25 



$728,314.59 

The insignificant sum charged to cost of snow removal in 1919 may be 
the explanation, it cannot be offered as the excuse for the intolerable filth 
and neglect of the streets during the winter of 1919-20. 

GENERAL 

The studies, now being made for the Director of Public Service, of the 
the^city services for street cleaning and the collection of ashes, rubbish and 
garbage, will show where improvements can be made. 

One of the chief handicaps of the city has been the limited funds avail- 
able for conducting the work, with continually increasing cost for labor and 
equipment. 

If systematic and efficient work is to be carried on, the following requisites 
are necessary for success : 

1. A sufficient appropriation. 

2. An efficient organization. 

3. Sanitary and economical methods of work. 

4. Cooperation on the part of the public. 



Appropriation is necessary to cover the cost of the work to be done, and 
thejquantity^of work accomplished will depend on the fund available, prc- 



KNVIUONMENT AND SAXITM i<>\ 81 

viding it is efficiently used. An efficient organization will develop effective 
and economical methods of work. Sanitary and economical methods of 
work will be obtained from study and application of studies, after compari- 
son of records and unit costs of the work by various method >. 

The cooperation of the public can be obtained by education and regula- 
tions consistently and uniformly enforced. Results will be more readily 
obtained when efficient and satisfactory service has been rendered. All four 
requisites are dependent on each other to obtain the maximum degree of 
success. 

From the investigation made it is evident that very little intensive study 
has ever been given the street cleaning work in the city. 

A comparison of the work done in Cleveland with that of other cities will 
show that less work is given here to effective street cleaning than in the other 
cities of comparable size; at the same time, the annual expenditure for the 
work is less than in other cities. The result is that many streets are seldom 
cleaned thoroughly, and many receive only such work as is given by the 
pickup method in cleaning gutters a very few times per year, a wholly in- 
adequate service. 

From the studies made it has developed that the records of the Street 
Cleaning Department are not complete as to the actual work performed, 
and unit costs for conducting the different parts of the work have never been 
developed. These are essential to permit the official in charge to obtain the 
information necessary for the proper work control and administration. 

The Director of Public Service is now planning for necessary changes in 
organization to provide assistants in the Street Cleaning Department. There 
will be systematic planning of wdrk and a system for record and unit cost 
keeping of the several activities of the Department. These, when installed, 
should greatly assist in the direction of the Department. 

In one city, where studies were made, it was found that out of an annual 
expenditure of $350,000 at least one-third of the amount was wasted, due to 
inefficient work and inefficient methods. 

The city of Washington, by adoption of methods in planning and estab- 
lishment of complete record and unit cost keeping, was able to reduce the 
cost of street cleaning 30 per cent, and at the same time to do more effective 
work. Washington, during the summer months, washes each street on an 
average of once for each two and a half days. New York City has established 
methods and standardized the street cleaning work so that every important 
or congested thoroughfare is cleaned by flushing, by squeegee machine, or by 
sprinkling and sweeping, at least once in every 4 hours. 

With the shortage of funds for municipal work in Cleveland the establish- 
ment of the methods proposed should assist the officials in charge to accom- 
plish the greatest amount of work with the funds available. 

It is recommended that : 
The steps being taken by the city in having studies made to determine improvements 



82 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

necessary for the collection and disposal of garbage, ashes and rubbish be approved. They 
should permit the adoption of improved methods equal to those found in any city. 

Special attention be given in studies now being made to eliminate so far as possible 
cause for complaint of nuisance, due to odors from dumps or disposal plants, either by 
more attention to control of dumps or by the adoption of other means for disposal. 

It is essential, in order to control properly and carry on efficiently the work of street 
cleaning to plan, schedule and keep records and unit costs of the work. The step being 
taken by the Director of Public Service to provide for an assistant to the Commissioner, 
who will develop, install, and keep records and unit costs of the several activities of the 
Department will be one of the most progressive steps taken since the organization of the 
Department. The work done should include studies of the work actually performed, to 
determine the advantages to be gained by making changes and improvements, and should 
furnish the Director and Commissioner with detailed information necessary for the work, 
the control and the management of the Department. 

The Collection of ashes and rubbish should be scheduled so that regular and syste- 
matic collections are made. Thus residents can plan on the time when collections will 
be made and have materials in proper condition for the collector. This will permit a 
better enforcement of regulations and will eliminate complaints. 



ENVIKONMKNT AND SANITATP >\ 83 



Flies and Mosquitoes 

T1IKUK is no directory or list of stables and no census of horses or cuttle 
stabled in Cleveland, kept at the Division of Health or otherwise avail- 
able. Then 1 are no regulations enforced dealing with the collection 
and disposal of animal manure so as to control fly breeding in Cleveland. 
Manure piles, fresh and of long standing, were found commonly in the resi- 
dential regions in the poorer quarters of town within common fly range of 
unscreened food stores and restaurants. Only one of several score of privies 
inspected on lx>th West and East Sides of the city in the regions supplied or 
not supplied with sewers, was found to l>e so constructed as to give any 
reasonable expectation that flies could be kept away from ace-ess to freshly 
deposited human waste or to the privy vault itself. 

Only one privy above noted was found with seat covers, or if seat covers 
were provided, they were so made and used as to l>e of no use in excluding 
flies from the vault. Doors were open or cracked. Windows in privy 
closets not screened, fecal deposits on the seat, on the floor and overflowing 
from the pit on the ground without, were frequently found. Uncovered 
garbage cans and uncollected accumulations of garbage are common even in 
warm weather. 

Under these conditions for which the Sanitary Bureau of the Division of 
Health must be held responsible, it is unnecessary to go into any detail 
as to the fly nuisance in Cleveland. "Swat-the-fly" campaigns, or efforts 
to teach children and householders to kill flies and reduce disease are mere 
waste of time. Until breeding places of flies, that is, exposed fresh animal 
excreta are controlled attacks upon the fly upon the wing are vain. Screen- 
ing is necessary, and except in cheap eating and food stores, which seem to 
escape inspection, is fairly well accomplished. Control of water and milk 
and education of mothers are responsible for the low incidence of enteric 
(iisease in Cleveland, and not control of the fly. 

Neither mosquitoes nor malaria are sufficiently common to require any 
special attention. Mosquitoes breed more or less according to the character 
of the breeding season, but do not amount to a serious nuisance within the 
city limits. Only twelve cases of malaria were reported to the Division of 
Health in the years 1916-19 inclusive. 



RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

It is recommended that: 

The Sanitary Bureau maintain supervision over the horse and cow stables in Cleve- 
land and with such authority as can be found in the Sanitary Code, require the protection 
and periodic removal of manure so that fly breeding may be reduced or largely prevented. 

All privies in Cleveland be so constructed and maintained after well-known methods 
as to prevent access of flies to human excreta. 



84 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

\ 

The holding of garbage in covered tight metal containers and the removal of garbage 
at least twice a week from April to November be required throughout the city. 

An ordinance be passed and enforced forbidding such collections of water as are 
likely to permit the breeding of mosquitoes. (For model ordintnce see U. S. Public Health 
Reports, 1920, April 2, page 829.) 



IKMNMI M \M> S\\ll \ll..\ 85 

Smoke and Its Prevention 

O\ K might honestly report after a careful survey of the city and its public 
ami private agencies, that nothing of a practical nature is l>eing done 
or even attempted in the field of smoke prevention. Cleveland enjoys 
an ama/.ingly, and one would l>e tempted to say, an intolerably polluted air 
all the year round. The reason is not that such air pollution as Cleveland 
tolerate* cannot be abated, or that similar disgraceful interference with health 
and the enjoyment of life has not been controlled elsewhere. 

"There is nothing impossible or wonderful about the smokeless combus- 
tion of even Pittsburgh coal, provided the proper methods are applied and 
the ordinary precautions taken." 

Such was the opinion expressed by the competent group of engineers 
responsible for Bulletin 8 of the Smoke Investigation of Pittsburgh in 1914. 

Another statement in the same publication is so directly applicable to 
Cleveland that it will bear quoting: 

"A small group of men control the plants which produce 80% of the 
smoke of the district. The solution of Pittsburgh's smoke problem lies in 
inducing these men to apply the best modern engineering practice to the 
combustion of fuel in their plants." 

If the Chamber of Commerce of Cleveland could convince the manu- 
facturing and commercial interests of the city that their indifference to the 
smoke nuisance is responsible for a very large amount of sickness in the 
city, and that the antiquated equipment and careless administration of 
their plants which cause this nuisance, cause them and the city each year 
a cash loss of several times the amount of the total annual ( Community Fund, 
or at a modest estimate about $20,000,000, action, civic and individual, would 
probably follow with gratifying rapidity. 

It needs no visiting surveyor to tell the people of Cleveland what their 
senses, sight, touch, smell and taste must convince them of daily, that the 
air of their city is unfit for human consumption just as their -< \\.i-c-polluted 
\\ater was a few years ago. 

Since no quantitative observations of air pollution in Cleveland could be 
discovered, a l>rief series of soot-fall studies was made during July and August, 
the months of the year when the degree of air pollution from soot is probably 
at its lowest. As compared with certain Knglish cities and with Pittsburgh 
(Bulletin H, Smoke Investigation, page <>>*) probably Cleveland's nearest 
former comj>ctitor in smoke production, in this country, Cleveland now 
deposits a few tons p-r so, in re mile per annum less of combustion products 
than did the other cities > London and Pittsburgh* u hen they were at the 
Ir-ight of their nuis:tnce. In recent years Itoth the Knglish cities and Pitts- 
burgh have made improvements in this direction. Cleveland is supine in 
the face of increasing air pollution. 



HOSPITAL, AND HEALTH SURVEY 



The following statement represents reports received from the firm of 
consulting engineers (The James H. Herron Co.) engaged to make soot-fall 
studies for the Survey. 

PURPOSE OF EXAMINATION 

The purpose of the examination was to determine the amount of matter 
present in the atmosphere in samples taken from a number of stations 
throughout the city of Cleveland, also to get data which, if possible, may be 
compared with the work done in other communities on this same subject. 

EXTENT OF EXAMINATION 
Observations were made at four stations situated as follows: 

1. The roof of the Superior Peanut Co. building, situated adjacent to the 
Huron Road Hospital. This place was chosen owing to the fact that a roof 
position on the hospital was not available. 

2. The roof of St. Alexis Hospital, Broadway and McBride Avenue. 

3. The roof of the Babies' Dispensary, 2500 East 35th Street. 

4. The roof of Mt. Sinai Hospital, 1800 East 105th Street. 

It was decided that the samples collected from these locations would be 
sufficiently representative for general comparative purposes. 

APPARATUS USED 

The apparatus used was composed of a gauge of four square feet in area 
and was similar to the standard gauge used in the investigation of atmos- 
pheric pollution in the city of London in the years of 1914 and 1915. This 
gauge was deemed most satisfactory for this purpose. 

THE ANALYSES 

The deposit was collected at the end of each month and the analyses as 
reported made at the end of each of the two months, June 26 to July 26 and 
July 26 to August 26. The deposit was analyzed for tar, ash, fixed carbon 
and iron oxide. This followed the order in which the analyses were made in 
connection with the smoke investigation of the city of Pittsburgh, the result 
of which was published in Bulletin No. 8 of Smoke Investigation. The re- 
sults given in this analysis are comparable with the results obtained in Pitts 
burgh. 



KN\ IIO.NMI \ i 



BAKU \i i<>\ 



87 



<)|i>K:<\ VIKING .!( M ^<i Hi .1 1 l.\ 



At Huron Road 
Hoipital 



At BabicV Dispensary 
nd Hospital 



At St. Alexu 
Hospital 



Soot Fall per Square Foot per Month 

1.4940 Grams 1. 5530 Grams 1.6514 Grams 



At Mt. Sin. 
Hospital 



.9436 Grams 



Tar 

Fixed Carbon 

Ash 

Fe* On in Deposit 



Per Cent Competition of Deposit 

2 82 2 29 55 2 86 

32 65 31 26 34 19 31 80 

64 55 66 45 65 26 65 34 

6 67 11 04 10 82 15 75 



Deposit in Ton* Per Square Mile Per Year 



Total Deposit 

Tar 

Fixed Carbon 

Ash 

Fe Os in Deposit 



550 94 

13 55 

178 59 

355 80 

36 75 



592 70 

13 58 

185 40 

393 72 

65 45 



608 98 

3.34 

208 24 

397 40 

65 70 



347.97 

9 95 

110 66 

227.36 

64 80 



OBSERVATIONS, JULY 16 TO AUGUST Ml, 1920 



At Huron Road 
Hospitnl 



At Babies' Dispensary 
and Hospital 



At St. Alexn 

Hospital 



At Mt. Sina 
Hospital 



Soot Fall per Square Foot per Month 

3.7775 Grams 2.7259 Grams 1.9995 Grams .8421 Grams 



Per Cent Competition of Deposit (July 26 to Augutt 26 1920) 



Tar 3 33 

Fixed Carbon 2894 

Ash ... 67.73 

Fe On in Deposit 23 00 



3 61 
32 15 
64 24 
17 90 



3.76 
33 33 
62 91 

13 38 



Deposit in Tons per Square Mile per Year 



Total Deposit 139291 1005.15 

Tar. 4639 3632 

Fixed Carbon 40311 32315 

Ash 943 41 645.68 

Fe'O, in Deposit 32037 17992 



737 31 

27 66 

245 74 

463 91 

98 65 



4.43 
32 40 
63 17 

16 58 



310.52 

13.75 

100 61 

196 16 

51.48 



Average Deposit in Ton* per Square Mile per Year Calculated on Observations 

June 26 to Augutt 26, 1920 

Total Deposit 971.73 79893 673 15 329.50 

Tar 2997 24.95 27.50 11.85 

Fixed Carbon 29085 25428 226.99 105.63 

Ash 64961 519.70 430.65 211 76 

Fe O in Deposit 17856 12258 8218 5814 



88 HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

At times in the past in both Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and London, 
England, deposits of more than 1,000 tons per square mile per year have 
been recorded for periods of a month or more. For details of relative pro- 
portions of the solid components of the deposits in Cleveland and in other 
cities here and abroad the reader is referred to original documents. 

There is a not inconsiderable volume of air pollution due to volatile sub- 
stances, the sulphurous acid and other fumes commonly found accompanying 
heavy soot fall, but precise information as to the extent of such harmful 
substances must await studies of greater extent than the Survey could under- 
take in the time and with the money at its disposal. 

Admitting, if only for the sake of argument, that Cleveland suffers from 
an extreme case of dirty air, and certainly the valuable reports of the Cleve- 
land Chamber of Commerce in recent years should leave one in no doubt 
as to the extent of financial loss to persons and property justly attributable 
to this public nuisance, it may reasonably be asked what is the interest of 
the Hospital and Health Survey in air pollution. 

Briefly, diseases of the upper respiratory tract are increased by the irri- 
tation of coal dust in the air, and pneumonia is to some degree increased in 
frequency and severity by pollution of the air with coal dust. Diminution 
of sunlight reduces the bactericidal action of this most sanitary free agent. 
A diminution of sunshine which is familiar to every Clevelander for all the 
cool and winter months of the year, can be shown to permit an increase 
of bacteria, both pathogenic and harmless, in the air. " When the air is 
dirty it is hard to get the streets, the yards, the clothes, the people clean," 
and certainly bodily, personal and home cleanliness are important safeguards 
to health. The baleful psychical effect of smoky, dark and dirty air on 
human health and happiness has been emphasized by observers in England 
and in Pittsburgh. 

In an ever wider radius from the main centers of smoke production, 
plant life, tree life and especially the life of evergreen trees and shrubs is 
being destroyed. The constant deposit on the ground of coal, tar, ash, 
cinder and unburned carbon destroys the scant fertility of grass plots in 
yards and parks in many parts of the city. It must be admitted that where 
the air contains such pollution as to make life unbearable for vegetation, we 
must look sharply to protect the lives and health of the human flowers, the 
children who for large numbers of the population, have no escape from the 
soot-laden air. 

True, there is a Commissioner of Smoke Prevention appointed by the 
Mayor. He has an office in the City Hall. He receives a salary of $2,000.00 
a year. His preparation and education for this highly technical position has 
been that of a fireman on a locomotive. He has had no technical training, 
he has no books or laboratory or instruments of precision, or experience in 
the practices used elsewhere to measure the extent of smoke nuisance, to 
prepare strong cases and arguments in court, or to carry on effective educa- 
tion among plant owners, engineers, firemen, etc. One of his fnnctions is 
to pass upon and issue licenses for plants for heating, power and other coal 
and oil consuming furnaces, all of which he does as a part of a purely formal 



ENVIBONMI M \M s\\u \ i \\ 



clerical routine, without inquiry as to the adequacy of draft or other equip- 
ment. such as mechanical stokers, etc.. which will render smoke nuisance at 
least less likely. There are four inspectors also appointed by the Mayor, 
and not through civil service examinat ion, receiving #1,37.5.00 a year and a 
stenographer at *!>00. In (he same office at a desk adjacent to that of the 
Commissioner of Smoke Prevention is an employe of eight of the railroads 
operating within the city limits. He receives $3,900.00 a year. His experi- 
ence was formerly locomotive fireman and later foreman responsible for 
locomotive equipment on one of the important railway systems. His func- 
tion is to serve the railroads which pay him, so that observations made by 
the field insj>ectors (or by himself) of wasteful smoke nuisance from loco- 
motives may be promptly reported to the company concerned, and the 
offending fireman may be reprimanded, suspended or dismissed. As a matter 
of fact, the saving to the railroads in fuel cost, as the result of disciplinary 
action directed against careless firemen, more than offset the expense of their 
sm. ike inspection service. There is probably some benefit to the city from 
this servant of railroad operating efficiency, but locomotive smoke plays but a 
small part in the general curtain of dirt which the plant chimneys throw over 
the city. 

Of the four ins|>ectors in city employ, one is assigned to the east, one to 
the west, one to the downtown section of the eity and one is on railroad 
duty to assist the railroad employe above referred to. Reports of smoke 
nuisance are based on duration and density as measured by the Ringleman 
chart. No action follows violation of the city ordinance. The reasons given 
for failure to prosecute (there have l>een no prosecutions for many months) 
are that there is not only no public opinion in sup|K>rt of vigorous action but 
that there is active opposition to any interference with industry in the 
interest of clean air, and further that cases are continued in the Municipal 
Court until all value of action is lost and there is lacking reasonable, judicial 
support for the objectives of the city officials. 

Conditions of smoke nuisance are reported by responsible observers both 
in and out of the city employ to lx> much worse than they were under the 
administration of Mayor Baker, when the Commissioner of Smoke Preven- 
tion, a trained civil engineer at a salary of * 1,000. 00. and with a force of com- 
petent inspectors, made an intelligent and effective attack on the problem. 
The resentment and opposition of prominent men against whose plants 
action was taken, resulted in the discontinuance of an efficient service 
by cutting off the appropriation. 

A complication which adds somewhat to the problem of the plant manager 
and engineer is that under the la\\s of Ohio a fireman must lie licensed to 
run a fire room, and this operates largely to make him independent of the 
engineer in charge, so that criticism or complaint of the firing which is always 
in large measure the fault responsible for smoke nuisance, is withheld for 
fear of loss of the fireman in question. 

At present the returns from the city expenditure ($8,400.00 annually in 
salaries) for smoke abatement are negligible. 



HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 



RECOMMENDA T/ONS 

It is recommended that: 

A competent engineer familiar with the technical phases of cause and prevention of 
smoke nuisance, and with the harmful results to property and life from such other kinds 
of air pollution from combustion, refining, smelting and other industrial processes as 
are common in Cleveland, be employed as Commissioner of Smoke Prevention, and be 
paid a salary commensurate with his responsibility (not less than $6,000), and that he 
' be provided with a budget which will permit him to employ through civil service com- 
petent inspectors (four would be sufficient). 

The Chamber of Commerce resume its activities in the public interest by developing 
among its members an intelligent activity for cleanliness of the air of Cleveland, by aiding 
and encouraging prosecution of violators, by publishing technical bulletins giving modern 
standard methods of mechanical stoking and hand firing, by serving its own members 
through an inspection service which will prevent any of its members from coming under 
criticism by the city inspectors. 

The Cleveland Betterment Council take an active part in obtaining proof of the 
damage done by air pollution to the health of people of the city, through regional studies 
of soot fall, etc., and by analysis of the distribution of sickness and death, in cooperation 
with the Division of Health and the public nursing agencies. 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH SURVEY 

REPORT 

List of Parts and Titles 

I. Introduction. 

General Environment. 
Sanitation. 

II. Public Health Services. 
Private Health Agencies. 

III. A Program for Child Health. 

IV. Tuberculosis. 

V. Venereal Disease. 
VI. Mental Diseases and Mental Deficiency. 

VII. Industrial Medical Service. 
Women and Industry. 
Children and Industry. 

VIII. Education and Practice in Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy. 
IX. Nursing 
X. Hospitals and Dispensaries. 

XI. Method of Survey. 

Bibliography of Surveys. 
Index. 



The complete set may be obtained at a cost of $5.50 plus the 
postage and single parts at 50 cents each plus the postage, from 



THE CLEVELAND HOSPITAL COUNCIL, 

308 Anisfield Building, 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Printed by 
THE PREMIER PR 
Cleveland, O 



