
THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



HOME MAKER 

A Book of Practical 

Household Hitifs 

and Menus 




Dedicated to the Young Housewives 

of Los Angeles County the county 

of Wonderful Climate and Golden 

Oppoitunities 



Copyright 1921 



The Home Publishing Company 

American Bank Building 
Los Angeles. California 



FOREWORD 

WHEN the happy couple have set sail to em- 
bark upon their long matrimonial voyage, 
it is quite natural that one of their first 
thoughts should be that of a HOME. 

Realizing that too few of us have met up with the 
many problems and details involved in this most 
important venture, the publisher of this little vol- 
ume has presented herein such suggestions and 
hints as will be found helpful and practicable in es- 
tablishing and maintaining a Happy Home. 

Through the co-operation and courtesy of the 
merchants and business firms herein represented, 
therefore, this little book is presented to you, with 
the hope that it will find a friendly and permanent 
place in your Home. 

That your married career may be long and Happy, 
and that God's choicest blessings may come to you 
and your Home, is the earnest hope of 

THE PUBLISHER. 



w w 



Tire Servant in the House' 





LIGHTS 

THE PUTS IT OUT 

GAS AUTOMATICALLY 



Federal 

TRADE MARK 



Water Heater 



THE LAST THING IN WATER HEATERS 

No home too small. No institution too large. 
See it operate where it's made 

Federal Water Heater Co., inc. 

MANUFACTURERS OF 

SIMPLIFIED AUTOMATIC WATER HEATERS 

Main 7055 

Office and Factory: 352-356 S. Los Angeles St. 

Thermo-Storage Building 
LOS ANGELES, U. S. A. 



Dear Mr. and Mrs. Newly-Wed :^ 

This book is presented to you through the courtesy 
and co-operation of the merchants and business firms 
herein represented. I sincerely hope that it will find a 
permanent and welcome place in your Home and that 
it will be a source of helpful information to you. 

If the book pleases you, I shall be gratified indeed. 
Your acknowledgment of its receipt will be appreci- 
ated. 

When patronizing the advertisers in this book please 
mention "THE HOME MAKER." It will benefit 
both yourself and The Publisher. 

Very truly yours, 

W. A. BUH LINGER, 

The Publisher. 
522 American Bank Bldg., 

' Los Angeles. 



Contents 



Page 

Your Own Home, __ 7 

The Home Budget ... 9 

Useful Home Helps . _ . 12 

Home Cooking Recipes 32 

First Aid in the Home.. . 63 




Furnishing the New Home 

is one of the chief attendant joys of "getting married." The impor- 
tant thing is to start right, with a definite plan based on good coun- 
sel. Then choose Furniture and Furnishings, from the widest pos- 
sible range of selection, to make the plan a reality. 

Barker Bros. Store, called "a Great Home Furnishing University" 
because of its forty years' in the making of better homes, can help 
solve every one of the many problems facing the new home-maker. 
First, through the good counsel that makes easier the planning of 
the new home's furnishing; and second, through its tremendous dis- 
plays and resources of every kind of home furnishing goods, all 
under one roof, making it possible to carry any idea through to suc- 
cessful completion, with the least effort and greatest satisfaction. 

Thirty-five floors in five connecting buildings comprise the Home 
Furnishing displays of Barker Bros. one of the largest of its kind 
in the world, offering assortments of choice unsurpassed in any 
store in the West. 

Not alone can the things sought be found here they can be bought 
on Convenient Terms of Payment. And, if the question of a house 
or apartment vexes, Barker Bros.' Free Rental Information Bureau 
will help you in your search. 




TABLJ SHE D-2 & S O 



Broadway between Seventh and Eighth 

COMPLETE FURNISHERS OF SUCCESSFUL HOMES 



In the days of our grandfathers, the first thought of a 
newly wedded eouple was a home of their own and its early 
attainment was a goal to strive for. Not infrequently, too, 
weddings were postponed until the home had been built or 
purchased by the prospective bridegroom and was ready for 
immediate occupancy by the bridal couple. 

The tremendous growth of our cities has done much in 
later years to neutralize this desire, but now the pendulum 
is swinging back with ever increasing certainty and once 
more there is being reasserted the inherent desire implanted 
in every human heart to have a home not a mansion, or a 
castle, just a HOME. 

The terrific rate in the prices charged for flats and apart- 
ments during the past two or three years would appear at 
first thought to be solely to the benefit of the landlords, but, 
improbable as it may seem, it has been of much benefit to 
the forthcoming generation of bridal couples by awakening 
them to the desirability and advantages derived in owning 
their place of residence. And it is this splendid awakening 
that is adding materially to the morale of the young home- 
makers of the present day. The spirit of thrift is encouraged 
in this manner more than any other way possible. There is 
no reason why any wage-earner or salaried man should pay 
into the pocket of any landlord twenty, forty or sixty dollars 
a month for permission to live in a two-by-four apartment 
with nothing to show but a collection of rent receipts at the 
end of the year for the money paid out, when, on the other 
hand, the same amount applied on a home contract would 
give the tenant the privacy, privileges and independence of 
a home of his own with something of real and substantial 
value to show after a few years for the money he had ex- 
pended. 

It is interesting indeed to note the comparison between a 
family who has paid rent for a home for say ten years, and 
the one who started out by purchasing a lot and building 
their home. The first family, for example, we will say, paid 
on the average of $61.50 per month rent for a flat or apart- 
ment. At the end of the ten-year period they will have paid 
out a total of $7,380, and have nothing except a collection of 



rent receipts and will have possibly experienced a great 
many inconveniences due to a troublesome landlord, lack of 
privacy or independence. At the same time, according to 
statistics recently compiled, the second family at the same 
monthly payment will have fully paid for a $5,000 home and 
have enjoyed greater privacy, privileges, and have no rent 
to pay for the rest of their lives. It is true there will be 
insurance, taxes and depreciation on the home they have 
acquired, but this is quite often offset by the cost of moving, 
wear and tear on furniture and other inconveniences experi- 
enced in rented living quarters. Nowadays nearly all home- 
owners build on money borrowed either from the bank or 
from a building and loan company, and consequently more 
or less time must elapse before they can hold a clear title ; 
still, during that time they have had the use and convenience 
of their property, their payments" may have been but little 
greater than they would have paid if renting, their own im- 
provements and the growth of the surrounding community 
steadily increases the value of their property, and they have 
established themselves in the eyes of their friends and of the 
world as being dependable and respectable American citizens. 



ATTENTION NEWLY-WEDSH1 You will want a piano or a grafonola for your 
new home so come to Bartlett's, 607 West 7th Street. 



The Home Budget 

No other question is so important to the happiness of the 
home as the mutual understanding of finances by all mem- 
bers of the family. The first dismay of a young husband 
when he learns that his wife lacks training or system in the 
care of money and is ignorant of the arts which make home 
comfortable is indeed depressing. The first distress of a 
young wife who sees criticism in the eyes of her husband 
and realizes that she has lost a place in his trust and may 
have difficulty in regaining is exceedingly unpleasant . This 
may be easily averted by having a definite, well-thought-out 
plan of spending money. Nothing draws a husband and 
wife closer together than a frank, business-like co-operation 
about their finances, to have a mutual aim to buy a piece of 
property, pay for a house, etc. 

The whole standard of living depends on the apportion- 
ment of the family finances. Two homes may, as often hap- 
pens, be maintained on identical incomes, yet one 'family 
manages to own their own home, while the other will be 
always on the brink of debt and unable to afford the simple 
pleasures and luxuries of life. To save, to diminish the ex- 
penditures, is just the same as having an increase in income. 
The health of the family, pleasures, or savings, are deter- 
mined not by the amount of the income, but by the distribu- 
tion of that income. Many people who today complain of 
their low incomes are suffering frequently not from a low 
income but from mis-spending that income. 

The home budget, a method of planning what will be 
spent, or apportioning in advance how much can be spent 
for food, clothing and all other needs throughout the entire 
year, has been the means of solving many a financial prob- 
lem in American homes of today. Although the needs and 
wants of any two homes may differ widely, it has been found 
that the following general divisions prevail : 

1. Shelter Rent or its equivalent in investment in prop- 
erty, etc. 

2. Food. 

3. Clothing. 

4. Operating Light, heat, ice, phone, laundry, etc. 

5. Savings, investments, life insurance, etc. 

6. Luxuries and advancement Education, entertainment, 
music, books, magazines, club dues, cigars, vacation, etc. 

A home without music How Drearyll Happy Thoughtlt Go to Bartlett's they 
can take care of your music wants. 




You 

Want a Home 

OF YOUR OWN 

If you are planning and saving for a home of your 
own, let the Mutual show you how to realize this 
home at less cost and in less time by becoming a 
member. 

Let the Mutual show you "How to make your sav- 
ings produce the Earning Power of money for you, 
with the safest security known, Real Estate." There 
is quite a difference between the Earning Power and 
the Rental Value of money. 

INVESTIGATE OUR MUTUAL PROFIT PLAN 

See what Mutual Service can do for 
you and what it is doing for others. 

Mutual Realty Corporation 

Title Insurance Bldg. 
Los Angeles 



10 



From several home budgets prepared and studied by ex- 
perts, a number of helpful points have been found, as for 
instance, the amount spent for shelter, or rent, should never 
exceed more than one-fourth of the monthly income. In the 
item of Food, the percentage necessary to keep the average 
family in good health under average conditions has been 
approximately figured at thirty per cent. The skill and 
training of the home-maker in nutritive values and cooking 
will bear greatly on this point, however. Under operating 
expense, the percentage will depend largely on the size of 
the home and living standards in general, as much labor- 
saving equipment should be bought and counted here as 
possible, such as electric washing machines, fireless cookers, 
etc. Experience has shown that these valuable aids to suc- 
cessful home-maintaining have not only eliminated an end- 
less amount of labor on the part of the housewife, but 
actually lessened the amount spent for help, fuel, etc. 

A budget for the average family with an income of $150 
per month, under present conditions, and with no special 
aim or extra burden, and which will not interfere with the 
foregoing classification, may be summed up as follows: 

Percentage Monthly Weekly 

Shelter 25% $ 37.50 $ 9.38 

Food 30 45.00 11.25 

Clothing 15 22.50 5.62 

Operating 10 15.00 3.75 

Savings 10 15.00 3.75 

Luxuries and advance- 
ment 10 15.00 3.75 



Total 100% $150.00 $37.50 

It may be that the income is irregular, and varies in 
amounts from one month to another. A good plan for such 
homes is to establish a special savings account, or "sinking 
fund," in the bank which will carry them and which may be 
drawn on when the income does not reach the amount called 
for in the budget decided upon. For instance, an income 
may be $120 one month and $170 the next. A budget in 
such a case could be made up on a monthly average for the 
year, and by the special bank deposits when the income ex- 
ceeds the average, there should be no serious difficulty in 
following the budget plan. 

After launching on your matrimonial career come to Bartlett's and get a piano for 
your home. 607 West Seventh Street. 

11 



USEFUL HOME HELPS 

House Cleaning. Brooms will last much longer if treated 
in the following manner. Put the broom in a pail, pour 
boiling water on it until the pail is full, and let it remain 
until the water is cold. Then hang it up by the handle to 
dry. Sew a piece of muslin securely around it six inches 
from the bottom. 

To Renovate Dark Furniture. Cleanse it with turpentine 
and wipe with an oiled cloth. Lemon oil is excellent for 
this purpose, as it is not greasy and can be used on the 
finest mahogany pieces as well as on floors or woodwork. 
Apply in small quantities and rub in well. Never use water 
on hardwood floors, it not only leaves white spots, but it 
soaks in between the boards and causes them to warp. 

Renovating Varnished Furniture. An excellent way to 
clean varnished furniture (when there are no scratches 
deeper than the varnish on it) is wash it with warm suds, 
or clean with gasoline or turpentine. Polish with equal 
parts of turpentine and crude oil, or equal parts of alcohol, 
olive oil and vinegar. 

White Stains on Wood, caused by water or any hot ob- 
ject set upon it, can be removed by rubbing them with 
equal parts of turpentine, and linseed oil. 

Ink Stains on hardwood floor can be taken off by taking 
a piece of rather fine sandpaper and going over the ink 
stain until the floor varnish about it has been removed. 
Now pour on ammonia ninety-five per cent strong. After 
soaking the spot in the strong ammonia wash it with a 
potash solution and the stain will disappear. A little var-- 
nish over the sandpapered spot is the finishing touch. 

Ink Stains on Mahogany furniture may be removed by 
putting a few drops of spirits of nitre into a teaspoonful of 
water. Touch the spot with a feather dipped in the fluid 
and the ink will disappear. 

A Dent in a piece of furniture, unless extremely deep, 
may be removed by using a medicine dropper. Fill this 
with hot water and carefully put a couple of drops in the 
dent. Let this dry, then put in a few more drops. Keep 
this up a dozen times during the day. In a few hours the 
dent will disappear, because the constant application of 
water causes the wood to swell in the dented spot and fill 
it up. A little furniture polish rubbed gently over the place 
will remove the scar. 

The use of our Free Music Roll Library with every Player Piano SoldBartlett 
Music Co., 607 West Seventh Street. 

12 



Jfflemoranba of 
Jftlarriage 

Certified, Cfjat 
of in tfje &tate 

of anb 

of in tjic ^tatr of 

tor rr. at o'clucl; on bap.tljf of 

10 , in saia g>tate, joineb together in 



ar r orbing to the llatus of tiic dtate of California, anb 
unbcr autftoritp of a ^license igfueb 19 ....... 

bp tfje Uojf Sngelesf Countp Clerk in tfje Citp of Ho* 
Sngeletf, CaL, on tfje bap of 

in tfje pear nineteen fnmbreb 
anb 



(HLlitnrssfs 



13 



To Clean a Painted Wall. Dip a woolen cloth in kero- 
sene oil and rub the surface of the wall with it, changing 
the cloth for a clean one as often as it becomes soiled. 

To Whiten Woodwork and Furniture. The secret of the 
successful enameling of furniture and woodwork is the 
smoothness with which the paint is put on. Each coat 
should be allowed to become hard and dry before the next 
coat is applied. Ordinary house paint is used for all the 
coats but the last one, and that should be of good enamel. 
The number of coats depends upon the condition of the 
woodwork. If it is already white one or two coats will be 
sufficient, but if you paint dark .woodwork white it will re- 
quire three or four coats before the enamel is put on. It 
will then last for years, looking as good as new. Treat the 
tables, chairs and beds in the same manner. Before paint- 
ing the white bedsteads, wash them in soap and water and 
then give them a new coat of enamel. White paint that is 
in good condition and not very much soiled can be cleaned 
by rubbing it with a damp flannel cloth and a little whiting. 
Remember the bright sunlight in a room with white furni- 
ture and white woodwork will keep them white. 

Yellow Pine Woodwork and Furniture can be cleaned by 
applying to it a flannel cloth dipped in vinegar. Washing 
it out in clear water as soon as it becomes soiled and before 
being dipped in the vinegar again. 

Maple Floors and Furniture. When oiling these, heat 
linseed oil lukewarm, remove from fire, and add half as 
much turpentine as linseed oil. The turpentine keeps the 
floor from turning dark, and if handled this way maple 
woodwork will remain white for years. 

To Give Willow Furniture a Dull Finish. First apply a 
flat finish oil stain. Put it on evenly and let first coat dry 
before putting on the second. If the stain is not dark 
enough when it has dried a second coat can then be put on 
without danger of cloudiness, stickiness or thickness. An- 
other way to get a dull finish is to put on a varnish stain 
and rub it in as you put it on with a cotton cloth. This 
method makes the stain dry dull. 

Shining Finish. If a shiny finish is desired apply an 
enamel paint. Care should be taken to make the brush 
marks even and to apply the enamel thinly and evenly. 
Like stain the first coat should be allowed to dry thor- 
oughly before the second is applied. 

You all know what the Kohler & Campbell Piano is so come to Bartlett Music Co., 
607 West 7th Street for it. 

14 



Rattan Chairs. When chair bottoms of rattan become 
loose and "baggy" stand them in a tub or bathtub and pour 
two or three kettlefuls of absolutely boiling hot water 
through the woven rattan. Do this on a bright warm day, 
and set the chairs out in the sun. Within a few hours the 
bottoms will be as taut and even as when they were new. 

Shabby Leather Chairs. To improve them, take 1 pint of 
linseed oil, boil it, and let it stand till nearly cold. Then 
stir into it half a pint of vinegar. When the two are per- 
fectly amalgamated bottle and it is ready for use. Shake 
the bottle well before using the mixture. Pour a little on a 
soft cloth, rub it well into the leather, turning the flannel 
as it gets dirty, then rub with a soft duster till the polish is 
restored. This polish softens the leather and prevents it 
from cracking. 

Window and Mirror Cleaning. 1. Use no soap on win- 
dow glass. A cotton cloth dipped in a little alcohol will add 
brilliancy to the final rub. 

2. Windows and mirrors can be more easily cleaned if 
a goodly amount of kerosene is put in the water with which 
they are washed. It cuts all grime and grease, does away 
with fly specks and leaves the glass with a wonderful gloss 
and without a flaw. 

3. A little camphor on the cloth with which you rub a 
window or mirror, after the dust has been .removed, will 
brighten it. 

4. Place a week's tea leaves in a pail and pour over 
them a quart of boiling water. Leave for one hour, then 
strain and bottle. The liquor is excellent for cleaning win- 
dows and mirrors ; will make them shine like crystal. 

Paint Marks on Glass may be removed by rubbing with 
a paste of whitening and ammonia, thinned with water to 
the consistency of cream. Leave the past'.- on the glass dry 
and then wash off with soap and warm rater. Vinegar i^ 
also useful in removing paint from glass. 

Cleaning Oil Paintings. Peel a potato and halve it. Rub 
carefully over the painting with the flat side. Cut a new 
surface each time the moisture is exhausted. Sponge after- 
wards with clean tepid water. 

Cleaning Gilt Frames. Apply white of egg with a small 
camelst/iir paint brush to fly-specks on gilt frames, then 
rub gently with a soft cloth and the specks will disappear. 
Vinegar will also remove fly-specks from almost anything, 
windows, picture frames, woodwork, etc. 

Come in and see our beautifully equipped store, 607 W. 7th, Opposite Robinson't 

15 



Cleaning and Renovating Carpets. 1. Three small bars 
of good white soap, three gallons of water, one 10-cent 
bottle of household ammonia, one-half box of borax and 
10 cents worth of tartar. Melt soap in water on top of 
stove, then add other ingredients. Let boil ten minutes, 
then take off stove. Splendid for renewing colors in car- 
pets and cleans them fine. Will help indefinitely. 

2. Another Stain Remover. Six quarts of rainwater, one 
cake of white soap, two ounces of borax, two ounces of sal 
soda, and one handful of salt will be needed to make a soap 
which will clean dingy-looking carpet. Allow this to come 
to the boiling point and add one ounce of glycerine. Re- 
move from the fire, let cool and add two ounces of aqua 
ammonia. Dissolve one cup of soap in one quart of boiling 
water. Apply to carpet with a scrub brush, sponge off with 
sponge or cloth wrung from clean warm water. 

3. Cut up a piece of yellow soap the size of a walnut and 
dissolve it in a pint of boiling water. Beat to a lather. Add 
a quart of water and an ounce of borax, and bring to a boil. 
When cold pour into a large bottle, add an ounce of am- 
monia and an equal quantity of spirits of wine, and shake 
thoroughly. Moisten a flannel with thr reviver and rub the 
carpet briskly, turning the flannel as it absorbs the dirt. 
Rub dry with clean cloths. 

4. A weak solution of alum will revive the colors of 
faded carpet after a thorough sweeping. 

5. To clean carpets grate a raw potato and rub over the 
surface of the carpet and finish off with a clean cloth wrung 
out in warm water. 

6. Soot may easily be swept from carpets by sprinkling 
lavishly with salt before sweeping. 

7. Ink marks that have not dried on a carpet, may be 
removed by using turpentine and white soap. 

8. Moth-germs in rugs or similar articles may be got 
rid of by wringing a thin rag out of water and spreading it 
over the rug (preferably on the wrong side) and passing 
over it lightly with a hot iron, not touching the material 
but only causing the water to evaporate. The hot vapor 
kills the germs. 

When Laying Linoleum, if you would have it smooth, let 
it lie in place and be walked over for a few days before 
tacking down. 

Lyon & Hcaly Washbtirn. A splendid piano and you can get it at Bartletts Music 
Company, 607 West Seventh Street. 

16 



H. W. BROUGHTON, Pres. O. B. BURDICK, Vice-Pres. 




BEAUTIFUL and Attractive 
Home makes Happiness 
and Joy for Ever. : : : 



Our Attractive and Artistic 

Wall Hangings give the 

desired effect. 



Los Angeles 
H^all Paper & Paint Co. 



528 South Main Street Phone 10026 



17 



Castors on large and heavy pieces of furniture should 
have a drop or two of oil applied to them once or twice a 
year to keep them running smoothly. 

If a Crack Appears in the Wall mix plaster of paris with 
vinegar and fill the space. 

To Rid the House of Ants. A piece of gum camphor or 
sprigs of parsley placed where the ants come in, will soon 
drive them away. A small quantity of green sage placed 
in the pantry will keep out red ants. 

Roaches and Waterbugs. 1. Wash the kitchen floor, sur- 
base, and the framework about th*e sink, with lye at the first 
appearance of these pests. Apply the lye with a brush and 
do not let it touch the hands. 

2. Sprinkle powdered borax over the infested places and 
roaches will disappear. 

3. Cucumber peelings will expel roaches if strewn 
around in their haunts. 

4. Roaches will not go where parsley is put. It should 
be renewed twice a week. 

Moths. Apartments and closets that are frequently aired 
and swept are not apt to be seriously affected. In fact, 
airing and sunlight are probably the best as well as the 
oldest remedies. 

Clothes Moths. The various substances used to keep 
away moths, such as tobacco, camphor, naphthalene cones 
or balls, tarred paper and cedar chips have no effect if the 
moth eggs are already present in the clothes. It is there- 
fore recommended before they are laid away, that they 
should be thoroughly beaten, shook and brushed. If the 
articles are quite free from moth-eggs when laid away the 
odor from the various repellents or from cedar chests and 
wardrobes will serve to keep the moths away. The odor, 
however, lessens with age, so that the protection afforded 
is greatly decreased in time. For this reason when furs 
and other valuable garments are wrapped in tarred paper 
or other protectors, the containers should be renewed every 
year or two. 

For valuable articles the safest plan is to place them in 
cold storage. Recent experiments have shown that the 
larvse of the clothes moth will resist for a long time low 
temperatures if these are uniform. 

It is said whole cloves sprinkled among furs and woolens 
will keep out moths, proving as effective as the ill-smelling 
moth preparations. 

You will want an A. B. Chase Piano for your new home Get it at Bartlett's 

607 West 7th Street. 

18 



RATTAN SHOPS 




Reed Furniture 

Is Ideal f o r 

The California Home 



The cheerfulness and the practicability of Reed furniture 
makes it more than adaptable for furnishing the home. It 
is less expensive, lasts a life time, is easily cleaned, easy to 
move when you clean house. 

We are Manufacturers and Sell Direct to You 
at Big- Savings-- Write for Booklet "How to 
Furnish Your Home Artistically." 

You get the benefit of the maker's prices when you buy 
from us. You save money and get the very best Reed Fur- 
niture in the newest styles. 

Complete suites or single pieces for every room in the home. 
Before purchasing your new furniture, come in and get our 
prices. 

Rattan Shops 

605 West Seventh Street 

638 Maple Ave. 14688 

LOS ANGELES 



19 



LAUNDRY HELPS 

Clothespins. New clothespins should be scrubbed in 
clean soapsuds, then boiled for five minutes and let dry on 
a board. They will last much longer. 

Irons that have become rusty if first heated and rubbed 
with beeswax tied in a rag, and then rubbed over a piece of 
paper that has salt sprinkled on it will be fit for use. 

Removing Starch from Irons. Should starch cling to 
your iron while using it, sprinkle salt on a piece of brown 
paper and run the iron on it. 

To Whiten Clothes add a few drops of turpentine to the 
water in which they are boiled. 

Washing Colored Frocks. Generally speaking, delicate 
shades may be kept from fading by using plenty of pulver- 
ized pure borax in the water in which they are washed and 
rinsed. A handful of salt in rinsing water nearly always 
acts as a preventive for any shade. 

To Prevent the Color Running add to the rinsing water a 
little vinegar for mauve, heliotrope, red or pink. For mauve 
you may also use a large lump of ammonia, which should 
be dissolved first; oxgall for brown; two or three lumps of 
alum will revive green or blue ; salt may be used for blue ; 
methylated spirits for all shades of lemon or yellow. 

To Take All the Color Out of a faded cotton garment, 
boil it in cream of tartar water, and it will be white. 

When Rinsing Clothes in hard water add half a cup of 
sweet milk. The bluing will not spot. 

....Rinsing Mixture. One ounce of Epsom salts added to a 
gallon of water makes an excellent rinsing mixture for col- 
ored blouses and washing dresses. 

Gloss on Linen Clothes. Adding a tablespoonful of 
sugar while the starch is still hot, will give linen clothes a 
good gloss when they are ironed. 

Chamois Leathers should be washed in tepid water and 
dried with the soap in them ;they will then be nice and soft. 

Stretching Curtains Without Curtain Stretchers. After 
lace curtains are washed, select a clean sunny place on the 
outside of your house. Wash off carefully. Have a box of 
small tinned tacks (as they will not rust) and a clean ham- 
mer. Let the edge of the clapboard be your guide. Take 
each scallop and stretch well. Put up early in morning and 
take down before sundown. No ironing is necessary and 
they look like new. 

BARTLETT MUSIC COMPANY The Oldest Music Firm in Los Angeles 
607 West 7th Street. 

20 



To Mend a Lace Curtain. Apiece of lace or net starched 
and put under a hole in a lace curtain, then pressed smooth 
with a warm iron, will scarcely be visible. 

Washing Blankets. To wash blankets choose a warm 
sunny day with a gentle breeze. March is considered the 
best month to wash blankets. Prepare suds by dissolving 
half a bar of good white hard soap, one tablespoonful of 
borax and one tablespoonful of aqua ammonia for each pair 
of blankets. Let the suds become cool enough that the 
hands may be borne in them easily. Shake the blankets 
well before putting in the water, to free them as much as 
possible from dust. If soiled new blankets are to be washed 
they will require more soap than old ones; the grease in the 
blankets hardens the water; then is the time they shrink. 
When all is ready put the blankets in the warm suds and 
let them stand for one hour, keeping the temperature about 
as hot as the hands will bear by frequently ading hot water. 
Do not put soap on the blankets nor rub them. 

After they have soaked for an hour, lay the washboard 
flat across the tub, put in one blanket at a time, raise the 
blanket on to the washboard and go around the edge, ap- 
plying the suds with a scrubbing brush, and rubbing vigor- 
ously. Meantime heat sufficient water for two more lathers. 
Remove from first to a second suds prepared in the same 
manner, seize the blanket by the middle and souse it up and 
down. Squeeze and press it between the hands until clean. 
Rinse in three clear waters, keeping them at the same tem- 
perature as the suls, namely, as hot as the hands will bear, 
and run through the wringer or squeeze the water out of 
them rather than wring them in the usual way. Fasten by 
the edges to the line and frequently shake and stretch them 
to their proper size while drying. To have the best success 
in washing blankets two points must be observed, namely, 
to keep the water at a uniform temperature, neither boiling 
hot nor cold enough to chill, but as hot as the hands will 
bear, and not to wring or rub the blankets in such a way 
that the fibers will become interlaced and cause shrinking. 
\\hen thoroughly dry beat the blankets while on the line 
with a carpet beater. This will cause the wool to become 
Huffy like a new blanket. 

Stains on Blankets and other woolen goods can be re- 
moved by using a mixture of equal parts of glycerine and 
yolk of an egg. Spread it on the stain, leave it for half an 
hour, and then wash. 

Columbia Grafonolas. all Styles and Finishes at Bartlett's 607 West 7th Street 

21 



Cleaning White Clothes of any kind, especially white 
wool, use the common block magnesia. Lay garment on 
table and rub magnesia into it thoroughly. Roll up and 
lay away for a few days. Then shake out and brush with 
clean brush. It will look like new and save many a dry 
cleaner's bill. 

Washing Needlework. Soap should not be rubbed di- 
rectly on dainty needlework, especially that embroidered in 
colors. Make a tepid suds of white soap and soft water. 
Let the articles stand in this a few minutes to loosen the 
dirt, and then put them into a similar clean suds. A gentle 
patting and rubbing with the hands will finish the cleansing. 
Rinse in fresh water which has a little bluing in it. Test 
this water, not to get it too blue. 

Fine linens and pieces of lingeries will last much longer if 
they are wrung out by hand and not put through the 
wringer. 

Dainty Laces. If you would keep your laces looking 
fresh and new, wash in the following manner. Purchase 
4 cents' worth of benzoline . This spirit is highly inflam- 
mable, so should be kept away from artificial light or fire. 
Take two basins and into each put a little of the benzoline. 
Dip the lace into one, douse it up and down, then squeeze 
gently and dip in the second lot of benzoline ; by then all 
the dirt will have dropped out. Shake the lace ;it will dry 
in a few minutes and look like new. 

Cleansing Problems. Removing Fruit Stains from cotton 
and linen. Nearly all fruit and berry stains can be removed 
from cotton and linen by pouring boiling water on the spot, 
the fabric being stretched over a basin. Small doilies may 
be swished about in the boiling water until the stains 
disappear. 

Peach Stains, Mildew and iron rust are obstinate. Cover 
spots with salt and squeeze lemon juice on them until the 
salt is saturated ; then lay the pieces in the sun. The stains 
will gradually fade out ; but it may be necessary to put 
lemon and salt on the worst places several times, drying 
them each time in the sun. 

Blueberry Stains will disappear if ammonia is put on 
them. 

Fruit Stains. To remove them from white material, boil 
milk and hold the stained part in it for a minute. If the 
stains are on linen apply powdered starch at once, and leave 
for a few hours. 

Bartlett Music Company now 607 W. 7th St. Opposite Robinson and next to 
Security Trust and Savings Bank Branch. 

22 



Removing Stains From Fabrics. Very large, deep stains 
and those which have become set may be removed by dip- 
ping the spot in a solution of one level teaspoonful of oxalic 
acid to a pint of hot water. This acid is a strong bleach and 
must not be allowed to remain in the fabrics as it will injure 
it. Dip the stained part in the solution letting it remain 
about two minutes. Dip the goods again if the stain is not 
entirely gone. As soon as the stain disappears rinse the 
piece to remove the acid, and drop it into warm suds. 

Blood Stains on wash material can be removed by satu- 
rating the stained portion with kerosene and then dipping 
in boiling water. 

Fly Paper. Any article which has come in contact with 
fly paper can be cleansed by soaking the spot in castor oil, 
and then wash in the ordinary way. 

Grass Stains. Any linen article that has become grass 
stained should be saturated with kerosene and then washed 
in very hot water, with plenty of soap. Cream of tartar will 
also remove grass stains. 

Grass Stains on any material can be removed if moistened 
with a solution of chlorate of tin, and then washed imme- 
diately in plenty of cold water. It is wise to always have 
this solution on hand. If the stained article cannot be 
washed then alcohol must be used. 

Ink Stains. There are various ways of removing ink 
stains; some of them are as follows: 

1. Use a teaspoonful of salt to nearly a half glass of 
milk. Soak the stained part in this solution. Either white 
or colored fabrics can be cleaned by this method, but if the 
ink has been allowed to dry it will be necessary to soak the 
stained part in the milk for an hour or two. 

2. Inkstains. Place the stained garment over a saucer 
and cover the stain with borax. Then pour peroxide over 
the borax . Do not pour water over the stain, as this receipt 
will not prove so effective. The borax and peroxide will 
take effect almost immediately. 

3. Inkstains. To remove ink stains from wash mate- 
rial, pour a tablespoonful of kerosene on the spots and rub 
well. Rinse in kerosene and the spots will disappear as if 
by magic. This should be done before the regulation 
washing. 

4. Ink Stains. Soaked in sour milk they usually disap- 
pear, but if not, rinse in a weak solution of chloride of lime. 

Get your Q. R. S. Rolls at Bartlctt Music Co., 607 West 7th Street. 

23 



Iodine Stains may be removed by washing with ammonia 
water. 

Iron Rust. A quick and easy way to remove iron rust 
from clothes is to put a teaspoon of cream of tartar on the 
spot, tie up the cloth around it into a little bag and boil the 
garment. 

Mud Spots on silk. After washing thoroughly, rub soiled 
places with a raw potato. 

Paint on Silk. Rub paint spots on silk with turpentine 
and they will disappear. 

Pitch Greese and Tar Stains. Soak in turpentine. Scrape 
off carefully with a knife all the loose surface dirt ; sponge 
clean with turpentine. 

Scorch Stains. Wet the scorched place, rub with soap 
and bleach in the sun. 

Scorched Linen. Extract the juice from four peeled 
onions, mix this with four ounces of fuller's earth, one 
ounce of soap, and a pint of vinegar. Boil well together. 
When nearly cold, put on the scorched places and let dry 
in the air. Wash in cold water. 

Scorch Marks. Cut an onion in two, rub the scorched 
part with it, then soak in cold water. The marks will dis- 
appear in a few minutes. 

Scorched Clothes. Wet the scorched place thoroughly 
with water, then apply to it a thick paste made of ordinary 
lump-starch mixed with just enough water to make it stick 
well. Use plenty of paste, and let it dry on the scorched 
material. Then, when dry, be sure to rinse all the starch 
out with water, for if you fail to do this the iron may scorch 
the material again in the same place. If one application 
does not remove all the scorch, repeat the operation. 

Sewing Machine Oil Marks. Rub with lard and let stand 
for several hours, then wash with soap and water. 

Shoe Blacking. Vinegar will remove it from the 
clothing. 

KITCHEN UTENSILS 

The washing of pans and kettles will not involve half the 
labor if done immediately after using. 

New Sauce Pans. Before being used should be filled 
with water; add a lump of soda and some potato peelings, 
and let boil for some hours. Then wash out thoroughly, 
and all danger from poisoning from the tinned lining will 
be gone. 



All the latest Columbia Records at Bartlett's, 607 West 7th Street. 

24 



Iron Kettles when new, need care to prevent them from 
rusting. Fill pretty full with potato parings, add water 
to all but cover, and boil for an hour. Empty the kettle, 
wash in very hot water, dry it, and rub well with lard. 
Repeat the operation two or three times and you will have 
a kettle that should last a long time without rusting. 

Nickel cooking utensils are delightful to use in the 
kitchen, for they are easy to keep clean, and when properly 
kept their appearance does credit to the cleaner; so, too, do 
copper and aluminum, but equally they show signs of 
neglect at once if not kept in good condition. 

Aluminum. To clean, never use soda as it blackens the 
aluminum, and no effort will bring back its white appear- 
ance again. Use a wooden clothespin to scrape the bottom 
of your aluminum saucepan, if you would prevent scratches. 

Cleaning Aluminum. If you want to polish your old, dis- 
colored aluminum ware, so it will look like new, use O or 
OO wool steel and a pure white soap. Aluminum is dis- 
colored by alkalies and not by acids. Do not use strong 
soap or scouring-powder on it. 

Earthenware Casseroles are of all things the easiest to 
clean. The inside of them is so well glazed that it does not 
chip nor crack, and consequently only requires to be washed 
out and well rinsed and dried, and they are ready for use 
again. 

Enamel Pans are very nice, but great care must be taken 
when using them, for they stain easily, and the surface soon 
becomes covered with tiny cracks and scorch marks. When 
this stage has been reached, they are not very satisfactory 
to cook with, as they are difficult to keep clean. No soda 
should be used in the water in which these pans are washed. 

A Mincer. To clean after using, grind stale crusts of 
bread through it. The bread collects all the fat, grease and 
skin from the small teeth. 

Vinegar Cruet can be cleaned by filling it with finely 
chopped potato skins, cork tightly and let it stand in a warm 
place three days ; then turn the skins out and rinse the cruet 
with warm water and borax. 

Rusty Knives can be cleaned by using a raw potato 
dipped in brick dust. 

Stove Polish. Turpentine mixed with stove polish pre- 
vents rust, and hardening, and gives a brighter gloss than 
the use of water. 



The Autopiano "The Pride of the Navy'' Get one at Bartlett's and make your 
married life complete. 

25 



HEALTH rflfe HOME 

IS POSSIBLE 

Chiropractic *; 

ADJUSTMENTS DISEASE 

Pinched nerves at the spine interfere with the vari- 
ous corresponding organs of the body, causing their 
many disorders, such as headache, asthma, stomach, 
liver, bowel or kidney trouble, sciatica, lumbago, and 
most all so-called diseases. 



EMOVE 

CAUSE of 




DR. E. R. NETTLE 

CHIROPRACTOR 

308-11 O. T. Johnson Bldg. 356 So. Broadway 

Third Floor Day and Evening Service 

Free Analysis X-Ray Service Phone 63246 



26 



To Clarify Drippins, slice a raw potato into the fat while 
rendering. It will absorb all impurities. Suet and lard are 
best kept in tin vessels. Salt pork, however, should be kept 
in glazed earthenware. 

Tough Meat will be made tender if placed in vinegar 
water for a few minutes. 

A teaspoon of vinegar added to boiled meat, while cook- 
ing, makes the meat tender. 

When Frying Meat or Fish sprinkle a little salt over the 
bottom of the pan before putting in the fat. This prevents 
any spattering on the wall or rust on the stove. 

When Boiling Ham leave' it in the water in which it has 
been boiled until it is quite cold. This will make it juicy 
and tender. 

To Preserve Meat in hot weather wash over with very 
weak vinegar and water, and then cover with slivers of raw 
onion. Before cooking remove onion and rinse meat in 
clear cold water. 

Cold Storage Meat and poultry should never be allowed 
to remain in a warm room before cooking. All cold stor- 
age foods spoil quickly if left in warm temperature. 

With Salt-Boiled Codfish, serve parsnips ; with Boiled 
Salt Mackerel, corn bread or fried cornmeal mush. 

To Keep Lemons, put them in water ; change once a week 
and they will keep a long time. 

When using cold lemons place them in a heaten oven 
until warmed through, and they will yield more juice than 
cold ones. 

When lemons are hard cover them with boiling water 
and stand them aside to cool. They will then appear fresh 
and full of juice. Neither will the juice seem in the least 
diluted by the water. 

To Prevent Cake From Burning when using new tins, 
butter the new tins well and place them in a moderate oven 
for fifteen minutes. After this the cake may be cooked in 
them without danger of burning. 

A teaspoonful of glycerine makes a cake very light. But- 
ter your cake tin well, and line with proper paper, buttered. 

Sweet milk will make a cake rich and close ; water in the 
same cake will make it light and delicate. 

Two lumps of sugar in your over will brown a cake with- 
out burning. A basin of cold water will cool a hot oven. 
Place in lower part of oven. 

A Burnt Cake that is not done should have burnt part re- 
moved and place covered with beaten egg and brown sugar. 
Stand cake on sieve when cooked. 

27 



Life Health 

MR. and MRS. NEWLY WED 

At this time you will 
WANT and NEED 

INSURANCE 

That Will Give You the Most Protection for the 
Least Money 

Below is a picture of my complete coverage based on 
$5,000 of Life Insurance 

If Insured dies from natural causes, the Com- 
pany pays $ 5,000 

If insured dies from accident, the Company 

pays ".. 10,000 

IN CASE OF TOTAL PERMANENT DISABILITY THE COMPANY WILL 

1st. Waive all premium payments; 

2nd. Pays $25.00 per week for one year and thereafter ; 

3rd. Pay $50.00 per month for life ; and 

4th. Pay $5,000.00 to the beneficiary when insured 

dies. 
5th. If disability involves loss of limbs or sight as a 

result of accident, the' Company will pay $5,000 

immediately in cash IN ADDITION to all other 

benefits. 

In case of Temporary Disability as a result of either 
Sickness or Accident the Company pays $25.00 per 
week for a limit of 52 weeks. 

For further information regarding Insurance, 
see, phone or write 

C. B. WIDNER 

902 Marsh-Strong Bldg., Los Angeles, Cal. . 
Accident Phone 665-45 Disability 



28 



Suggestions for Laying Table 



If possible, have the table in the middle of the dining 
room, the center of the table directly under the central point 
of the chandelier. 

After laying the silence cloth, which may be of felt or 
heavy canton flannel, place the tablecloth so that the center 
of the cloth comes directly over the center of the table. The 
middle lengthwise crease should indicate the immaculate 
freshness of the cloth. If the cloth has been folded the next 
crease should be at right angles to the first at the center of 
the cloth. Many prefer rolling the cloth, and so avoiding all 
but the middle lengthwise crease. 

After laying the cloth the centerpiece should be placed as 
its name indicates. There should always be some decoration 
for the center of the table a vase of cut flowers, a growing 
plant, or a bowl of fruit is always available, and adds greatly 
to the attractiveness of the table. 

If the table is round place the covers equidistant from 
each other; if rectangular, or oval, as nearly opposite each 
other as possible. Always allow ample space between the 
covers. A table should never look "crowded" because of too 
many covers, or too much food served on it, or any unneces- 
sary china, silver or cutglass, however beautiful it may be. 
Every article placed on the table should be designed for 
service, and should be so placed that it may most con- 
veniently render its best service. 

For each cover place a plate, right side up, and all the 
silver that will be needed for serving the meal, unless there 
are so many courses as to demand more silver than space 
permits, in which event reserve the silver for the later 
courses and place when needed. The very small spoon for 
the after-dinner coffee may always be reserved till the coffee 
is served. Place the silver for the different courses in order 
so that it shall be used "from the outside toward the plate." 
Remembering that this is the rule for the correct laying of 
the table, the uninitiated need have no fear as to which piece 
of silver to use for a particular course. Also it should be 
remembered that it is proper to follow the lead of the 
hostess. The knives and spoons should be placed on the 
right of the plate, the knives with the cutting edge toward 
the plate and the spoons with the bowls up. The forks 
should be placed, with the tines up, on the left of the plate. 

29 



The glass for water should always be placed about half an 
inch from the tip of the knife. Individual butter plates, or, 
better, bread and butter plates, may be placed in front of the 
plate, to the left of the glass. The napkin may be placed in 
the service plate, or to the left of the forks, with the open 
edge toward the plate. 

Small special dishes for "hors d'ocuvers," bonbons, and 
the like, may be appropriately placed when laying the table. 
The silver to be used for dishes of food served from the table 
should be placed convenient for this purpose. If the hostess 
is to serve tea or coffee, the tea service should be arranged 
at her plate. If the hostess is to do the carving, the carving 
set with a spoon to aid in serving should be placed to the 
right of the silver for this cover. 




>'-? -.--/ you Newly-Weds can have a piano on easy terms at Bartlett's, 607 IV. 7th. 

We Sell Grafonolas the same way Easy Monthly Payments Bartlctt Music Co., 

607 West Seventh Street. 

30 



SANDWICHES FOR EXCURSIONS, PICNICS AND 

LUNCHEONS 
Brown and White Sandwiches 

Slice brown and white bread about one-quarter inch thick, 
butter and place alternately on top of each other, about five 
layers. Then slice through, making attractive layer sand- 
wiches. 

Favorite Sandwiches 

One Ncufchatel cheese, one-half cup finely chopped nuts, 
about seven or eight large olives, chopped fine, salt, pepper, 
paprika to taste. Cream to moisten sufficiently to spread. 

Fruit Spread 

Two pounds evaporated apples, one pound prunes and 
one pound evaporated peaches. Soak in cold water over 
night. In the morning boil gently in fresh water until very 
soft ; then strain through a coarse colander. To the strained 
quantity add two pounds of sugar, or one pound sugar and 
one pound molasses. If desired, flavor with cinnamon or 
lemon peel. Empty into a fireproof earthenware dish and 
bake in the oven one hour, stirring occasionally. 

Sardine Butter (for Canape or Sandwiches) 
(a) Three large sardines, skin and rub smooth, one table- 
spoon lemon juice, one teaspoon parsley (chopped), dash 
cayrnne. (b) Two tablespoons fresh butter. Cream (a), 
add il>). Mix thoroughly. 

Parisian Sandwiches 

To one cup of cold meat or poultry, add two hard-boiled 
eggs. Mince fine with capers and water-cress, and add 
enough mayonnaise dressing to spread easily. 

Cream and Jam Sandwiches 

Mix any kind of jam with an almost equal amount of thick 
cream. Spread thin slices of buttered bread with the mix- 
ture, and make into sandwiches. 

Date Sandwiches 

To any quantity of chopped dates, add the same amount 
of chopped English walnuts. Mix with enough mayonnaise 
dressing to spread easily on buttered slices of brown bread. 

For Sandwich Filling 

Chop one-quarter pound figs very fine, add one-quarter 
cup water and cook to smooth paste. Add one L third cup al- 
monds, chopped fine and pounded to a paste with a little 
rose water (can be omitted), also juice one-half lemon. 
When cool spread mixture on lady fingers or bread. 

Pimento Sandwich 

Chop one pimento and mix with one-half cup mayonnaise 
dressing. Put on lettuce leaf and place between thin slices 
of bread. 

31 



Home Cooking Recipes 
SOUPS 

Left-overs of meat, fish, vegetables and cereals can be 
used advantageously in making soups. The heavy vegetable 
pulp soups, such as split pea or bean soup, the cream of 
vegetable soups and the milk chowders are rich in food 
value. The thin meat stocks are valuable chiefly as appe- 
tizers. The plain vegetable soups contain the food value of 
the vegetables they contain. If cereals are added, it in- 
creases the food value 

Meat stock is water in which meat and meat bones have 
been cooked. When dark meat is used, it is called brown 
stock; when light meat is used, it is called white stock. 
Vegetable stock is water in which vegetables have been 
cooked. 

Tomato Soup 

1 can tomatoes 1 slice onion 

1 pint rice water 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon whole peppers J4 teaspoon soda 

Bit of bay leaf 2 tablespoons flour 

Yz teaspoon cloves 2 tablespoons fat 

1 tablespoon sugar Yz cup boiled rice 

Cook first seven ingredients 20 minutes. Strain. Add salt 
and soda. Mix the flour with an equal amount of water until 
smooth, add more water until thin enough to pour. Stir 
soup while adding gradually the flour mixture, called thick- 
ening; boil 5 minutes. Strain, add boiled rice, fat, and serve. 

Rice may be omitted. The flour may be omitted. 

Vegetable Soup 

Yz cup carrot Yz cup fat 

Yz cup turnip Yi. tablespoon parsley 

Yz cup celery 1 teaspoon salt 

\Y 2 cups potato Ms teaspoon pepper 

y 2 onion 2 quarts water 

Cut vegetables into cubes. Cook the vegetables, except 
the potatoes and parsley, 10 minutes in the suet. Add water 
and potatoes and cook 1 hour. Add parsley and seasonings. 
A soup bone may be added. Barley or rice may be cooked 
with the vegetables and served in the soup. Tomatoes, cab- 
bage, peas, beans, spinach, or any other vegetable, may be 
added as desired. 

Split Pea Soup 

1 cup dried split peas 1 ham bone 

3 quarts cold water 2 tablespoons flour 

*/2 onion Y& teaspoon pepper 

4-inch cube salt fat pork 1^2 teaspoons salt 

32 



Pick over peas and soak overnight ; drain ; add cold water, 
pork, ham bone and onion. Simmer 3 or 4 hours, or until 
peas are soft. Rub through a sieve. Add the flour mixed 
with cold water to the soup. Boil 5 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Add seasonings. Cubed potatoes or boiled parsnips 
may be added to the soup; tomato juice and green peas may 
be added to give variety. 

Cream Soups 

Cream soups are made with thickened milk, combined 
with meat stock, fish stock or vegetable stock and pulp. 
They take their name from the kind of stock used, such as 
cream of chicken, cream of fish or cream of celery, potato, or 
whatever kind of vegetable or other food is used. With 
bread and butter, cream soup furnishes a complete meal. 

General Directions for Making Cream Soups 

3 cups scalded milk 2 cups seasoned stock or vegeta- 

2 slices onion ble pulp and stock 

l /4 cup flour mixed with J4 CU P Seasonings to taste 

water 

Scald the milk with the onion, remove the onion and 
thicken the milk by adding the flour and water mixture and 
cooking it 20 minutes over hot water to prevent burning. 
Boil 2 cups vegetables, cut in small pieces, in water to 
cover ; force the vegetables when done through a strainer or 
leave pieces in soup. Add the vegetable pulp and water in 
which the vegetables have been cooked to the thickened 
milk. Season and serve. 

Cream of Carrot Soup 

2 cups finely chopped carrots 1 slice onion 

1 quart boiling water J4 cup flour mixed with % cup 

1 teaspoon salt water 

1 teaspoon sugar Salt and pepper 

3 cups milk 

Cream of Celery 

3 cups celery J4 CU P flour mixed with % cup 

1 pint boiling water water 

1 slice onion Seasonings 

2 tablespoons rice cooked in 3. 

cups of milk 

Cream of Tomato 

3 cups tomato juice and pulp 3 tablespoons flour 
cooked with J4 teaspoon soda 3 tablespoons water 
1 minute Salt and pepper 

3 cups milk scalded, with 2 slices 

onion 

Follow directions given above. Potatoes, lima beans, 
string beans, asparagus, or a combination of vegetables, 
such as peas, string beans, spinach, onions, etc, may be used. 
If the vegetables are finely cut, they may be left in the soup. 

33 



MEAT 

In the average household there is perhaps no other food 
that calls for more thought in selection and preparation 
than meat. In no other country has meat been used so gen- 
erously as in America. 

The tough cuts of meats, usually the cheaper cuts, are 
located where there is motion, such as those obtained from 
the neck and limbs ; while the tender cuts are located where 
there is little motion, such as those along the backbone. The 
meat part from all the cuts from the same animal contain 
the same food value, but there is more waste, such as bone 
and gristle, to some cuts, and this should be considered in 
buying. 

To reduce the meat bill, make a little meat go a long way 
by preparing meat combination dishes, such as stews, meat 
loaves, meat pies, stuffed roasts, beef a la mode, etc. Make 
good meat gravies. "Spread the meat flavor." Only a little 
meat is needed to give flavor to a whole dish. 

Selection of Meat 

Meat should be uniform in color, the flesh firm and elastic 
to the touch. 

The flesh of beef should be of a bright red color and inter- 
mingled with fat that is yellowish. 

Mutton should be dull red in color, and the fat white. 

Lamb and veal should be lighter in color and flesh less 
firm than beef. 

Meat should be removed from the paper as soon as it is 
received from market and should be kept in a cool place. 
Always wipe meat with a damp cloth. 

Beef ranks first in nutritive value, with mutton a close 
second. 

How to Prepare Meat Stews 

Stewing is cooking slowly, a long time, in a small quantity 
of water. Cut the meat into rather small pieces ; divide it 
into two portions; add one portion to cold water and heat 
slowly to boiling point. Meanwhile brown the other portion 
in a little fat in a pan. Then add it to the water and meat. 
The whole should be cooked slowly for three hours or until 
the meat is tender. Add vegetables the last hour of cooking. 

Beef, mutton, lamb or veal may be used, selecting the 
tough pieces, such as the neck, shoulder, lower part of 
round, aitch bone, etc. Pieces of cold cooked meat may be 
added to the stew. 

The pieces of meat are usually dredged with flour before 

34 



they are browned. This gives color to the stew, a rich 
flavor, and thickens the gravy. 

Onions, carrots, turnips, parsnips and potatoes are the 
vegetables commonly used in stews. Tomatoes, string beans 
and green peas are sometimes used. The vegetables should 
be cut into ^-inch cubes, %-inch slices or strips, and added 
the last hour of cooking. The potatoes, however, should be 
parboiled 5 minutes, then added to the stew, allowing 20 
minutes for cooking. The usual seasonings are salt and 
pepper. Sweet herbs, parsley, a bit of bay leaf, a few cloves, 
celery salt or catsup may be added for variety. 

Dumplings or boiled rice are often served with stew. 
When cooking dumplings, they should be placed so that 
they will rest on the meat and vegetables. Meat stew may 
be served on slices of fried mush. 

Meat Pie 

Fill baking dish three-quarters full with stew; cover with 
mashed potato, boiled rice, biscuit dough or cereal mush 
and bake until nicely browned on top. 

New England Boiled Dinner 

4 pounds corned beef 2 small French turnips cut in 

6 small beets thirds 

1 small cabbage 6 medium sized potatoes 

6 small carrots or 3 large ones 6 medium sized onions 

6 small parsnips 

Wash the meat quickly in cold water. If it is very salt, 
soak it about 30 minutes in cold water. Simmer meat in a 
kettle, containing enough boiling water to cover, from three 
to five hours, or until the meat is tender. Wash and scrape 
the vegetables, leave the beets, carrots, turnips and parsnips 
whole, or quartered if preferred. Cut the cabbage into quar- 
ters. When meat is tender, remove from kettle, and, two 
hours before dinnertime, add the carrots, afterward the tur- 
nips and the cabbage. Thirty minutes before dinnertime, 
add the parsnips and potatoes and onions. The beets should 
be cooked separately. Reheat the meat with the vegetables. 
Serve meat and vegetables arranged attractively on a large 
platter. 

HOW TO BROIL MEAT 

Broiling is cooking by direct exposure to heat, over hot 
coals or over a flame (gas flame). 

Cooking with little or no fat in a hot frying pan is called 
"pan-broiling." To make broiled meat juicy, turn often 
while cooking. 

35 



To Broil Steaks or Chops 

Wipe meat with a damp cloth and trim off superfluous 
fat. Rub the wire broiler with a little of the fat, place the 
meat in broiler and broil over a clear fire, turning every 10 
seconds for the first minute. After the. first minute, turn 
occasionally until well cooked on both sides, or cook in a 
little fat in a frying pan, turning over. Season to taste. 
Pork chops must be very well done 

Pan-Broiled Hamburger Steak 

Chop finely one pound lean raw beef ; season highly with 
salt, pepper and a few drops of onion juice. Add l /4 cup 
milk gradually ; knead dough until spongy and shape into 
cakes. Heat a frying pan, rub with the fat of meat and pan- 
broil the steaks. Turn cakes often during the cooking. 

One cup left-over oatmeal mush may be added to the mix- 
ture and is very good. Try shaping oatmeal mush into 
cakes, brush with melted fat; shape Hamburger steak mix- 
ture into cakes, place on top of oatmeal cakes. Bake in the 
oven until cooked and nicely browned. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BRAISING 

The rump, top, round, blade, chuck, ribs, cross ribs, cuts 
and flank stuffed are all good braised. Beef, mutton or veal. 

To braise meat, wipe meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour, and ,if a lean piece of meat is used, lard 
previous to seasoning. Brown the meat on all sides in a 
little fat in a Scotch kettle or roasting pan. Then cover 
bottom of pan with hot water or meat stock. Then cover 
closely and cook slowly in the oven, on top of the range or 
in a fireless cooker two hours. Add vegetables, such as 
onion, carrot, turnips, cut into strips, balls or slices, and 
continue cooking until meat and vegetables are tender. 
Beef a la Mode 

Insert 12 large strips of salt pork fat or piece of suet into 
a 4-pound piece of round beef. Season with salt and pepper, 
dredge with flour. Put a piece of suet in a hot pan, brown 
the meat on all sides in this. Put in kettle with vegetables 
Xpsop J9AO3 -M.9JS paq JGJ adpaj o; SuipaooDH 'JSJBAY pun 
and cook slowly 4 or 5 hours in oven or top of range. 

Pot Roast 

When beef is similarly prepared (without the strips of fat 
and vegetables) and cooked in a smaller amount of water, 
is is called pot-roast. 

Two cups brown sugar, 1 cup vinegar and 1 cup soaked 
prunes added the last l /> hour of cooking provides a nice 
change 

36 



ROASTING 
General Directions 

Wipe the meat with a damp cloth Dredge the surface 
with flour, salt and pepper. Put pieces of fat on the meat 
and in the pan (melted fat may be used and rubbed over 
the surface). Place meat on a rack in the pan. Put into a 
hot oven. The heat of the oven should be intense at first 
to sear the surface (about 10 minutes), and then the heat 
should be reduced and water added to cover bottom of pan. 
The meat should either be covered closely or basted often 
with equal parts of fat drippings and water. After the last 
basting, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place meat on a hot 
platter and garnish. ffl 

Gravy 

Pour fat from pan ; allow 2 tablespoons of fat to 3 table- 
spoons of flour for each cupful of gravy. Put the fat into 
the pan, add the flour and stir over a hot fire until well 
browned. Add the boiling water or stock gradually, boil 
3 minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, and strain. 
TIME TABLE FOR ROASTING (Per pound) 

Beef, round 10 to 12 min. Lamb (well done) 20 min. 

Beef ribs (well done) 12 to 15 min. Veal (well done) 25 min. 

Beef ribs (rare) 8 to 10 min. Pork (well done) 30 min. 

Mutton, leg (well done) 15 min. Chicken 15 min. 

Mutton, leg (rare) 8 min. Goose 18 to 20 min. 

Mutton, loin (rare) 8 min. Turkey, 8-lb About 2 hrs. 

Mutton, shoulder (stuf.) 15 min. 

Meat Loaf 

2 cups ground meat cup milk, or \ l / 2 cups oatmeal 

1 teaspoon onion juice mush 

\ l /2 teaspoons salt 1 beaten egg (may be omitted) 

Few grains pepper 1 teaspoon finely-chopped 

1 cup bread crumbs soaked in l /2 parsley 

Mix the first 4 ingredients, add the soaked bread crumbs 
or mush gradually, kneading the mixture until spongy, then 
add the beaten egg, and more seasonings if needed and the 
chopped parsley. Shape into a loaf and place on a pan cov- 
ered with suet. Put suet on top of loaf. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and flour. Bake 40 minutes, basting occasion- 
ally with melted suet mixed with boiling water. 

Pork Chops With Dressing 

6 pork chops 1/6 teaspoon pepper 

Yi onion, finely chopped -24 teaspoon salt 

\y 2 cups bread crumbs ]4 cup hot water 

2 tablespoons pork fat, chopped 1 beaten egg 

Mix bread crumbs, pork fat, seasonings, water and egg. 
Spread on pork chops. Put chops in a pan close together ; 
add a little water to cover bottom of pan and bake in a 
moderately hot oven 1 hour, basting occasionally. 

37 



POULTRY 
Roast Chicken 

Select a chicken with firm flesh, yellow skin and legs. 

Dress, clean, stuff and tie wings and legs close to body of 
chicken. 

Place on its back on a rack in a dripping pan (or on thin 
slices of salt pork fat or chicken fat in a pan a trifle larger 
than the chicken). Rub the entire surface with salt and 
spread legs and breast with 3 tablespoons melted chicken 
fat or other fat and 3 tablespoons flour. Place in a hot oven 
and when flour is well browned, reduce the heat and baste 
every 10 minutes, if not roasted in a self-basting pan. 

For basting ,take 4 tablespoons of the fat in the pan and 
mix with 1 cup boiling water. 

A 4-pound chicken requires about \ l / 2 hours. 

For the stuffing, use melted chicken fat or other fat. 

Sutffing (1) 

1 cup-cracker or bread crumbs Few grains pepper 
Y$ cup melted fat 1/3 cup milk, scalded 
Sage, if liked 1 teaspoon chopped parsley 
J4 teaspoon salt 

Sutffing (2) Chestnut 

2 cups French chestnuts 1 teaspoon salt 
1/3 cup melted fat Few grains pepper 

1 cup cracker crumbs 24 CU P cream 

Blanch and shell chestnuts. Cook in boiling salted water 
until soft. Drain and mash. Add half the fat, salt, pepper 
and cream. Melt remaining fat, mix with cracker crumbs, 
then combine mixtures. 

Stuffing .(3) 

2 cups freshly-grated bread Sage, if liked 

crumbs 1/3 cup melted fat 

1 teaspoon salt 1 well-beaten egg 

Yt teaspoon pepper 1/3 cup scalded milk 

Combine ingredients in order given. 

To Make Gravy 

Skim off fat in roasting pan. To each 2 tablespoons fat, 
add 3 tablespoons flour. Brown the two and add the drip- 
pings and enough hot water and cream (half and half) to 
make it of the right thickness. 

To Roast Turkey 

Follow directions for roasting chicken. 

Chicken Stew 

Dress, clean and cut up a fowl, and put it into a stew 
pan. Cover with boiling water and cook gently until tender. 

38 



After the first hour of cooking, add 2 teaspoons salt, l /& tea- 
spoon pepper, bit of bay leaf, sprig of parsley, and a slice of 
onion, if liked. Cook until tender. Remove chicken. 
Thicken stock with % cup flour mixed with cold water. 
Place stewed chicken and thickened stock in serving dish. 

Chicken Pie 

Put stewed chicken in a baking dish. Cover with short- 
cake or baking-powder biscuit dough, and bake until done. 

Baked Chicken 

Dip raw chicken, cut into suitable pieces for serving, into 
melted fat and then into flour mixed with salt and pepper. 
Brown the pieces of chicken in a little fat in a pan. Add 
enough water to cover the bottom of pan. Cover and bake 
about \ l /2 hours. Baste occasionally. 

Chicken Croquettes 

2 cups chopped chicken, cooked l / teaspoon pepper 

l / 2 teaspoon salt Few drops onion juice 

Few grains cayenne Yolk 1 egg 

1 cup thick sauce 

Mix ingredients in order given. Cool, shape into balls, 
cylinders or any desired shape. Dip in egg, crumbs and 
egg again. Fry in deep fat. 

Prune and Apple Stuffing 

3 cups bread crumbs Few grains pepper 

J4 cup melted fat }/2 cup soaked, stewed and 
1 teaspoon salt stoned prunes 

1 cut apples, pared, cut in J4 cup nut meats, broken into 
eighths, and stewed in a little pieces, if liked 

sugar syrup 

Mashed Potato Stuffing 

2 cups mashed potatoes, highly 2 tablespoons melted fat 

seasoned with salt and pepper J4 teaspoon sage 
*/2 cup chopped parsley, 2 boiled 2 egg yolks 
onions 
Mix ingredients in order given. 

Baked Rabbit 

1 rabbit 1 cup milk 

Strips of salt pork fat Salt and pepper 

\ tablespoons flour 

Skin rabbit. Remove head and lower part of legs. Re- 
move insides, etc. Wash thoroughly and soak 1 hour in 
acidulated water. Wipe dry. Lard with salt pork strips, 
dredge with flour. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Arrange 
on strips of salt pork fat and bake in oven about 2 hours, 
basting generously with milk occasionally. Currant jelly 
may be added to the gravy. 

39 



EXCLUSIVELY STERILIZED 

FROZEN STEAM 



Now, there are two kinds of ice: "FROZEN STEAM," 
made entirely of sterilized steam, and the other, what is 
known as raw water ice, not made of steam, but of raw water. 

Are you aware that we are exclusive manufacturers, under 
an exceedingly expensive process, of "FROZEN STEAM," an 
ice made from steam sterilized at the remarkable temperature 
of 400 DEGREES above zero? Are you aware that this ster- 
ilized steam is then so reduced in temperature, by our process, 
that it produces an ice for you at 23 degrees BELOW 
FREEZING? Are you aware that this low temperature ice 
means increased cooling power and the maximum economy 
for you? Are you aware it will furnish you with sterilized 
water at half the price you pay for it in bottles? Are you 
aware that we neither make nor sell raw or unsterilized water 
ice? Are you aware that we will place on each piece of ice 
delivered to you a GUARANTEE that it is sterilized 
"FROZEN STEAM"? A guarantee made necessary, because 
some claim our ice is not frozen steam. 

Which are you using, Sterilized "FROZEN STEAM" or 
Raw Water ice? 



MERCHANTS 
ICE AND COLD STORAGE CO. 

Phones 10189 or Main 8662 

EXCLUSIVELY STERILIZED 

FROZEN STEAM 

40 



FROM THE STANDPOINT OF ECONOMY AND 
SAFETY TO HEALTH the housewife should consider ice 
one of the greatest necessities. 

Now, that ice rates have been reduced to pre-war prices, 
it is sound judgment to spend the required $1.50 to $2.00 per 
month to preserve $40.00 to $60.00 worth of food. All fam- 
ilies closely watching expenses are using ice to prohibit the 
waste of food. As to the use of ice in winter, it is estimated 
that it is about one-third of the cost in the summer. You 
will find it will pay to restrict some other trifling expense in 
order to afford ice for preserving your food. 

The cold air shaft or closet has sometimes been relied 
upon in the past for food protection. But what is worse? 
The shaft or closet is a carrier of disease germs coming up 
with the impure air taken from the surface of the ground 
and usually from under the house, and it also dries up the 
food and carries away its nutritive qualities ask your 
physician. 

There is one company in the city furnishing a sterilized 
steam ice made exclusively of steam raised to a temperature 
of 400 degrees and then reduced to a temperature of 23 de- 
grees below freezing. This process produces ice of the low- 
est temperature possible and, therefore, of the greatest 
refrigerating power and it is thoroughly sterilized. This ice 
is known as "Frozen Steam." It can be procured from the 
company making that ice exclusively with a written guar- 
anty placed on each piece of ice delivered that it is made of 
sterilized steam. 



41 



FISH 

If more fish and less meat were used in the daily meals, it 
would help to reduce the cost of living. Fish contains the 
same food value as meat at a much smaller cost, and fur- 
nishes a food that not only tastes good, but is easily di- 
gested. 

Whitefish, haddock, halibut, cod, flounder, smelts, perch, 
pickerel, sunfish and croppies belong to the white-fleshed 
family. Salmon, shad, lake trout, butterfish and herring 
belong to the red-fleshed family. 

As the white-fleshed fish is considered more easy of diges- 
tion than the red-fleshed, it should be selected for invalids, 
convalescents or those suffering from weak digestion. 

Fish should be eaten while fresh and in season. Stale fish 
is poisonous, so great care should be used in its selection. 
Fish contains albumen, and as albumen (which is like the 
white of egg) clots at a low temperature, it should be cooked 
at a temperature below boiling point of water. 

Local fish should be used as much as possible. Find out 
all the kinds of fish that can be obtained in your locality. 

How to Select Fresh Fish 

Select a fish that has bright eyes and gills, shiny scales, 
firm flesh, and is free from a disagreeable odor. 

How to Clean Fish 

Remove the scales by drawing a knife over the fish, begin- 
ning at the tail and working toward the head. 

Wipe the fish inside and outside with a cloth wet in cold, 
salted water, then wipe with a clean dry cloth kept for the 
purpose. Head and tail may or may not be taken off, ac- 
cording to the manner of cooking. 

Methods of Cooking Fish 

Broiling, baking and steaming are the best methods for 
cooking fish. 

Fish suitable for broiling are : Split mackerel, whitefish, 
cod, shad, trout, etc., sliced halibut and salmon, white smelts 
and small fish. To broil brush with melted fat, sprinkle 
with flour, salt and pepper, and cook over a flame or clear 
fire. 

Fish suitable for baking whole are : Whitefish, cod, had- 
dock, small salmon, shad. Follow directions for baked fish. 

Fish suitable for boiling are : Salmon, halibut, cod, had- 
dock, trout, etc. Cook in piece of cheesecloth. Add 1 table- 
spoon vinegar and 1 tablespoon salt to each quart of water. 

Fish suitable for frying are white-fleshed. Cook in deep 
fat or saute in a little fat in a frying pan. 

42 



Time Table for Cooking Fish 

Baking thick fish, per pound 10 to 15 minutes 

Baking thin fish, per pound 8 to 10 minutes 

Boiling thick fish, halibut, salmon, per pound.. ..15 minutes 
Boiling thin fish, such as flounder, per pound.... 8 minutes 

Frying fillets or steaks 4 to 7 minutes 

Frying smelts or trout 3 to 5 minutes 

Test for Cooking Fish 

When the fish can be easily separated from the bone, the 
fish is sufficiently cooked. 

Fish Baked, with Stuffing 

Select a fish weighing from 2 l / 2 to 4 pounds. Bake with 
or without stuffing. 

Stuffing 
1 cup crumbs (bread or crackers, l /i teaspoon celery salt 

or half and half) l /% teaspoon pepper 

J4 cup melted fat Few drops onion juice, if liked 

Y\ teaspoon salt J4 CU P water 

Mix ingredients in order given. If a dry filling is desired, 
the water may be omitted. Three tablespoons catsup, chop- 
ped parsley, capers, pickles, or oysters may be added. Clean 
and wipe the fish. Rub the inside with salt. Fill with stuf- 
fing and sew together. Cut diagonal gashes \ l /2 inches apart 
on both sides of the fish and place a strip of bacon or salt 
pork fat in each gash. Brush with melted fat, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Dredge with flour, tie in the shape of a 
letter "S" and bake on a baking sheet or strips of cotton 
cloth (so that it may be easily removed from the pan in a 
dripping pan). When the flour is browned, baste the fish 
once in 10 minutes. Cook until the flesh is firm and separates 
easily from the bone. 

Salmon Steaks Stuffed 

Buy slices of salmon l / 2 inch in thickness. Arrange half 
the number of slices in a baking pan, on thin slices or strips 
of salt pork fat. Cover with a well-seasoned bread-crumb 
stuffing. Cover with remaining slices of salmon. Sprinkle 
with flour, salt and pepper. Surround with left-over boiled 
potatoes, cut into fourths lengthwise. Arrange strips of salt 
pork fat on top and bake in a moderately hot oven about 30 
minutes or until done. Garnish with lemon and parsley. 

Broiled Trout or Other Fish 

Clean trout; wipe dry. Cut into suitable pieces for serv- 
ing. Dip pieces in melted fat and broil over a clear fire for 
about 12 minutes. Other fish may be broiled in the same 
way. 

43 



VEGETABLES 

Vegetables should be used generously in our daily meals. 
They are chiefly valuable for the pure water and mineral 
matter they contain, which act as a tonic in our bodies. 
They contain cellulose or wood fiber, which stimulates the 
digestive organs to carry on their work. The cellulose 
stimulates the intestines so that their contents are kept con- 
stantly moving. Some vegetables contain starch, sugar and 
other substances. 

Peas, beans and lentils will take the place of meat. Spin- 
ach is rich in iron, etc. It is well to eat many different kinds 
of vegetables in order to supply the body with the different 
kinds of mineral matter and acids they contain. 

Buying Vegetables 

In buying vegetables, choose those that are in season and 
plentiful. 

Potatoes. Never buy sprouted potatoes. To test pota- 
toes, cut one in halves, and if it is juicy enough to stick 
together the potato is good. 

Cabbage. Select those that are hard and heavy, with 
crisp, white leaves. 

Winter Squash. Select those that are medium-sized with 
no soft spots. 

Summer Squash. Select those that are light yellow in 
color, with the shell so tender that it can be broken with the 
finger nail. 

Summer Carrots. See that the leaves are green and 
fresh. 

Corn. See that the silk is brown and that the ear is well 
filled with good kernels that are full of sweet milky juice. 

Peas. Pods should be green and brittle ; the peas green 
and not too large. 

String Beans. Break a pod. It should be brittle. 

Lima Beans. Select those with green, juicy pods. 

Spinach. Choose that with leaves fresh and dirty. 



General Rules for Cooking Vegetables 

Wash thoroughly. Pare, peel or scrape ,if skins must be 
removed. Skins should be left on to keep in all the food 
value possible. Soak in cold water until ready to cook. 
Cook in freshly boiling salted water until tender. Drain off 
the water, shake over the fire, serve hot with seasoning, 

44 



using 2 tablespoons fat, ^ teaspoon salt, and a few grains 
pepper to 1 cup cooked vegetables, or serve with white 
sauce. 




\\ 'inter vegetables should be kept in a cool, dark, dry 
place. Fresh vegetables may be washed and kept on ice in 
a clean piece of cloth. 

Time Table for Cooking Vegetables in Water 

Asparagus 20 to 40 minutes Lima beans 1 hour or more 

Beets (young) :... 45 minutes Onions 46 to 60 minutes 

Beets (old) 3 to 4 hours Parsnips 30 to 45 minutes 

Carrots 25 to 30 minutes Potatoes 25 to 30 minutes 

Cabbage 15 minutes Rice 20 to 35 minutes 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 minutes Spinach 30 to 45 minutes 

Celery 20 to 30 minutes String beans 1 to 3 hours 

Green peas 30 to 45 minutes Turnips 45 minutes 

Green corn 12 to 20 minutes Tomatoes 1 to 3 hours 

How to Prepare Different Kinds of Vegetables 

Carrots. Boil in skins, peel, slice, cube or cut lengthwise. 
Serve with seasonings, in white sauce or in thickened meat 
stock ; or mash to a pulp, mix with egg and cream and bake 
in greased cups. 

Beets. Boil in skins, peel, cut in slices, cube or cut as de- 
sired, serve plain with seasonings or in white sauce or 
pickle in diluted vinegar ,to which a few cloves, a slice of 
onion and a little sugar have been added. Cubed boiled 
beets may be added to corn beef hash mixture. 

Parsnips. Boil in skins, peel, cut as desired, serve hot in 
seasoned butter or white sauce, or brown in fat ,or mash to 
a pulp, add an egg, teaspoon salt, tablespoon sugar and a 
few grains pepper to each cup; shape into croquettes, dip in 
crumbs ,egg and crumbs again, and fry in deep fat ; or bake 
mixture in greased molds ; or arrange slices or cubes of 
boiled parsnips, white sauce, and crumbs in layers in a well- 
greased baking dish and serve as scalloped parsnips. 

Turnips. Boil in skins, peel, serve plain with seasonings 
or in white sauce. Mix with carrots or prepare as parsnip 
croquettes. 

Rutabago. \\ ash and pare, slice, boil and mash, season 
with fat, salt and pepper and sugar, or scoop out pared and 

45 



boiled rutabagos ; fill with a mixture of chopped meat, 
chopped green pepper, onion, parsley, salt, bread crumbs 
and moisten with white sauce. Brush outside of rutabagos 
with melted fat, place in a greased pan and bake. 

Sweet Potatoes. Boil in skins, peel boiled s\\ cc-t potatoes, 
slice and brown in fat ; or put in baking pan, cover with 
syrup ,to which a little salt and fat have been added and 
bake in the oven until nicely browned. Serve as Glaced 
Sweet Potatoes. Mash boiled sweet potatoes, serve as 
Mashed Sweet Potatoes, or add 1 egg, 2 tablespoons sugar, 
to each 2 cups and shape into croquettes, dip in crumbs, egg 
and crumbs again, and fry in deep fat. Serve as Sweet 
Potato Croquettes. Bake in skins ,and serve as Baked 
Sweet Potatoes. 

Potatoes. Boil with or without skins, peel and serve plain 
or mashed ; or prepare as sweet potato croquettes, omitting 
the sugar. Cut boiled potatoes in slices or cubes and reheat 
in white sauce and serve as Creamed Potatoes, using \ l /2 
cups sauce to 2 cups potatoes ; or, cut boiled or raw potatoes 
in slices and arrange in layers with a little onion and white 
sauce ,and bake until potatoes are done ; or browned on top 
and serve as Scalloped Potatoes. Hash cold boiled potatoes, 
and to 4 cups add l / 2 teaspoon salt, few grains pepper, few 
drops onion juice, 4 tablespoons milk and mix. Melt 4 
tablespoons dripping in frying .pan ; when melted and 
browned, pack in potatoes, cook slowly until nicely browned. 
Fold and serve as Hashed Browned Potatoes. Bake raw 
potatoes, serve as Baked, or scoop out, mash and cream, 
and serve as Baked Stuffed Potatoes. 

Onions. Skin and boil. Serve plain with seasonings or 
in white sauce, or bake whole or stuffed. Cut raw onions 
in slices, dip in flour and fry in a little fat or in deep fat. 

Celery. Serve raw, boil or fry. Serve boiled celery in 
white sauce or scallop with rice and white sauce. 

Asparagus. Boil. Use tougher parts of stalks for soups. 
Tender, served plain or in white sauce. Serve boiled aspar- 
agus on scrambled eggs on toast or on fried mush. 

Spinach. Boil. Serve plain, seasoned, or mixed with 
white sauce. 

Cabbage. Serve raw or boil. Serve plain, seasoned or in 
white sauce alone or with grated cheese, or scalloped with 
cheese and white sauce. Boil with pork, or boil cabbage 
with 2 tablespoons fat, 4tablespoons vinegar, 1 onion sliced, 
1 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon pepper, and 2 tablespoons 

46 



sugar, 1 hour. Stuff cabbage leaves with boiled rice or 
chopped meat mixture ,roll and tie and boil. Serve on 
toast as Cabbage Rolls. 

Tomatoes. Dip in hot water, peel, slice', sc-rvr raw; or 
cook cut into sections with 1 teaspoon salt, 2 tablespoons 
sugar, few grains pepper and 54 CU P bread crumbs to 6 
tomatoes ; % onion, cut in pieces, added, gives a pleasing 
flavor ; serve as Stewed Tomatoes. Corn and green pepper 
may be added to make Mexican Style Tomatoes. Arrange 
sliced or canned tomatoes, seasoned in layers with bread 
crumbs or boiled rice or boiled macaroni or spaghetti, in a 
well-greased baking pan, and bake until nicely browned on 
top ; serve as Scalloped Tomatoes. Stuff raw tomatoes 
from which slices have been cut off from the tops and pulp 
removed; fill with boiled rice, bread crumbs, seasoned, and 
mixed with finely-chopped meat, and bake; serve as Baked 
Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Squash. Wash summer squash, cut in pieces, remove 
seeds. Steam 20 minutes. Turn into a cheese-cloth bag, 
squeeze out water. Mash, season and serve. Cut winter 
squash in pieces, remove seeds and stringy part, steam or 
bake. Mash, season and refill shells and serve as Baked 
Squash. 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING 
Salad and Salad Dressing 

Points to be remembered in salad making: 

1. Salad herbs and plants should be clean, cold and crisp. 

2. Salad materials that are cut should be neat and sym- 
metrical in shape. 

3. Meat, fish ,etc., and most cooked vegetables used in 
salads should be well marinated and cold before mixing with 
crisp plants and sauce. 

4. The ingredients composing the salad should not be 
combined until the last moment before serving. 

5. The salad should be well seasoned and attractively 
garnished. 

Waldorf Salad 

Let apple and celery, cut in cubes and sprinkled with 
lemon juice, stand until chilled. Add broken walnut meats 
and mix with cream dressing. Serve on a lettuce leaf or on 
lettuce cut in ribbons. The salad may be garnished with 
small rings of apples sprinkled with lemon juice to keep 
them white, and with halved English walnuts. 

47 



Asparagus Salad 

Drain and rinse stalks of canned asparagus. Cut rings 
from a bright red pepper, one-third inch wide. Place three 
or four stalks in each ring. Arrange on lettuce leaves and 
serve with French dressing, to which has been added one- 
half tablespoonful tomato catsup. 

Shrimp Salad 

One can best shrimp, three eggs, one large Irish potato. 
Soak shrimp in cold water for an hour or more. Boil 
potato and break up with a fork. 

Marshmallow Salad 

One pound of marshmallows and one pound of malaga 
grapes, diced ; one can of pineapple. Drain juice from pine- 
apple ,add one large cup of sugar and boil until the syrup 
hairs. Drop in the pineapple and boil, but not until it 
candies. Allow to cool and mix in grapes and marshmal- 
lows, and serve with whipped cream. 

Fruit Salad 

Remove the skins from California grapes, cut in halves 
and remove skins from the lobes, breaking them in two or 
walnuts or pecan meats and break in pieces. Peel oranges 
and remove skins fro mthe lobes, breaking them in two or 
three pieces. Add pineapple cut in cubes, or break in 
smaller pieces, slices of canned pineapple. Mix all thor- 
oughly with fruit dressing and serve on lettuce or heart 
leaves of cabbage. 

Fruit Salad 

One dozen oranges, pulped and cut in blocks, six bananas 
cut in squares. Sweeten to taste and stir in one wine glass 
of grape juice. Freeze and serve on lettuce leaves with 
mayonnaise dressing. 

Pineapple Salad 

Cme can sliced pineapple cut in dice, one cup of celery, 
cut in small pieces, one cup of walnut meats or pecan meats. 
Mix all together with cooked cream dressing and serve on 
tender lettuce leaves. Serve cold. 

Grape Fruit Salad 

Two large grapefruit. 

Three large oranges. 

One-half pound California white grapes. 

Remove peeling, seeds and cores from grapefruit and 
oranges, cut into half or three-quarter inch pieces. Cut 
grapes lengthwise, remove seeds, mix all together carefully, 

48 



place on strainer over sauce pan, set on the ice. Just before 
serving, pour over and mix well with the following 
dressing: 

Four tablespoons olive oil. 

One tablespoon juice from the fruit. 

One-half saltspoon paprike. 

A pinch of cayenne. 

Two saltspoons fine sugar. 

One bean garlic, chopped fine. 

Place oil in china bowl, add slowly the juice, beating 
with a silver fork. After the juice add other ingredients, 
beat one minute, mix with fruit, and serve on lettuce. 

N. B. Use more grapefruit and omit oranges and grapes, 
if desired. 

Potato Salad 

Five cold boiled potatoes ,two bunches celery, one small 
onion, one-fourth pound nut meats, one-fourth teaspoonful 
salt, one-fourth teaspoonful pepper .one-eighth teaspoonful 
cayenne, one-fourth teaspoonful mustard. 

Cook the potatoes with the skins on in boiling salted 
water until tender. When cold cut in cubes. Chop the 
celery into small pieces, break up the nuts, grate the onion 
and mix all the ingr.edients together. Then mix thoroughly 
with cream dressing. The salad will be much improved it" 
allowed to stand for an hour or two before serving. 

Salmon Salad 

Flake cold salmon and mix with French or Cream Dress- 
ing. Arrange on nests of shredded lettuce. Garnish with 
the yolk of a hard boiled egg forced through a potato ricer 
and the white of an egg cut in strips. 

Snap Bean Salad 

Cut beans in small pieces and boil in salt water until well 
done. Drain dry. When cool, put on ice. A slice of 
onion, put in the midst of the beans and allowed to remain 
until ready for use, gives a fine flavor. Remove onion and 
stir in a generous amount of mayonnaise. This is simple 
but is a good salad with cold meats for supper. 

Mayonnaise 

One tablespoonful vinegar, one tablespoonful lemon juice, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, one-eighth teaspoonful cayenne, 
two cups oil (\Vesson oil), yolks of two eggs. Beat eggs 
slightly after pouring over the teaspoon of lemon juice, then 
add a little oil and beat with a fork until it begins to thicken : 
add salt, pepper and alternately the oil, vinegar and lemon 

49 



juice until all has been used. One half teaspoonful of pre- 
pared mustard adds a nice flavor. The best results can be 
obtained by using a Dover egg-beater instead of fork. The 
lemon being added first prevents danger of curdling, and oil 
can be added more rapidly. 

Mayonnaise Dressing 

One-half teaspoon of salt, one teaspoon of flour ,two egg 
yolks, three-fourths cup of cream, sour or sweet ; one tea- 
spoon mustard, one tablespoon butter, two tablespoons 
sugar, one-fourth cup of vinegar. Mix dry ingredients with 
butter and add yolks of eggs with cream ; lastly add vinegar. 
Cook in double boiler until it thickens. 
Cream Dressing 

One-half teaspoonful mustard, one-half teaspoonful salt, 
few grains cayenne ,two teaspoonfuls flour, one-fourth cup- 
ful vinegar, one teaspoonful sugar, yolk of one egg, three- 
fourths cupful milk, two teaspoonfuls butter (melted). 

Mix the dry ingredients in a saucepan, stir into them the 
yolk of egg, butter ,and milk. Stir the mixture in double 
boiler until it begins to thicken ,then stir in the vinegar a 
few drops at a time. When to a cream, stir and cool. 
Cooked Salad Dressing 

Four eggs, well beaten ; six teaspoonfuls milk, one table- 
spoonful Wesson oil, one-half cupful vinegar, one teaspoon- 
ful salt ,one teaspoonful black pepper, one teaspoonful mus- 
tard. Put all the ingredients on the stove in a saucepan 
and stir until it thickens. If allowed to cook too long ,this 
curdles. Use cold. 

French Dressing 

Three tablespoonsfuls oil, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one 
tablespoonful vinegar or lemon juice, pepper. Mix salt and 
pepper with oil. Add vinegar slowly and beat. 
Cream Dressing 

Yolks of three eggs, five tablespoonfuls vinegar, two 
tablespoonfuls sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, one-fourth 
teaspoonful salt, mustard or cayenne pepper (if desired). 
Beat the eggs until thick, add the vinegar and beat well to- 
gether. Then add the rest of the ingredients and cook 
until thick, stirring constantly. Thin with sweet cream to 
the desired consistency before using. 

Frozen Cheese Salad 

Beat one cream cheese to a cream with one-fourth cupful 
of cream and season with paprika, salt, and add one tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Freeze and then pack 
in mold and serve sliced on lettuce leaves with French 
dressing. 

50 



DESSERTS 

Milk and egg desserts aje rich in food value. Milk and 
eggs supply practically all the needs o fthe body. 

Yellow Custard 

4 cups scalded milk Few grains nutmeg or cinnamon 

4 eggs (if baked in individual l / 2 cup sugar 

cups) *4 teaspoon salt 

6 eggs (if baked in a large 

mold 

Beat eggs slightly, stir in the sugar and salt. Add the 
scalded milk slowly to the egg mixture ; strain into buttered 
custard cups and sprinkle a little nutmeg on top of each. 
Set cups in a pan containing hot water, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven until custard is firm. One-half square melted 
chocolate may be added to the milk, to make chocolate 
custard. 

Custard mixtures may be poured over pieces of buttered 
toast or untoasted bread ; these may be cut into slices, strips 
or cubes. Cocoanut, raisins, candied orange peel, chopped 
figs or dates may be put between the layers, or the bottom 
o fthe buttered baking dish may be covered with drained 
fruit ,the bread arranged and the whole covered with a cus- 
tard mixture. 

Sponge cake crumbs or crumbles macaroons may be used 
with an unsweetened custard mixture. 

Tapioca Cream Pudding 

V/2 tablespoons minute tapioca, 1/3 cup sugar 
or J4 cup pearl tapioca l /$ tablespoon salt 

2 cups scalded milk 1 tablespoon vanilla 

2 eggs onion 

Pick over tapioca and soak 1 hour in cold water to cover. 

Drain, add to milk and cook in a double boiler until tapioca 

is transparent. Mix the yolks with the sugar and salt. 

Combine by pouring hot mixture slowly into egg mixture. 

Return to double boiler and cook until it thickens while 

stirring constantly. Fold in whites of eggs beaten until 

stiff, remove from range, chill and serve. 

Rice Pudding 

2 cups steamed rice Yt cup dutes, stoned and cut 

2 or 3 eggs into small pieces 

y* cup milk 6 eggs (if baked in a large mold) 

Y* cup sugar 

Add well-beaten yolks o feggs, sugar, milk and dates, cut 
in small pieces ,to the steamed rice. Fold in the stiffly- 
beaten white and bake 30 minutes in a well-buttered and 
crumbed baking dish. Serve with cream or fruit sauce. 

51 



Raisins may be used in place of dates. The eggs and milk 
may be omitted and the sugar and fruit added to the steamed 
rice and served. 

Custard Sauce 

\ l /2 cups scalded milk Y% teaspoon salt 

Yolks 3 eggs V 2 teaspoon vanilla 

Y$ cup sugar or syrup 

Beat the yolks slightly, add sugar and salt. Stir con- 
stantly while adding gradually the hot milk to the yolk 
mixture. Return to the double boiler. Cook in the double 
boiler , stirring constantly until mixture thickens, and a 
coating is formed on the spoon. Chill and flavor. If cooked 
too long, custard will curdle. Should this happen, beating 
the mixture with a Dover egg beater will restore the smooth 
consistency. When eggs are scarce, use 2 yolks and YZ 
tablespoon cornstarch. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 

Prepare according to recipe for blanc mange. Add 1 
square of melted chocolate, to which l /^ cup of boiling water 
has been added. Mix thoroughly. Mold and chill. Serve 
with plain or whipped cream. 

Prune Pudding 

y-z pound prunes Rind J/a lemon 

2 cups cold water 1-in. piece stick cinnamon 

1 cup sugar or syrup 1 1 /2 cups boiling water 

1 tablespoon lemon juice ^3 cup cornstarch 

Pick over and wash prunes, then soak 1 hour or more in 
cold water to cover. Boil until soft in the water in which 
they have been soaked. Remove the stones, add sugar, 
lemon juice and rind, cinnamon and boiling water. If syrup 
is used, add two more tablespoons of cornstarch. Simmer 
fifteen minutes. Remove cinnamon, mold and chill. Serve 
with plain or whipped cream. Chopped almonds may be 
added to the mixture just before being poured into the mold. 

Fruit Tapioca Pudding 

3 /i cup tapioca Y* cup sugar 

Cold water to cover 1 tablespoon lemon juice 

2V 2 cups boiling water Few grains nutmeg and 

2 cups fruit sauce cinnamon 
J4 teaspoon salt 

Washand soak the tapioca and sago 1 hour or more in 
enough cold water or fruit juice to cover; add the boiling 
water, cooked fruit, fruit juices, salt, sugar and lemon rind. 
Cook in a double boiler until tapioca is transparent. Mold, 
chill and serve with cream and sugar. Minute tapioca may 
be used ,and this requires no soaking. 

52 



Plum Pudding Without Eggs 

1 quart cooked mashed carrots y 2 teaspoon cloves 
l /2 pound finely-chopped suet ' l /t grated nutmeg 

l / 2 cup sugar (Dredge with flour) 

(Sift together) tt> pound currants 

2 cups flour or bread crumbs tt> pound raisins 
V/ 2 teaspoons salt l / 2 pound citron 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 

Mix ingredients in order given. Steam 3 l / 2 hours in a 
buttered mold. May be steamed in individual molds. Car- 
rots should be forced through a fine strainer. 

Hard Sauce 

l / 2 cup butter 1 cup powdered sugar 

2 /z teaspoon vanilla extract l / 2 teaspoon lemon extract 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually and flavoring. To 
hard sauce may be added a little fruit juice or jam, such as 
raspberry or strawberry. 

Lemon Sauce 
l /2 cup sugar 1 teaspoon butter 

1 tablespoon cornstarch \ l / 2 teaspoons lemon juice 
\ l /2 cups boiling water 

Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add boiling water gradually, 
stirring until thickened. Boil 5 minutes. Add butter and 
lemon juice. Serve. 

Lemon Jelly 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin 1 cup sugar 

l /2 cup cold water V 2 cup lemon juice 

2 to 2 l / 2 cups boiling water Rind 1 lemon 

Soak gelatin 20 minutes in cold water, then dissolve in 
boiling water. Add sugar, the lemon juice and rind; strain 
into a mold and chill. Beating the lemon jelly while it is 
jelly-like with a Dover egg beater will make it white and 
fluffy. Orange, raspberry or other fruit jelly may be made 
in the same way, using l / 2 cup of the fruit juice with lemon 
juice to taste. 

Spanish Cream 

2 tablespoons granulated gelatin ]/& teaspoon salt 

3 cups milk 3 egg whites 

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 

l / 2 cup sugar or syrup 

Reserve l /$ cup milk to soak gelatin. Scald the remaining 
24 cups of milk. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks, add 
the sugar and salt; stir in the scalded milk slowly and cook 
in double boiler until custard thickens, stirring all the time. 
Remove from fire, add the soaked gelatin and stir until 
dissolved, then strain. Beat the whites until stiff, fold into 
mixture. Flavor and turn into cold wet mold. Chill. 

53 




"A-l 5 Kitchen Companions 

For over a quarter of a century the Globe Mills 
have devoted their efforts to the making of 
better foodstuffs. Western housewives have 
come to accept the Globe "Al" mark as a safe- 
guard for their kitchens, because the quality of 
Globe "Al" products does not vary it is 
always "highest grade." 



GLOBE MILLS 

OF CALIFORNIA 
Los Angeles San Francisco San Diego 



54 



CAKES 

Plain Cake 

l /3 cup fat 3 teaspoons baking-powder 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon salt 
3 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

2 /3 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups flour 

Cream the fat, add sugar gradually and continue to cream 
until the mixture is creamy. Add the well-beaten yolks, the 
milk alternately with the flour mixed and sifted with the 
baking-powder and salt. Beat mixture thoroughly. Fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites and vanilla. Bake in a loaf or 
layers. 

Chocolate Cake 

Make same as Plain Cake ,adding one square melted 
chocolate cooked with 2 tablespoons boiling water ,to the 
fat and sugar mixture. 

Marble Cake 

Make same as Plain Cake, adding l / 2 square melted choco- 
late cooked with 1 tablespoon boiling water, to 3/2 of the 
batter. Arrange spoonfuls of darkand white mixtures in a 
well-greased pan. 

Fig Cake 

Make same as Plain Cake. Add l / teaspoon cinnamon, 
Y/\ teaspoon cloves, ^ cup finely-chopped figs to l /3 of the 
batter. Bake this in 1 layer and the remaining 2 A in 2 layers. 
When done, put fig layer between the other two, a layer of 
frosting between each. 

Light Fruit Cake 

Make same as Plain Cake, adding *4 cup finely-cut citron, 
l /4 cup currants, J4 cup raisins and l /^ cup finely-chopped 
nuts. 

Nut Cake 

Make same as Plain Cake, adding 1 cup nut meats and 2 
tablespoons less shortening. 

Chocolate Cake 

l /2 cup fat 1 l /i cups flour 

1 cup sugar 2 l / 3 teaspoons baking-powder 

2 eggs 2 squares chocolate 
Yt cup milk y-t teaspoon vanilla 

Cream the fat ;add sugar gradually, eggs well beaten and 
milk. Add flour mixed and sifted with baking-powder. Beat 
thoroughly, then add chocolate and vanilla. Bake in layers. 
Frost with White Mountain Cream frosting to which 3 
tablespoons of grated chocolate have been added. One cup 

55 



molasses may be substituted for the sugar, using only 3 
tablespoons milk, adding *4 teaspoon soda and substituting 
rye flour for the white. 

Quick Cake 

J/2 cup soft fat ( scant) (Mix and sift) 

\ l /z cups brown sugar 1^3 cups bread flour 

2 eggs 3 teaspoons baking-powder 
l /2 cup milk l /2 teaspoon cinnamon 

l /2 pound dates or l /2 cup raisins l /2 teaspoon nutmeg 

Put ingredients in bowl in order given ,and do not stir 
until all have been added. Beat for 3 minutes. Bake in a 
buttered or greased pan from 35 to 45 minutes. May be 
baked in muffin tins. One-quarter cup cocoa may be added. 

Sour Cream Cake 

\ l /2 cups sour cream 2^4 cups flour 

\ l /2 cups sugar 2J4 teaspoons baking-powder 

3 eggs, well beaten 2 /$ teaspoon soda 

Measure ingredients in order given, sifting flour, baking- 
powder and soda. Beat thoroughly. Bake. 

Cream Sponge Cake 

Yolks 4 eggs 1 1 / 2 teaspoons baking-powder 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

3 tablespoons cold water J4 teaspoon salt 

\ l /2 tablespoons cornstarch Whites 4 eggs 

1 scant cup of flour 

Beat yolks until thick; add sugar gradually and beat 2 
minutes. Then add water. Mix and sift cornstarch, flour, 
baking-powder and salt, and add to first mixture. Fold in 
stiffly-beaten whites and flavoring. Bake about 20 minutes 
in a moderate oven. This cake may be made with 2 eggs, 
and using 2 additional teaspoons of baking-powder and 2 
additional tablespoons water. 

Martha Washington Pie 

Bake cream of sponge cake mixture in 2 layers. Cool ; fill 
between layers and spread on top with whipped cream, 
sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 

Cake Frostings and Fillings 

Good frosting requires as much skill in making as candy. 
Boiled frostings are more delicious than those made with 
confectioners' sugar. When sugar is scarce, omit frostings 
on cakes, and use fillings only. rH 

Boiled Frosting or White Mountain Cream 
1 cup sugar Whites of 1 or 2 eggs 

l / 2 cup water y 2 teaspoon flavoring 

1/16 teaspoon cream of tartar 

Dissolve the sugar and cream of tartar in the water. 
Cover the saucepan first 5 minutes of cooking to prevent the 
formation of srystals on the sides of the saucepan. If 1 
beaten egg is used, boil the sugar solution to the soft-ball 

56 



stage, until it forms 2-inch threads when dropped from a 
spoon or fork. If 2 egg whites are used, boil to the firm-ball 
stage. The syrup should not be stirred during the process 
of cooking, nor the saucepan moved. If crystals do collect 
on the sides of the saucepan, remove with a wet cloth or wet 
brush. When the sugar solution has boiled to the right 
temperature, pour it gradually into the stiffly-beaten whites 
of eggs, beating continually while pouring, and continue 
beating until of right consistency to spread on the cakes. 
Flavor. 

Nut Frosting 
Add nut meats to White Mountain Cream. 

Lady Baltimore Frosting 

Add nut meats, chopped figs, chopped angelica to White 
Mountain Cream. 

Minnehaha Frosting 
Add chopped seeded raisins to \Vhite Mountain Cream. 

Maple Frosting 

Substitute maple sugar for granulated sugar in White 
Mountain Cream. 

Chocolate Frosting 
Add 1 square melted chocolate to White Mountain Cream. 

Milk Frosting 

2 cups sugar J4 tablespoon butter 

Yi cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Boil first 3 ingredients to soft-ball stage. Remove from 
fire, let stand about 8 minutes and beat until creamy. Add 
vanilla. 

Cream Filling 

34 CU P sugar 2 eggs 

i/j cup flour 2 cups scalded milk 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Mix dry ingredients ; add eggs slightly beaten, and pour 
in gradually the scalded milk. Cook 15 minutes in double 
boiler, stirring constantly until thickened. Cool and flavor. 

Chocolate Cream Filling 

Add \y 2 squares melted chocolate to Cream Filing mix- 
ture. 

Marshmallow Filling 

1 cup sugar 2J^ tablespoons hot water 

1/3 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

y 2 pound marshmallows, cut 

into small pieces 

Boil sugar and milk until soft-ball stage is reached. Melt 
marshmallows in a double boiler, add hot water and cook 
mixture until smooth, stirring continually while adding milk 
and sugar mixture. Beat until cool. 

57 



SAUCES TO SERVE WITH PUDDINGS 
AND ICE-CREAM 

Chocolate Sauce 

2 squares chocolate, melted 1 tablespoon cornstarch mixed 

1 cup boiling water with 1 tablespoon cold water 

H cup syrup or sugar 

Add the boiling water to the sugar or syrup, then add 
gradually to the melted chocolate, stirring all the time while 
adding. Heat to boiling point, add the cornstarch mixture 
and boil 5 minutes. Flavor with vanilla and serve hot or 
cold. 

Fruit Sauce 
1 tablespoon cornstarch mixed 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

with 1 tablespoon cold water Chopped fruit or chopped fruit 
l /2 cup sugar or syrup and nuts 

\ l /2 cups boiling water 

Add the cornstarch mixture to the sugar or syrup and 
then the boiling water and obli 5 minutes ; add the lemon 
juice, cool ,and add the chopped fruit. 

Banana Filling 

1 cup banana pulp June l / 2 lemon 

Y 2 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Cook and stir until thickened. 



COOKIES 

Peanut Cookies 

2 tablespoons fat J4 teaspoon salt 

J4 cup sugar 2 l / 2 tablespoons milk 

1 egg, well-beaten ft> cup chopped peanuts 

l / 2 cup flour y 2 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 teaspoon baking-powder 

Cream the fat, add sugar gradually, add well-beaten egg. 
Mix and sift baking-powder, salt and flour ;add to first mix- 
ture. Then add milk, peanuts and lemon juice. Drop from 
tip of a spoon on an unbuttered sheet 1 inch apart. Place 
YZ peanut on top of each. Bake 12 to 15 minutes in a slow 
oven. This makes 24 cookies. 

Chocolate Drop Cookies 

y 2 cup fat y 2 teaspoon soda 

1 cup light brown sugar 2 squares melted chocolate 

1 well-beaten egg 1 cup chopped nuts 

1/2 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

\y 2 cup flour (may be par buck- 
wheat) 

Cream the fat, all the brown sugar gradually, then the 
well-beaten egg, milk and the flour mixed and sifted with 

58 



the soda. Stir in the melted chocolate, chopped nuts and 
vanilla. Drop mixture by spoonfuls onto a well-buttered 
pan. 

Fruit Cookies 

YT, cup fat 1 tablespoon hot water 

l / 2 cup sugar \% cups flour 

1 egg l /z cup raisins 

Y$ teaspoon soda 

Cream the fat, add sugar gradually, and eggs, well beaten. 
Add soda dissolved in water, l / 2 flour mixed and sifted with 
salt and cinnamon. Then add nut meat, fruit and remaining 
flour. Drop by spoonfuls onto a greased tin, 1 inch apart, 
and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Oatmeal Cookies 
1 cup fat 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

2 beaten eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
@ cup milk @ teaspoon salt 

2 cups oatmeal 1 cup raisins 

Cream the fat, add the sugar gradually and work until 
creamy. Add the well-beaten eggs, milk and oatmeal, the 
flour, soda, cinnamon and salt mixed and sifted, and the 
raisins. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto a buttered pan. Bake. 

Filled Cookies 

Roll cookie dough into rectangular shape, sprinkle with 
spices or spread with fruit or fruit nut mixture. Fold, roll 
again and cut out and bake. 



PASTRY 

General Directions 

Use butter substitutes for the fat. 

Rub in with the tips of the fingers or chop in with a knife. 

Add enough cold water to make a stiff dough, using a 
knife for mixing. 

All the ingredients must be cold. 

Handle the dough as little as possible, and keep it as cold 
as possible, as heat melts the fat and makes it difficult to 
handle the dough. 

Use as little flour as possible during the rolling. 

Cut the pastry a little larger than the dish to allow for 
shrinkage. 

59 



Recipe for Pastry 

1^2 cups flour Cold water to make a stiff 

l / 2 teaspoon salt dough, about 4^ tablespoons 

J/3 to 1/2 cup shortening 

Mix and sift the flour and salt. Rub in shortening with 
tips of fingers or cut it into the flour with 2 knives. Add 
the cold water, using a knife for mixing. Knead the dough 
lightly into a ball. Cut in two; roll into circular pieces to 
fit pie tin. 

Apple Pie 

5 sour apples @ teaspoon cinnamon 

Ys teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1/2 cup sugar l /% teaspoon nutmeg 

1 teaspoon butter Few gratings lemon rind 

Line pie plate with paste. Pare, core and cut apples and 
fill the pie. Mix the dry ingredients and lemon juice, and 
sprinkle over apples. Dot over with butter. Wet edges of 
under crust, cover with upper crust, pressing the edges close 
together. Bake in a hot oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until fruit 
is cooked. 

Lemon Pie 

1 cup sugar Grated rind 1 lemon 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 2 egg yolks 

1 cup boiling water Juice 1 lemon 

1 teaspoon butter 

Mix cornstarch and sugar; add to obiling water, stirring 
constantly. Cook until clear ; add the butter, beaten yolks, 
lemon juice and rind. Cool Line plate with paste. Prick 
the paste and bake. Fill with lemon mixture and cover with 
meringue, and bake until meringue is brown. 

Meringue 

Whites 2 eggs 2 tablespoons sugar or pow- 

\ l / 2 tablespoons lemon juice dered sugar, and @ tea- 

spoon vanilla 
Beat the whites stiff; fold in sugar and add flavoring. 

Cocoanut Cream Pie 

\ l / 2 cups scalded milk Yolks 3 eggs 

5/5 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

@ teaspoon salt l /2 cup shredded cocoanut 

3 tablespoons cornstarch l /> teaspoon vanilla 

Add the sugar, cornstarch and salt to the egg yolks. Pour 
the scalded milk into this, return to double boiler, stir and 
cook until thickened. Add the butter, cocoanut and vanilla. 
Pour into a pie tin lined with pastry. Bake. Cover with 
meringue. 

Mince Pie 

Line a pie tin with pastry. Fill with mince meat. Cover 
with pastry. 

60 



Mince Meat 

\ l /2 cups chopped beef 1 teaspoon salt 

(roast or steak) 1 teaspoon mace 

1 pint chopped apple Grating of nutmeg 

' 1/2 cup chopped suet % teaspoon cloves 

1^3 cups sugar l /t teaspoon cinnamon 

1 cup cider 2 /$ cup raisins (Sultana pre- 
l /2 cup syrup from sweet pickle fcrred 

jar 
Mix all together. Cook 1 hour. Put into sterilized jars. 

Cranberry and Raisin Pie, or Mock Cherry Pie 

2 cups cranberries Y* cup cracker crumbs 
1 cup water 1 egg 

l /2 cup seeded raisins 1 tablespoon lemon or orange 

1 cup sugar juice 

Boil first 3 ingredients until cranberries burst open, then 
add the sugar. Cool, add the cracker crumbs, egg and 
orange juice. Line a pie plate with pastry. Fill with fruit 
mixture. Arrange strips of pastry lattice fashion over top 
and bake in a quick oven 25 minutes. 

Pumpkin Pie 

I % cups steamed pumpkin ]/$ teaspoon cloves 

forced through a strainer l / 2 teaspoon salt 

% cup sugar 1 slightly beaten egg 

l /2 teaspoon cinnamon 7/% cup milk 
J4 teaspoon ginger 

Mix ingredients in order given. Bake in a pie tin lined 
with pastry. 



61 



We are 

Cupid's Right -hand 
Assistants 

Let Us Furnish Your 
Home on Easy Terms 




NO Extra Charge for Credit Here 
NO Interest Added 




62O-O2O So. Main St. 

furivisTv the Girl^\Ve furivisK IKo Home 



62 



First Aid In The Home 



BEFORE THE DOCTOR COMES 

If patient vomits, turn him on one side with head low. 

Cover and dress all wounds immediately, using antiseptic 
treatment and bandages when possible. 

If conscious, give warm drinks, tea, coffee or milk not 
whiskey unless ordered by physician. 

Apoplexy Raise head slightly, apply cold water to the 
head. Loosen all tight clothing. Do not give stimulants. 

Bites of Dogs, Cats and Other Animals. Wash with an 
antiseptic. If the animal has been sick suck the wound and 
apply carbolic acid or caustic. Keep patient warm ; apply 
mustard plaster to feet and wrists. Rub arms and legs. 

Bites of Mad Dog or Snake. Tie cord tight about wound. 
Suck wound and cauterize with caustic or white-hot iron at 
once, or cut out adjoining parts with a sterilized sharp knife. 
After bleeding has stopped, apply caustic or carbolic acid. 
Give stimulants whiskey, brandy ,etc. 

Bleeding. Bleeding should be stopped immediately. The 
blood from an artery may be known by the fact that it 
issues from the wound in jets, and is of a bright red color. 
The blood from a vein is darker, and flows in a continuous 
stream. To stop the flow of blood from an artery, tightly 
compress the limb above the wound. Bleeding from a vein 
may generally be stopped by a bandage over the wound. 

Burns and Scalds. Cover with baking soda and lay on 
wet cloths. When large areas are involved, apply mixture 
of white of eggs and sweet oil or linseed oil. Sweet oil or 
linseed oil mixed with equal parts of limewater is also an 
effective application. Olive oil or linseed oil, plain or mixed 
with chalk or whiting may also be used. Do not attempt to 
dress burns if severe, but cover with gauze or lint and 
summon a physician or take patient to a hospital. 

Cinders in the Eye. Roll soft paper up like a lamplighter, 
wet tip to remove, or use medicine dropper to draw out. 
Rub other eye. 

Cuts. Cleanse cuts with warm water to which has been 
added one or two drops of carbolic acid ; draw edges to- 
gether with strips of plaster. 

Fainting. Place patient flat on back with head lower 
than rest of body. Allow fresh air, and sprinkle face and 
neck with water. Give hartshorn or amonia to inhale; keep 
feet warm. 

63 



Fire in One's Clothing. Don't run especially not down- 
stairs or out-of-doors. Roll on carpet, or wrap in woolen 
rug-, blanket, shawl, coat or any woolen article at hand. 
Keep the head down, so as not to inhale flame. Cover 
blistered parts with sweet oil. 

Fire From Kerosene. Don't use water, it will spread the 
flames. Dirt, sand, or flour is the best extinguisher, or 
smother with woolen rug, table-cloth or carpet. 

Nose Bleed. Bathing the face and neck with very cold^ 
water while sitting upright, will often stop nose bleed. 
Apply cold to back of neck. If rather severe, snuffing up a 
little cold water in which a little alum has been dissolved is 
effective. 

Poisoning. See chapter on poisons. 

Sprain. Absolute rest ; apply ice or ice water cloths to 
joint, or bathe with lead water and laudanum, arnica and 
water or alcohol and water. After experiencing relief move 
affected part gently, rubbing with liniments to prevent 
stiffness. 

Sprains of Wrist, Hand, Ankle or Foot. Put into water 
as hot as can be borne for ten or fifteen minutes. Then 
apply firm bandage, elevate and rest limb. If you cannot 
secure a surgeon promptly, put limb in water again at end 
of two or three hours. 

Stings of Venomous Insects, Etc. Oil of cinnamon ap- 
plied with a straw, or a small brush, will destroy the poison. 
Onion juice will give instant relief from sting of wasp or 
bee. In the case of many venomous insects the application 
of weak ammonia, sweet oil, salt water or iodine, is bene- 
ficial. 

Poisoning is an emergency of life or death. Every mo- 
ment is valuable. It is necessary to induce vomiting 
promptly, in order that the stomach may be emptied. To 
accomplish this give large drafts of mustard water, or salt 
dissolved in warm water. Repeat this treatment every few 
minutes and after each dose put the forefinger down the 
throat as far as possible. The wine of ipecac will also pro- 
duce vomiting; to children, give in teaspoonful doses every 
few minutes ; to adults give a tablespoonful at a time. Fol- 
low each dose with a glass of warm water. For narcotic 
poisons, such as opium, laudanum, soothing powders or 
syrups, paregoric, morphine, induce copious vomiting, then 
give large quantities of strong coffee and keep constantly 
aroused. 

64 



