^r 
X V J^ f- rf*e ^* 



J{ J(AND BOOK 



ON 



POSITIVE J{EALTH 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH, 
INC. 




Jfirst 




JL <f orhmt 
- 1940 



in metttortam 
^Hamilton Qiorbon 



of Toronto 
1921 ta 1039 



ana 



for 




MMy 

A HAND BOOK 



ON 



POSITIVE HEALTH 



I repared and issued by the Women's Foundation for 
Health, in cooperation with the Council on Health and Public 
Instruction of the American Medical Association and the 
Eureau of Social Education of the National Board of the 
Young Women's Christian Associations. 



CONTRIBUTORS 

E. V. McCOLLUM, Professor of Bio-chemistry, School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. 

WM. A. WHITE, M.D., Superintendent of St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

JESSIE TAFT, Ph.D., Director Department of Child Study, Philadelphia. 
WALTER B. CANNON, M.D., Harvard Madical Schaol, Boston. 

E. C. LINDEMAN, Professor of Sociology, North CaroHna College for 
Women, Greensboro, N. C. 

BUREAU OF SOCIAL EDUCATION, Y. W. C. A., New York City. 



43 EAST TWENTY-SECOND STREET 
>NEW YORK CITY 



COPYRIGHT, 1922 

BY THE 

WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH, IN,.. 



AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION PRESS 
535 NORTH DEARBORN STREET 



COOPERATING ORGANIZATIONS 

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY WOMEN 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

COUNCIL OF JEWISH WOMEN 

GENERAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S CLUBS 

MEDICAL WOMEN'S NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF DEANS OF WOMEN 

NATIONAL BOARD YOUNG WOMEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSO 

CIATIONS 
NATIONAL CONGRESS OF MOTHERS AND PARENT-TEACHER 

ASSOCIATIONS 

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN 
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL 

WOMEN'S CLUBS 

NATIONAL LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE OF GIRLS' CLUBS 

NATIONAL WOMAN'S CHRISTIAN TEMPERANCE UNION 
NATIONAL WOMEN'S TRADE UNION LEAGUE 
WOMAN'S DEPARTMENT: NATIONAL CIVIC FEDERATION 



OFFICERS OF THE HOUSE OF DELEGATES 

MRS. JAMES S. CUSHMAN, PRESIDENT 

MRS. PHILIP NORTH MOORE, VICE PRESIDENT 

MRS. GERTRUDE S. MARTIN, SECRETARY *- 



BOARD OF TRUSTEES 

MRS. EDWARD R. HEWITT, CHAIRMAN 

MRS. ELMER BLAIR MRS. GERTRUDE S. MARTIN 

MRS. ELLA A. BOOLE MRS. PHILIP NORTH MOORE 

ANNA L. BROWN, M.D. MISS THERESA O'DONOHUE 

MRS. HENRY P. DAVISON MARTHA TRACY, M.D. 



RESOLUTION 



The Council on Health and Public Instruction of the 
American Medical Association passed the following resolution 
at their regular meeting in New York City, Nov. 18, 1921 : 

WHEREAS, The Women's Foundation for Health has developed a 
program of health education based on a positive ideal of health; and 

WHEREAS, The group of physicians associated with the Foundation 
has succeeded in demonstrating a plan which is consistent with the ideals 
and standards of medical practice and which furnishes a basis for the 
promotion of positive health education by physicians in accordance with 
the ethical requirements of the medical profession; therefore, be it 

Resolved, That the Council on Health and Public Instruction of the 
American Medical Association recommends the general adoption of the 
Foundation's program as a means of improving health standards. That 
in order that such a program may be effectively executed, physicians be 
urged to emphasize health examinations and to assist wherever possible 
in education in positive health. 



PREFACE 



The Women's Foundation for Health, Inc., is an organization 
for the correlation of the health plans of fifteen leading national 
women's organizations formed with the purpose of correlating the 
health activities of the various organizations in a program for 
positive health. This series of pamphlets comes in response to 
a demand for a common text to be used and distributed by the 
Foundation. 

The work necessary for the production of the series has 
extended over several years, and has brought into collaboration 
entire organizations, as well as representative people from 
widely differing activities. Because o.f the generosity of their 
gift in time and labor, together with their patient cooperation 
through months of close association, we find it extremely difficult 
to express adequately our acknowledgment of their assistance. 

The Women's Foundation for Health must always be 
indebted to the American Medical Association and to the National 
Board of the Young Women's Christian Associations for their 
combined effort in making the production of the series possible. 
Throughout the preliminary stages of the preparation, the 
Bureau of Social Education of the National Board of the Young 
Women's Christian Associations furnished necessary data from 
their laboratory and later donated the services of a laboratory 
staff. The Council on Health and Public Instruction of the 
American Medical Association have carefully considered and 
approved manuscripts for the various pamphlets, as well as gen- 
erously contributing- in the production. 

In addition to, and of equal importance with the work of the 
above associations, we are deeply grateful to the following indi- 
viduals who have given freely of their ability, experience and 
time in preparing material for the series; for the central theme 
which unifies the series, for contributions of manuscripts, and for 
the technical material used several: Anna L. Brown, M.D., Direc- 
tor of the Bureau of Social Education, and the staff, Josephine 
Hemenway Kenyon, M.D., Associate Director; Hannah Morris, 
M.D., Miss Harriet Wilde, Miss Gertrude D. King, Miss Era 
Betzner, Miss Jane Bellows and Miss Dorothy Nye, Directors 
of Physical Education, and Miss Gertrude Henderson and 
Miss Katherine Anthony; for authorship of manuscripts, E. V. 
McCollum, M.D., William A. White, M.D., Walter B. Cannon, 
M.D., Jessie Taft, Ph.D., and Prof. E. C. Lindeman; for illus- 
trations, J. N. Darling, Louise Mellichamp and Katherine Wol- 



vi PREFACE 

ter; for reading manuscripts, Victor C. Vaughan, M.D., Walter 
B. Cannon, M.D., W. S. Rankin, M.D., Milton Board, M.D., 
Haven Emerson, M.D., of the Council on Health and Public 
Instruction of the American Medical Association ; Frankwood E. 
Williams, M.D., Associate Director of the National Committee 
on Mental Hygiene; Mrs. Robert E. Speer and Mrs. William 
Walker Rockwell of the National Board of the Y. W. C. A. ; for 
assistance in executing and editing the series, Miss Katherinc 
Anthony, Miss Gertrude Henderson and Miss Esse V. Hathaway. 
The Foundation wishes . finally to express its gratitude to 
those who have encouraged us through their sympathy and under- 
standing of our ideal and by suggestions and advice have aided 
in the realization of that ideal. 

LENNA L. MEANES, M.D., 

Editor, Positive Health Series, 

Women's Foundation for Health. 



FOREWORD 



Health is something positive, progressive, dynamic. It is not 
merely a vague and negative state of being which remains after 
active illness has subsided. It stabilizes and enriches life, and no 
effort is too great that helps to win it. This is the positive ideal 
of health which the Women's Foundation for Health undertakes 
to teach. 

The Foundation aims to bring to the individual woman the 
conviction that health is normal and realizable. Its program of 
health education strives, first of all, to persuade her to assume a 
personal responsibility for achieving her own physical best. The 
great public health movement of our day needs to be supplemented 
by this type of education, which calls upon the individual to wake 
up and take her own part because no one else conceivably can 
take it. While recognizing society's responsibility for securing 
sanitary and economic conditions favorable to individual well- 
being, the Foundation regards the attainment of health in the last 
analysis as a matter of personal and social obligation. There is 
an overwhelming tendency today to consider environment as the 
dominant force in life, but the individual who acquiesces too far 
in such a point of view does so at her own moral and physical cost. 
The false satisfaction that comes from blaming circumstances is 
a poor substitute for the genuine satisfaction which arises from 
realizing health. It is always possible to add health to one's life 
there are always latent stores at hand for progressive health- 
building. The open sesame to these stores is the sincere resolution 
of the individual to be a better, finer, more efficient being than she 
momentarily is. 

The basis of progressive health-building is the health examina- 
tion. A periodical health inventory is an essential feature of the 
program, but it must be something more than a merely informative 
survey. The periodical examination which is concluded with 
stock taking and aims merely at a negative reassurance against 
disease, latent, incipient or active, is not a sufficient safeguard for 
any individual. The health examination of the Foundation does 
this, but it also does more. It does not stop with the individual 
"as is," but impels her toward the individual that is to be. Thus 
the health examination is always dynamic it functions as a 
springboard and not as a transient waystation. It equips the 
individual with full knowledge of herself and her resources and 
then tests her will to health by charging her to carry on. 

Even more then men, women need this type of health exam- 
ination. For many years there has been a tendency in business 



viii FOREWORD 

and industry to require physical examinations of employees, and 
life insurance has also helped to familiarize men with the period- 
ical examination. The home woman, on the other hand, is often 
characterized by self -neglectful and long-suffering habits for 
which her conscience does not even rebuke her. She quickly calls 
a physician for her children or her husband while she tolerates 
a condition of half-health in herself which she wrongly accepts as 
her lot, unaware that she could earn her full measure of health 
by the cultivation of right health habits. Women need a change 
of attitude in this respect much more than men ; they have not 
been taught that the power to sustain health is chiefly within 
themselves and that their personal responsibility for doing so is 
inescapable. The woman of today realizes that the world does not 
owe her a living; but rather that she owes it to herself to make 
her individual economic contribution in some constructive and 
useful form. In the same way, she owes it to herself to main- 
tain health and to assume in this respect a constructive, not a 
passive and submissive attitude. To "possess her soul" she must 
first possess her health. 

The constructive view of health is fundamental and implicit 
in each pamphlet of the series published by the Women's Foun- 
dation for Health. The initial numbers of the series deal with 
the more general and inclusive aspects, while the succeeding num- 
bers deal with its more particular and specialized aspects. But 
the point of departure for each pamphlet is the same the convic- 
tion that health is normal and realizable, and the conception of 
health as a condition of being which allows an individual the full 
development and mastery of herself the powers of her physical 
body, her mental processes, her emotional force, her spiritual 
expression. At numerous points, the health education program 
outlined in this series of pamphlets directs the individual toward 
trained medical assistance when that is needed, but the paramount 
aim of the Foundation is to awaken a personal ambition to 
achieve health, to give an impetus without which all available assis- 
tance exists in vain. The whole duty of of a woman in relation 
to health must rest on a broad foundation of habit and conduct 
habit built upon practice and conduct based upon conscience. The 
realization that the commonplace and every-day actions of daily 
living are amenable to expert and scientific guidance is the begin- 
ning of health for the enlightened individual. The Women's 
Foundation for Health undertakes to give such scientific guidance 
in a form which is readily available for widespread use. With 
the guidance of these handbooks, the individual woman can find 
the broad free highroad to health for herself. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



PAGE 

CHAPTER I. THE NEWER CONCEPTION OF HEALTH.... 1 

Part One Health Examinations : 

A. Interpretation .of Medical Examination Card 1 

B. Interpretation of Physical Examination Card 11 
Part Two Individual Exercises 34 

CHAPTER II THE INDIVIDUAL AND THE COMMUNITY.. 67 

Part One How- Are You ? 67 

Part Two Local Health Foundations 79 

Part Three A Look at Herself 87 

Part Four Feet, Posture, Shoes and Walking 96 

Bureau Social Education, National Board of the Y. IV. C. A., 
New York City 

CHAPTER III. NUTRITION IN RELATION TO HEALTH 

AND EFFICIENCY 107 

E. ]' '. McCollum, Professor of Bio-Chemistry, School of Hygiene 
and Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. 

CHAPTER IV. MENTAL HEALTH 117 

Part One Living at Our Best 117 

Win. A. White, M.D., Supt. St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Part Two Bringing Up Children 134 

A. Infancy and Childhood 134 

B. Adolescence 146 

Jesse Taft, Ph.D., Director, Dept. of Child Study, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 

CHAPTER V. THE HERITAGE OF LIFE 157 

//' 'alter B. Cannon, M.D., Jlarrard Medical School, Boston, Mass. 

CHAPTER VI. RECREATION 1C9 

Part One Recreation for Health-Building 169 

E. C. Lindeman, Prof, of Sociology, North Carolina College 
for Women, Greensboro, N. C. 

Part Two Recreation and Health 185 

Bureau Social Education, National Board of the Y . II'. C. A., 
New York City 



CHAPTER I 
THE NEWER CONCEPTION OF HEALTH 



PART I. HEALTH EXAMINATIONS 

A. INTERPRETATION OF THE MEDICAL PART OF THE HEALTH 
EXAMINATION BLANK 

In arranging the data for the medical half^of the examination, 
effort has been made to stress the good points in the history, to 
bring out the normal routine of the individual's life, and to indicate 
the handicaps to health which she may be needlessly enduring, 
with suggestions for their eradication. 

It is hoped that physicians before using this card will read all 
the material in this series that they will have a sympathetic 
understanding of what is meant by "positive health" that they 
will look at an individual as an achievement, not just a possible 
"case." 

It is important that the physician become truly interested in 
how well the individual is, and what possibilities she has with 
the ground work of her own bodily structure. We are not assum- 
ing that all can measure up equally on a 100 per cent, basis. 
Granted that such a condition as an organic heart 'lesion exists, 
we contend that each has a "top notch" of physical, mental and 
emotional well-being to which she can attain. It may not be the 
top notch of the next girl ; each one is judged on her own 
possibilities. 

We believe that this standard should exist for each day of the 
week, each week of the year. Our daily routine, our budget of 
time for work, our preparation for that work, relaxation, outdoor 
exercise, sleep, food, and playtime should be planned with this 
aim in view. 

If the physician holds this attitude, it can be conveyed through- 
out the examination in the discussion of practically every question. 

How well are you? How much better could yon be if you 
actually followed the health rules instead of merely talking about 
them? Physical defects, acute and chronic disease will sometimes 
be found even in people who think they are well. These condi- 
tions, if found, are discussed with the examinee and treated by 
the physician, or referred to the appropriate specialist. 

These cards are suggested for routine use in doctors' offices. 
It follows, therefore, that many people who come - - in some 
instances all the people who come will have some symptom or 
other or be actually ill. When this is so, only those questions 
having a bearing upon the case need be asked, and the acute con- 



2 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

dition noted and treated. Upon a subsequent visit, as the condi- 
tion improves, the entire health inventory and examination can 
be made. These individuals should return at stated intervals, 
six months or a year, for a complete inventory and reexamination. 

The importance of the positive idea of health will be empha- 
sized in the minds of both physician and examinee if the same 
card can be used for both ill and well people. 

The cards measure 8 by 10 inches, and when folded will fit a 
5 by 8-inch file. The first two sections down to "Condition Dur- 
ing the Past Year 1 ' may be filled in by the examinee herself, or 
by the office nurse or secretary. Whenever the answer to a 
question in any way indicates that the point should be followed 
up or later discussed, then the mark V should be used. Any 
answer which shows that the rules of health are being followed 
in the advised way is indicated by a dash ( ). Other answers 
will have to be written in briefly. In this way a V mark might 
mean either a yes or a no answer, but whenever found, it means 
a point to be considered in the discussion at the end of the 
examination. 

The year in which an illness took place and its duration should 
be indicated. 

Many physicians prefer to ask all the questions and write the 
answers themselves. 

When the examinee comes to the physician, any points of 
interest are noted. 

Under "Education," has the special training led logically to 
the present occupation, and, if not, what influenced her? The 
question of "congenial" work comes naturally, then, and if the 
answer is hesitatingly given, or is in the negative, one realizes 
that this may be a source of unhappiness which usually reacts 
upon the general condition. 

Before asking the "Condition During the Past Year," the 
physician explains that these symptoms are often the result of 
faulty health habits, and that on substituting the correct health 
habits and routine of life they tend to disappear. It is in the 
fact that this examination brings out details apparently trivial, 
but which in their effect upon the individual are most important, 
and that it gives an opportunity for free discussion, that it dif- 
fers from* the usual medical examination. 

One then proceeds to ask the questions: "Headaches?" "Indi- 
gestion?" etc.? with the implication that they are symptoms only, 
and the cause must be found and removed, and that more often 
than not the individual need not endure the handicap or dis- 
comfort. 

If an acute condition exists, the usual history is taken, and 
the remainder of the examination conducted according to the 
best judgment of the physician. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 3 

When no acute condition exists, one proceeds with the 
questions. 

The questions under "Elimination" serve to emphasize the 
importance of the morning and evening evacuation of the bowels. 
If laxatives are habitually taken, the physician, by stressing the 
advantage of regulating bowel movement by diet, water drinking, 
and special exercise, may often persuade the examinee to make 
the attempt to discontinue the laxative. 

The habitual taking of a laxative is often indicative of care- 
lessness. Often it is really laziness, but it may be lack of accurate 
knowledge. 1 

For this reason we feel much may be gained by taking up in 
detail later under "Diet" the various modifications or additions 
which will be helpful in relieving constipation. If there is to be a 
physical examination made by a director of physical education, 
the special exercises may be demonstrated. If not, we suggest 
that the physician have cards illustrating these in his or her office 
and urge the trial of appropriate. ones. No individual should 
have a health examination without having her responsibility in 
this regard emphasized and her cooperation gained for an attempt, 
at least, to overcome this pernicious habit. 

The menstruation questions are next asked. The attitude 
toward this function has changed greatly during the last few 
years. It is regarded as a normal periodic function of women. 
Because it is normal we do not use the word "unwell" in describ- 
ing it. 

Neither pain nor discomfort should be present, nor should 
one lose time from work, have to be in bed, and be regarded as 
deserving of special privileges. Women have for so long been 
taught the exact opposite, have so carefully avoided the types of 
exercise which are highly beneficial, have been so coddled and 
pampered, that the resultant rather common inconveniences expe- 
rienced are not surprising. 

Experiences with adolescent girls and older women have 
proved : 

1. That irregularity in the time of the appearance of the 
function can be disregarded unless accompanied by definite symp- 
toms such as anemia, dizziness, headaches, edema, etc. 

2. That variations from the usual twenty-eight-day cycle are 
more common than not, and whether the cycle is longer or shorter 
than the average is unimportant. 

3. That pain may be present with no demonstrable deviation 
from the normal in size or position of the reproductive organs. 2 

An unbelievably large number of girls suffer and have suffered 

1. Menstruation and Its Disorders. Emil Novak, M.D., ^ppleton, 1921. 

2. Health and the Woman Movement. Clelia IX Mosher, M.D., The Woman's 
Press, 1921. 



1 iiiii 

ijjji 


: :::;:: 

\ iliiij 

: : 2 : JS z ^ < 


, ! it' 
















: J * ft i : 


! j I i : i : : 

W * ' 


! M M ; I ; 1 1 1 XI 
















I'll'iy 


ijjjj jM 


fiiBil \'9'i l \ 






: 










| y 1 1 a 


i ; 1 


11 ^ ; MS i ^| 1 1 . 
















: i rn i 


; : : : : : : o 


| | : i M 3 ~ | S |~ 1 1 
















ia MH 


\ U i i M 


< : | : : 5 < 






I 








i 1 


ii (ii 


mu 


i | iijji 






!: 








|1 


ji.iii 


i 1 fl 

| ? J : S 

11 III: 


'^ Lj 
















*ifi ! 


ill hi 


1 o I ; lit I 1 I 
















i||; j 




ii Miiii 


i z "L 1 ; J " I 
















ii H J 


;i IjlH 


H :f 111 I 
















j;;|f i ; 


ll-ijliiH 


1 l i :: M ? 
















: v o (2 6 


Wiijl i^ 


* ; ** ^ JK 














! 


Mllfi- 

iniii-- 

Q o 


{{"jijii 

T S s u 


1 ; r 1 * 

fjfrijv! ^ m 

J 1 if H S tS i! 1 < fc < 


S 


i 


i 

X 


j 

I; 


. 

i 
I 


i 

> 


Vaginal Examinal 



No 






















Nme 


I 



















: 1 


q 


-2 
Q 




b : 

i i 


.5 : 













i! 




c 




1 ; 


1 : 












c2 2 




~ 


ii 


: : 


S 1 .i 

111 




1 

a 


1 


t 

> 






Date of last 
. . . Was i 




1 ^ 




11 














\ I 




^ 






|jj_ 












i 

1 




:! 


j 


i.i 

o '= 




j 


|| 


j 
1 


1 
) 


i 


II 






U 


.. 1 

s IJ 


3 j 


! 


r 






! 


{j 




; .S i 






a | s s 




i 








1 1 




| ^ 






las 




i 












| 


i 








! 


J 

' 8. 


! 

u! 













i 


j!j 












:! 








-5 ' 














: S 


. 


ii 


* 


II 


ji . 







. 






; 2 

: S 


1 


r jij 


1 

1; 

< b 


Health-Cont, 
Occupation... 


I'll 

ilil 


I 


! 


\ 


u 




'. > 



jl II jlii pii p ij 




j 



j I 1 



Pfjy 



1 



^* Q 

| | jjijjifjjjijj s 

c 

ii 




: S 
o S 
1"5 



I 



6 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

for years great pain at menstruation. This they have simply 
endured, believing it to be the common lot of women. They are 
glad to try any routine suggested which might relieve them, but 
they shrink, quite justifiably often, from local examination unless 
absolutely necessary. 

Pain and discomfort frequently result from faulty circulation, 
from flabby musculature, from accompanying constipation, and 
from strain from faulty posture or position during work. Detail 
of the pain or discomfort is entered by the physician upon the 
card. 




Fig. 1. Mosher. Position Lie on back on floor or bed, with knees bent, feet 
resting on floor or bed; hand resting lightly over abdomen. Movements 1. Raise 
abdomen. 2. Relax abdomen. 3. Contract abdomen forcibly. 4. Relax. 

The examinee is asked to make a note of these points for the 
next two or three periods. 

If constipation exists, every effort is made to overcome it by 
water drinking, by taking green leafy vegetables three times daily, 
breads from whole grains and fruits, and by vigorous general 
activity and special exercise. 

Every health habit is discussed with the examinee and advice 
given, so that from a general health standpoint she may work 
nearer her top notch. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 7 

Her habitual posture, the type of shoe she wears, her working 
chair or long standing position, all have a bearing upon menstrual 
discomfort. 

She is instructed throughout her period to continue her usual, 
or her advised, amount of outdoor activity. She is told that her 
daily bathing routine may be continued throughout menstruation, 
preferably the tepid cleansing bath at night and the cold splash or 
dash in the morning, and in addition in the morning a cleansing 
of the external genitalia with tepid water. Class gymnasium 
work may be taken, or, if desired, special work in the dorsal 




Fig. 2. Treading. Position Kneel on floor with head resting on arms folded on 
floor. Movement Stretch right foot back as far as possible until knee is straight, 
letting back sag down. Return right knee to bent position under abdomen. Repeat 
left. Continue 10-50 times. 

position advised. This is a great advantage over the older way 
of excusing from all activity any girl just because of the men- 
strual period. 

Several special exercises and positions have been found of 
great use. 

This should be practiced leisurely night and morning, if pos- 
sible, and worked up to ten times daily, always with the urinary 
bladder empty ; the habit should be continued straight through the 
month and through the menstrual period. Often when cramp- 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




Fig. 3. Rocking Horss. Position Kneel on floor; bend forward until chest nearly 
touches knees, arms stretched forward; hands resting on floor, shoulder distance apart. 
Movement 1. Swing body forward and down to floor; straightening knees and bending 
elbows. 2. Return to starting position. Repeat, swinging easily forward and back. 
Continue 10-20 times. 




Fig. 4. Knee Chest Position. Position Take position as illustrated above; hold 
3-5 minutes, night and morning. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 9 

like pain is felt, if there is opportunity to begin the Mosher Exer- 
cise then and there, partial or complete relief will be experienced. 
But there is no quick cure, and these exercises call for careful, 
systematic work, often for months, and they must be correctly 
done. If a girl is hurried in the morning, it is advised as an 
evening exercise only. 

In this discussion, pain at the menstrual period which results 
from or is associated with definite pelvic disease, is not included. 
The, physician must decide whether the individual can wisely try 
the outlined suggestions or whether immediate local examination 
must be made and definite treatment instituted. 

Pain not connected with demonstrable pelvic disease, but of 
either the "spasmodic" or the "congestive" type, is often com- 
pletely relieved by the routine and exercises suggested. 

The majority of the questions are self-explanatory. It might 
be of interest to indicate why certain expressions are used or 
omitted. 

Venereal disease is not noted, but questions referring to the 
possibility of these infections can be asked and noted under 
"Other Illness." 

"Headache," if checked, should have some descriptive phrases 
added to distinguish the type or position. 

"Frequent colds" means more than two a year. 

Space is left under "Acute Condition" for a description of 
the present illness if it exists. 

Under teeth, "What used" may give one a chance to urge 
against the use of harmful pastes. The list approved by the 
American Medical Association will be a guide in this direction. 

Under "Diet," the question "regular" is not asked, but "three 
mea 1 s" instead, so that the value of three regular well-balanced 
meals may be emphasized. "Potatoes" and "ice cream" are asked 
especially so that one may indicate to overweight people the 
advisability of omitting them from the diet. 

"Candies" means in excess. Do you buy candy just for your- 
self ? Girls who do are usually eating too much. 

The need of eight glasses of water a day is stressed, as is also 
the importance of milk drinking, and the advisability of cutting 
down the coffee allowance for most women to one cup a day 
and omitting it entirely for growing girls. 

The physician then proceeds to the medical examination, indi- 
cating by check, dash or note the conditions found. 

Recommendations are based upon the findings of the health 
inventory questions and the examination. 

When the second half of the suggested health examination 
the physical examination is completed, the two who have made 
these examinations discuss, in the presence of the individual, the 
findings as a whole. 



10 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

With the structure of the body she possesses, what might one 
reasonably expect her 100 per cent, to be? How near to this 
does she come ? Where does she fall short ? What can she do ? 

"Health" does not mean physical aspect only, but it includes 
the emotional, mental and spiritual well-being of the individual, 
the development of the personality as a whole. 

This examination falls far short of the ideal unless the indi- 
vidual is given an understanding of the influence of her mental 
and emotional state of being upon her own developing personality. 
To know her own state of health and what she can do with it, the 
person being examined needs to luok clearly at her whole routine 
of life her home conditions, working conditions, dominant inter- 
ests;' her amusements, relaxations, outlets; her responsibilities and 
her usefulness; her friends, family, associates, and her attitude 
toward them. The health examination should bring out into open 
light these less recognized factors in personal health, so that the 
person being examined will see clearly in what degree they are 
helping or obstructing her health and the sound development of 
her personality; in what degree they might aid her more than 
they do. 



B. INTERPRETATION OF THE PHYSICAL PART OF THE 
HEALTH EXAMINATION BLANK 



INCLUDING 

1. Equipment for a Medical and Physical Examining Room, 

2. AntJiropometric Table of Weights According to Height and 
Age. 

3. Point System of Grading a Health Examination. 

EQUIPMENT FOR THE EXAMINING ROOM 

For a complete health examination, certain equipment for the 
examining rooms is necessary. In many instances it is impos- 
sible to secure the complete outfit at once. In such cases much 
can be done in the way of substituting; chest expansion may be 
taken instead of lung capacity where there is no spirometer. An 
improvised stadiometer may be made by attaching a tape line to 
the wall. The strength tests may be dispensed with. Where there 
are substitutions, the examinee should understand that she is 
receiving the examination only in part. 

The following list covers the requirement for the complete 
examination with maximum prices quoted : 

MKUICAI. EXAMINATION 

1921 Prices 

Stethoscope 1 $ 5.00 

Sphygmomanometer ' 25.00 

Wooden tongue depressors (box of 100) from any drug 
store 0.75 

$ 30.75 

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 

Rubber stamp cuts : 

Arrowsmith foot tracing apparatus ~ $ 15.00 

Angle cards : 

Subcostal angle apparatus 3 7.59 

Bench 650 

Cabinet for dynamometers % 25.00 

Dynamometer for back and legs 3 30.00 

Dynamometer for hand . 16.00 

Dynamometer for chest . 16.00 

Dynamometer for shoulders 16.00 

Flesh pencil (drug or department store) 0.10 

Flat couch or long table 20.00 

1. From any surgical supply house, as Tieman & Co., 107 East Twenty-Eighth 
Street, New York City. 

2. Arrowsmith Manufacturing Co., Chicago, 111., and Morristown, N. J. 

3. Sherman Marine Compass Co., Bryantyille, Mass. 

All other apparatus may be obtained from Narragansett Machine Co., Providence, 
R. I.; Fred Medart, St. Louis, Mo.; A. G. Spalding & Bros., Chicopee Falls, Mass.; 
Diamond Union Stamp Works, 175 Washington Street, Boston, Mass. 



12 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



Scale 50.00 

Schematograph 50.00 

Stadiometer 15.00 

Tape measure 0.10 

Triple mirror (made by local carpenter) 100.00 

Spirometer 20 00 

Spirometer shelf 2.50 

Wooden mouthpieces for Spirometer (per 500) 3.00 

POINT SYSTEM FOR HEALTH EXAMINATION 

Maximum 

Points Grade Points 

Medical Examination 10 A 10 

A 9 

B 8 

B 7 

C 6 

(2 5 

Vhysical Examination 

Weight 1 10 lb.s. out 1 

15 Ibs. out .5 

Grade higher under 35 if slightly 

overweight. 
Grade higher over 35 if slightly 

underweight. 

Consider age, skeletal development 
and family tendency. 

Lung capacity 54 200 .5 

If height is less than 60 in. (.25 credit ISO -25 

is given for 125-150; .50 for 150-200) 

Subcostal angle Y* 67 1 A 5 

45 .25 

Total strength 2 325 kilos 2. 

(Grading here based on apparatus mea- 300 kilrs .75 

suring in kilos made by Sherman . 275 kilos .5 

Marine Compass Co. Where appa- 250 kilos .25 

ratus measures in Ibs., the grading 225 kilos 

must be computed for lb.) 200 kilos .5 

Feet 2 A 

A .5 

B 

B .5 

Posture 3 A 3 

A 2.5 

B 2 

B 1.5 

C 1 

Habits of exercise and recreation 1 adequate 1 

inadequate .5 

none 

Total points 20 



The examining rooms should be adjoining rooms with plenty 
of light and ventilation. The examination is private, with no 
other in the examining room than the examiner and examinee. 
The recorder must be separated from these two by screens. 

The records should be kept in private files- to be referred to 
only by the one who has done the examining. 

There should be no interruption during the examination and 
no confusion in or near the examining room. 

The examinee should come by appointment. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 13 

For a complete health examination, an examining robe is used. 
These are of various types, the two-piece being perhaps the most 
used. The material used is usually a heavy white cotton. Outing 
flannel tends to prevent the body from chilling and is used exclu- 
sively in some institutions. 

The two-piece robe is made of a straight piece of material, 
open on the sides, with a draw string through the top. The top 
piece should hang from the shoulders to a little below the waist 
and the bottom piece from the hips to the knees. 

Two sizes are advised where examining is done with people 
of all ages. A small size may be used for children from 7 to 12 
years of age. The smaller size should be 16 by 48 inches and the 
adult size 24 by 72 inches. 

All clothing should be removed before putting on the examin- 
ing robe. Shoes should be worn or carried into the examining 
room. If worn, they must be removed while height, weight and 
posture are being taken. 

HEIGHT 

Have examinee remove shoes and stand on stadiometer with 
back to rod so that heels and back just touch it, feet parallel, and 
body in natural standing position, chin in. Lower adjustable arm 
so that it touches gently the head of the examinee. Read height 
on upright. 

WEIGHT 

1. Use standard scales. 

2. A scale with a measuring rod (similar to picture) may be 
used to measure height instead of a stadiometer. The latter, 
however, is more accurate. 

Knowing height and age, one can compute the average weight. 
Consider age, skeletal development, family tendency, and allow 
for those in grading. Ten pounds either way from the standard 
can be considered normal. 

A person under 35 years of age may safely be slightly over- 
weight, while the one over 35 may be graded higher if slightly 
under weight. 

Taking into consideration the skeletal development of the 
examinee, she may have large bones with no superfluous flesh 
and be overweight according to the chart, or she may have very 
small bones and much flesh and be average weight for her height 
and age. She may come from a family of thin people, so her 
tendency would be that of her ancestors. 

The same will apply to the short heavy build. he may be 

4 feet, 11 inches in height with broad shoulders, broad through the 
hips, and be 15 pounds overweight. The tall thin one may be 

5 feet, 9 inches, with narrow shoulders, and very long narrow 
trunk, and 15 pounds under weight. To them both we would give 
maximum credit on weight, providing they scored on their strength 



14 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



tests. Muscle tone below par, regardless of age or skeletal devel- 
opment, is an indication of generally poor physical condition. 

To score on the total strength test, she must make 200 kilos, or 
450 pounds. This gives her the minimum credit. From 275 to 
325 kilos, or 618 to 731 pounds, shows good muscle tone. 




Fig. 5. Standard Scales and Measuring Red. The Fairbanks Company, New 
York City. 

LUNG CAPACITY 

A spirometer is used for this purpose. Have examinee take a 
deep breath so that the lungs are full of fresh air, then place the 
wooden mouthpiece between the lips and blow into the tube. The 
examiner watches the arm of the spirometer as it travels up the 
measuring rod and notes the height at which it stops when all the 
air is exhaled. 

NOTE. No one with a weak heart or lung trouble should be 
permitted to use this apparatus. Used mouthpieces are put into 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 15 

a sterilizing pan, boiled for at least one-half hour, then removed 
and dried, after which each is carefully wrapped in tissue paper. 
Avoid touching mouthpiece with fingers. 



STANDARD TABLE OF HEIGHTS 


AND 


WEIGHTS 












GIRLS 












Height 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


Inch s 


Years 


Y-ars 


Years 


Years 


Years 


Years 


Years 


Years 


Years 


Years 


39 


34 


35 


36 
















40 


36 


37 


38 
















41 


38 


29 


40 
















42 


40 


41 


42 


43 














43 


42 


42 


. 43 


44 














44 


44 


45 


45 


46 














45 


46 


47 


47 


48 


49 












46 


48 


48 


49 


50 


51 












47 




49 


50 


51 


52 


53 










48 




51 


52 


53 


54 


55 


56 








49 




53 


54 


55 


56 


5/ 


58 








50 






56 


57 


58 


59 


60 


61 . 






51 




. 


59 


60 


61 


62 


63 


64 






52 






62 


63 


64 


65 


66 


67 






53 








66 


67 


68 


68 


69 


70 




54 








68 


69 


70 


71 


72 


73 




55 










72 


73 


74 


75 


76 


77 


56 


. . 








76 


77 


78 


79 


80 


81 


57 












81 


82 


83 


84 


85 


58 












85 


86 


87 


88 


89 


59 












89 


90 


91 


93 


94 


60 














94 


95 


97 


99 


61 












. . 


99 


101 


102 


104 


62 




. . 










104 


106 


107 


109 


63 














109 


111 


112 


113 


64 
















115 


117 


118 


65 










. . 






117 


119 


120 


66 
















119 


121 


122 


67 


















124 


126 


68 


















126 


128 


69 


















129 


131 


70 




















134 


71 




















138 


72 
































WOMEN 












Height 


itc 




Ave 


w 


. . * 


, . 


* , . A rrA 




I 




Feet Inches 


15-19 


20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 


50-54 


55-59 


4 


II 


110 


113 


116 


119 


122 


126 


129" 


131 


132 


5 





112 


116 


118 


121 


124 


128 


131 


133 


134 




I 


114 


117 


120 


123 


126 


130 


133 


135 


137 




2 


117 


120 


122 


125 


129 


133 


136 


138 


140 




3 


120 


123 


125 


128 


132 


136 


139 


141 


143 




4 


123 


126 


129 


132 


136 


139 


142 


144 


146 




5 


126- 


129 


132 


136 


140 


143 


146 


148 


150 




6 


130 


133 


136 


140 


144 


147 


151 


152 


153 




7 


134 


137 


140 


144 


148 


151 


155 


157 


158 




8 


138 


141 


144 


148 


152 


155 


159 


162 


163 




9 


141 


145 


148 


152 


156 


159 


163 


166 


167 




10 


145 


149 


1:12 


155 


159 


162 


166 


170 


173 




II 


150 


153 


1.55 


158 


162 


166 


170 


174 


177 


6 





155 


157 


159 


162 


165 


169 


173 


177 


182 



CHEST EXPANSION 



To be taken only where there is no spirometer. Place the 
tape above the breast, touching the fourth rib anteriorly, and the 
tips of the scapulae posteriorly. (Measurement at rest.) Keep- 



16 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



ing the tape in the same position, have examinee inhale, and 
record measurement at point of greatest expansion, and, lastly, 
record at point of complete exhalation. 

Subcostal Angle. Cards for measuring the angle may be 
made of cardboard or celluloid, and of the following degrees : 
22y, 33y 2 , 45, 67%, 90 and 112. Have the examinee lie flat on 
a couch or plinth with arms at sides, and breathe naturally. Place 
apex of card at the ensiform process (end of sternum) and fit it 
into the angle made by the end of sternum and ribs. A person 





Figure 6 



Figure 7 



Fig. 6. Wet Spirometer. Narragansett Machine Company, Providence, R. I. 
Fig. 7. Subcostal Angle Apparatus. Marine Compass Company, Bryantville, Mass. 

who slumps habitually usually has a small angle. The purpose 
of increasing the angle to 45 or above is to give the organs in the 
chest and abdominal cavities room for proper functioning, and 
to keep the chest flexible. The angle may be increased through 
the use of general exercises which make one breathe deeply exer- 
cises using the arms and trunk, vigorous gymnastics or dancing; 
active recreation, such as swimming, rowing, paddling, hiking, 
tennis, etc. Special breathing exercises may also be taken. 

Subcostal Angle Apparatus. A special piece of apparatus 
may be used for measuring the subcostal angle. It may be 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 17 

obtained from the Sherman Marine Compass Co., Bryantville, 
Mass. It is used in the same way as cards, being fitted into the 
angle made by the sternum and the ribs. 



STRENGTH TEST 



Hands. Place the hand dynamometer in the right hand of the 
examinee with the recording side toward the palm of the hand. 




Fig. 8. Hand Dynamometer. Marine Compass Company, Bryantville, Mass. 




Fig. 9. Chest Dynamometer. Marine Compass Company, Bryantville, Mass. 

Have her grip hard; record the reading in kilograms. Repeat 
with the left hand. (The apparatus may measure in pounds. If 
so, record accordingly.) 

Chest. Place the hand dynamometer in the chest apparatus 
and lay it on chest of examinee with record side out. Have her 
push the ends of it together, keeping the elbows shoulder height. 
Record the result. 



18 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




Fig. 10. Shoulder Dynamometer. Marine Compass Company, Bryantville, Mass. 




Fig. 11. Back and Leg Dynamometer. Marine Compass Company, Bryantville, 
Mass. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 19 

Shoulders. Place the hand dynamometer in the shoulder appa- 
ratus and lay it on the chest of the examinee. Have her pull the 
ends apart as far as possible, keeping elbows shoulder height and 
not rounding back. Record the result. 

Back. Have the examinee place one foot on either side of the 
base of the dynamometer and take hold of the upper crosspiece 
with hands. In this position the back is bent. Pull up with hands 
and push down with feet, keeping back bent and knees straight. 
Adjust length to individual, her hands at knees. Record the 
result. 

Legs. Have the examinee take the same position of hands 
and feet as in back pull. The knees, however, are bent sideways 
and back is held straight. Pull up with hands and down with feet. 
Length is not changed, but hands should be above the knees. 
Record the result. 

NOTE. Attention should be paid to the normal breathing dur- 
ing these tests. Shoes are to be worn for the back and legs test, 
as they afford greater comfort. There is a slight saving of time 
in giving the strength test after posture, to avoid twice taking off 
and putting on the shoes. 

THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 

The usual order for the physical examination has been posture, 
feet, etc., beginning with the head and working down to the feet. 
Since the way the feet are used so largely determines posture, it 
would seem more logical to begin with the feet and work up. 
The way in which one uses the feet, whether toeing out or for- 
ward, affects the position of the legs. The position of the legs 
affects the muscles of the foot, and also the position of the trunk 
muscles. In showing one how to correct posture, we begin with 
the feet, working up through the knees, the trunk muscles, the 
back of the neck and the head. So it seems a more natural pro- 
cedure to examine from the feet up. 

/ THE NORMAL FOOT 

Straight line from internal malleolus to floor. 
Longitudinal arch good. 

Tendons allowing flexibility to right angle or beyond. 
Transverse arch good. 
Toes straight. 
Large toe joint good. 
Free from corns. 
Free from pain. 

NOTE. With generally strong feet very slight- pronation or 
very slightly pinched toes may be discounted. 



20 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 
POSTURE 



Feet. Examinee stands on a bench in front of the mirror. 
As posture is largely determined by the position and condition of 
the feet, the first step in the examination is to determine whether 
the examinee is toeing out or forward, and whether her arches 
are good or low. 




Fig. 12. Normal feet. 



Legs. The conditions noted, we look at the legs. Are they 
straight, bowed, knock-kneed or posturally knock-kneed? If pos- 
turally knock-kneed, have examinee take straightforward positior 
of the feet, watching in the mirror the separating of the knees. 
By placing her hand on her hips she can feel the drawing in of 
the pelvic bones and muscles, and she will feel her weight no 
longer borne through her heels, but through the long arch. Have 
her change from straightforward position. of the feet until she 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



21 




Fig. 13. E version and pr&nation. 




Fig. 14. Good arch. 



22 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



sees the rotation outward of the patella in toeing out, and its 
change to normal in parallel position. She will also note the lift- 
ing, though it may be very slight, of the long arch. 

Evcrsion. Is the habitual position of the feet parallel or 
everted ? 




Fig. 15. Relaxed position. 




Fig. 16. Normal flexed position. 




Fig. 17. Good transverse arch. 

Pronation. Is there a sagging between the tarsalphalangeal 
articulation inward, with the weight falling on the inner edge of 
the foot ? 

Lone/ Arch. Are the muscles firm or relaxed? Is there a 
bulging? With this relaxed condition, are the arches low or flat? 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



23 



Tendons. Is the dorsal flexion normal, that is, from the 
relaxed position (Fig. 15) ? Can the foot be drawn to the normal 
flexed position (Fig. 16) ? 

Transverse Arch. Is there the normal groove as in Figure 
17, or has the surface become low, flat, bulging or calloused? 

Toes. Have the toes power or life? Can they pick up pen- 
cils? Are they crowded against, over or under each other? 
Have they their natural slight curl or are they straight and flat- 




Fig. 18. Good feet. 

tened down? Have they rubbed places? Is the big toe straight 
in line with the inner edge of the heel, and are there spaces 
between the toes? Is the great toe joint enlarged, inflamed, or is 
there a bunion? 

Corns. Number and location. 

Pain. Is there pain in the long or transverse arch, or in the 
dorsal or plantar surface of the foot? Is there pain in the leg- 
anterior or posterior or does it carry into the abdomen, back or 
neck? 



24 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



Correction. Have the examinee stand with feet parallel, the 
weight through the long arches. Have her raise her arches and 
then pronate and notice the difference, until she gets the best 
possible position. Is her correction good, fair or poor? 




Fig. 19. Damaged feet. 





Fig. 20. Relation of shoes to feet. 



Shoes. Have the examinee's shoes a straight inner border, 
broad toes, a low broad heel, a flexible shank, and low cut? Are 
her shoes good, fair or poor? ( Fig. 20). Might the shoes have 
any relation to the condition of her feet? 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



25 



Grade. Good (or normal) A. 

Fair, A, B, B . All defects slight. One arch flat. One marked 
defect with several slight ones. 

Poor, C, C . Both arches flat. One arch flat with two other marked 
defects. Pain. 

Points: A, 2; A 1.5; B, 1; B , 0.5. 

SHOES 

A shoe to be correct (1) should have a straight inner line; 
(2) should allow room for the toes; (3) should have a broad 
low heel, maximum 1 inch in height; (4) should have a flexible 




Fig. 21. From bad to good shoes. 




Fig. 22. Flexible shank. 

shank, because this allows the muscles of the arch to remain 
strong through use; (5) should be low cut, allowing free circula- 
tion and use of the foot muscles. Spats or woolen stockings are 
advised for cold or wet weather. 

Many conventional pointed walking shoes have low heels, but 
the shank of the shoe is stiff. One should be able to bend the 
shoes downward so that the heel and toe touch (Fig. 22). A stiff 
shank limits the use of the arch muscles, thus making a crutch 
of what should be a covering. As has been previously stated, 
poihted toes limit the action of the toe muscles and interfere with 
circulation. People often say it is necessary to wear high heels 
because of high arches (Fig. 23). Instead, the high heeled shoe 



26 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

weakens the long arch, shortens the calf muscles, and brings the 
pressure on the anterior arch, causing the anterior arch to break 
down, with the result, in some cases, of a callous spot. Arches 
which may relax and are low in a standing position under the 
weight of the body, may appear normal when a person is sitting. 
We are so used to seeing relaxed and flat arches that a normal 
arch is often mistaken for an abnormally high arch. Often peo- 
ple think they must wear high shoes because they have weak 
ankles. By limiting the action of the muscles through disuse, 
one weakens them, and the high boot not only does this, but also 
interferes with circulation. 




Fig. 23. High he:ls vs. low heels. 
POSTURE 

The normal figure: Head erect. Neck erect and free from 
tension. Chest broad, deep and forward of abdomen. Abdomen 
slightly round and firm. Shoulders level, free from tension. 
Scapulae level and fairly flat. Hips level and of equal prominence. 
Back normal physiological anteroposterior curves. Spine straight 
and flexible. Weight held directly over longitudinal arch. Legs 
straight. Feet parallel. 

NOTE. With general good carriage, slight inequalities in 
spine, shoulders or scapulae may be discounted. 

Examination taken anteroposteriorly : Following the foot 
examination, the examinee continues to stand at ease, right side 
to a single or triple mirror, preferably triple. Are the feet in 
parallel position or are they toeing out? Is abdomen slightly 
round and firm, prominent, flabby or sagging? 

BACK 

As a whole, is it any one of the following: Round, long round, 
hollow, round hollow or flat? Is it strong or weak? Are the 
muscles resistant to touch or are they useless? 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



27 



Round. An increased convexity of the normal dorsal curve. 

Long Round.-*-An overlapping of the normal posterior dorsa\ 
curve with a diminishing of the anterior lumbar curve (Fig. 28). 

Hollow. Increase in degree and extent of normal anterior 
curve of lumbar spine encroaching upon normal posterior curve 
in the dorsal spine (Fig. 26). 

Round Hollow. The combination of the round and the hollow 
as described above (Fig. 27). 

Flat. A lessening of the normal dorsal curve with a slight 
lessening of the normal lumbar curve. 



J 

Fig. 24 
Fig. 24. Good posture. 



Fig. 25 Fig. 26 

Figs. 25 and 26. Prominent abdomen. 



SHOULDERS 



Is there apparent diameter in line with that of the head, neck, 
trunk and legs, or is it forward of the plumb line? Are they so 
poised that the least muscular effort and the least ligamentous 
strain are needed to hold them upright? 



CHEST 



Is it broad and deep, or flat and narrow? Is it forward of the 
abdomen, or as in the slumpy types? Is the line of the chest back 
of the abdomen? Is it well filled out at the shoulders, or are 
there hollows? 



28 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



SEVENTH CERVICAL 

Is it in its normal line, or is it unduly prominent? 

NECK 
Is it erect, or tilted forward? 

HEAD 

Is it erect (Fig. 24), or does it droop, or both? (In Fig. 29 
both head and neck are forward.) Or is it tipped to one side? 
Is the body well balanced, falling in the vertical line? Is it car- 
ried forward or backward of the vertical line? Or is there dis- 
placement to the left or right? 



Fig. 27 Fig. 28 Fig. 29 

Figs. 27 and 28. Types of backs. Fig. 29. Forward head. 

TAKEN POSTERIORLY 

Hips. Are they level, or is one more prominent? 

Scapulae. Are they level and fairly flat, or are they promi- 
nent, one more prominent, or one higher? 

Shoulders. Are they level, or is one higher? Have they ths 
appearance of being tense? Is fatigue or pain localized here? 
Do the muscles feel lumpy or hard and are they sore to the touch ? 

Spine. Is the spine flexible and straight? 

Flexibility, Anterior. Can the examinee when standing with 
straight knees bend forward and reach within 3 inches of the 
floor? 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 29 

Lateral. Does she bend with equal ease from right to left, 
hand reaching about to knee? 

Lateral Deviation. Mark the spinous processes with a flesh 
pencil. Is the line thus formed vertical, or does it curve or devi- 
ate to right or left, or both ? Deviations may be : 

Total : A curve to one side, involving all the vertebrae ; very 
common. 

Cervical: A deviation from the midline to right or left in the 
cervical region only; rare. 

Cervicodorsal : A deviation from the midline in cervical and 
dorsal region. 

Dorsal : A deviation from the midline to right or left in the 
dorsal region only. 

Dorsolumbar: A deviation from the midline to right or left 
in dorsal and lumbar region. 

Lumbar: A deviation from the midline to right or left in the 
lumbar region only. 

Rotation. A swinging backward of the ribs on the side of 
the convexity of the curve; indicated by a prominence on either 
side of the trunk. With the examinee standing, is this promi- 
nence seen through cervical, dorsal or lumbar region? Test rota- 
tion by having the examinee bend forward. Is this visible? If 
the appearance remains, it is true rotation. 

Posture Correction, Standing. Examinee stands with feet 
parallel as in Figure 24, and, standing, grows tall from the arches, 
up through the trunk, pushing up toward the ceiling. The shoul- 
ders and chest should be relaxed. Have the examinee take a side 
view of herself in the mirror and let her change from her poor 
posture to good posture ; then let her slump and correct until she 
sees the difference. 

Posture Correction, Sitting. Have the examinee sit as far 
back as possible and grow tall through the trunk, the same as in 
standing. Have her sit toeing out, then toeing in, until she real- 
izes the advantage of the straightforward or the toeing-in position. 

Grading. Good (or normal) A as in Figure 24. A , may 
have habitually good posture, but the back may be very slightly 
hollow or round, or the chest may be slightly low. 

Fair, B, slight errors in several of the above points. B , 
marked error in one point with slight errors in others. 

Poor, C, marked errors in two points. C , marked errors 
in more than two points. 

Points: A, 3.0; A 2.5; B, 2.0; B , 1.5; C, 1.0; C , 0.50. 

STRENGTH TEST 

Because of self-consciousness and timidity in the average 
examinee, it has been found advisable to give height, weight, lung 
capacity and subcostal angle tests at the beginning of the exami- 
nation. This gives a slight "getting-acqainted" period and is the 



30 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

part of the examination in which every one is interested more 
interested, in fact, on arrival, than in posture. "How much should 
I weigh?" is the question which invariably comes before one has 
time to consult the chart for average weight. 

"Is that good?" or "Is that bad?" follows the taking of lung 
capacity, and "What should it be?" follows close upon the taking 
of the subcostal angle. This leads to a chat on posture and 
exercise. 

The muscle strength test may follow in its printed order, pre- 
ceding the posture test. It is usually found, however, that an 
examinee shows a better strength test at the end of the examina- 
tion than at the beginning. She has lost, to a large degree, the 
feeling of self-restraint. 

A high strength test invariably accompanies good posture. 
This fact may be used as an argument either before or after the 
posture test. If the test precedes posture, the examiner may 
say, "We would expect good strength because of your good 
posture." If the test follows posture test, she may say just the 
same thing, "With your good posture, a good strength test would 
be expected." 

A frequently heard question, "How can I improve it ?" comes 
at the end of the examination more often than at the beginning, 
for the importance of the relation of muscle tone to posture has 
not been sensed at the beginning. The one thought, then, has 
been, "How much?" with no related hows, whys or becauses tied 
up to it. And yet the examiner by giving the strength test first 
may refer back to muscle tone all through the posture test, show- 
ing how improved muscle tone may improve posture. 

HABITS OF EXERCISE AND RECREATION 

Has the examinee habits of exercise and recreation? Does 
she frequent the gymnasium, the swimming pool or the special 
exercise room? Is she an out-of-door girl or a stay-at-home 
girl? Does she regard her pleasures as renewal of life? Does 
she use intelligent preference and choose them before all others, 
or does she merely accept habitual pastimes because there is 
"nothing else to do?" Does she take only one type of recreation 
and expect it to fill the place of the many varieties of expression 
which would satisfy her personal tastes and increase her efficiency 
in both work and play? 

If the examinee takes regular exercise at least two days a 
week, such as gymnastics, games, dancing, organized sports or 
swimming, plus vigorous walking and daily home exercise, then 
she should receive full credit for good habits of exercise. 

Credit for habits of exercise must be left to the judgment of 
the examiner. There should be regular exercise, whether class or 
individual, chosen sports and athletic games, all participated in 
with sufficient frequency to be of the utmost value to the 
individual, 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 31 

Not all the types of recreation have been listed. Any kind 
of exercise or hobby which is pursued with effort and enjoyment 
may be recreation, and more than one hobby may be enjoyed at 
the same time, such as camping, antique furniture, amateur dra- 
matics, etc. Their chief importance for the examinee is her atti- 
tude toward them and their consequent relation to the maintenance 
of balance. 

To determine whether recreation is "adequate," it is neces- 
sary to consider variety of interests and their mode of expression 
through physical, mental, emotional or spiritual forces. The girl 
who both works and plays indoors has not adequate recreation, 
even though she may have variety of expression. The girl who 
works, indoors but plays out of doors, even though she may have 
more limited variety and less frequency, may have adequate rec- 
reation if it is combined with some form of regular exercise. 
Interests may be expressed through watching others play their 
parts on the stage or the screen or the pages of a book, or through 
observing Nature, or people in real life. They may also be 
expressed through taking part in dramatics, sports, the use of the 
out of doors, friendly relationships, etc. Credit should be based 
on their respective degrees of usefulness in building a well-rounded 
life, and constantly renewing its vitality. 

The type of exercise prescribed by the physician and the 
physical examiner depends upon the needs of the individual. The 
one who sits at work requires vigorous exercise on her feet, while 
the one who stands all day will be more greatly benefited by indi- 
vidual exercises, either sitting or lying. 

Class exercise two days a week is advised for the majority 
exercise such as gymnastics, gymnastic games, dancing and 
swimming. 

In addition to class work in the gymnasium, the individual 
may go to the special exercise room for such exercises as have 
been prescribed. 

A few special exercises may be given the individual to do at 
home exercises for the feet, constipation, dysmenorrhea, and 
a few general trunk exercises. For extreme posture cases it is 
recommended that no home work be given for the correction 
of curvatures, as faulty positions may be assumed, thus undoing 
what the supervised work may have accomplished. 

Recommendations should be given to the examinee with a 
view to increasing her appreciation of the constructive activities 
in which she is participating; emphasis should be laid on the 
possibilities available in the line of her interest. For real health- 
building, these should disclose to her new resources within her- 
self, develop her personality and increase her joy of living. 

RECOM MENDATIONS 

The medical and the physical examinations may both show 
good equipment good habits, good feet and posture, no handicaps 



32 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

to be overcome in the way of defects or ailments. In such cases, 
with a clear road ahead, no special exercises are recommended, 
but general exercises and recreation are advised not only to main- 
tain health at the high standard now existing, but to build pro- 
gressively toward a future higher standard. 

Heart and Lungs. The condition of heart and lungs deter- 
mines the range and vigor of activity. If one is below the nor- 
mal, general building-up exercises are given. These exercises are 
taken lying down ; few are done at first, but they are gradually 
increased in number and vigor as one's physical condition 
improves. 

Feet. Poor foot conditions may be affecting posture, which 
in turn is causing the trouble the physician has noted. For illus- 
tration, let us cite an individual case. The physician has recom- 
mended exercises for constipation and painful menstruation. The 
physical examiner finds: Underweight or overweight; low lung 
capacity ; eversion ; pronation ; low and calloused anterior arch ; 
crowded toes (poor shoe); prominent, flabby abdomen ; long 
round back; flat and narrow chest; low muscle strength. The 
findings denote lowered tone throughout. The following recom- 
mendations are made: 

Weight, Diet, Exercise. The physician having prescribed the 
necessary changes. in diet, exercises are given which change the 
flabby, unused tissue into strength-giving, useful muscles. 

Lung Capacity and Chest. Exercises are given which cause 
one to breathe deeply. Out-of-door games, sports, hikes and 
swimming are recommended. 

Parallel Position of Feet. To bring the hips back, to correct 
postural knock-knee, to aid in the correction of pronation and to 
enable one to bear the weight through the long arch, the impor- 
tance of toeing straight forward must be emphasized. 

Pronation. To correct sagging inward, the foot-rolling- 
outward and foot-circling exercises should be given ; also walking 
toeing-in. 

Anterior Arch. To strengthen the muscles of the anterior 
arch, use foot-gripping; practice picking up pencils, marbles, 
stockings, etc., with the toes. 

Shoes. Go over the bad points in the shoes worn by the 
examinee, contrasting them with the points which make a good 
shoe. Give a shoe list showing where good shoes may be bought. 

Posture. Emphasize sitting, standing, walking, tall. Stress the 
use of the trunk, muscles of the feet. 

Abdomen Prominent, Flabby; Constipation. Special exercises 
for strengthening the abdominal muscles must be given, such as 
bicycling in air. Abdominal exercises must follow immediately 
after those given for straightening the back. Use lying, knee- 
bending, treading, abdominal contractions, etc. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



33 



Back, Long, Round. Prone-lying and trunk-raising exercises ; 
also the following, sitting or standing: swing wand forward and 
upward over the head, bend arms, and bring wand down behind 
scapulae, keeping head well erect. 

Chest Flat, Narrow. -Recommendations found under heading 
"Lung Capacity and Chest." The physician recommends exer- 
cises for menstrual difficulties, constipation, indigestion, relaxa- 
tion, etc. These are very closely correlated with what the physi- 
cal examiner finds as to posture, and immediate work is begun 
on abdominal muscles, or the strengthening of all trunk muscles. 

Dysmenorrhea; Use rocking horse and Dr. Mosher's exercise. 
Where there is backache, use knee-chest position. 

GRADING IN POINTS, PER CENT. AND LETTERS 



Points 

20 
19 
18 



Per Cent. 



Letters 



100 
95 
90 



1754-34 85-90 A 



17 

.16 

15 

14 

13 

12 

1154-54 55-60 

11 60 1 



851 
80 \ 
75 J 
-75 
701 

65 

60 J 



B 



.70-75 B 



C 



55 
45 J 



If a more detailed grading by points and percentages is pre 
ferred, the following table may be used : 



9 





45. 


954 





46.25 


9 l /2 





47.5 


93/4 





48.75 


10 





50. 


1054 
1054 


' 


51.25 
52.5 


1034 


S3 


53.75 


11 


S3 


55. 


1154 
1154 
11*4 


= 


56.25 1 
57.5 
58.75 J 


12 





60. ' 


1254 





61.25 


l2 l /2 





62.5 


1234 





63.75 


13 





65. 


1354 


~ 


66.25 


1354 


E; 


67.5 


1334 


: 


68.75 


1.4 


S3 


70. 


1454 





71.25] 


1454 





72.5 


1434 


3S 


73.75J 



..C 



15 





75. 1 


1SJ4 


: 


76.25 


15# 





77.5 


1554 


3= 


78.75 


16 





80. 


1654 





81.25 


1654 


; 


82.5 


16*4 


S3 


83.75 


17 


= 


85. 


1754 





86.25 1 


17*4 





87.5 j 


173X 


=3 


88.75 j 


18 





90. : 


1854 





91.25 


isy 2 





92.5 


1334 





93.75 


19 


~ 


95. 


1954 
19*4 


' 


96.25 
97.5 


1934 





98.75 


20 


S3 


100. 



.A 



.B 



Knowing the total points of the medical and physical exami- 
nation, one can obtain the final grade in percentage and letters 
from the above chart. 



PART II. INDIVIDUAL EXERCISES 



INTRODUCTORY 

It is important to choose your exercises with discrimination. 
There is a mistaken idea that any exercise is a good exercise for 
anybody. But the individual who has had a thorough health 
examination will readily appreciate the necessity of adapting the 
type of exercise to her individual needs and of applying her per- 
sonal intelligence at all times to the choice. 

There are a few general guide points to be borne in mind in 
the selection and practice of health-building exercises. For the 
following out of the explicit directions given below, a few pre- 
liminary explanations may be useful. In cases where the same 
exercises are found in lists for people who are overweight and 
underweight, it is because they are suitable for both and are of 
value as general exercises. Special exercises are also duplicated 
in some cases because they apply to all types. Exercises for under- 
weight types should be done less vigorously and fewer times than 
those for overweight types. Overweight persons should usually 
do exercises faster, longer and more vigorously. This is important 
to remember. 

Weak heart cases should always exercise under the direction 
of a physician and not through correspondence courses. On gen- 
eral principles avoid jumping, sustained positions, holding breath 
and suspension work. It is not necessary, however, to omit all 
exercise in all types of heart cases, but rather to take it faithfully 
under the physician's directions. 

Daily exercises should be kept up during the menstrual period, 
with the sole proviso that they be done less vigorously. The 
abandonment of all exercises during this period is an unnecessary 
concession to a normal condition and is very undesirable as an 
interruption to the formation of health-building habits. In gen- 
eral, the individual should take her exercises just after, rather 
than just before, the emptying of the bowels and the bladder. 

In all cases not specifically designated as foot exercises, the 
standing and walking position should be the correct one that is, 
with feet exactly parallel and toes pointing straight ahead. The 
exercises specifically designed for the feet should be taken sitting, 
preferably in bare feet or else in stockings alone. 

Permission to use the Mosher exercise for dysmenorrhea was 
obtained from Dr. Clelia D. Mosher. The exercises called wall 
bicycling and pumping, and the arm and leg flexions and exten- 
sions were borrowed by kind permission from Dr. W. C. Adams. 
Our appreciative acknowledgment for the use of these is hereby 
given. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 35 

EXERCISES FOR PEOPLE WHO SIT AT WORK 



Stout Type. Overweight. General Exercises 




JACK KNIFE DIVE 

Stand; try to touch the floor by bending forward sharply at hips, with 
straight upper back. Straighten up with arms over head. Lower arm 
sideways downward, 12 to 20 times, groups of 6's. 




BENDING 



Stand with hands on hips; bend left knee up quickly and replace, 
keeping trunk erect; repeat right. Continue alternately in quick time, 20 
to 40 times. 




, 



ROOSTER 



Stand, arms in bent position, hands at shoulders, elbows touching 
sides; raise elbows with backward movement of head and heel raising. 
Continue 10 to 20 times. 



o 




FLINGING 

Stand, hands on hips ; fling left leg straight to side and back to orig- 
inal position. Repeat right. Continue alternately left and right, 10 to 
20 times. 



36 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




BICYCLING 



Lying, bend and extend knees alternately as in paddling motion on 
bicycle, making circles in the air with the foot and leg. Continue 
rhythmically in 10's, 30 to 40 times. 




CAT WALK 

Relax head, back and knees, and come to stoop-standing position 
with palms on the floor. Advance with right arm and right foot until 
left knee is straight, keeping left hand on the floor. Repeat, advancing 
the same way with left foot and left arm, keeping right hand on floor, 
lifting the whole body in moving forward. The body should not be 
tense, but should advance after the manner of a cat, 12 to 20 times. 



Stout Type. Overweight. Special exercises for indigestion, con- 
stipation. 



u 

1 




BENDING 



Stand with hands on hips; bend left knee up quickly and replace, keep- 
ing trunk erect ; repeat right. Continue alternately in quick time, 20 to 40 
times. 



J?_ 

II irrt 




STEAMBOAT 



Stand, feet apart, arms shoulder height. Bend right knee, touching 
floor with right hand; return to erect position. Continue alternately left 
and right, 10 to 20 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



37 



O 



FLINGING 



Stand with hands on hips or hold onto chair for support; fling left 
leg forward and back. Repeat same with right leg. Continue alternately 
left and right, 10 to 30 times. 



SQUEEZE 

Kneel; sit on floor to left of knees; clasp hands back of head, or 
merely touch fingers. Bend to right side, touching floor with elbows. 
Same to opposite side. In groups of 3's, 6 to 12 times. 



CAT 



On hands and knees, "all fours"; raise the back and shoulders cat fash- 
ion, contracting abdomen. Then relax and hollow the back, letting shoul- 
ders down, but not bending elbows, 12 to 20 times. 



PUMPING 

Lie on back with knees bent, feet resting on floor; inhale and lift the 
upper abdomen ; exhale and relax. To localize, lay hand lightly on upper 
abdomen just below subcostal angle, make quick breath-intake and 
upward movement. In groups of 5, 10 to 15 times. 

Stout Type. Overweight. Special exercises for constipation, dysmen- 
orrhea and relaxed muscles. 




JACK KNIFE 

Stand with feet parallel ; swing arms above head and forward down 
to touch floor. Return to erect position. Continue 10 to 20 times, 



38 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




CLIMBING LADDER 



Grasp a ladder with left hand, bend right knee upward and place right 
foot on ladder rung. Climb by reversing arm and leg positions ; bend 
knees high. Repeat 10 to 20 times. 



SWINGING 



Lying on back with knees bent to chest, feet crossed and arms extended 
relaxed at shoulder level, swing knees sideways to touch floor, alter- 
nately, right and left. Vigorous swinging causes the body to progress on 
the mat ; 10 to 30 times. 





PULLING 



Stand, hands clenched at sides. Bend trunk quickly to right, as if pull- 
ing with left hand. Continue alternately left and right, 10 -to 20 times. 




RAISING FLAG 



Stand, right arm extended upward as if grasping rope, left arm in 
front of waist. Pull down with right hand, bending knees. Grasp rope 
left hand, straighten knees. Repeat 10 to 20 times. 



MOSHER 



Lie on back on floor or bed, with knees bent, feet resting on floor or 
bed, hand resting lightly on lower abdomen. Raise abdomen, relax 
abdomen ; contract abdomen forcibly, relax abdomen. Repeat rhythmically, 
without strain or jerking, on four counts. Five, rest; 5 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



39 



Stout Type. Overweight. Special exercises for constipation and tense 
muscles. 





FLINGING 



Stand with hands on hips or holding onto chair for support; fling lefl 
leg forward and back. Repeat same with right leg. Continue alternately 
1 ( t and right, 10 to 30 times. 





)&^ 

-vy .41^ 



DOUBLING OVER 






Sit on chair with feet resting on chair or bench 6 to 12 inches lower, 
with right arm resting across abdomen, left arm hanging at side. Bend 
forward quickly, pressing arm into abdomen and keeping knees together, 
30 to 40 times. 






WIG WAG 



Stand, feet parallel, arms at side ; fling left arm sideways upward, and 
at the same time fling right leg out to side; return. Repeat flinging right 
arm sideways upward and left leg to side. Continue alternately left and 
right, 8 times each side, 16 to 24 times. 




JUMPING JACK 

Jump with feet apart and fling arms sideways upward, clapping hands 
over head. Return to position. Continue clapping and jumping in quick 
time, 10 to 30 times. 



40 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




CAT WALK 

Relax head, back and knees, and come to stoop-standing position 
with palms on the floor. Advance with right arm and right foot until 
left knee is straight, keeping left hand on the floor. Repeat, advancing 
the same way with left foot and left arm, keeping right hand on floor, 
lifting the whole body in moving forward. The body should not be 
tense, but should advance after the manner of a cat, 12 to 24 times. 



~J^Q. 



WALL BICYCLING 

Lie on mat or floor with buttocks touching wall and both legs resting 
upright against wall, trunk relaxed, arms loosely extended over head, 
resting on mat. Bend left knee, letting foot slide down wall, weight of 
leg carrying knee to rest against abdomen and chest. Extend left knee 
forcibly, pushing foot up wall, heel leading, until back of knee is flat 
against wall. At end of push, foot should be in position of dorsal flexion, 
i. e., bent toward face. Continue alternately and rhythmically (vigorously 
but not jerkily), making strongest effort on upward thrust of heel, oppo- 
site leg being relaxed in its downward movement. Repeat until tired. 



Thin Type. Underweight. General exercises. 





ROCKETS 



Stand, bend and stretch arms upward quickly, and follow with slow 
sinking sideways downward. Continue 10 to 20 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 

o o 



41 




BENDING 



Stand, with arms hanging at sides (or hands on hips), feet parallel, 
toes pointing forward ; bend left knee quickly to chest. Replace and bend 
right knee. Continue alternately left and right, 10 to 30 times. 




BICYCLING 



Lying, bend and extend knees alternately as in paddling motion on 
bicycle, making circles in the air with the foot and leg. Continue rhythmi- 
cally in 10's, 30 to 40 times. 





CLAPPING 

Stand with feet apart; bend forward, clapping hands under left knee, 
and return to erect position. Repeat same to right and return ; then 
touch floor between feet and return. Continue as a six count exercise, 
8 to 16 times. 



o 




CIRCLING 



Stand with hands on hips; circle trunk to left and down, then to 
right, making a complete circle. Continue 5 times without stopping. 
Repeat circling to right. Repeat alternately, 10 to 20 times. 



42 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

o 





CHURNING 



Stand, feet parallel about 4 inches apart, with toes straight ahead; 
raise heels and bend knees alternately as if churning, 10 to 30 times. 



Thin Type. Underweight. Special exercises for indigestion and con- 
stipation. 



\ 




JACK KNIFE DIVE 

Stand; try to touch the floor by bending forward sharply at hips, 
with straight upper back. Straighten up with arms over head. Lower 
arms sideways downward. In groups of 6, 12 to 16 times. 



o 

l 




BENDING 



Stand with hands on hips ; bend left knee up quickly and replace, keep- 
ing trunk erect; repeat right. Continue alternately in quick time, 20 to 
30 times. 






CIRCLING, BENDING, TWISTING 

Stand with hands on hips ; bend trunk forward to horizontal, back flat ; 
move trunk to left, upward, to right, and downward, making circle (do 
not go backward of the vertical in coming up). Continue in 5's, 10 to 20 
times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



43 





Stand with hands on hips; bend trunk to left, raise to vertical, bend 
to right, raise to vertical. Continue alternately, 6 to 20 times. 



Stand with hands on neck; twist trunk to left, to right, to left, to 
right, without stopping between. Continue alternately, 6 to 20 times. 





DOUBLING OVER 



Sit on chair with feet resting on chair or bench 6 to 12 inches lower, 
with right arm resting across abdomen, left arm hanging at side. Bend 
forward quickly, pressing arm into abdomen and keeping knees together, 
20 to 40 times. 



FLINGING 



Stand, arms at side (or hands on hips) ; fling right leg straight for- 
ward and back to original position, keeping body erect. Repeat right. 
Continue alternately left and right, 10 to 16 times. 



.Q^7rs/L~- 



PUMPING 



Lie on back with knees bent, feet resting on floor; inhale and lift the 
upper abdomen ; exhale and relax. To localize, lay hand lightly on upper 
abdomen just below subcostal angle, making quick breath intake and 
upward movement. In groups of 5, 10 to 15 times. 



44 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



Thin Type. Underweight. Exercises for constipation, dysmenorrhea 
and relaxed muscles. 



b 




SCOOPING UP SAND 



Stand, feet apart; place hands between feet as if scooping up rand. 
Straighten, and throw sand over head. Repeat 15 to 20 times. 



ROCKING HORSE 



Kneel on floor ; bend forward until chest nearly touches knees, arms 
stretched forward, hands resting on floor shoulder distance apart. Swing 
body forward and down to floor, straightening knees and bending elbows ; 
return to starting positron. Repeat, swinging easily forward and back, 10 
to 18 times. 







CIRCLING 



Lying, bend knees to chest. Circle legs, keeping knees bent ; right and 
left in 5's, 10 to 20 times. 




SWIMMING 



Lying prone on bench or box; stretch arms forward, thumbs locked 
and hands turned back to back; move arms backward as in swimming to 
bend them across the chest, elbows close to side, 6 to 12 times 




WEATHER VANE 



Stand with feet apart, h^inds on shoulders, elbows up; alternate quick 
trunk twisting from one side to the other, 18 to 20 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



45 



MOSHER 



Lie on back on floor or bed, with knees bent, feet resting on floor or 
bed, hand resting lightly on lower abdomen. Raise abdomen, relax abdo- 
men ; contract abdomen forcibly, relax abdomen. Repeat rhythmically, 
without strain or jerking, on four counts. Five, rest; 5 times. 



Thin Type. Underweight. Exercises for constipation and tense 
muscles. 





WAVING WILLOWS 



Stand with left foot in advance of right foot. Relax back, arms, head 
and knees completely. Swing the body to the right, keeping the arms 
parallel and relaxed. Bring them, with the body, in a circle upward to 
the right and downward in a circle to the left. Keep the body relaxed 
during the entire movement. Repeat alternately 3 to 4 times. 



o 



J 



o 



1 s1 



BENDING 



Stand with hands on hips ; bend left knee up quickly and replace, keep- 
ing trunk erect; repeat right. Continue alternately in quick time, 23 to 
30 times. 





STEAMBOAT 



Feet apart in wide astride position, arms shoulder height; bend right 
knee, touching floor with right hand ; return to ereci position. Repeat 
same to left. Continue alternately left and right, 10 to 20 times. 



46 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




CIRCLING 



'Lyinj, bend knees to chest. 
left, in 5's, 10 to 20 times. 



Circle legs, keeping knees bent, rip ht and 




CAT WALK 

Relax head, back and knees, and come to stoop-standing position, with 
palms on the floor. Advance with right arm and right foot until left knee 
is straight, keeping left hand on the floor. Repeat, advancing the same 
way with left foot and left arm, keeping right hand on floor, lifting the 
whole body in moving forward. The body should not be tense, but should 
advance after the manner of a cat, 12 to 24 times. 



CONTRACTION 

Lying, knees bent, flatten abdomen with strong muscular contraction,, 
lifting chest at the same time. Inhale on contractions, 10 to 20 times. V 



\ 



EXERCISES FOR PEOPLE WHO 
Stout Type. Overweight. General Exercises. 



AT WORK 




FLEXION AND EXTENSION 



Lie on back with arms bent loosely at sides; iend right knee to chest 
and fling arms sideways at same time, stretching fingers. Bend arms and 
extend knee, returning foot to starting position. Repeat left. Continue 
alternating right and left until tired; rest and repeat. 



\ 



CONTR.' CTIOX 



Lying, knees bent, flatten abdomen with strong muscular contractions, 
Lift chest at same time. Contract on inhalations, 10 to 20 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



47 



SWINGING 



Lie on back with knees bent to chest, feet crossed, and arms extended 
relaxed at shoulder level ; swing knees sideways to touch floor ; alternately 
right and left. Vigorous swinging causes the body to progress on the 
mat ; 30 to 40 times. 



o 






WEAVING 



Stand with feet parallel and apart; raise arms sideways to shoulder 
levejl; bend and twist forward downward to left until right hand touches 
left foot. (Keep left arm at shoulder level.) Return to upright position; 
lower arms to sides. Repeat to right; continue alternately left and right, 
12 to 20 times. 



TREADING 



Kneel on floor, with head resting on arms folded on floor ; stretch right 
foot back as far as possible until knee is straight, letting back sag down. 
Return right knee to bent position under abdomen. Repeat left; con- 
tinue 10 to 50 times. 




WALL BICYCLING 

Lie on mat or floor with buttocks touching wall and both legs resting 
upright against wall, trunk relaxed, arms loosely extended over head, 
resting on mat. Bend left knee, letting foot slide down wall, weight of 
leg carrying knee to rest against abdomen and chest. Extend left knee 
forcibly, pushing foot up wall, heel leading, until back of 'knee is flat 
against wall. At end of push, foot should be in position of dorsal flexion, 
i. e., bent toward face. As left leg extends, allow right knee to bend. 
Continue alternately and rhythmically (vigorously but not jerkily) ; make 
strongest effort on upward thrust of heel, opposite leg being relaxed in its 
downward movement. Repeat until tired. 



48 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



Stout Type. Overweight. Special exercises for indigestion, constipa- 
tion, varicose veins. 




FLEXION AND EXTENSION 



Lie on back, with arms bent loosely at sides; bend right knee to chest 
and fling arms sideways at same time, stretching fingers. Bend arms 
and extend knee, returning foot to starting position. Repeat left; con- 
tinue alternating right and left, 20 to 40 times. 



A 



PUMPING 



Lie on back with knees bent, feet resting on floor; inhale and lift 
the upper abdomen ; exhale and relax. To localize, lay -hand lightly on 
upper abdomen just below subcostal angle, making quick breath-intake 
and upward movement. In groups of 5's, 10 to 15 times. 








DOUBLING OVER 



Sit on chair with feet resting on chair or bench 6 to 12 inches lower, 
with right arm resting across abdomen, left arm hanging at side. Bend 
forward quickly, pressing arm into abdomen and keeping knees together, 
30 to 40 times. 






o 

f 




CIRCLING, BENDING, TWISTING 

Sit astride bench or chair, hands on thighs. Bend trunk for.vard to 
horizontal, back flat ; move trunk to left, upward to right, downward, 
making circle (avoid going backward of the vertical in coming up). 
Continue in 5's, alternating left and right, 10 to 20 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



49 





Sit astride bench or chair, hands on hips. Bend trunk to left, raise 
to vertical; bend to right, raise to vertical. Continue alternately, 6 to 
12 times. 

XX 



Sit astride bench or chair, hands at neck. Twist trunk to right, to left, 
to right, without stopping between. Continue alternately 6 to 20 times. 




BICYCLING 



Lying, bend and extend knees alternately as in paddling motion on 
bicycle, making circles in the air with the foot and leg. Continue 
rhymthically in ID'S, 30 to 40 times. 



HIGH FOOT CIRCLING 

Lie on floor with buttocks touching wall and both legs resting against 
wall, trunk relaxed, arms loosely extended over head; make circles with 
feet. Continue alternately left and right foot in 5's, 20 to 30 times. 

Stout Type. Overweight. Special exercises for constipation, dysmen- 
orrhea and relaxed muscles. 






TREADING 

Kneel on floor, with head resting on arms folded on floor; stretch 
right foot back as far as possible until knee is straight, letting back sag 
down. Return right knee to bent position under abdomen. Repeat left; 
continue 10 to 50 times. 



50 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 






BENDING 



Lying, bend knee vigorously to chest, right and left alternating quickly, 
with foot flexed at ankle instead of with the usual ankle extension, 20 to 
40 times. 



CIRCLING 




Lying, bend knees to chest. Circle legs, keeping knees bent, right and 
left, in 5's, 20 to 30 times. 






CIRCLING, BENDING, TWISTING 

Sit astride bench or chair, hands on thighs. Bend trunk forward to 
horizontal, back flat; move trunk to left, upward to right, and downward, 
making circle (avoid going backward of the vertical in coming up). Con- 
tinue in 5's, alternating left and right, 10 to 20 times. 






Sit astride bench or chair, hands on hips. Bend trunk to left, raise to 
vertical; bend to right, raise to vertical. Continue alternately. In groups 
uf 3's, 6 to 18 times. 



XX 



V 



Sit astride bench or chair, hands on neck. Twist trunk to left, to right, 
to left, to right, without stopping between. Continue alternately, 6 to 
20 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 51 




WALL LICYCLING , 

Lie on mat or floor with buttocks touching wall and both legs resting 
upright against wall, trunk relaxed, arms loosely extended over head, 
resting on mat. Bend left knee, letting foot slide down wall, weight of 
legs carrying knee to res't against abdomen and chest. Extend left knee 
forcibly, pushing foot up wall, heel leading, until back of knee is flat 
against wall. At end of push, feet should be in position of dorsal flexion, 
i. e., bent toward face. Continue alternately and rhythmically (vigorously 
but not jerkily), making strongest effort on upward thrust of heel, oppo- 
site leg being relaxed in its downward movement. Repeat until tired. 



.. 7L .. 



MOSHER 

Lie on back on floor or bed, with knees bent, feet resting on floor or 
bed, hand resting lightly on lower abdomen.. Raise abdomen, relax abdo- 
men ; contract abdomen forcibly, relax abdomen. Repeat rhythmically, 
without strain or jerking, on four counts. Five, rest; 5 times. 

Stout Type. Overweight. Special exercises for constipation and 
tense muscles. 



FLEXION AND EXTENSION 



Lie on back with arms bent loosely at sides, palms closed; bend right 
knee to chest and fling arms sideways at same time, opening palms and 
stretching fingers. Bend arms and extend knee, returning foot to starting 
position. Repeat left; continue alternating right and left, 20 to 40 times. 






A 





CIRCLING 



Sit on chair in easy position, make circles with the head, starting left. 
Make five complete circles to left and then rest. Repeat same to right. 
Continue alternating left and right, 20 to 30 times. 



52 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




ROCKING HORSE 

Kneel on floor; bend forward until chest nearly touches knees, arms 
stretched forward, hands resting on floor, shoulder distance apart. Swing 
body forward and down to floor, straightening knees and bending elbows ; 
return to starting position. Repeat, swinging easily forward and back, 
10 to 25 times. 



BENDING 

Lying, bend knees vigorously to chest, right and left, alternating 
quickly, with foot flexed at ankle instead of with the usual ankle exten- 
sion. Lay right arm across lower abdomen, making pressure on arm. 
with thigh; as knee bends, the arm presses into the abdomen. In groups 
of 10; 20 to 30 times. 




FISH TAIL 



Lie on left side, hands clasped loosely over head, legs extended ; bend 
knees forcibly to chest; straighten knees, keeping hips slightly flexed so 
that feet push back but return to not quite original position. Vigorous 
movement causes whole body to move on mat, arms and head leading. 
Continue until circle has been completed. Repeat on right side. 



1 




DROOPING DAISY 

Standing at ease with left foot slightly advanced, droop forward, 
beginning with hips and knees, then back and head, letting weight carry 
body forward until individual lies in crumpled heap on floor. Return 
by reverse process until upright position is assumed ; finish with head 
dropping backward, elbows, wrists, hands reaching upward relaxed, 
swaying from side to side; repeat 3 to 4 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 
Thin Type. Underweight. General Exercises. 



53 



ROCKING HORSE 

Kneel on floor ; bend forward until chest nearly touches knees, arms 
stretched forward, hands resting on floor, shoulder distance apart. Swing 
body forward and down to floor, straightening knees and bending elbows. 
Return to starting position. Repeat, swinging easily forward and back, 
10 to 15 times. 




TOUCHING TOES 

Sit on floor with knees out straight and hands at sides. Swing arms 
sideways upward over head and then touch toes ; return to position in 
reverse order, 6 to 10 times. 




SWIMMING 



Lying prone on bench or box, stretch arms forward, thumbs locked, 
hands turned back to back; move arms backward as in swimming; bend 
them across the chest, elbows close to side, 6 to 12 times. 



o 

/ 




CIRCLING 



Sit astride bench or chair, hands on thighs. Bend trunk forward to 
horizontal, back flat ; move trunk to left, upward to right, downward, 
making circle (avoid going backward of the vertical in coming up). In 
3's, 6 to 12 times. 



O 

T 



SQUEEZE 

Kneel; sit on floor to left of knees, clasping hands back of head, or 
merely touching ringers. Bend to right side, touching floor with elbow. 
Same to opposite side, in groups of 3's, 10 to 12 times. 



54 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




WALL BICYCLING 

Lie on mat or floor with buttocks touching wall and both legs resting 
upright against wall, trunk relaxed, arms loosely extended over head, 
resting on mat. Bend left knee, letting foot slide down wall, weight of 
leg carrying knee to rest against abdomen and chest. Extend left knee 
forcibly, pushing foot up wall, heel leading, until back of knee is flat 
against wall. At end of push, foot should be in position of dorsal flex- 
ion, i. e., bent toward face. As left leg extends, allow right knee to 
bend. Continue alternately and rhythmically (vigorously but not jerkily), 
making strongest effort on upward thrust of heel, opposite leg being 
relaxed in its downward movement. Repeat until tired. 



Thin Type. Underweight. Special exercises for indigestion and 
constipation. 






J 
^V 7 



DOUBLING OVER 



Sit on chair with feet resting on chair or bench 6 to 12 inches lower, 
with right arm resting across abdomen, left arm hanging at side. Bend 
forward quickly, pressing arm into abdomen and keeping knees together, 
20 to 40 times. 



BENDING 

Lying, bend knee vigorously to chest, right and left alternating quickly, 
with foot flexed at ankle instead of with the usual ankle extension, 20 to 
30 times. 



PUMPING 

Lie on back, with knees bent, feet resting on floor; inhale and lift the 
upper abdomen ; exhale and relax. To localize, lay hand lightly on upper 
abdomen just below subcostal angle, making quick breath-intake and 
upward movement. In groups of 5's, 10 to 15 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 55 

rx. 



CIRCLING 



Lying, bend knees to chest. Circle legs, keeping knees bent, right and 
left, in 5's, 10 to 20 times. 



CONTRACTION 

Lying, knees bent, flatten abdomen with strong muscular contractions. 
Lift chest at same time. . Inhale on contractions, 10 to 20 times. 



,__JGS-O ~ 



WALL BICYCLING 



Lie on mat or floor with buttocks touching wall and both legs resting 
upright against wall, trunk relaxed, arms loosely extended over head rest- 
ing on mat. Bend left knee, letting foot slide down wall, weight of leg 
carrying knee to rest against abdomen and chest. Extend left knee 
forcibly, pushing foot up wall, heel leading, until back of knee is flat 
against wall. At end of push, foot should be in position of dorsal flexion, 
i. e., bent toward face. As left leg extends allow right knee to bend. 
Continue alternately and rhythmically (vigorously but not jerkily), mak- 
ing strongest effort on upward thrust of heel, opposite leg being relaxed 
in its downward movement. Repeat until tired. 



Thin Type. Underweight. Special exercises for constipation, dysmen- 
orrhea, and generally relaxed muscles. 



ROCKING HORSE 



Kneel on floor; bend forward until chest nearly touches knee", arms 
stretched forward, hands resting on floor, shoulder distance apart. Swing 
body forward and down to floor, straightening knees and bending elbows ; 
return to starting position. Repeat, swinging easily forward and back, 
10 to 20 times. 



56 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




PADDLING 



Sit with right foot forward and left back, holding paddle at arm's 
length, with right hand above left. Draw paddle through water, twisting 
body left ; hold. Return to starting position. Continue 5 times left, 
repeating same right. Repeat 10 to 30 times. 



CIRCLING 



Lying, bend knees to chest. Circle legs, keeping knees bent, right and 
left, in 5's, 10 to 20 times. 






PULLING 



Sit on bench or chair, feet forward and apart, hands clenched at sides. 
Bend trunk quickly to right as if pulling with left hand. Continue alter- 
nately left and right, 10 to 20 times. 



BENDING 

Lying, bend knee vigorously to chest, right and left, alternating quickly, 
with foot flexed at ankle instead of with the usual ankle extension, 20 to 
30 times. 



MOSHER 



Lie on back on floor or bed, with knees bent, feet resting on floor or 
bed, hand resting lightly on lower abdomen. Raise abdomen, relax abdo- 
men; contract abdomen forcibly, relax abdomen. Repeat rhythmically, 
without strain or jerking, on four counts; 5, rest; 5 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



57 



Thin Type. Underweight. Special exercises for constipation and 
tense muscles. 





TOUCHING FLOOR 



Sit on chair, feet astride. Relax and lean forward, touching floor ; 
return to sitting position. Each time come back to a good sitting posi- 
*tion, raising arms to a stretch or a yawn, 5 to 10 times. 




CIRCLING 



Lying, bend knees to chest. Circle legs, keeping knees bent, right and 
left, in S's, 10 to 20 times. 





HORSESHOE BEND 



Stand with feet wide apart. Swing right arm sideways upward and at 
the same time tend body to left. Same to right, changing positions of 
hands. Continue alternating, left and right, 6 to 10 times. 




JACK IN BOX 

Jump to astride position, at the same time swinging arms sideways 
upward, clapping hands over head. Jump to cross position of feet, slapping 
hands in front of body. Continue in quick even time, 10 to 18 times. 



BENDING 



Lying, bend knees vigorously to chest, right and left, alternating 
quickly, with foot flexed at ankle instead of with the usual ankle exten- 
sion. Lay right arm across lower abdomen, making pressure on arm with 
thigh ; as knee bends the arm presses into the abdomen ; 20 to 30 times. 



58 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



O^-^A <-. 



CONTRACTION 

Lying, knees bent, flatten abdomen with strong muscular contraction. 
Lift chest at same time. Inhale on contraction, 10 to 20 times. 

SPECIAL EXERCISES FOR FEET 

Short Achilles Tendon. (Foot exercises should always be done in 
stockings or bare feet.) 






FLEXION 



Sit on floor or bed with legs straight ; flex ankle and raise toes up as 
far as possible toward the shin, keeping the legs still. ' Relax ; 10 to 40 
times. 




WALKING- ON HEELS 

Walk on heels, around room, toes turned inward and as if grasping 
marbles. 

PRONATION AND RELAXATION OF LONGITUDINAL 

ARCH 

To strengthen supinators and dorsal flexors. 



FOOT ROLLING OUTWARD 



Sit, feet parallel; raise inner border up and out, knee* held straight, 
toes touching floor ; 20 to 30 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 59 





FOOT CIRCLING 



Sit, with right leg crossed over left knee; make circles outward with 
right foot up, out, down, in, up. Make strong effort on "in" and "up" 
and relax on "out" and "down." Repeat left; 30 to 40 times. 



RELAXATION OF . TRANSVERSE ARCH 



To strengthen plantar flexors. 




FOOT GRIPPING 

Sit with feet apart and parallel on floor; spread toes; pull toes in 
and under, as if taking hold of floor. Alternately and together; 20 to 
30 times. 

Lying, with knees bent, feet on floor, or with knees extended, feet 
resting against wall, same as one. 

Pick up marble or pencil with toes or draw stocking back under 
foot by action of toes. 




WALKING WITH FOOT GRIPPING 

Step forward a short step out with right foot, grip with right foot, 
advance left foot, grip with left; progress forward, gripping with foot 
after weight has been transferred to it. Toe straight ahead in walking. 



60 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

SPECIAL EXERCISES FOR RELAXING MUSCLES 




DROOPING DAISY 

Stand at ease with left foot slightly advanced. Droop forward, begin- 
ning with hips and knees, then back and head, letting weight carry body 
forward until individual lies in crumpled heap on floor. Return by 
reverse process until upright position is assumed; finish with head drop- 
ping backward, elbows, wrists and hands reaching upward relaxed, sway- 
ing from side to side. Repeat 3 to 6 times. 




CAT WALK 

Relax head, back and knees, come to stoop-standing position on all 
fours with palms on the floor. Advance with arm and right foot until 
left knee is straight, keeping left hand on the floor. Repeat, advancing 
in the same way with the left foot and arm, keeping right hand on floor, 
lifting the whole body in moving forward. The body should not be 
tense, but should advance after the manner of a cat. 




WAVING WILLOWS 

Stand with left foot in advance of right foot. Relax back, arm, head 
and knees completely. Swing the body to the right, keeping arms parallel 
and relaxed. Bring them, with the body, in a circle upward to the right, 
and downward in a circle to the left. Keep the body relaxed during the 
entire movement ; 2 to 6 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 

SPECIAL EXERCISES FOR ANTERIOPOSTERIOR 
FAULTY POSTURE 

Round Back. Kyphosis. To strengthen back and chest muscles. 



61 



FLINGING 



Lying on back, fling arms sideways upward to shoulder height and turn 
palms outward to "West Point" position. Return hands to position at 
sides. Inhale on flinging arms sideways upward and exhale as the arms 
are lowered. Repeat 6 to 15 times. 



f 

/I 



.-.A 




AEROPLANE 



Stand with feet parallel and apart, raise arms sideways to shoulder 
level; bend and twist trunk forward left until right hand touches left 
foot; keep left arm at shoulder level. Return to upright position, lower 
arms to sides, repeat right. Continue alternating, left and right; 12 to 20 
times. 



TRUNK RAISING 



Lie prone, hands at side with palms turned out in "West Point" posi- 
tion, face down; lift head and upper back from support. Hold two to 
three seconds ; repeat 5 to 8 times. 



BENDING 



Lying, bend knees vigorously to chest, right and left, alternating 
quickly, with foot flexed at ankle instead of with the usual ankle exten- 
sion. Lay right arm across lower abdomen; make pressure on arm with 
thigh; as knee bends, the arm presses into the' abdomen. In groups of 
10, 20 to 30 times. 



62 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 
? J? K 9 

1 f L 

J '"- -J * J r~. \ *-^ 



SWIMMING 



Standing, stretch arms forward, thumbs locked and hands turned back 
to back. Move arms backward as in swimming; bend them across the 
chest, elbows close to side, 6 to 12 times. 





WAND 



Sit astride on bench or box; grasp wand with hands. Raise wand 
overhead and lower behind shoulders. Continue raising and lowering 
wand in series of 5's, 10 to 20 times. 



Long Round Back. Kyphosis. To strengthen back, chest and abdom- 
inal muscles. 




BRAKEMAN 



Stand, raise arms sideways to horizontal at shoulder level, palms up; 
make small circles with arms, starting upward and backward. Continue 
rhythmically in 5's, 5 to 25 times. 



BENDING 

Lying, bend knees vigorously to chest, right and left, alternating 
quickly, with foot flexed at ankle instead of with the usual ankle exten- 
sion. Lay right arm across lower abdomen, make pressure on arm v/Ith 
thigh ; as knee bends, the arm presses into the abdomen. In groups o I 1.0, 
20 to 30 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



63 



ROCKING HORSE 

Kneel on floor ; bend forward until chest- nearly touches knees, arms 
stretched forward, hands resting on floor, shoulder distance apart. Swing 
body forward and down to floor, straightening knees and bending elbows; 
return to starting position. Repeat, swinging easily forward and back, 
10 to 18 times. 





STEAMBOAT 



Stand with feet apart, arms shoulder height ; bend right knee, touching 
floor with right hand; return to erect position. Continue alternately left 
and right, 10 to 20 times. 



RAISING 



Lie prone, hands at sides with palms turned out in "West Point" posi- 
tion, face down ; lift head and upper back from support. Hold two to 
three seconds ; repeat 5 to 8 times. 




BICYCLING 



Lying, bend and extend knees alternately as in paddling motion on 
bicycle, making circles in the air with the foot and leg. Continue 
rhythmically in 10's, 30 to 40 times. 



64 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



Hollow Back. Lordosis. To stretch and flatten lumbar region and 
strengthen abdominal muscles. 




JACK-KNIFE DIVE 

Stand, try to touch the floor by bending sharply at hips, with straight 
upper back. Straighten up with arms over head. Lower arm sideways 
downward. In groups of 6, 12 to 18 times. 



ROCKING 



Sit with' legs crossed, hands grasping feet ; rock backward and forward. 
Gradually work toward touching floor with feet, back of head. 





WIG WAG 



Stand, feet parallel, arms at side; fling left arm sideways upward and 
at the same time fling right leg out to side ; return in reverse order. Repeat, 
flinging right arm sideways upward and left leg to side. Continue alter- 
nately left and right, 8 times each side; 16 to 24 times. 



SWINGING 



Lie OH back with knees bent to chest, feet crossed, and arms extended 
at shoulder level; swing knees sideways to touch floor; alternately, right 
and left. Vigorous swinging causes the body to progress on the mat; 
30 to 40 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



65 




CRAB WALKING 



Walk on all fours with knees nearly straight and with back arched up 
in lumbar region. Progress backward. 



CONTRACTION 



Lying, knees bent, flatten abdomen with strong muscular contractions. 
Lift chest at same time. Inhale on contractions, 10 to 20 times. 



Round Hollow Back. Kypho-Lordosis. To straighten and strengthen 
the dorsal region without increasing lordosis, and to strengthen and 
straighten the lumbar region without increasing kyphosis. 




SWIMMING 

Sit cross-legged on floor ; stretch arms forward, thumbs locked and 
hands turned back to back. Move arms backward as in swimming to 
bend them across the chest, elbows close to sides; 6 to 12 times. 





RAISING 



Lie face down on bed or high couch, trunk from hips up resting on 
support, legs hanging down; raise head and shoulders, hands on neck. 
Localize in upper back; 5 to 15 times. 




BENDING 



Lie with knees flexed, feet resting on floor ; bend knees vigorously to 
chest. Return to starting position, keeping knees flexed. Continue in 
S's, 30 to 40 times. 



66 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 




FISH TAIL 



Lie on left side, hands clasped loosely over head, legs extended. Bend 
knees forcibly to chest; straighten knees, keeping hips slightly flexed so 
that feet push back but return to not quite original position. Vigorous 
movement causes whole body to move on mat, arms and head leading. 
Continue until circle has been completed. Repeat on right side. 





WAND 

Sit astride on bench or box ; grasp wand with hands. Raise wand over 
head and lower behind shoulders. Continue raising and lowering wand 
in series of 5's, 10 to 20 times. 



SWINGING 



Lie on back with knees bent to chest, feet crossed, and arms extended 
at shoulder level; swing knees sideways to touch floor alternately right 
and left. Vigorous swinging causes the body to progress on the mat; 
30 to 40 times. 



CHAPTER II 
THE INDIVIDUAL AND THE COMMUNITY 



PART I. HOW ARE YOU? 

How are you? How do you do? How's your health? 

One million times those questions are asked for one hundred 
times they are meant, ten times they are answered, or one time 
the answer is attended to. 

But how are you? How do you do? How is your health? 
If it is all it ought to be, you are pretty well. If it is all it might 
be, you are happy beyond the average. If it is all you would like 
it to be but turn it the other way round. If it is not all you 
would like it to be, stop and think it over. Man is made with 
an intelligence to direct his movements, a will to choose what 
conditions he will allow to continue. This pamphlet and the series 
it introduces are written in the belief that the human will is free 
to exercise a choice. If you agree with this, and will carry it out 
to the application that is going to be made of it here that the 
choice between health and "not feeling very well this morning" 
is largely yours to make between enjoying good health and being 
patient with a state whose highest boast is the absence in general 
of aggressive ailments if you believe it that far, then perhaps 
you would like to know what more you can do than you are doing 
now, being a person of power and intelligence, to live in the 
health that is a glorious and conscious present blessing and a 
promise for tomorrow. If so, read on. If you do not agree with 
that blithe premise, if in your philosophy man is the poor pawn 
of fate, and your bilious tendency and the unreasonableness of 
your neighbors were ordained from the beginning to try your 
soul then read on anyway, for perhaps it will be a satisfaction 
to you to see how perversely one can go wrong in an obdurate 
optimism. 

What do you mean when you say you are well ? All the time ? 
Up to your best? Glad you are alive? Glad your neighbors 
are? (Most of your neighbors we might perhaps concede one 
or two in a large collection. No one wants to be fanatical.) But 
do you like the world, and living, and the people who share your 
days and trudge up and down your streets ? With a zest whetted 
by each night's good sleep, do you go forth in the morning eager 
for each day's new adventure? Do you lay your hand to your 
task and your brain to directing it with a conscious pleasure in the 
activity of both, feeling the muscles move, feeling the mind take 



68 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

hold, feeling life running strong in you, yourself a power, one of 
the elemental forces ? Is it a great thing to you to be a dynamo, 
yourself in control? Are you tiptoe with enjoyment of your own 
very liveness? Are you on top of your world? 

Or do you ever have a headache ? Do you need to ? Probably 
not. Do you have a bit of indigestion now and then? In the 
name of Health, why? Why do you keep on? You do not have 
to. Ninety-nine chances out of a hundred it is as unnecessary as 
the headache, and you can dismiss them both with a royal wave 
of the hand if you want to. It is no magic ; it is sense. Neither 
is it denial of the facts. It is looking the facts straight in the 
face, finding out just what they are, and then dealing with them. 
Did your eyes give you the headache? Then take them to an 
oculist and let him make them comfortable in glasses if that is 
what you need, but do not go on having headaches. Or is it a 
vicious jab from your stomach, long suffering, meaning well by 
you, but pushed beyond endurance? Make friends with your 
stomach. Consider its needs. Be kind to it. If any kind of 
headache lords it over you now and then, and if you do now and 
then, being of resolute but unguided spirit, smile and go on with 
your work in the clutch of indigestion, if colds lurk in every draft 
to spring upon you and -your feet are just killing you when you 
go home at night, who are you that you should lay claim to the 
splendid name of Health as meaning your state because you have 
not at the moment a temperature of 105? Health is not that. 
Health is a different thing altogether from that poor pallid 
substitute. 1 

Do you have a bad time every month cramps and a headache 
and a generally dismal feeling go to bed, and all that? Poor 
little girl ! But also stupid little girl which is more to the point. 
And the same whether you are 15 or 40. You may be president 
of the Women's Club or the reigning queen of society or her 
schoolgirl daughter, but the chances afe that you are just being 
made to pay up for being careless. Neglectful, too. Self-indulgent, 
too, very likely. But probably uninformed, which is perhaps a 
reason for withdrawing some of those harsher adjectives. Truly 
you do not need to go on being disqualified for happy living reg- 
ularly once a month for two-score years of your life nearly. You 
can fix it probably can fix it yourself, by applying your own good 
sense to it and having a little of that tedious and undramatic kind 
of stamina that makes you do a thing not just today and tomor- 
row in a burst of enthusiasm, but every day all the year round. 
And if you can fix it and do not fix it, then certainly all the 
uncomplimentary adjectives above apply, underscored. If there 
is something fundamentally the matter and, of course, there is 
now and then, in perhaps one case out of ten of women who let 

1. See indigestion, feet, colds. 



INDIVIDUAL FIELD OF VISION 



Healtk Home 
Habits Conditions 



NEGATIVE HEALTH/ Curative 

or Corrective 

HEALTH - Prevent* 



Work 1POS1TIVE HEALTH 
Productive I 
Creative I HEALTH -f 



Social Recreation 
Conscious- Constructive. 



ness 



PLATE I 



Present-day Science is teaching 
the public to cure and ' avoid 
illness. 

Physicians Boards of Health 

Specialists Sanitation 

Surgeons Research Laboratories 

Hospitals Public Health Nurses 

Nurses Red Cross Nurses 

Clinics Anti-Tuberculosis Nurses 

The idea of Building Health is 
growing : Child Welfare, Prenatal 
Work, Nutritional Clinics. 



Present-day Science is seeing the 
necessity for emphasizing 

Constructive Health Education. 
Individual Health Responsibility. 

Physicians with Positive Health 
Point of View. 

Public Demand for Constructive 
Health Opportunities. 

Relative sizes of Positive and Nega- 
tive areas are suggestive only. No at- 
tempt is made to show accurate pro- 
portions. For each individual, Negative 
shrinks as Positive enlarges through 
constructive health education. 



WHAT IS YOUR GRADE IN 
HEALTH? 



Health f 



HealtK? 



\WILL TOP?/ 
/HEALTHX 




VGOOO HOME\ >HEAur 
^>3\CONO.TI > 





Health - 



The draft figures taught us how small a proportion of young men were 
100% well or in Class A. It took months of education and training and 
better understanding of living to bring them up to Class A. 

Approximately the following percentages have been found to obtain 
among a few thousand women who have had the Health Examination and 
who thought they were well 

10% ill (Class C.) 10% well (Class A.) 

neither ill nor yet well (Class B.) 



IS YOUR HEALTH + IS YOUR HEALTH? 
IS YOUR HEALTH 



Recreation 
Constructive "Re -creative 




HealtH+ 



= 1 Health- 



PLATE II 



ON WHICH LEVEL ARE YOU? 



If you belong to the 80% who could be Class A. and are only Class B. 
why not have a Health Examination and start for Class A.? 



SUGGESTED PLAN FOR THE STAFF OF A LOCAL HEALTH FOUNDATION 








1 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL (Chiefs of Staff) 
Executive Director (Probably Chief Physician) 



MEDIC/ 


iL STAFF 






PHYSICAL EDUCATION & RECREATION STAFF 




| OFFICE SECRETARY 


1 1 


1 1 




1 1 1 


Chief 
Physician 


Associate 
Physician 


Director 
of 
Physical 
Education 




Associate 
Director 
of 
Physical 
Education 


Director 
of 
Recreation 


File Stenographer 
Clerk 


\ 





LIAISON 
DIRECTOR 



Physicians 
Specialists'./--. 
Hospitals.. _"~- ; -' 
Clinics ::: 



COMMUNITY RESOURCES 



.Amusements 
Recreation Facilitiee 

Clubs 



.-;'.-;'-'_. Art, Music, Dramatic Organization 
.i'i. : .'-'-~~ '.'..'.'.. ...Community Service Organizatione 



....Churches 
--. Libraries 
'-.Educational 
."'.Housing 

'-.Industrial and Professional 



PLATE III 






POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 73 

themselves suffer on from painful menstruation year after year 
if there is something the matter, get it mended. Go to the doc- 
tor; go to the surgeon if you need to; do not waste your good 
life and happiness in being a martyr and putting up with it. Do 
not put it off. Get mended. But nine chances in the ten there 
is not anything fundamental the matter and you are just being 
punished once a month for not knowing enough to take care of 
yourself. 

Ignorance of the law excuses no one in the eyes of Nature. 
Cleanliness, sleep, food and exercises that is the magic. Read 
the rest of these pamphlets at least and dispel your ignorance 
and go to work. They tell you, just how, definitely, simply, 
with diagrams. 2 After that it is up to you. You decide whether you 
want your old familiar cramps and dismalness, your old familiar 
headaches and indigestion, your old familiar colds and aching 
feet. If you do, it is really nobody's responsibility but your own. 
If you do not, then this pamphlet and the rest of the series are 
for you. 

There was a time when illness was thought of as either a spell 
worked on you by some malign power or a visitation for your 
soul's good. When it struck you you could either bow in heavenly 
patience or kill your enemy, according to your disposition and 
your diagnosis, but aside from these two ways there was not 
much to be done. Then, coming to it experimentally and handing 
on such experiments as worked, people accumulated a collection 
of remedies to apply to the painful symptoms the headaches, the 
chills and fever, the misery in the back without inquiring much 
what these symptoms were the sign of or thinking of setting right 
the ills beneath and a good many of us are still in this artless, 
corner drug-store stage, even today. After a while of that, physi- 
cians arose who tried to discover and cure causes, instead of just 
dosing their surface results. Next came the great step ahead of 
working to prevent illness, not only to cure it after it happened - 
to avoid infection, to avert epidemics, to safeguard the next gen- 
eration. "Public health" was invented. 

But every one of these, even to prevention, even to public 
health, is a negative method of approach. In every one of them, 
disease is the great fact to be reckoned with, spreading over pretty 
much the whole field of vision; disease is looked at as if it were 
the positive fact and health as if it were no more than the absence 
of disease. The great forward step that is now being taken 
means an exact reversal of that way of seeing things. It means 
recognizing that health is really the positive fact, disea'se an inter- 
ruption. It means taking hold of a vital force and developing 
it ; it means consciously building individual health, and teaching it 
as a constructive philosophy and an aggressive technic. 

2. See Plates I and II. 



74 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

Plate II illustrates the new, inspiring, constructive way of 
looking at the matter so far as individuals are concerned. In 
an average hundred people, about ten are really ill and know 
it, and need something done for them ; about ten are splen- 
didly well and living so that they are likely to be better and 
better. The rest, the big careless eighty, think they are well, 
but are really subject to all sorts of little, unnecessary, more or 
less neglected ailments stumblings lapses from the righteousness 
of real health. Poor 10 per cent, at the bottom, really sick let 
the doctors and the surgeons do everything they can to help them 
up. Happy 10 per cent, at the top congratulate them with all 
your heart, and get up and join them if you are not already there. 
Eighty per cent, in the middle let them start off on their road 
as soon as they possibly can, drop off the burdens they bend 
under, and not be content one moment till they have made their 
own habits, their home surroundings, their work and their play and 
their relations with other people, all into helps by which they 
mount to the joyous portals of real health, 100 per cent. good. 

Here is another way of showing it, by diagram instead of 
picture. This circle represents health as it would be well for the 
average individual to see it. To the dull-colored left is the region 
of the negative; there are the forces that fight the enemy, dis- 
ease. To the right, and bright-colored in suggestion of their more 
optimistic outlook, lie the regions of the positive; here are the 
materials of life, each to be transfused with rosy health and 
made a power in health-building. An occasional need may make 
the individual glance over to the left let her lose no time in 
looking there if the need arises. There a powerful defensive 
armory waits, ready at her call. But the more intelligently she 
looks at all the compartments to the right, the more she sees them 
all as interdependent and all rich in potentialities for health-giving, 
the less often she will need to look around the other way. The 
positive fills more and more of the field of her vision; the nega- 
tive shrinks toward disappearing. 

The center of the whole, the master key that controls all the 
potentialities, is the will to build health your own will. You are 
the one. Your life is yours. The circumstances that color it are 
yours to mold and choose certainly more than they are anybody's 
else. You have the power. Medical science is yours, too, to com- 
mand ; its wisdom is at your service ; but only you can work mira- 
cles. Your personal health is for you to build; yours to deter- 
mine how much you are going to mean by that word and what 
you are going to be satisfied to regard as your best and normal 
health. 

Health. Sound health. Joyous health. Wholeness and bal- 
ance and sanity and adequacy. The power to see yourself in your 
right place in your universe, your relation to it, and its relation to 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 75 

you. The power to see details in their proportion, including your- 
self among the details you see. Good health a zest in every 
triviality of life, a welcome to every challenge. Health opener 
of opportunity, and widener of usefulness ; an unspringing happi- 
ness that shines upon yourself and radiates upon your world do 
you mean that by it? It is really much more than not having a 
cold. 

Well, if you want it, live for it. Face facts, then. Take -an 
inventory of what you are, body and spirit, wishes and opportuni- 
ties, and what you are doing with them, daily habits, good, bad 
and indifferent. Take stock of just what this person is that you 
have been accustomed to call by your name ; see where you stand, 
what you have to go on, what desirable materials you have at 
hand to build with, what others you can go out and get. 

This series of pamphlets, and particularly No. 1, will have a 
great deal to say about the health examinaiton. It is one means 
of facing facts, and probably on the whole the best way you can 
find, the completest way for a start. It is only a start. Having 
the facts, you are the one to use them. Having the material, you 
are the builder. That is permanently true. No doctor living can 
without your effort bestow health upon you out of hand. They 
can fight your sicknesses, both the ones you have and the ones 
you might catch from your neighbor if you were not careful, or 
if the public and the boards of health were not careful for you. 
They can clear off the obstacles, fill up the pitfalls, bridge over the 
chasms, set you on a safe level footing, put a chart of excellent 
directions in your hand, and you decide whether to walk on joy- 
ously your sunlit, interesting way, or to scoop out a new pitfall 
and bury yourself in it forever. 

But it is a help to have that chart of excellent directions, and 
that is what the health examination can do for you. 

The health examination is a very different thing from the 
examination given to detect the signs of illness different in its 
whole motive, method and point of view. Do not be satisfied with 
an examination in which the physician looks you over and dis- 
misses you with the comfortable assurance that there is nothing 
the matter. That is not a health examination. It may do to show 
whether you are a good risk for a life insurance company, but it 
is not a health examination. Physicians can do much, much 
beside helping the sick. They can put their stores of knowledge 
at the service of the well, and we have called on them far too lit- 
tle hitherto for that positive assistance. The health physician 
can tell you, a well person, what effect you are having and can 
have on your continued and increasing well-being by the way you 
live daily by the way you eat, sleep, play, love your friends, use 
your muscles, by the way you work or druge or dawdle, by the 



76 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

way you enjoy living or do not. The health examination, given 
by the person who knows, is your opportunity to get hold of the 
reliable, practical, concrete facts that you individually, made up 
as you are with your particular collection of idiosyncrasies and 
habits, strengths, desires and shortcomings, need for your own 
particular daily use. 

It does not stop with your bodily habits, your visible outer gar- 
ment. It takes the whole of you into account. You face yourself, 
see what you are doing and even thinking and feeling daily in its 
total bearing on what you are. It is useful to look at yourself 
with a dispassionate other person's eyes; most useful when that 
other is a person of scientific knowledge, trained to accurate 
observation and to the interpretation of things observed. It helps 
you to get outside and see things as they are. 

How much does it legitimately include this business of being 
well ? Are you well if you have not any ache excepting an aching 
spirit? Are you well if you are bored? Are you well if you 
are hungry with a hunger for life that nothing you have or are or 
do is satisfying? Are you well if you do not get much conscious 
pleasure out of life excepting the meager pleasure of admiring a 
conscience that you carefully preserve from spot or stain? Are 
you well if your conscience is not so preserved if you do not 
mind its being a little tarnished, rather like it interestingly speckled, 
prefer it inured to the hard uses of this world? Are you well 
if you are not useful, and know it? Are you well if you are use- 
less and do not know it ? Are you well if you nag and are nagged ? 
Or are you if your requirements for well-being are all hemmed in 
within the circle of your own personal comforts and pleasures if 
you see only yourself to live for if you see other people only as 
living primarily for you? 

There is a good deal to be said about health beside what is said 
about food, sleep and exercise. Some of it is said in Pamphlet IV 
under the head of mental health. 

Pamphlet VI calls some more of it recreation, and Pamph- 
let V, that talks about reproduction, is talking about personal 
health in an indispensably important way, linked up and dignified 
with far-seeing considerations of the health of all the race and 
given immediate personal poignancy thereby. We are very com- 
plicated things we humans; spirits expressing themselves by 
material bodies; bodies responsive to the lightest vagaries and 
whims of the spirits whose visible expression they are. A breath 
ripples the water. Maybe even your headache is because your 
spirit fell and suffered a bruise. Maybe your blank dissatisfac- 
tion with life, the harshness of fate, and the cruelty of your best 
beloved are all because you are getting too much starch and not 
enough leafy vegetables in your daily diet. Who knows? But 
it would be worth while to know. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 77 

Worth while for you, and worth while for the whole world 
of which you are a part ; for your own family or household, for 
your immediate circle of friends, fellow-workers and chance asso- 
ciates; for your neighborhood, your town, your race. Probably 
nobody's health is really a matter of indifference to anybody 
else in the world, if one could see the whole bearing of it. That 
may be the cause underlying our traditional light greeting. "How 
are you ? How's your health ?" and nobody stays for an answer, 
but maybe the question wells up irresistibly out of an instinct deep 
in my unconsciousness; perhaps down there something I am not 
aware of knows that it is a matter of profound and eternal impor- 
tance to me how you are. It matters to me how you work. How 
you work and how your health is are questions inseparably 
depending on each other each on the other. You can work so 
that you put yourself into it, find happiness in it, express what you 
are in it, use what you are to make the world richer, and are the 
better not only the happier, but the better in health daily 
because of the work you do and the way you do it. Or you can 
drudge and destroy yourself. Or shirk and destroy yourself. Or 
resent and continue, which is perhaps the worst state of all for 
your health. You cannot work right unless your health is good, 
and it is equally safe to say that your health cannot be good unless 
you work right and so it is important to me. How's your health ? 

It matters to me whether you catch cola's easily. If you have 
a cold, you may give it to me at the movies. If you lower your 
resistance, I am not sure that you may not presently be lowering 
mine. If you tone yours up, are not my chances better? Again, 
how's your health? 

It matters to me how you play. If your idea of play, like your 
idea of work, is the kind you throw your whole self into with 
enjoyment and get new life out of, because you give expression 
in it to the pulsing, creating life in you if that is your idea of 
play, then whenever I come across you I get something of your 
contagion of vitality and happiness, and that is good for me, too, 
as well as for you. I need not ask how's your health. But if you 
never play at all ; if you have dully forgotten how to play, or in a 
pitifully mistaken martyrdom of self-denial refused yourself the 
right to play ; if you know no way to play but passively, looking 
on while other people do things to amuse you, dependent for your 
daily bread of pleasure; or, worse, if you play destructively, sacri- 
ficing either some one else or your own self and your hope of 
tomorrow to your pastime for this moment then, indeed, how are 
you, and how do you expect to continue? 

It matters to me how big a person you make yourself, and it 
is impossible for me to predict how much it may matter. You 
may have some contribution to make to the world's mental, spirit- 
ual, artistic riches to its economic, its political thought to its 



.78 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

material well-being, its ingenuities, its conveniences, its comforts 
and safeties. You may have children to contribute; that may be 
your very responsible part. How much your health matters to 
me! How much it matters that you develop yourself to your 
fullest, soundest, richest possibilities, to the best health of which 
you are capable, so that nothing shall unnecessarily choke or fetter 
that contribution that you have the undeveloped power to make! 
We cannot afford, you and I, to have it come limping into the 
world less good than it might be because you took too slight a 
view of health, or were uninformed how to build it, or lacked res- 
olution. We cannot afford to waste your potentialities. We must 
have the best you can possibly be you and I and the world must 
to swell the whole rising tide of successful living. 

How do you do, my comrade, in this great and interesting 
adventure of living, my colleague and contributor ? How are you ? 
How's your health? 



PART II. LOCAL HEALTH FOUNDATIONS 

PURPOSE 

A local health foundation, if it is to be alive and useful, must 
grow out of the needs of the place it is to serve. It had better 
not be made literally by a pattern, however good the pattern. 
Every community has its own little oddities of shape, tastes and 
habits the differences that give it personality and pride. They 
may also give it its- rasping difficulties of temperament, its cal- 
luses and its highly oversensitized spots, but in any case they need 
to be considered. Its health foundation, to fit and become it, and 
be used, to wear well and give satisfaction, must be designed and 
cut upon its own measurements, not custom-made. It is worth 
the trouble. Done that way, the Foundation has a better chance. 

Everything that follows in this pamphlet is to be read in the 
light of this introductory principle. If anything hereinafter 
advised does not fit the community you are interested in, you are 
more strongly advised not to do it only be sure that it does not 
fit, and be sure that what you decide upon instead does. And to 
this end, do not theorize any more than you can help. Know. 

The purpose of a health foundation is to educate people to be 
well. Being well is not, unfortunately, an instinctive art, but it 
can be taught. Some ways of living tend toward it and some tend 
away, and it is possible to learn which ways are which. It would 
be convenient if the choice were all instinctive, but it is not, and 
since it is not, medical science has hunted out a great many useful 
bits of information which it is glad to hand over to have con- 
verted into habit. Habit does very well in the place of instinct. 
Combine habit with science and you have a strong team. Philoso- 
phy has other advice to add. Psychology has its contribution. The 
Foundation is a convenient place from which this accumulation 
of useful knowledge can be passed out into general use. People 
can be taught the specific habits that for most people tend toward 
health. They can be shown clearly their own individual status, 
and what habits will be most useful to them, given their idiosyn- 
crasies. They can have their standards of health raised, their 
definitions widened. They can be brought to realize it as largely 
within their personal control, subject to their own ways of living, 
accessible to their own desire if the desire is steadied and steeled 
into will ; and by a group contagion they can be made to think 
health so irresistibly desirable that they will let nothing stand in 
the way of having the very most of it they can. 

Briefly, then, the object of a health foundation is to teach 
people what being well means, how to do it, arid the fact that each 



80 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

one does it for himself ; and to accomplish this teaching the Foun- 
dation needs to provide : 

1. Health examinations. 

2. Health education. 

3. Health-creating opportunities. 

4. A boost. 

VARIETIES 

A local health foundation might consist of a meeting place and 
an idea. It might be a doctor's office and a doctor. It might be 
one layman with time, personality and a flaming conviction. It 
might be a cooperation of many or several persons, physicians 
and others, who have each a little time to contribute. It might 
be a school gymnasium, or a church parlor, or Mrs. Somebody's 
living-room once a week, or the armory, or somebody's else barn 
floor. Or it might be a fully equipped establishment with a sal- 
aried staff, a building, equipment, gymnasium, showers, offices, 
reception rooms and a large sustaining clientele. The following 
pages will describe several kinds. 

HEALTH FOUNDATION 
The health foundation offers to every girl three things : 

1. Estimate of herself by means of: 

(a) Examination made by physician, physical director, cor- 
related by chief physician. 

Charting: Physical condition, personal health habits, dietetic 
habits, occupational habits, recreational habits, ideals, social rela- 
tionships, present attainments. 

(b) Conference with physician in which the individual exam- 
ined is given an interpretation of correlated findings with full rec- 
ommendations. (Pathological conditions found are referred to 
proper agencies.) 

2. View of what she may become through: 
Understanding of health as the condition which allows devel- 
opment of the individual to the full mind, body, spirit. 

Desire for the attainment of health in its completeness. 
Acceptance of her responsibility for such attainment. 
Resolution to use her privilege and power to enhance the value 
of life for herself and others. 

3. Fulfillment of her possibilities by means of: 
Individual health exercises, gymnasium, games, sports. 
Recreation in work and play. 

Creative attitude toward occupation, in contrast to the drudg- 
ery of a mere job. 

Friendships, social life, club activities, dramatics. 
Lectures, conferences. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 81 

Health education pamphlets, posters, movies. 

Libraries, colleges, churches, art, music, technical schools. 

Use and development of all community resources. 

Reexamination, and a new start. 

A complete functioning of the local health foundation requires 
active cooperation with all social and educational agencies in 
order that the health idea shall be widely disseminated and also 
that these agencies through the enlarging opportunities each has 
to offer may make possible to individuals the vision and attain- 
ment of the wholeness of life. 

A FULLY EQUIPPED HEALTH FOUNDATION 

Plate III shows a possible plan for the staff of a health foun- 
dation that is able to have everything it wants. Page 13 shows in 
outline what such a foundation should undertake to do. Page 14 
lists equipment. 

Do not be discouraged if this is beyond your means. There 
are simpler plans described, though not charted, in the section 
beginning on page 14. More than likely you cannot afford every- 
thing at once, unless yours is a rather unusual community. But 
enough to be worth while can be done with a little money, if you 
have not much. 

Do not skip on to the minimum plan, though, without reading 
these pages, too. Qn however small a scale you want to start, 
there is no harm in looking at a large one and having as much of 
it as seems desirable for your particular community in mind from 
the beginning as your ultimate goal. 

There is no harm in starting small, either, provided your idea 
is big from the start. What everybody makes and schemes for, 
everybody is interested in. It is more fun to make a thing, little 
by little, by your own effort, resourcefulness and undowned con- 
fidence, than to have it dropped into your lap at once ready-made. 
Let your community have that fun. Probably you will get more 
real use out of a foundation that starts hopefully and grows in 
response to demand than if you could buy everything you want at 
the beginning from the items on somebody else's shopping list. 
You may find you do not want exactly the same things in your 
town that the other person's list included. 

The first reason for a health foundation is the examination. 
The examination meant is one that gives the individual examined 
a reliable idea of her own resource's, and a good working plan. 
It is an individual inventory of health -- present, habitual and 
accessible. 

The health examination means examiners who have the posi- 
tive health point of view, and who have in addition technical 
training. These are the medical staff and the physical education 
and recreation staff shown in the chart (see p. ???). Many of 



82 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

these positions, perhaps all, can be filled from within the com- 
munity. The medical staff may consist of practicing physicians 
and specialists of the community, giving part time to the founda- 
tion. That is, it may be organized like the staff of a hospital. 

After the examination, a reexamination. The chief value in 
the examination is that it stimulates the person examined to do 
something for herself, and shows her what to do. The reexami- 
nation after an interval of a few months shows her whether and 
how far she has done it, and what to work for next. Records of the 
first and of each succeeding examination kept on file in the Foun- 
dation are her accurate means of measuring her own accom- 
plishment. 

The health examination is treated in detail in Pamphlet I of 
this series. Blanks for recording examinations are given in that 
pamphlet. The blanks can be ordered from the publishers in 
quantity, printed on cards for filing. 

After the examination, the fully equipped foundation (1) 
should offer the person examined an opportunity to do the physi- 
cal exercises the physician and the director of physical education 
will doubtless have recommended to her; (2) should offer her 
within its own resources or help her to find outside an opportunity 
for the recreation they will probably have advised; (3) should 
provided her further means of concrete health education ; and (4) 
should help her toward realization of her complete possibilities by 
finding the best and fullest outlets for all her powers. 

1. The Foundation should have a gymnasium. In charge of 
the gymnasium there should be a director of physical education to 
teach the recommended exercises to persons individually. The 
gymnasium might give a series of lessons only long enough to 
make sure that the exercises are thoroughly understood and being 
done helpfully, and at the end of the series expect each person 
to keep on at home or in some other gymnasium, leaving the space 
for newcomers, or it might be used at least partly for permanent 
classes, in which people would meet regularly in groups to do their 
individual exercises. 

2. The function of the director of recreation is to plan and 
lead many sorts of health-building recreation, indoors and out- 
doors, so that different types of people will find what they need. 
Gymnasium classes, swimming, rowing, athletic games, horseback 
riding, skating, tennis, hikes, are obvious. Drama clubs, pag- 
eantry, group music, and other outlets for artistic feeling and 
creative impulse are as important. The reading of books and 
articles that have real food in them, stimulating conversation, 
discussion of real issues and essential truths, lectures, sociability, 
both in large groups and of the quieter sort, are recreation and 
are health-building. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 83 

3. Lectures on various phases of health, given either by the 
staff or by visiting lecturers, will be a valuable part of the Founda- 
tion's weekly program. As much as possible, there should 
be opportunity for consultation between examiners and individ- 
uals who have been examined, and for conference with groups. 

4. A very valuable person in the foundation staff can be the 
one called in Plate III the liaison director. Her function 
is to put people in touch with what they need. Her equip- 
ment should be a wide acquaintance with the community's 
resources; as much sympathy, imagination and discernment as 
possible in getting at people and seeing their aspirations, their 
needs and their abilities, even though unsuspected by themselves; 
as much skill as possible in bringing people together and in bring- 
ing people and opportunities together. The examination will, it is 
hoped, have given the person examined a new impulse, fresh 
optimism, fresh respect for her own possibilities. The liaison 
director will carry on the work of the examiner by helping her to 
meet and recognize opportunities. 

The liaison director should work in the closest understanding 
and cooperation with the executive director, physicians, director of 
physical education and director of recreation of the Foundation on 
the one hand, and with people outside the Foundation on the 
other; and should have the power to see both an abstract theory 
and a concrete individual personality and to keep from losing 
sight of either any of the time. It is not a place to be rilled 
casually. 

In a fully equipped foundation, the routine procedure for each 
person should be: (1) examination; (2) reference for treatment, 
if needed; (3) instruction in recommended exercises; (4) assis- 
tance, if needed, in finding ways to carry out other recommenda- 
tions made by the examiners; (5) periodic (preferably weekly) 
conferences regarding the working out of recommendations ; sug- 
gestions from any cooperative agencies to which she has been 
referred; (6) reexamination within a year; (7) at each stage, as 
much opportunity as possible for consultation. 

Shall the foundation give examinations free? It might. It 
would probably be better for the people it serves that it should 
charge them a moderate fee. Things without price are often 
without esteem; self-respect, a jewel not to be lightly risked. 

In time, the foundation should become entirely self-supporting. 
Probably few could be self-supporting at the start. 

BUDGET FOR SUCH A FOUNDATION 

No one budget can be made that would be applicable to all 
places. Details of equipment with prices can be obtained from 
Pamphlet I, "Interpretation of the Physical Part of the Health 
Examination." An estimate of the cost may be made on the basis 
of the program to be locally adopted. 



84 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

EQUIPMENT FOR SUCH A FOUNDATION 

Reception room. Secretary's office. Office or desk space for 
assistants. 

Examining rooms : at least three, for chief physician, associate 
physician, director of physical education. 

Small laboratory. 

Large gymnasium, for games and massed classes. 

Small gymnasium, for individual exercise lessons. 

Lecture room, with provision for moving pictures, stereopti- 
con, concerts, etc., as well as for health lectures. 

Small conference rooms. 

Shower baths and toilets. 

Swimming pool (if funds permit). 

Cafeteria (if funds permit). 

Equipment for examination. 

See Pamphlet I. 

SIMPLER FORMS AND SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS OF THE HEALH 

FOUNDATION 

A health foundation might very well have its beginning in 
one doctor's office. A doctor who undertakes to examine for 
health rather than for disease, and who devotes time to teaching 
well people how to be uninterruptedly and increasingly well, may 
perhaps have an uphill road for a while until well people begin 
to learn the value of using the doctor's services that way; but the 
good he will do to the community and the race by placing before 
people the positive health point of view will be large and once 
you get a snowball started it grows. 

Without much money, a foundation might be started by the 
cooperation of a group of doctors, each contributing a small 
amount of time. The health examination could be cooperatively 
done, each physician making that part of the examination which 
is his specialty ; or different physicians could examine on different 
days and hours. In the first case, however, it would be quite 
important that the various findings should be brought together and 
talked over with the person examined by one physician at the 
end, in order that the advice given should be on the basis of 
knowledge of the whole, not on the partial view of one specialist 
alone. 

The staff of the foundation might be at the beginning a direc- 
tor only, not technically trained, and no physician. In that case 
examinations would be impossible, but the work, though very 
much abridged, might yet be very valuable. It would then depend 
wholly on the director's intelligence, conviction and convincingness 
to make the health foundation accomplish its end. A director 
with the right personality, even without a technical staff, could 
make the foundation such an influence on the minds of its fre- 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 85 

quenters and the mind of the community that individuals in 
increasing numbers would begin to regulate and amplify their 
daily living on the basis of the positive-health philosophy. Pres- 
ently a demand for positive-health examinations would arise 
which would itself induce a supply of positive-health physicians 
ready to give health examinations. 

Such a foundation, without a staff of technicians, would use 
books and libraries. In the light of the best literature to be had 
on the subject, they would form health clubs, exercise clubs, sports 
clubs, recreation clubs of various kinds; they would plan club 
programs for studying health and for studying the other rich inter- 
ests by which life is amplified and health built. Music, arts, 
books, philosophies, service to one's fellow man, civic clubs study- 
ing the community itself and its resources, are all desirable tools 
in the work of health-building. A fertile-minded director would 
find new vistas opening everywhere. 

The director of physical education in the schools, the gym- 
nasium teacher in the high school, the swimming teacher in the 
Y. W. C. A., might any of them make her gymnasium a health 
foundation. To do so would mean : 

1. Getting the girls interested in not exercise only, but what 
exercise is for. 

2. Opening their eyes to the extent of their own power over 
their health through their own habits. 

3. Putting at their service the best information on health 
habits she can command, either from her own stores, from phy- 
sicians and other technically trained people in the community 
whom she can call upon, or from authoritative books. 

4. Redefining health with them till they see that it means all 
aspects of life and includes and affects all social relations. 

The starting place for a foundation might be a woman's club. 
Through a series of club programs the members might develop 
a strong interest in this newer understanding of health, form 
themselves into a good-health-habits club, and thence spread 
their good health habits and their increasing good health from 
themselves to their children, from their children to their children's 
friends, to their own friends, and so on unlimitedly. 

The college, with its departments of hygiene, philosophy, 
physiology, sociology, its gymnasium, its physician, its system of 
physical examination on entrance, has everything at hand out of 
which to make a health foundation if it has not one already. It 
needs : 

1. To see that the emphasis of its physical examinations is 
shifted from the protective to the constructive; to see that every 
examination is directed toward giving the girl examined this point 
of view, awakening her consciousness of personal responsibility 
for her own health and personal power to develop it, enlarging 



86 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

her definition of health, giving advice on health habits which is 
both reliable and fitted to her particular needs, and making sure 
that she understands the advice given. 

2. To make sure that its physical examinations and its gym- 
nasium periods are working together. 

3. Wherever its various departments touch upon health in 
their instruction, to group, coordinate and make sure of their 
emphases, so that their cumulative effect shall be a sound and 
ample philosophy of personal health. 

4. To see that its physicians are being used not only to cure 
illnesses but to teach health constructively. 

A health foundation in a college has a limitless opportunity 
to spread positive-health education. 

1. A community campaign, to get the ideas of positive health 
and individual responsibility into the center of the community's 
field of vision. (This, however, needs to be safeguarded against 
being merely an explosion of enthusiasm, followed by nothing. Do 
not have a campaign until you know definitely what you are hav- 
ing it for, where you are going to set the aroused interest to 
work, and what you are going to offer to supply the aroused 
demand.) 

2. Visit of a health unit. 

Suggested features for a community campaign: (1) Movies. 
The "High Road" and "Foot Follies," owned by the Bureau of 
Social Education, Young Women's Christian Associations, are use- 
ful. They have story interest, humor and beauty. (2) School 
plays; a community pageant. (3) Program of talks by local 
people. (4) Community outing, with demonstration games and 
stunts, to call attention to possibilities in the way of organized 
community recreation, out-of-door clubs, gymnasiums and swim- 
ming pools, park sites, etc. (5) Good shoe campaign. (6) Pub- 
lic report on the community survey suggested above, with oppor- 
tunity for discussion and definite action. (7) Organization of 
Health Clubs. 

If the aid of a health unit (physician and director of physical 
education) can be had, from the headquarters of the Women's 
Foundation for Health, a more explicit piece of educaiton can be 
undertaken. It would include: (1) Conferences with community 
leaders. (2) Public talks and demonstrations. (3) Demonstra- 
tion health examinations, for local physicians, directors of physical 
education, and other community leaders. (4) If the stay of the 
health unit can be so far prolonged, help in the actual work of 
organizing the health foundation and training its staff. 



PART III. A LOOK AT HERSELF 

A GIRL'S REACTION TO THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION, 
IN CONVERSATIONAL FORM 

A health lecture set one girl, at least, to thinking. The ques- 
tion was asked : "How many girls here have good health ?" Every 
hand went up. "How many never have a headache?" Not every 
hand went up this time. "How many never have constipation?" 
Fewer hands. "How many .never have pain at the time of the 
menstrual period ?" Still fewer hands. And yet you have thought 
you had good health ! Just one more question : "How many have 
not had a physician for a year?" Almost every hand is up this 
time. "Now we have it not ill enough to go to bed or call a physi- 
cian, but just feeling miserable every so often! That is not 
health, and it is not necessary, either." 

"Well," said one girl, when the lecture was finished, "if you 
do not have to have all these things, I am going to get busy, just 
as that doctor said. It's a health examination for me!" 

The next day, the physician's examination just over, she sat 
waiting for the physical examiner. Meanwhile, she did some 
thinking. 

"I wonder why she asked me so much about my job, and how 
and where I live. I wonder if my mother would get chummy 
with me if I gave her a chance. And I wonder, if I did not get 
grouchy at work if the boss would give me the job I want. And 
how am I going to get mother to give us green vegetables and more 
fruit ? I guess it is all wrong the way we eat at home. Coffee, meat, 
potatoes and bread on our table every meal. And we should be 
drinking more water eight glasses at least! And a daily bath! 
Well, here goes, and she is going to see a difference in me at my 
next examination in just three months!" 

Here she was summoned to her turn in the next room. The 
physical examiner looked over the recommendations the physi- 
cian had made on the card general building-up exercises, exer- 
cises for constipation and exercises for painful menstruation. 

"Why, of course," she thought, giving the girl a glance. "The 
shoes are throwing the body out of line. The posture shows all 
the logical consequences prominent abdomen, low chest, round 
upper back, neck forward, flabby muscles. Now to get her to see 
it for herself !" 

She takes the girl's height and weight. "How about your lung 
capacity?" she says. "Take a deep breath, and blow it all into 
this tube. See what it registers ? Just 110. For average capacity 
you should have made 150." 



88 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



"How can I improve it?" 

"By exercises, using your arms, chest, back, your whole body ! 
For as you exercise your breathing changes. What happens when 
you climb a hill or play a game of tennis ?" 

"Why, I suppose my heart beats faster." 

"Yes, and you breathe more deeply. You see the demands 
differ according to what you are doing, and so you need to keep 
the highest degree of elasticity in all tissues of the body heart 
muscle, blood vessels, lungs and muscles to keep them ready 




Fig. 30. 



to meet every demand. You sit all day at your work, don't you ? 
No call there for deep breathing; no chance to develop elasticity. 
That is the reason for exercises." 

"I see ; the work I do does not give my muscles a chance to 
be strong." 

"Yes ; and there's something else that suffers. The subcostal 
angle." 

"What is that?" 

"Put your hand on the chest, there. Now feel where the 
hard part, or the bone, ends. Take that for the apex of your 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES . 89 

angle. You see how far apart the ribs are where they branch out, 
away from each other. Your angle is only 33% degrees." 

"What should it be? And what is it for?" 

The average angle is 45 or 67% degrees. Some are 90 and 
some even 112 degrees. 

"The width of the angle is an index of the freedom or restric- 
tion of the action of the diaphragm, of the chest muscles, and of 
the lungs. You see you have not allowed any of these to serve 
you to their full capacity. Your lungs are almost never fully 
expanded. You have not used your chest muscles either in exer- 
cise or in good posture. The posture examination will explain 
some of these things to you more fully. We will begin with the 
feet." 

"Feet ! I do not see how your feet have anything to do with 
posture!" 




Fig. 31. Angle 45. 

"I overheard a conversation the other day; it was this: 
'They're going to tear down that building and build a great tall 
one in its place.' 'Oh, that's such a beautiful building ! Couldn't 
they just add more stories to it?' No, its foundation isn't strong 
enough ; it couldn't bear the weight !' ' : 

"Feet foundation ! Something to think about, isn't it ? What 
about mine?" 

"Stand on this bench facing the mirror and we will see. Well, 
why toe out ? Why let your arch relax ? See how it sags inward ! 
Why allow the tendons in the back of the leg to shorten so ? Why 
have the callus, that hard spot, on the ball of the foot? Why let 
your large toe overlap the second ? Why allow that big toe joint 
to become so large?" 

"And I have never paid any attention to any of those 'things !" 

"Now take your natural standing position you are toeing out. 
Do you see that bulging above the arch the curved line from 
the ankle bone to the floor ?" 

"Yes, and that is where my feet ache so." 



90 . WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

"You are letting those muscles relax so they do not hold the 
tarsal bones the large bones of your foot in place. The arch 
is giving way and flattening out. Now, stand toeing forward. 
See, that takes away part of the bulging." 

"And it rests my feet !" 

"What part of your foot is bearing your weight?" 

"I feel it in the center of my heel, the outer edge, near the 
ball, and in all of my toes." 

"Toe out again." 

"I feel it all on the inner edge and in that big toe joint. That 
joint's sore, too !" 

"Is the big toe doing any work ?" 

"No." 

"The outer edge of the foot?" 

"No." 

"Any of the toes?" 

"No." 

"They are there for work. Your toes should grip with each 
step you take, and the large toe should have the final take-off or 
the spring. What can that one do lying clear over the top of 
your second toe?" 

"Is it too late for help? I have never paid any attention to 
my feet they have always hurt and I just supposed they always 
would." 

"By toeing forward, by taking exercises which will strengthen 
those relaxed muscles so that they may function as support to 
the tarsal bones, by wearing shoes which will allow for circula- 
tion throughout the foot, and by the development of every mus- 
cle in your foot, you may get your long arch strong again. And 
do you know that by toeing forward you will keep from running 
your heels over ?" 

"Oh, I am glad to know that. And should not I wear these 
arch supports?" 

"Put the palm of your hand on that support now, let me 
bear my weight on your hand, just as the weight of your body 
falls on your foot." 

"Oh, look at my fingers ! They are getting all blue !" 

"Yes, it's stopping the circulation, and does it leave any flexi- 
bility in your hand?" 

"No, I cannot bend my fingers." 

"That shoe, over there; let's get it. It is good because of its 
low, broad heel, its flexible shank, straight inner line, broad toe, 
and low cut. Put your hand inside and press on the arch." 

"It gives ! And I see what you mean ! There should be free 
movement in my foot and not that rigid pressure." 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 91 

"Sit down and we 'will see how your tendons are. Keep your 
knee straight. Now let us see how much we can bend your foot 
up at the ankle." 

"Ouch ! It does not bend at all !" 

"You see, when you wear high heels, 2 inches or more in height, 
the muscles in the back of the leg, from the knee to the heel, 
shorten from lack of use. Exercises for stretching them will 
bring back a great deal of elasticity not only to your foot, but 
to your whole body. 

"In changing from high to low heels, one often feels discom- 
fort and fatigue and does not realize the readjustment which is 
taking place. There is expression in feet which have not been 
hurt or abused. They give spring to the body and allow one's 
best personality to stand uppermost ; but when they are not allowed 
their natural points of contact, their natural freedom, they stump 
along as if they were made of wood with little life or expression. 
Watch feet as they come toward you. What do they say? 'I 
hurt !' or 'Just see me spring !' " 




Fig. 32 

"Oh, I can watch them from my desk. But they do not all 
come toward me. I will have to watch those wobbly high heels 
go by and think all the time what they are doing to feet and I 
will want to say a dozen times a day, 'Toe forward and you will 
not run your heels over !' ' 

"These calluses or hard spots on the ball of the foot the 
anterior arch I will tell you some of the reasons why they 
appear : 

"1. High heels, which throw the weight forward onto this 
anterior arch, which is less strong, less able to bear the weight, 
than is the longitudinal arch, or the instep as you call it. The 
muscles and ligaments thus overtaxed give less and less support, 
so that little by little the bones of the joints are let down by the 
loosening of the ligaments and are hitting 'bed rock' with each 
step that is taken. The covering on the ball of the foot, which 
should be very flexible, soon thickens and hardens in order to 
bear its unintended burden. There's the callus ! 

"2. Poor circulation and lack of use, causing weakened or 
poor muscle tone. 



92 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

"3. Pointed toed shoes, hindering the toe-gripping function. 

"4. Short shoes and stockings, bending the toes and pushing 
back on the joints. 

"5. Pumps which cause pressure over the top of the anterior 
arch, interfering with circulation." 

"Well, do you know what I am thinking ? I am thinking what 
a pity one thousand girls are not hearing this instead of just me !" 

"You have never thought that your posture depends greatly 
upon the condition of your feet and the way you are using them. 
Stand up and we will see how closely feet and posture are related." 

The girl stands before a triple mirror where she can see chest 
and spine equally well. 

"Oh, I never knew I looked like that !" 

"Let's run right through the points of posture and then we 
can go back to each one and explain things. 

"Your abdomen is prominent and the muscles are flabby and 
weak ; back, round, hollow ; shoulders, forward ; chest, low ; head 
and neck, forward." 

"Why, I never noticed that about my neck! It looks ugly, 
doesn't it?" 

"Yes, but you can change it. Have you ever stopped to 
think that every organ in your body has its own special place or 
location, and when you hollow the chest or let the abdomen pro- 
trude, as you do, you are bringing an undue pressure and strain 
upon organs and blood vessels? While your heart is doing its 
best to pump out the blood stream containing food and air and to 
get the waste-laden blood to the lungs for a fresh supply of oxy- 
gen, you are damming up both streams, food and waste. Do 
you take any regular exercise?" 

"No, I walk once in a while." 

"Exercise acts like massage on the blood vessels which lie 
between the muscles. Flabby muscles, however, act as a heavy 
weight or hindrance to the circulation. Your digestion is very 
closely related to your muscular activity. Lax abdominal muscles 
allow congestion because they are letting the organs down. You 
have pain at the time of menstruation because the uterus and 
other pelvic organs are thus cramped and there cannot be free 
circulation of the blood, and also because of the lax muscle 
tone. 

"And do you realize that these high heels are throwing the 
weight forward, and because of this you throw your shoulders 
backward to keep the balance? Your whole body is thrown out 
of line. That is one reason for your hollow back, one reason for 
your prominent abdomen, one reason for the curve in your upper 
back, and as this curve in the back grows your abdomen becomes 
more prominent. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



93 



"Dr. Swain of Boston makes a very positive statement regard- 
ing the relative health of people with good or poor posture. Those 
with poor posture, he says, can never attain the high degree of 
health possible to those with good posture." 

"Well, whoever would think that the way I sit at that desk 
of mine would have anything to do with the way I feel !" 

"Your shoulders are forward and your chest is low, so, of 
course, your back is round. And you have been pushing your 
chin forward. Now, draw it in and push up with the back of 
your head the top of your head! It changes the line, doesn't it? 



Fig. 33. Good posture. 



Fig. 34. Prominent abdomen. 



Your lung capacity has more chance to improve and then your 
subcostal angle may be larger because there will be greater depth 
to your chest." 

"Do you mean 

"I mean that by hollowing the chest you are leaving less room 
in which the lungs may expand, less freedom for heart action, 
less freedom for expansion of the diaphragm. And you told the 
doctor you are constipated?" 

"Yes?" 

"Well this hollowing the chest carries on down, hindering 
the process of digestion. So good posture, you see, is definitely 
linked up with normal intestinal activity. If you stand well your 
digestion has a better chance; the organs of your body are free 
to work, With the neck forward, the chest flattens ; this makes 



94 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

a pressure on the bronchial tubes, leaves less space for the lungs 
to expand in, and cuts down the amount of air they are capable 
of receiving. You see how you are robbing them ! You really 
want a better body, do you not?" 

"Oh, yes ! I have never realized how much it all means." 

"Where shall we begin, then? Yes, with the feet. Push up 
through the arches, through the knees, through the trunk muscles, 
the back of the neck and the top of the head. Avoid holding 
your breath just keep on breathing." 

"Why, that brings my chest up and flattens my shoulders, 
does it not?" 

"Yes, and while sitting and you say you are at a desk all day ? 
Grow tall from the trunk muscles up ! Sit tall ! Push up with the 
top of your head but keep the chin in remember! Sit toeing 
in it rests your feet and prevents pronation, that bulging and 
sagging of the arch." 

"I will have to think about it all the time. Oh, what is all 
that you are getting out now ?" 

"Apparatus for testing your muscle strength or muscle tone. 
Your right forearm grip is 19 kilos, left forearm is 15, chest 14, 
shoulders 11, back 65, legs 70. Your total is 194, and it should 
be at least 225, and it could be 275 at your age." 

"Do you mean that I need a lot of muscle?" 

"No, we are not working for great bulk of muscle, but for the 
development of what already exists into something of greater 
benefit to you tissues which give you balance, support and power. 
By strengthening the trunk muscles you get favorable position 
and proper support for all the organs in their normal position. 
Diaphragmatic breathing, loose clothing, and abdominal exercises 
all combine to relieve pressure, to develop and to promote nor- 
mal functioning all the processes of living. Just see what free- 
dom and power you may gain !" 

"I see ! It is up to me. I do need exercise. Let me see if I 
can say it, because I want to tell it to the girls at the office. 
Through poor posture we let the muscles get flabby, and cut down 
the lung capacity by cramping the lungs, and our circulation can- 
not be good, so we have constipation and menstrual pain ! And 
exercise tones up the muscles to hold things in their places, the 
organs are not interfered with, and everything runs smoothly. 
This is interesting." 

"And what do you do for recreation?" 

"Recreation ? Oh, not much I go to a movie once in a while, 
and I sew a good deal. I go walking on Sunday, but I am usually 
too tired to do much. I do need to get out more, though, don't I ? 
Exercise recreation they mean a good deal the same thing, 
don't they ? A good hike means both, or a good party where you 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 95 

do not just sit around. My brother wanted me to go roller skating 
with him the other night, and I would not, but now I'll go with 
him! And I cannot wait to get into the exercise class the girls 
are going to see a change in me! And they are going to come 
here, too you just wait!" 

"Then you think there's something in this, do you ?" 
"Yes, and I still wish those thousand girls were here. I will 
be in the class Friday night !" 



PART IV. BETTER FEET BETTER HEALTH 

The natural is the beautiful. Failure to recognize this truth 
has resulted in strange fashions. Examples of styles which 
cause deformity are familiar to all of us. We regard as a barbar- 
ous custom the fashions followed by certain tribes, poor savages 
who flatten their skulls by binding them with boards, or lengthen 
their ear lobes by means of heavy, dragging weights. We 
are amused or amazed as the case may be at those wild and 




Fig. 35. Lengthened ear lobes. 



uncouth people who tattoo themselves in obedience to tribal fash- 
ion. Now we might well stop to consider whether some of our 
own tribal customs which we follow in the name of fashion 
may not be just as deplorable and just as unlovely. A distorted, 
malformed foot is no more beautiful than a misshapen head, elon- 
gated ears, or tattooed skin, yet a glance at the display windows of 
some shoe stores shows conclusively that foot binding is still 
practiced among us. We Americans do not really believe that 
pinched toes, atrophied muscles, flat feet, bunions and corns are 
beautiful; still we tolerate and admire the conventional shoe 
which causes these deformities. The human bones are not strong 
enough to stand the clamping effects of these shoes, and in the 
end the very structure of the foot is changed. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 

THE NORMAL FOOT 



97 



The main outlines of anatomy are the same for all feet. The 
foot is a flexible structure arranged in the form of a bridge or 
arch, supported by the heel at one end and the ball of the foot at 
the other. This bridge is the main or longitudinal arch of the 
foot. For maximum strength it should be a moderately high- 
formed curve ; contrary to the popular idea, the exceedingly high 




Fig. 36. Normal foot. 

arch is not the strongest one. If the arch is high and strong, there 
will be none of the bulging or inward sagging at the ankle known 
as pronation. 

Beside the longitudinal arch, there is a smaller one called the 
anterior arch. This arch extends from side to side in the ball of 
the foot. With a good anterior arch a callus never forms on the 
ball of the foot (see Fig. 37). 

All feet that are well trained toe straight ahead in standing 
and walking. The great toe acts as a lever, and a straight lever 



98 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

has greater power than a bent one. The four small toes should 
not overlap or crowd, but each one should rest on the ground as 
though clinging to the floor, while the great toe lies perfectly flat. 
Notice the space between the great and second toe. It is always 
present in a well-shaped foot (see Fig. 36). 

BLISTERS, CORNS, BUNIONS AND INGROWING NAILS 

Wearing tight, ill-fitting shoes and stockings leads to a series 
of ailments, such as calluses, corns, bunions and ingrowing nails. 
Pressure and friction cause a blister, and constant friction causes 
the system to protect itself by developing many additional layers 
of skin or a callus. If a callus presses on a nerve, the surround- 
ing part of the foot becomes sore and inflamed. 

Corns develop from calluses. The tough, dead skin forms a 
core which in turn is pressed point downward until it becomes 
deeply imbedded and bears upon the nerves to a painful degree. 




Fig. 37. Good anterior arch. 

Bunions are a more serious outgrowth of pressure and fric- 
tion. The trouble begins with the wearing of narrow, pointed or 
short shoes, which bend the great toe and enlarge the joint. This 
form of enlargement causes varying degrees of pain as well as 
an unsightly deformity. 

Ingrowing nails are a result of pressure ,on nails that have 
been tapered and not cut straight across. 

DAILY FOOT EXERCISES 

NOTE. Foot exercises should always be done in stockings or 
bare feet. 

SPECIAL EXERCISES FOR SHORT ACHILLES TENDON 

1. Flexion. Sit on floor or bed with legs straight; flex ankle 
and raise toes up as far as possible toward the shin. Keep the 
legs still ; 10 to 40 times. 

2. Walking on heels. Walk on heels around the room, toes 
turned inward as if grasping marbles. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



99 




Fig. 38. Flexion. 




Fig. 39. Walking on heels. 





Fig. 40. Foot rolling outward. 



100 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



FOR PRONATION AND RELAXATION OF LONGITUDINAL ARCH 

1. Foot rolling outward. Sit, feet parallel; pull inner border 
up and out, knees held straight, toes touching floor; 20 to 40 
times. 




Fig. 41. Foot circling. 



2. Foot circling. Sit, right leg crossed over left knee; make 
circles outward with right foot up, out, down, in, up. Make 
strong effort on "in" and "up" and relax on "out" and "down." 
Alternate left and right ; 20 to 40 times. 





Fig. 42. Foot gripping. 



Fig. 43. Walking with foot gripping. 



FOR RELAXATION OF ANTERIOR ARCH 

1. Foot gripping. Sit with feet apart and parallel on floor; 
spread toes; pull toes in and under as if taking hold of floor; 
repeat 20 to 30 times. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 101 

2. Walking with foot gripping. Step forward a short step 
with right foot, grip with right foot ; advance left foot, grip with 
left; walk forward, grip with foot as the weight is transferred 
to it. Toe straight ahead in walking. 




Fig. 44. Good posture vs. poor posture. 

GOOD POSTURE BETTER HEALTH 

Good posture consists in putting the whole body from toe to 
head in such a position that muscles and internal organs can 
work without interference or friction that is, feet parallel, 
waist-line drawn in, and whole body stretched up tall with head 



102 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

erect. This means ease and elasticity, giving the appearance of 
poise and balance, not of rigidity, tension and self-consciousness. 

Poor posture is like placing a mechanical machine in an 
unsteady, uneven position. Its movements are restricted and 
hampered and its parts work against each other instead of in 
coordination. If the machine is a strong one it may run for 
years, but extra effort is expended which should have gone toward 
greater production. The case usually is, however, that the 
machine runs, but is constantly in need of repair. Its parts wear 
out too rapidly and it is always giving out unexpectedly. Do 
you know people who are like that? They are constantly going to 
the doctor to get patched up are always complaining and break- 
ing down when there is most need of bearing up. A human 
machine is infinitely more complicated than a mechanical one, and 
when it fails to run smoothly the results are more serious. Why 
not give the human machine the same advantage as the mechan- 
ical one that is, an erect position? This position of advantage 
in the human machine we call "good posture." It helps toward 
the unhampered functioning of the various organs, thus remov- 
ing one of the causes of backache, indigestion, weakened lungs 
and heart action, constipation and painful menstrual periods. Good 
posture, habitually practiced, reduces fatigue, increases endurance 
and gives health, vitality and vigor. 

The mind can express itself only through the body. To 
illustrate : A girl had lost her own respect as well as that of the 
community in which she lived. Unhappy, hopeless, her body 
became gradually bowed down under its burden; with head 
hanging, she literally looked no one in the face, for she could 
not. Then she came under influences which taught her to use 
her muscles and understand her body, to gain from her past expe- 
riences. With the return of self-respect and mental and physical 
health, the "posture of failure" dropped off and she assumed 
the "posture of success." 

EFFECT OF GOOD MUSCLES ON POSTURE 

It takes a certain amount of muscular power to hold one's self 
vigorously erect. Even a healthy mental attitude and good inter- 
nal organs are helpless if accompanied by weak, flabby muscles. 
It is impossible to believe that a really vigorous personality can 
be concealed within a devitalized body, a body that expresses 
weakness to every casual observer. If your posture is poor, search 
yourself for the cause. If it is the result of lax muscles, it is 
your responsibility through exercises to strengthen the flabby, 
abdominal muscles and the weak, toneless back muscles which 
allow the spine to round and the chest to sink. No wonder back- 
ache and fatigue result when the body is thus thrown out of 
plumb. In contrast is the alert, upright vigor of the well-poised, 
well-shod woman, expressive of life, joy and health. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 103 

CORRECT SHOES BETTER HEALTH 
SHOES WE SHOULD WEAR 

The correct shoe for any foot has five pronounced specifica- 
tions : 

1. Straight Inner Border. The inner line of the shoe should 
be straight from heel to toe following the outline of the normal 
foot (see Fig. 45). 




Fig. 45. A good shoe. 

2. Broad Loiv Heel. Nature meant us to walk on both the 
ball of the foot and the heel (see Fig. 45). Civilization has 
necessitated walking on hard, unyielding pavements. Hence the 
heel of the shoe should conform to the lines of the heel Nature 
gave us, thus giving a firm foundation to walk upon. Unneces- 
sary jarring of the spine is avoided by rubber heels. 



104 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



3. Broad To <?. The toe of the shoe should be broad enough 
to allow free action of the toes (see Fig. 45). 

4. Flexible Shank. A flexible shank is one that does not sup- 
port the arch, but acts as a mere covering to the flexible human 
foot. Thus the muscles of the foot develop and are strong; the 
foot is supported by its own efficient muscles rather than by a 
stiff shank in the shoe (see Fig. 46). 

5. Low Cut. A low cut shoe is preferable, in that it gives 
no support to the ankle and does not interfere with the circula- 
tion. In cold or wet weather, it is advisable to wear woolen 
stockings or spats for protection (see Fig. 46). 

SHOE FITTING 

A point to bear in mind is that the foot spreads under the 
weight of the body, and one should always stand when trying 
on shoes. In walking, the foot presses forward, in some cases 
as much as a half inch, so that ample allowance should be made 
for such motion. 




Fig. 46. 



STOCKINGS 



Stockings to fit the feet are just as important as shoes. A 
badly shaped stocking, or one that is too short, entirely destroys 
the progress made by wearing a good shoe. 



CARE OF THE SHOES 

Shoes should be well aired over night. If two pairs of shoes are 
kept in use and worn on alternate days in order to air the leather, 
they will wear much better than if worn continually. Shoe trees 
help to keep shoe in shape. 

Run-down heels are not only unsightly, but also injurious. 
The straight or parallel foot position in walking prevents the 
quick wearing down of the heels. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



105 



STRAIGHT-FOOT WALKING BETTER HEALTH 

In walking the feet should point 
straight ahead. Never toe out. 

The natural is the beautiful. Failure 
to recognize this truth has resulted in 
strange fashions; ability to recognize it 
can change these fashions back to Na- 
ture's normal expression. 

Positive health is an adequate balance 
of every-day living. Good feet, good 
posture, -good shoes, straight-foot walk- 
ing and exercise contribute much toward 
a good foundation for health. 




Fig. 47 



CHAPTER III 

NUTRITION IN RELATION TO HEALTH 
AND EFFICIENCY 

E. V. McCOLLUM 

The late Dr. James H. Canfield of Columbia University once 
said : "Learn to live, not to exist." What do we mean by living ? 
The essentials of a happy and useful life are summed up very 
well in the motto of the Campfire Girls. "Wohelo" means work, 
health and love. But one cannot work without health, at least not 
successfully or for a very long period, without wearing out. Work 
to any one who does not enjoy health is a drudgery, and is looked 
forward to from day to day with dread. Those who are in good 
health and are engaged in employment for which they are suited, 
enjoy their work. It is not these who watch the clock during 
working hours, who are so restless in spirit that they crave excite- 
ment, and whose minds wander away from the useful tasks 
assigned to them to frivolous and unprofitable day dreaming. Real 
work of the kind which satisfies the worker and those who see the 
work and its results, may occasionally be done by one who is 
handicapped by ill health, "but only rarely is this true. Work in 
which one delights and which brings success calls for health. 

Health is just as essential to the realization of love as it is to 
work. For love is inseparable from the effective sharing of the 
responsibilities of life with another, the exercise of forbearance 
and consideration, and the acceptance and carrying out of new 
obligations. One with poor health is not .likely to fulfil these 
fundamental conditions of life successfully. It is, generally 
speaking, those whose health is below normal who are irritable, 
discontented and unsuccessful. They are unappreciative and 
difficult to live with, and have little enjoyment in life because of 
their gloomy outlook. Those in robust health are generally good 
companions, and not only enjoy life but add to the pleasure in the 
lives of others. 

Although good health is the most precious possession which 
one can have, most people are surprisingly careless about trying 
to secure it or to preserve it if they happen to be so fortunate as 
to possess it. This is especially true among young men and women. 
In youth, from about the completion of growth to the age of 25 
or 30 years, many persons enjoy better health than at any other 
time in their lives. Their recuperative powers are at this time 
much greater than in childhood or than they will be later in life. 
They can eat almost anything at any time of the day or night with- 



108 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

out feeling any ill effects. They can do without sleep in order to 
indulge in social diversions, and recover so completely and quickly 
from the worn-out condition in which they return home, that it 
appears to them that there is no limitation to their vitality. They 
come to think that such things do not hurt them, because the 
effects of which they are conscious wear away so soon that they 
are easily forgotten. Any one who listens carefully to the con- 
versations of persons past middle life will not have to wait long to 
hear expressions which indicate that they do not feel as well as 
they did in their youth. There is nothing more important for a 
boy or girl than to gain early in life an appreciaiton of the impor- 
tance of living so as to preserve their health and vitality. 

The health of many persons is undermined in infancy and 
early childhood by improper care. Many babies are not nursed 
by their mothers, but are given cow's milk laden with dangerous 
bacteria which gives them indigestion. The milk is often modi- 
fied by dilution or by the addition of cream or sugar, or both, or 
by the addition of cereal water. Such modified milks are usually 
made from milk which has been heated, and which on this account 
has lost its power to prevent scurvy, one of the diseases due to 
faulty diet, which is fairly common at the present time. That we 
are making a sad showing in feeding our babies is made evident 
by the fact that altogether too large a percentage show mild 
rickets, a disease due to faulty bone growth. About 90 per cent., 
in both country and city, have one or more unfilled cavities in 
their teeth. Abnormalities of the joints, skeletal defects and bad 
teeth were together the second in importance as causes for rejec- 
tion of young men for military service during the great war. 
These facts mean only one thing, namely, that these boys did not 
develop in childhood as they should have done. In a very large 
number of cases, if we knew the facts, we could trace their 
inferior condition back to dirty milk, feeding food unfit for 
infants, overfeeding or feeding on modified milks, which were 
modified by ignorant persons, and were unfit infants' food. 

There are, of course, other causes which contribute to poor 
development in infants. We entertain babies too much, thus 
keeping them excited and preventing them from getting enough 
rest. We prop them up too much when they are little. We clothe 
them too warmly and do not give them a chance to crawl as much 
as they should for exercise. We keep them in the house too 
much and derprive them of sunlight. As soon as they are a few 
months old they are fed more cereal foods than is good for them. 
Few babies in modern times have a fair start in life. 

Notwithstanding the very poor start which many people get 
in babyhood, a very large number of them, although they grow up 
round shouldered, flat chested and weak muscled, feel pretty well 
between the ages of 15 and 25, because their recuperative power 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 109 

is greatest at this time. There is a wonderful power in the body 
which enables it to repair defects, and to improve disturbed func- 
tion of its organs if it is given a chance to do so. The earlier in 
life this chance is provided and maintained, the more effective 
will be the improvement in physical condition. It is of the utmost 
importance that all young people should understand what to do 
in order to give their bodies a fair chance to perfect themselves 
if development has been poor during childhood. For these, as 
well as those who are well formed and possess health and physi- 
cal beauty, it is equally important to understand what to do in 
order to preserve as long as possible the characteristics of youth. 

Although there are many things which influence our lives for 
good or bad, such as the climate in which we live, the kind of 
work we do, and the surroundings in which the work is done, espe- 
cially the lighting, temperature and ventilation, there are two 
factors which stand out above all others in determining what our 
health will be. These are the nature of our food, and the effec- 
tiveness with which we rest. This is equivalent to saying that the 
most important things to consider are the kind of material which 
we place at the disposal of our bodies for construction and repair, 
and the opportunity which is given the body structures to make 
the necessary repairs. 

Young women and older girls are among the worst offenders 
against the most simple laws of health. This is true, notwithstand- 
ing the fact that they, more than any other class in our population, 
are concerned with presenting the best possible appearance. 
Nothing contributes more to the success of a girl in any under- 
taking, business or social, than a good personal appearance. Most 
of them realize this, and strive to attain it, but go about it in the 
wrong way, and fail. This is equally true of girls who go into 
industry and of those who live in the best homes. 

Let us first consider the matter of eating. Few people know 
anything about foods, notwithstanding the fact that there are few 
things which contribute to human comfort and well-being about 
which we possess a greater amount of exact knowledge than foods 
and the body's needs for nutriment. As a nation we are now 
trying an experiment with foods which mankind never tried before. 
We have been trying that experiment for more than a generation 
now, and the evidence is complete to show that it is a failure. We 
are eating far more cereal products than we formerly did, and 
we have ceased to eat whole wheat bread or bread made from 
the whole corn or rye kernels. Instead, we are eating highly 
refined white flour, corn meal and rice. These are very inferior in 
their food value, and make bread which is inferior to the bread 
which our grandmothers used to bake when every neighborhood 
had its little mill and whole grains were ground into flour or 
meal. Our diet has come to consist in great measure of white 



110 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

bread, meats, potatoes and sugar. Just keep track for a few days 
of your own food and that of those with whom you eat and see 
how true this statement is. 

Now, this kind of diet is a failure from the standpoint of 
nutrition. One may remain alive for years on a diet consisting 
in great measure of meat, white bread, potatoes and sugar, but 

111 health is certain to result from such a practice. The results 
of taking these things in excessive amounts, and without correct- 
ing their dietary defects by eating sufficient amounts of certain 
foods which contain substances which white bread, meat, potatoes 
and sugar lack, are a bad condition of the skin, enfeeblement of 
the digestive powers, debility of the intestine resulting in consti- 
pation, bad breath, lack of energy, constant fatigue, irritability, 
inability to rest, craving for excitement and entertainment, and 
inability to concentrate upon useful work, or to take pleasure in 
profitable recreation, such as the reading of good literature. 

We eat entirely too much sugar. Sugar was never manufac- 
tured on a large scale until recent years. Its production has 
steadily increased since the sixteenth century, when sugar cane was 
found to be profitable in the West Indies. It is a habit-forming 
food, and is of no value other than for fuel for the body to keep 
it warm, and to supply energy for work. It does not feed the 
body tissues in a true sense, as do certain other food substances. 
We now consume in the United States about a quarter of a pound 
of sugar per person per day throughout the year. This is an inex- 
cusable thing to do, for this necessarily crowds out of the 
diet more wholesome foods, and makes the diet as a whole 
unsatisfactory. 

When we eat the white bread, and other cereals, meat and 
potato type diet, together with much sugar or candy, which is 
largely composed of sugar, we do not have a properly planned 
diet for several reasons. First, we do not get enough of certain 
mineral elements such as the bones are made of. Second, we do 
not get enough of certain vitamins. These are substances which 
have been known only for a few years, but they are of the great- 
est importance to health and vitality. We do not know just what 
these substances are, but we do know what happens when the 
supply of them is insufficient in the food. We know very accu- 
rately the relative abundance of each of them there are four 
kinds in each of the different kinds of foodstuffs which are 
commonly eaten in this country. 

Although the study of dietetics as it is taught at present is a 
fascinating subject, it would take more space than is available to 
enter here in a detailed account of the nature of the deficiencies 
of different foods. It is now very easy to plan a system of diet 
which will enable its user to avoid the pitfalls of malnutrition, and 
without making any appreciable sacrifice in palatability. The 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 111 

system which I have been for some years recommending to the 
American people is very simple, and contains nothing radical, and 
is no more expensive than any other diet, yet it will go very far 
toward improving the health and the appearance. It depends upon 
the fact that there are two classes of foodstuffs which possess 
remarkable dietary qualities. These are milk and the leafy veg- 
etables. The latter includes lettuce, spinach, brussels sprouts, 
chard, turnip tops, beet tops, cabbage and any other leaves which 
are suitable for human consumption. Both milk and the leafy 
vegetables are of such a nature that everything which is lacking 
or supplied in insufficient amount by a diet of white bread, meat, 
potatoes and sugar, will be furnished in abundance provided a 
sufficient amount of each of these classes of foods is eaten. It 
is also necessary, in order to get the best results in nutrition, to 
take each day a moderate amount of some fresh, raw vegetable 
food. For this purpose the fruits are unequaled, but raw cab- 
bage, celery, lettuce, tomatoes, etc., are admirable substitutes. 

There is another way to state the matter which is more satis- 
factory as a practical guide to the planning of the diet. That 
is, to take twice each day a salad dish of some kind. Once each 
day take a liberal helping of some such vegetable as we class as a 
pot-herb or greens. In addition to this, take every day a quart of 
milk or its equivalent in skim milk, cheese, cream or butter. It is 
best to avoid eating much meat and sugar, but it is not desirable 
to leave either entirely out of the diet. When these conditions 
have been complied with, one may safely select anything else the 
appetite may call for, and rest assured that the diet will be very 
good in quality, and be so constituted a^s to promote good health. 

Let us examine a little closer the reason for the advice just 
set down about the selection of foods. Salads will always contain 
a certain amount of one or more fruits and some raw vegetables. 
Raw apple, orange, pineapple, grapes or other fruits go well in 
salads, as do also chopped celery and chopped tender cabbage 
(raw). Lettuce will be never failing. Meats or nuts will some- 
times be used. Any kind of dressing desired may be added. 
Salads encourage chewing, which we now generally neglect, but 
should carefully attend to for the sake of the teeth. The raw 
articles in salads furnish liberal amounts of two vitamins which 
we designate as B and C. There is a Vitamin A, which leafy veg- 
etables contain, but which is most abundant in butter and cream. 
All three of the vitamins are essential to health. 

The milk is especially useful for three reasons. Without it 
we shall in all probability not secure enough of the element cal- 
cium, the principal constituent of lime, and we will suffer quite 
as much from a deficit of this element as from lack of a vitamin. 
The cream of milk is, as stated above, an excellent source of the 
Vitamin A. There is in milk in addition an abundance of pro- 



112 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

teins, or tissue-building substances of very high quality. Any 
diet which we are likely to secure in this country, in which milk 
and the leafy vegetables are lacking, will probably be unsuited for 
promoting good nutrition. I have for some years designated milk 
and the leafy vegetables as the "protective foods," because they 
are so constituted as to correct, when used in liberal amounts, the 
deficiencies in the white bread and other cereals, meat, potato and 
sugar type of diet which we are now adhering to so closely that 
we are as a nation suffering from malnutrtion as a result. 

Whenever the diet is unsatisfactory for any appreciable time 
in its composition, the vitality of the tissues runs down. This is 
shown by poor skin conditions, such as poor color and poor tex- 
ture. Wrinkles and "crow's feet" tend to develop, and the signs 
of age begin to come on faster than they should. The hair tends 
to lose its luster and to fall out. It is soon apparent that the hairs 
are unequal in length and are dry and easily broken. The intes- 
tinal tract loses its digestive power in some degree. It becomes 
inactive so that it tends to harbor putrefying matter, and feeds 
into the blood stream the unwholesome products of bacterial 
action on the protein matter of the food. This is usually the 
source of bad breath. The unwholesome gases formed in the 
intestine come up into the mouth in some degree, and in part they 
are derived from the breath itself. The teeth may be a source of 
bad breath due to cavities and an unhealthy condition of the gums, 
which permit food particles to lodge between them. Bad breath, 
however, is much more often an index to an unhygienic condi- 
tion of the intestine than of the mouth. 

A healthy intestine should empty itself every day, but mod- 
ern habits of life, which include lack of exercise, bad food and 
the cultivation from childhood of the habit of emptying the bowel 
when it is convenient, have in most persons who have reached 
adult life brought it to a condition of permanent debility. They 
have schooled it to submit to lying in contact with putrid matter 
for many hours after this should have been gotten rid of. The 
habit of eating liberally of salads and of leafy vegetables will go 
far toward correcting this trouble. 

About ten years ago I conceived the idea that by taking on 
rising in the morning a liberal quantity of water containing the 
same amount of common salt as is contained in the blood the 
intestinal tract could be effectively washed out. It is well known 
that if ordinary tap water is taken in liberal amounts on rising, 
it is quickly absorbed and excreted by the kidneys. This is not 
the case if the water which is taken has just as much salt as. an 
equal amount of blood. Under these circumstances it merely 
runs through the stomach and intestine and washes them out. It 
is best to take as nearly as possible a quart of water at about body 
temperature as soon as one awakens in the morning. At this 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 113 

time the stomach and upper intestines are empty, except for 
saliva and small residues of secretion. One is about twelve hours 
away from the last meal of the preceding day, and all that can do 
good has been secured from it. Anything further that is absorbed 
from the previous day's food does harm rather than good. The 
quart of water at body temperature should contain a teaspoonful 
(somewhat rounded) of common table salt, and should taste 
slightly salty but not bitter. It should run through the intestine 
within three quarters of an hour, to an hour and a half. One 
should not eat breakfast until after the salt water has passed out 
of the stomach. One soon learns to know when this has hap- 
pened. In a healthy subject there is practically no absorption of 
salt or water. The intestine is thus washed out thoroughly at 
the beginning of each day. Some hundreds of persons have now 
followed this practice for years and with the most gratifying 
results. Constipation leads to thickheadedness, lassitude, head- 
ache, and gives one a sluggish and out-of-sorts feeling. A thor- 
ough clearing of the digestive tract each day improves the feelings 
of the average person to an extent which is a great and pleasant 
surprise to nearly every one who learns to successfully carry out 
this practice of drinking "isotonic salt solution." Since there is 
no /absorption, or very little absorption of salt, and the solution 
taken is of the same concentration as the blood, no harm can 
possibly be done by taking it every day throughout life. 

I have followed this practice myself for about ten years, and 
have seen my associates in the laboratory, and my students and 
others to the number of about a thousand, drink isotonic salt 
solution daily, or nearly so, for years with great benefit. This 
practice is not a new but a very thoroughly tested health measure. 

There are a few persons whose intestines are very much dam- 
aged by long-established bad habits and poor nutrition, who find 
that this salt water is not promptly eliminated from the intestine. 
In such cases, if it does not respond with satisfactory activity 
after a few days' trial, it is advisable not to continue it. For 
those who are ill, especially with deranged kidneys, and whose 
intestine retains the solution, it is not advised, for if the salt 
water remains long enough in the intestine it will be absorbed, 
although this takes place only very slowly during several hours. 1 

If one watches the girls employed in business at their noonday 
lunch, one sees most of them limiting their food largely to a 
couple of small meat sandwiches and a piece of cake, or other 
equally unwise selection of food. When one considers the fre- 
quency of candy eating by these girls, and their confirmed habit 

1. In the opinion of members of the Advisory Committee drinking cold water to 
the amount and at the time suggested is quite as effective as salt solution. Editor. 



114 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

of eating sweet foods, and of limiting their food in great measure 
to white bread, meat, potatoes and sugar, and the all but absence 
of the "protective foods," it is easy to account for the patronage of 
the beauty shops, and the adoption of the makeshift of whitening 
the chin and nose and reddening the cheeks, as a substitute for 
the schoolgirl complexion frequently seen in the grade school 
classes. There is a way to avoid bad complexion, a feeling of 
unwholesomeness, stoop shoulders, falling arches, an expression 
of failure, and early signs of ageing. A properly planned diet 
and a condition of internal cleanliness are absolutely essential as 
the first proposition in any effective program for improving the 
health. 

There is likewise a great tendency for the modern girl to suf- 
fer from overfatigue. Only in the case of the employed girl or 
woman, is a worn-out nervous system sometimes unavoidable. It 
is unavoidable when a girl gives close attention to a machine day 
after day, since she may suffer from over stimulation due to her 
conscientious application to her task. The girl who has an oppor- 
tunity to attend school may and frequently does attend so closely 
to her studies out of school hours, and takes so little exercise, and 
becomes so excited over social matters which monopoilize her 
thoughts whenever she is released from her books, that she grad- 
ually becomes the victim of overstimulation and cumulative 
fatigue. 

It is not easy for the person who has not been well educated 
in physiology to understand when the first danger signals are met 
with on the road to fatigue. It should be appreciated by all that 
a normal individual becomes so sleepy that it is impossible to 
continue work when fatigue reaches a certain point. Sleep comes 
and enforces rest and repair of the tired body. Strong emotions, 
however, may goad the nervous system to activity and drive the 
tissues to a degree of exertion which does serious damage. A 
girl may work at her ordinary prosaic tasks throughout the day 
and feel tired all the time, yet she may attend a party at night 
and under the stimulus of the company, the music and dancing, 
may lose entirely all feeling of fatigue. The new and pleasing 
stimuli cause the tired muscles to work with renewed vigor, 
whereas the routine and monotonous labor at the sewing machine 
or the typewriter elicited from her body a constant repetition of 
the signal that rest was needed. 

Curiously enough, the nervous system, when continually 
fatigued beyond the limits of normal activity, becomes more easily 
stimulated, and less capable of passing into a state of effective 
rest so that repair may take place, as happens in sound and 
refreshing sleep. The desire for sleep fails to come to the over- 
tired, and the tendency becomes ever more and more pronounced 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 115 

to keep on being active because the desire for rest, and the capac- 
ity for rest, is lowered or lost. Thus a condition is established 
which tends to grow worse instead of better. 

It is, therefore, very essential that sufficient rest be taken 
every day. It is a danger signal, and one which should command 
attention, when one reaches a condition which many a girl will 
describe something like this : "I just can't go to bed before 12 or 
1 o'clock, for I just can't sleep," or "I never feel tired. I am 
always on the go. I don't have time to get tired," etc. 

It is much more worth while to live than to merely exist. Be a 
source of satisfaction and help to others rather than a burden to 
them. Do not live to eat ; there are other and greater sources of 
satisfaction in life than tasting candy. Rather, eat to live effec- 
tively and win the satisfaction of feeling well, of being well, of 
living long and usefully. Proper food and suitable rest periods 
are of first importance in such a program. 2 

2. In this Bulletin space was not available to make possible a thorough discussion 
of the properties of different foods and the principles of nutrition. Those who are 
interested in going further into the study of this subject may consult The American 
Home Diet, written by E. V. McCollum, M.D., and published by the Frederick C. 
Mathews Company, Detroit, and The Newer Knowledge of Nutrition, written by 
E. V. McCollum, M.D., and published by the Macmillan Company, New York. Ed. 






CHAPTER IV 

MENTAL HEALTH 
PART I. LIVING AT OUR BEST 

WILLIAM A. WHITE, M.D. 

This little pamphlet is addressed to young women. Its object 
is not to detail the symptoms of mental illness and then tell how 
to treat them nor yet how to avoid them. Its object is to arrest 
attention sufficiently so that the young woman may be induced 
to devote some serious moments to self-examination; may sin- 
cerely determine just what she is trying to do and what she wishes 
to make of her life; may exert an effort to see herself clearly 
as she really is, both her valuable qualities and her shortcomings ; 
and may then attempt to order her life in accordance with such 
a plan as will get the best results. 

TAKING STOCK OF ONE'S SELF 

We are accustomed to sizing up the influences about us and 
putting them down as good or evil, as desirable to cultivate and 
assist, or antagonize and avoid, as the case may be. Is it pos- 
sible to size up one's self in the same way? Can we take stock, 
so to speak, of our own characteristics, write down our assets and 
liabilities, come to an understanding of our advantages and our 
shortcomings? Can we estimate the value to us of our work, of 
our friendships, of our likes and dislikes? Do we accurately 
appreciate the loss in efficiency and happiness occasioned by our 
prejudices, our irritabilities, our dislikes and grouches? Is it pos- 
sible to size up all these elements of our personality in a way that 
will produce results that are helpful in our living? And if it is 
possible, is it worth while ? 

Once each year the well-conducted business establishment 
pauses for a few days to take stock, to balance its books, to exam- 
ine all of its business ventures and note their exact status, whether 
returns may be expected from each one and how much, or whether 
some must be written off as losses and accepted as failures. All 
this is done to determine just where the firm stands as to its 
financial resources, its possibilities for credit and for the enlarge- 
ment of its business or the necessities for curtailing expenses 
and perhaps making sacrifices in order to obtain ready cash to 
meet urgent obligations. In short, it is a survey of the firm's 
assets and liabilities. Such a survey is recognized as a necessity 



118 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

in business circles in order that the business ventures of the new 
year may be undertaken intelligently and with a clear vision. 

Such a procedure, or what I wiH call for short taking stock, 
has been forced upon business houses by the keenness of competi- 
tion which makes success impossible unless business ventures are 
undertaken not only with a clear idea of the risks and obligations 
which they involve, but with a clear understanding of the 
resources available for putting them through. 

If such a procedure is so important for the success of busi- 
ness ventures, why should not a similar procedure be equally 
important for the success of the greatest of all ventures, the great 
adventure of life itself? It is true that many individuals do 
attempt to size up their capacities for certain special undertak- 
ings, but usually in a crude and uninformed way, while almost 
no one thinks of attempting such a procedure with anything like 
regularity as an established custom of her way of meeting life's 
problems. It is much commoner to see people blundering along 
through life, blundering into success, or more often blundering 
into failure, and in the first instance not knowing what to do 
with success when it does come, and in the latter instance not 
knowing how to profit by the lessons which failure could teach, 
and going on repeating the same mistakes over again. 

It is already appreciated by physicians and by many laymen 
that it is a good investment after one is 40 or 50 to be gone over 
thoroughly by a competent physician once in a while in order to 
see just what one's state of health really is, so that one's life 
may be regulated in such fashion as to avoid putting too much 
strain on organs that are beginning to show the signs of wear 
and tear. This is recognized as good practice. Would it not be 
equally good practice to inventory one's mental qualifications for 
the game of life, only instead of waiting until one is 40 or 50, to 
begin at once when life's responsibilities are taken up consciously 
for the first time? 

The answer to this question must rest upon the practical situ- 
ation whether the individual after serious contemplation is sat- 
isfied with her life, with what she is doing, the direction in which 
she is going, her objective, and her reasonably attainable goal. And 
if she is not satisfied, then is she willing to make an effort, perhaps 
a very great effort, to accomplish something better? Very few 
persons, in fact, practically no one, but is really ambitious for 
something better from life than she has up to the present been 
able to obtain. Is it worth while to examine the whole problem 
of living with sufficient care to determine how better results may 
be reached? To put it more specifically, is it possible to get 
more happiness out of life more joy out of living? Put in this 
way, I think there is little doubt but that any one you, for 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 119 

example, who are reading this pamphlet will be willing to admit 
that a plan that offers so much one cannot afford to pass by with- 
out at least a reasonable examination. 

If I am right in this assumption, I may be assured of your 
sympathetic attention to my attempt to outline such principles and 
facts as are fundamental in any such effort. That there are such 
principles and facts few people, perhaps, appreciate. As a mat- 
ter of fact, such principles^have been known for a long time, but 
it is the particular merit of the newest movement in psychology 
that they have become the objects of its attention in an effort 
to formulate them in a practical way. I shall endeavor to set 
them forth in a simple and easily understandable -way in the hope 
that their understanding may be of actual value to those who 
endeavor earnestly to apply them. 

In order to understand all those manifestations of mental life 
which make for unhappiness, it is necessary to have some com- 
prehension of the way in which the mind develops, because the 
phenomena of unhappiness are evidences of failure, to some 
extent, of this process. 

THE STORY OF THE MIND 

From earliest infancy to the most effective adulthood the path 
and the nature of the mental development of the individual, if 
viewed from without, can be expressed in terms of his interests, 
the nature and character of the objects and persons that attract 
him. 

Immediately following birth the attention of the infant is 
attracted by simple sensations of sight and sound and touch. As 
soon as the child is able to arrange its perceptions so that its expe- 
riences group themselves together and relate to definite objects and 
persons, it begins to develop interests which can be expressed and 
are understandable by the adult. These objects of interest repre- 
sent a steadily progressive series, for the life force tends always 
to force us in creative directions, and it is only insurmountable 
difficulties which compel complete failure. 

To put the whole matter very simply, one of the earliest of 
the child's interests, it may be said one of its earliest love objects, 
is itself. This love of self is a characteristic and necessary phe- 
nomenon of the early years of life, and is at the basis of that 
necessary interest in self which prompts the care of one's health 
and the development of personal ideals. On the other side it may 
result in a short-sighted selfishness which is destructive of the 
possibilities for the best things in life. 

Later in the course of development the child begins to learn 
to project its interest upon objects and persons outside itself, and 
as to the persons, they are at first those who are most like itself, 
namely, of the same sex. Little boys first come to make friends 



120 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

of other little boys and little girls of little girls before they are 
able to make friends with members of the opposite sex. Then 
later on the young adolescent begins to be genuinely interested in 
others of the opposite sex. This direction of the interests is cal- 
culated to project the individual along the path mapped out by 
Nature which has as its goal reproduction, and may be viewed 
as a gradual development of the interests and emotions in such 
a way as to lead to that end. Nature from the beginning pre- 
pares each individual to reproduce. Going along with these phe- 
nomena, and continuing, is an increasing ability to be interested 
in things outside one's self which are more and more remote from 
granting immediate selfish satisfactions. And so the process con- 
tinues. The individual grows and develops self-interest recedes 
more and more into the. background and ends which are less and 
less obviously selfish J occupy the attention. This is the process of 
the gradual refinement of our interests, and it can be seen how 
dependent the course of this process is upon the way in which 
these interests are understood and helped in their development and 
expression or misunderstood and antagonized by the individuals 
who constitute the family. 

THE INSTINCTS 

In order to understand this process of development better 
and it is necessary to understand it in order to understand our- 
selves it is useful also to view the process from within and to 
think of reducing the motive forces of life to their simplest terms, 
and then to follow the process on its path of development as it 
becomes more and more complex. All human motives may be 
reduced to two great instincts the instinct of self-preservation 
and the instinct for race-preservation. The self -preservative 
instinct is expressed in the taking of food (food hunger), breath- 
ing (air hunger) ; the race-preservative or reproductive instinct 
is expressed in all those manifestations which are collectively 
known as sexual, such as the phenomena of courtship, mating, 
parental love. All human activities may be reduced to and 
expressed in terms of these two fundamental instincts. Thus fear 
and its resulting flight from the source of danger, and anger with 
its resulting fight or attack upon the threatening object are both 
examples of the self -preservative instinct; so also is the accumu- 
lation of property and power political, social and economic 
quite as well as the taking of food. The race-preservative instinct 
is evinced not only by those phenomena that more or less obviously 
tend toward reproduction, but in many other ways which a little 
analysis will prove have their origin in some aspect of the sex 
life. The interest which children take in dolls and later in young 



1. This word is used in the broad sense of self-interest; but self-interest when 
not used for constructive ends becomes selfish. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 121 

children and the interest of girls in domestic occupations are cal- 
culated to develop those qualities which later they will use as 
mothers and housewives. 

Equally important with the wide range and difficulty of rec- 
ognizing these two instincts in their more complex manifestations 
that is, recognizing the reducibility of all actions to expressions 
of one or the other is the fact that after all upon complete 
analysis it will be discovered that probably neither one nor the 
other instinct can ever be found manifesting itself in pure form, 
so to speak; that is, without involving to some extent the other. 
A simple example is that of the young man who works hard to 
save up enough money so that he can get married. Here the 
accumulation of money, which is preponderantly a manifestation 
of the self-preservative instinct, is put to definitely race-preserative 
ends. 

The relation, however, is much more profound than this illus- 
tration implies ; in fact, it is fundamental. Self-preservation and 
race-preservation are essential to each other. If the individual 
cannot preserve himself he cannot procreate and therefore help 
preserve the race; if the race is not recouped by propagation, 
there will be no individuals to preserve themselves. In the prim- 
itive conflict for survival, in war, men kill that the nation of which 
they are the component parts may live. Out of death a new life 
is born which in turn must die. Race-preservation and self- 
preservation are as truly a parallel pair of opposites as life and 
death, night and day, good and bad ; without the one the other 
could not be. We must be prepared, therefore, in all manifesta- 
tions of human activity to see both represented. It is only a 
matter in each specific instance of the proportion of emphasis 
borne by each. Some acts are preponderantly one, some the other, 
but all are both. I shall speak of the self-preservative part as the 
egoistic component and the race-preservative part as the creative 
component. 

THE FEELINGS AND WISHFUL THINKING 

It is these two instincts, then, that are at the bottom, so to 
speak, of all the multitudinous aspects of our personality; that 
supply the motives for all of those activities which collectively 
make up conduct; and that are accompanied in their activities by 
certain mental states which are called feelings or emotions. These 
feelings are of the utmost importance for an adequate under- 
standing of the phenomena of mind. We may be said 'to think 
in two quite different ways : the usual way, in which ideas are 
fairly clearly present in our consciousness, and we reason about 
them, draw conclusions and regulate our conduct accordingly; 
the other way, the much more important one for our purposes, in 



122 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

which we, so to speak, feel our way along in relating ourselves 
to persons or things or to our own qualities, tastes, ideals and 
impulses. 

We like to think of ourselves as logical, reasonable human 
beings, but as a matter of fact, our conduct is controlled much 
more by feeling than it is by reason, and then, again, it is feeling 
that is altogether in evidence in those distracted states of mind 
when we go "wool gathering," "day dreaming," "building castles 
in the air." This is the sort of thinking which dominates our 
dreams, whether asleep or awake; it is the thinking which has 
been called wishful or wish-fulfilling. 

Wishful thinking is a more primitive, less developed form of 
thinking than the other, the rational sort. It is simpler, easier, less 
fatiguing. In fact, it may be indulged for long periods without 
tire, partly at least because it does not require conformity to any 
logical form, but wanders at will irrespective of reasonableness 
or logical associations. Then, again, it is satisfying because it 
represents our wishes as realized, and, too, realized without any 
real effort on our part. It is in this region of our mind, the 
region of our wishful -thinking, that our wishes come true, that 
what we want finds a way to gain expression no matter what may 
be the actual obstacles in real life. Love, riches and power are all 
acquired in a trice ; in fact, all the things we really lack and want 
we have in this world of phantasy. 

LOVE AND HATE PLEASURE AND PAIN 

The feelings or emotions which come to light in this wishful 
thinking may be classed in two great groups, depending on whether 
the object of consideration attracts or repels, and produces feel- 
ings of like or dislike, love or hate, in their various degrees, 
respectively. 

In order to understand the operation of the mind it is neces- 
sary to trace the development of these likes and dislikes, loves 
and hates, as they exhibit themselves in the course of the develop- 
ment of the individual from birth to adulthood. Very briefly, 
I will outline the more important factors in their development. 

When the infant first comes into the world it is totally unpre- 
pared for what it meets. It is overwhelmed with sensations of 
all sorts that are entirely new experiences. Sensations of light and 
of sound, of warmth and of cold, and of touch and pain are felt, 
to all intents and purposes, for the first time, and the infant can- 
not possibly have any idea of their nature or their origin. In 
fact, he has not yet learned to distinguish himself from the objects 
that surround him, and the first weeks of life are filled with 
experiences that help him later to make this distinction and finally 
to build up a conception of himself, of just what he is. He learns 
finally to know that the foot he sees before him belongs to him 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 123 

and to speak of himself as "I." The ability to arrive ultimately at 
a distinction between the "self" and the "not-self" is based upon a 
series of experiences which constantly and finally effectually urge 
upon the infant the recognition of the differences, and is effected 
as a result of its tremendous interest in itself, its own sensory 
experiences. This is an aspect of that interest in self which is the 
basis of the self-love previously referred to. 

Occurring at the same time, but perhaps beginning to be 
pronounced a little later, the interest the child takes in its own 
sensations is not only because of the nature of the experiences 
just referred to, but because of the pleasure derived from them. 
Nursing, breathing, the warm water of the bath, and the warm 
bedding of the crib all produce pleasant sensations, while the 
absence of warmth, the interference with breathing as during 
illness with bronchitis, produce disagreeable or painful sensations. 
The child begins at once to seek the pleasurable and to avoid the 
painful, and this effort to gain pleasure and avoid pain is never 
relinquished throughout life it only becomes modified in accor- 
dance with the demands of adult, responsible living. 

THE EGO INSTINCT AND THE SEX INSTINCT 

We are already at this point able to distinguish two types of 
attitude of the child: the first, its interest in itself, and the sec- 
ond, its interest in seeking pleasure and avoiding pain. The two 
are not absolutely separate and distinct from each other, but they 
do condition aspects of the personality in later life which are 
important to distinguish. The former, the interest in self, the 
egoistic motive, drives the individual in its positive aspect to seek 
power, in its negative aspect to seek safety. The latter, the inter- 
est in seeking pleasure and avoiding pain, the pleasure-pain 
motive, in its positive aspect drives the individual in the direc- 
tion of creative expression for instance, very important for the 
preservation of the race, toward reproduction ; in its negative 
aspect it drives the individual along the destructive pathway of 
sexual indulgence, idleness and uselessness. I will discuss the 
development of the latter first. 

As I said above, the ego instinct and the sex instinct are not 
absolutely separate. During the early years of life the interest 
in self has a distinct pleasure-seeking component; in fact, it is 
known as the auto-erotic 2 period of development and is marked 
by the earliest manifestations of the sex instinct. This sex 
instinct, which in the early years of life manifests itself in con- 
cretely crude ways, is, however, of the utmost importance for the 

2. That is, the erotic interests are directed upon the child's own body. This is 
the tendency, if not outgrown, that tends to masturbation that ''s, a form of auto- 
erotic indulgence. Other auto-erotic indulgences are excessive interest in one's own 
sensations, such as inordinate desire for sweets and for physical luxuries. Hence 
these indulgences are termed sensual because of their basis in the bodily sensations. 



124 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

future history of the individual, because it is the source out of 
which develops what we know later as love and in its sublimated 
form see expressing itself in all those forms of creativeness which 
distinguish the higher forms of culture in fact, all those forms 
which make life worth living; it is really the creative instinct. 

From the auto-erotic stage the child passes through a period 
when its love interests, while they are attached to other persons 
than itself, are most strongly attached to persons most like itself, 
that is, to persons of the same sex. This is the so-called homo- 
sexual period of development. This stage is normally passed 
through quite unconsciously by the child, and such pleasure- 
seeking components as may be present are developed into expres- 
sions of mutual interest and affection. The "crushes" of school- 
girls are typical examples of this period. Like other tendencies 
that manifest themselves in the course of our development, this 
tendency is not left behind in later years, but is refined and serves 
as the source for our friendships with others of our own sex, 
without which social and cultural advance would be seriously 
handicapped. 3 

In the next stage the interest in others has broadened to 
include those of the opposite sex. This is the period ushered in 
by puberty and the beginnings of courtship; it is the hetero- 
sexual stage. The pleasure-seeking component is here of prime 
importance. Love and sex do not come into existence suddenly 
and unheralded at the period of puberty. They are extremely 
complex phenomena of the human animal, and begin in manifesta- 
tions that offer little to suggest the wonderful possibilities of the 
future; and, too, development by no means stops at puberty and 
the ushering in of the hetero-sexual stage. It may, although 
unfortunately it often does not, go on indefinitely, reaching even 
greater heights as it unfolds its possibilities. 

The ego instinct similarly has a long history. The infant when 
first born and for a short time thereafter is literally an absolute 
monarch. He has but to cry aloud and some one is instantly on 
hand to supply his need. The promptness with which every want 
is thus met gives the infant the feeling of commanding his 
environment, a feeling of personal power, which later on he dis- 
likes to relinquish despite the fact that a relentless reality contin- 
ues to frustrate his all-powerfulness. The will-to-power, the 
desire to overcome, to excel, to dominate, continues as an impor- 
tant motive for conduct. 

This ego instinct, of which the will to power is a manifesta- 
tion, this love of self when it comes prominently to the fore in an 

3. If there is fixation at the homosexual stage that is, if the stage is not passed 
over and its tendencies utilized as indicated above the result is a blocking that 
prevents the individual from later acquiring a satisfactory hetero-sexual love object 
(a love object of the opposite sex). Such a fixation prevents the individual 
from fulfilling herself and attaining her natural goal, parenthood the realization 
of the race-preservative instinct. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 125 

extreme form, may become a very crippling aspect of the later 
developed personality if it manifests itself in the cruder forms 
of extreme selfishness. 

The ego instinct, however, has its great value, because self- 
love is the basis of one's ideal for himself, and so if the ego com- 
plex continues its development instead of becoming arrested, there 
are the possibilities of a great ideal as an incentive to conduct 
which will carry the individual far along the path of personal 
development. 

All this introduction has been necessary to show how funda- 
mental are the egoistic and reproductive impulses and how broadly 
and deeply they ramify throughout our lives; how, in fact, one 
or both may be looked for as the motive back of any feeling we 
may have or any act we may perform. This would not be so 
important if it were not for the fact that other motives are com- 
monly advanced to explain our feelings and acts and that often we 
ourselves believe in these other motives when the real state of 
affairs is quite apparent to others. We like to think well of our- 
selves and only too frequently ill of others, and in so doing our 
real motives are often hopelessly lost to view, and we go stumbling 
along without a clear idea of what is driving us on or where we 
are going. We differ from lower animals in our ability to know 
the past and on the basis of that knowledge to plan the future. 
The concomitant of this knowledge, and the factor upon which 
depends the success of our plans for the future, is the ability to 
bring our instinctive tendencies under control and utilize them 
for carrying out our plans, for bringing our ideals to pass. This 
is the process of increasing the field of conscious control, and 
must necessarily rest for its success upon a knowledge of the 
nature of the factors, the instincts involved, and the ways in 
which they manifest themselves in feeling, thought and action. 

The individual with all his egoistic and reproductive tenden- 
cies is not sufficient unto himself, but he is a member of society, 
not only society in the large, but more particularly of that small 
group of which he is especially a part. For example, if he is 
a doctor he is a member of the group of doctors ; if a lawyer, of 
the group of lawyers; if a social worker, of the group of social 
workers, etc. At all times, therefore, he follows his instincts and 
his immediate tendencies at his peril; he must always act in a 
way that will be approved by his group or at least that will not 
be disproved. It is told of the mythological robber Procrustes 
that he tied travelers onto a bed and if they were too long for the 
bed he cut off their extremities to make them fit, and if they were 
too short he stretched them until their length was equal to that of 
the bed. Society is equally arbitrary in its demands, and the 
individual must conform to its requirements or take the conse- 
quences. This conformity is assisted by a knowledge of the deeper 



126 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

meanings both of the requirements and of the nature of one's 
own tendencies so that there may be a conscious desire to learn 
how to conform by rinding how to realize one's desires in a 
socially approved way. Not only conformity but to learn to want 
to conform is the means to real freedom. 

THE FAMILY 

The traditions of society begin to operate upon the individual 
from the moment of birth when those who constitute the family 
group begin by endeavoring to mould the reactions of the infant 
in accordance with their several interpretations of what consti- 
tutes right conduct. This method would work ideally except for 
the fact that these same adults have only too often not adequately 
solved their own problems, and therefore tend to direct the child 
along false paths, and also the fact that standards of right con- 
duct vary from generation to generation so that the new genera- 
tion always has to adapt to conditions that are somewhat different 
from those of its parents. Because of these factors antagonisms 
and attractions grow up in the feelings of the child which may 
operate to produce a more or less distorted personality. 

This relationship of the child to the family group (parents, 
grandparents, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles, servants, etc.) is of 
the utmost importance for its future. The first emotional experi- 
ences of the child are experienced with reference to the members 
of this group so that its emotions become conditioned 4 to react 
in certain ways which serve as models for the remainder of its 
life. It learns to love and to hate, to fear and to distrust; to be 
jealous of and submissive to or to dominate and rule certain 
types of persons, and continues to express these same emotions 
later in life toward similar persons or in situations that more or 
less accurately reproduce those situations in childhood when these 
emotions were first strongly aroused. The formula of our adult 
emotional state is thus the same formula which we learned to use 
as children in the family environment. In going through life, 
therefore, we exhibit love and hate, and strive according to the 
formulas which we learned as children. 

To the extent that our feelings, emotions, ideas, tendencies, 
desires are not warranted by the actual facts, that is, by reality; 
to the extent that they cause us to feel and think and act in ways 
radically different from our fellows, to that extent they tend to 
get us into trouble and it becomes a worth-while problem to 
attempt their modification. With the general principles which 
have been elucidated up to this point in mind, let us ask: How 
do things go awry? What can be done about it? 

4. Conditioned, as I have used it, is a psychological term which I can best explain 
by an example. If a baby is bitten by a dog it may ever after, even as an adult, 
exhibit a fear of dogs. Its early experience with a dog was productive of fear, so 
thereafter a dog is always associated with the emotion of fear; that is, the experience, 
dog, is conditioned by the emotion, fear, 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 127 

TROUBLE 

There are two principle ways of getting into trouble. The 
first is by attempting to live our lives according to the unmodified 
formulas of our infancy as already indicated. The other is by 
the method of projecting our defects outside ourselves. I will 
discuss the latter first. 

PROJECTION 

This is the commonest of ways of explaining our failures by 
blaming some one or something else. A series of examples will 
illustrate this method very well. The schoolgirl cannot learn 
history because her teacher does not make it interesting ; a young 
girl neglects to call upon a sick friend (whom she does not care 
especially for) because she forgot it, or made another engagement 
without thinking, or has not time, or intended to but finds that 
her friend has left the city for a health resort and she did not 
know she was going until too late; a clerk cannot get along in the 
office because she is discriminated against she cannot do her 
work well because her superior is so critical that it makes her 
nervous; a society girl loses her beau because another girl stole 
him away with false stories; a young woman cannot continue 
her work because she has such headaches, or because her eyes are 
weak, or her digestion poor, or for a thousand and one other rea- 
sons referable to her health. These illustrations might be indefi- 
nitely multiplied. The blame for failure is projected upon some 
one else, some situation, or upon one's own body in the form of 
various ills. The net result is that the person involved does what 
she wishes to do. The young woman who would not learn his- 
tory did not want to know it enough to do the necessary work 
of study ; the young woman who did not visit her sick friend did 
not want to she wanted to do something else more; the society 
girl who lost her beau was not sufficiently attractive to retain him 
and does not want to face the fact or make the effort to correct 
it as far as she can. It must be noted, however, that this is not 
a full explanation. The girl who did not visit her sick friend 
surely wanted to do something else, and this other want won out. 
But she also wanted to do a kindly act, and she was rendered 
very unhappy by failing to do it, and so was driven to all sorts 
of threadbare explanations to account for her failure. 

The method of reaction by the mechanism of projection tends 
to carry into effect what the individual, from one aspect of her 
personality, wishes, desires to bring to pass, and in the carrying 
out of these wishes in this way both the selfish and the unselfish 
components can be seen to play their parts in various proportions 
The young woman who does not fulfil a social obligation by call- 
ing upon a friend and develops the excuse of a headache may pre- 
fer to stay in bed and indulge in comforting phantasies or go 
somewhere else where she may expect to see a young man of 



128 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

whom she is fond; or she may feel too self-satisfied and impor- 
tant to condescend to such a service, and, too, perhaps wishes to 
avail herself of this opportunity to show her superiority (egotistic 
component). In this latter case the object is apt to be to empha- 
size her feeling of superiority to herself rather than to the other 
person. This would then be a reaction to compensate her for a 
feeling of inferiority and characteristically tends to overshoot the 
mark. 

The method of blaming other persons or circumstances is the 
easiest way to escape from personal responsibility, and is con- 
stantly employed to that end. Unfortunately, it also prevents the 
individual from seeing the facts in their true light, as they really 
are, and so makes, in the long run, for unsatisfactory, sometimes 
very seriously and radically mistaken, conduct. 

INFANTILE FORMULAS 

The other method is that of reacting in a way that once was 
appropriate. For example, an infant may have been badly hurt 
by the doctor who vaccinated it. The doctor was a tall man with 
a black beard, wore a silk hat and carried a little bag. There- 
after the individual might always feel fear in the presence of a 
man answering this description, no matter how little reason really 
exists for such an emotion. 

In general, it may be said that all feelings and conduct, that 
is, reactions which have served a useful purpose for the child or 
furnished a special premium in the way of pleasure, tend to be 
preserved, to continue to be used. The child who found out that 
by being ill it elicited all sorts of tender services from the mother, 
did not have to go to school, and was fed especially desired delica- 
cies, might resort to this method of leading a care-free, pleasant, 
luxurious existence, and might ultimately unconsciously become 
an actual invalid, a social parasite. The child who is constantly 
beaten into submission may never be able to acquire sufficient 
self-confidence to make his way in the world. Another child under 
similar circumstances may learn to so hate authority that never in 
after life is it possible to work under any one's direction and 
guidance. Even the government, the church, law, religion, may 
all be hated as sources of authority. 

TYPES OF FAILURE 

There are many types of individuals who fall far short of 
attaining the fullest possibilities of success of which they are 
capable. I will mention briefly only the best known. There is the 
chronic "grouch" who is always finding fault with others when 
the real fault lies in himself many reformers are of a similar type 
needing the reform themselves primarily; the alcoholics and drug 
addicts who escape reality and responsibility completely by the use 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 129 

of drugs that plunge them into a state of wish-fulfilling phantasy 
that is so much more pleasant than going out to meet responsibil- 
ities for which they have no stomach; the supreme egoist whose 
egotism covers up his real inferiority ; the social misfits who never 
can get along anywhere or with anybody because their require- 
ments are infantile, childish; and hosts of other neurotics and 
ineffectual types. When one has such difficulties one should 
always look within and be sure that the fault is not there. It is 
much more likely that the fault is there than that the whole world 
is wrong, and in any case it is the world as it is in which we 
must live and not the world as we would wish it to be. 

Formulas which lie still further back in the history of the indi- 
vidual, which were operative during the first three or four years 
of life, are quite frequently used, but, because they hark back to 
a time with which we have no connection in memory, remain non- 
understandable to our adult reasoning powers. These types of 
reaction are seen in the severe neuroses and in the more serious 
mental illnesses and will not be discussed here. 

THE FAMILY SITUATION 

As has already been indicated, the influence of the various 
members of the family upon the child is very great, and the 
future of the child is in large part determined by the nature of 
that influence. 

The infant comes into the world possessed of all those poten- 
tialities which soon will manifest themselves as the basic instincts. 
It has the capacity for pain and pleasure, for loving and hating, 
and almost immediately begins to experience and to feel these 
fundamental emotions. 

Now it can be very clearly seen that the way it learns to love 
is from the first, as already indicated, conditioned by the individ- 
uals who form its immediate personal environment; in other 
words, by the family (parents, grandparents, brothers, sisters, 
uncles, aunts, nurses, servants), using this term to include all 
those persons with whom the infant is brought into close emo- 
tional relationship. The development of the personality is largely 
the result of the play back and forth between the child and the 
family of the various emotions; and whether the result is inde- 
pendence and self-sufficiency on the one hand or dependence and 
inefficiency on the other, depends upon the history of its emo- 
tional experiences. 

A dominant parent may so overwhelm the child as to effectually 
prevent its becoming self-sufficient. A parent who hates the child 
may produce such a reaction of bitterness and resentment against 
the world in general, or such a feeling of inferiority, as to make 
an effective maturing of the personality impossible. Hate, envy, 



130 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

fear, jealousy, serve to deform and stunt the growing personality. 
Love, tenderness, sympathy, confidence, tend to make it unfold, 
grow and develop in richness and strength. 

Children's attitudes toward the parents may be twofold : that 
is, they may both love and hate them. Certain characteristics are 
loved, others are hated, so that the situation becomes too compli- 
cated to express in terms of the individuals, but must be expressed 
in terms of the different characteristics of the several individuals. 

THE PARENT IMAGE 

There is one aspect of the family situation which it is very 
helpful to know about. To the infant the father and mother are 
the most wonderful beings imaginable because the only ones 
really known. This image of the marvelous parents is retained 
hidden in the depths of the mind, and even when later the limita- 
tions of the real parents come to be known this ideal is still 
retained. It is because of such an ideal that young persons often 
unconsciously pick out to be their mates persons who resemble the 
parent as that parent was known in infancy. Such marriages as 
these, while not always disastrous by any means, may easily 
become so in special cases, because, as will be easily appreciated, 
such affections contain components which it is often impossible to 
satisfy in the marriage relation. For example, the young man 
who expects to find all the characteristics of his mother in his 
wife and the young woman who looks to the husband to give the 
same source of security which as a child she felt in the father, are 
pretty apt to be disappointed because they have carried over an 
infantile state of feeling into an adult situation. In order that 
this danger should be avoided it is necessary that too great a 
dependence on the parent be not cultivated, but that, on the con- 
trary, the child be given an opportunity to grow up along the 
line of its own fullest personal expression and toward adult stand- 
ards of self-sufficiency. In this way it must naturally grow fur- 
ther and further away from the parental types as its own per- 
sonality unfolds and so further and further away from this kind 
of danger. The assistance of the child to go its own way along 
a path that takes it away from the home requires the highest type 
of parental love, to which few are equal. 

The importance of this knowledge for the individual is great 
because it points the fundamental truth that in order to develop 
the most satisfying and well-rounded life it is necessary to become 
emancipated from the protection of the parent and the home. In 
other words, it is desirable that the child as it grows to adulthood 
should begin to perceive the nature and importance of this truth, 
instead of blindly and instinctively trying to break away, but 
wanting to stay and so helping to create a situation with the par- 
ent that is highly charged emotionally and leads to frequent clashes 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 131 

that do not advance the situation, because the fundamental 
motives are unconscious. Of course, as it cannot be expected 
that young children should be able to come to this recognition, it 
becomes one of the chief duties of the parent to aid the child's 
development in this direction. A mental recognition of the instinc- 
tive requirement would help in enlarging the field of conscious 
control, in bringing these feeling states under the direction of the 
intelligence. 

It is important to keep in mind the fact that what is meant by 
dependence on the parent is not a material or financial dependence, 
but an emotional dependence, a dependence in feeling. So there- 
fore one can be just as dependent in one's feelings upon a parent 
who is dead as upon a living parent. This dependence upon a 
dead parent is very greatly emphasized when the parent has left 
a considerable fortune to the child. Under these circumstances 
the money only too often operates to stifle all incentive and indus- 
try, and thus the parent from one point of view reaches forth 
from the grave, as it were, and destroys the child ; from another 
point of view the child continues bound in his feeling to depen- 
dency upon the parent image which is represented by the money. 

PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH 

This account of mental development, while necessarily very 
brief, is sufficient to show clearly that that development consists 
in a constant endeavor to bring to fruition our ego-ideals and our 
creative necessities, and that these instinctive demands reach their 
final modes of expression in the only ways that the circumstances 
immediately surrounding, the individual permit and in accord with 
the varying modifying circumstances in his total environment. 
In other words, the process of mental development can be visual- 
ized as a continuous effort of the fundamental instincts to force 
the individual to certain kinds of conduct, plus the constant iner- 
tia of an environment through which these tendencies must find 
expression and which, therefore, exercises a continuous modifying, 
often distorting, sometimes accelerating influence upon them and 
their expression in conduct. 

In this endeavor of the basic instincts to find expression, in 
our endeavor to translate our feelings, our ideas, our ideals, into 
action, to bring them to pass in terms of concrete achievement, we 
are dependent in the last analysis upon the functional integrity of 
our bodily organs. In the correlation of our organs for a common 
purpose lies our strength ; and if one of these organs is unequal 
to the strain, then, like the proverbial chain, our strength is mea- 
sured by the strength of the weakest link. 

Health and achievement, therefore, are measured by organ 
sufficiency to the task which the organism is set to carry out, and 
the defect in the conception of health heretofore has been that 



132 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

only one aspect of this relation has been taken into account, 
namely, the condition of the organs, and that the nature of the 
task has been left out of consideration. 

Disease, then, from this point of view, can be looked upon as 
a failure on the part of the organic equipment of the individual 
to stand up under the demands made upon it. An appreciation 
of these two aspects of the problem is necessary in order that the 
question of assets and liabilities may be approached intelligently, 
and this question can be approached intelligently only by knowing 
something of the nature of the demands which we make upon 
ourselves and upon life through a knowledge of ourselves based 
upon the principles outlined in the "Story of the Mind." 

In the cultural development of mankind in the past such an 
attitude has been impossible because man has been forced by the 
demands of society to keep his vision directed to ends. Society 
has been intolerant of what it conceived to be failure. Now, how- 
ever, a new era is dawning, a new concept of human endeavor is 
being formulated, and it is coming to be recognized that each indi- 
vidual is in a sense a law unto himself, and that what he is able 
to do or not to do, in the last analysis, is dependent upon the bal- 
ance which he is able to strike between his ideals (wishes, desires) 
and the means at his disposal (organic sufficiency, social accepta- 
bility) for carrying them out. 

Mental hygiene is, therefore, not so much concerned with the 
ends, although of course always keeping them in sight, as with 
the most effective utilization of the 'means. 

Failure in any degree is, therefore, to some extent at least, the 
result of the individual's inability to make the best use of his 
capacities and is thus, to the same extent, due to lack of self- 
knowledge. The command of mental hygiene is, therefore, to 
"know thyself," but it recognizes the difficulties of carrying out 
this precept because the motive power which is the source of con- 
duct springs from the unplumbed depths (the unconscious) of 
our being, and until we know its source we are powerless to 
direct it. The object of this pamphlet is to enlighten the reader 
as to the nature of these depths as regards those aspects which all 
persons possess in common. 

Progress in the past has been largely a blind method of trial 
and error. Now, almost for the first time, we are coming to an 
understanding of our mind as the most important tool in our pos- 
session for cutting into reality and fashioning it after our liking, 
and we are beginning to be alive to the fact that this tool may itself 
be the object of scrutiny and that it may be fashioned, within lim- 
its, in such manner as to increase its efficiency. Such instruments 
as the microscope and the telescope, from originally being very 
imperfect, have been improved and improved so that in the pres- 
ent state they give us much more accurate information in their 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 133 

respective fields than formerly. It behooves us to expend as much 
effort to improve that much more informing instrument, our 
mind. 

Mental hygiene, therefore, turns our attention to the mind 
as an instrument of adaptation, and by so doing lends its weight 
to a change of the method of progress from a purely unconscious 
effort condition from without to an intelligent, conscious effort 
conditioned from within. 

Sickness and failure, therefore, instead of being visitations 
from without, take on the quality of character defects for which, 
in a sense, the individual must assume his responsibility. The 
increasing recognition by society of the rights of the individual 
necessarily implies a corresponding assumption of moral responsi- 
bility on his part that he will use the new opportunities to keep 
well and be an efficient and effective functioning member of his 
social group, able and willing to engage in those activities which 
are socially useful. Only by being able to improve one's knowl- 
edge of oneself can progress along these lines be assured, and 
that measure of personal development attained which gives a 
sense of satisfaction and a feeling of happiness from a task well 
done. In other words, only when one has satisfied, so far as in 
one's power lies, one's ego-ideals and creative tendencies, has one 
reasonably approached the ideal of living at one's best. 



PART II. BRINGING UP CHILDREN 

A PROBLEM IN MENTAL HYGIENE 

JESSIE TAFT, PH.D. 

Director, Department of Child Study, Children's Bureau and 
Children's Aid Society 

PHILADELPHIA 

A. INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD 

THE NEW SCIENCE OF MENTAL HYGIENE 

If you want to find a new food, a new fabric, a new way to 
travel by land, sea or air, an improved method for breeding pigs, 
all you have to do is to go to the scientist. "Ask and it shall be 
given unto you" is more than fulfilled in modern physics and 
chemistry. If you need advice on how to bring up children so 
that they will become happy, energetic, confident, social, efficient, 
courageous men and women, you may have to inquire in many 
quarters before you receive a satisfactory reply. It has taken 
the world a long time to realize that human behavior is the most 
important thing in it, and thus far only a few scientific minds 
have applied themselves to studying the behavior of people just 
as a chemist studies the behavior of atoms and molecules. 

From such students of human activity we are beginning to get 
new light on the way our children behave and why. They are 
not only laying bare the hidden springs of conduct ; they are giv- 
ing us hope of something approaching a control of conduct. We 
may expect to learn in time how changes in behavior are brought 
about and how the undesirable attitudes, moods and habits can 
be replaced by reactions more advantageous to the individual and 
society. In other words, they are promising mental as well as 
physical health, if we are willing to make the effort. Those of 
us who have been teaching or rearing children by instinct, prece- 
dent or rule of thumb methods, will have to shake ourselves free 
of all our old habits and try to look at young people with fresh 
eyes try to see them as interesting, unsolved problems, each 
child an individual different from every other in the world. What 
works for Johnny will not necessarily be effective with Mary. 
There are no short cuts. We have been misled by such rash gen- 
eralizations as "spare the rod, spoil the child." They have come 
to have an unwarranted power over us through the weight of age 
and constant repetition. There is no one rule to be followed with 
all children, and we must free ourselves from any sense of fear 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 135 

or sin when we cut loose from traditional sayings in our efforts 
to see each child's behavior as a new problem worthy of our best 
thinking and experimentation. 

NEW VERSUS OLD ATTITUDES IN CHILD PSYCHOLOGY 

Now, what are some of the fundamental things the scientist in 
human behavior is telling us about children ? Theoretically, they 
seem rather simple and not so new, yet when we really try to act 
on them, we may find that they go against deep-seated habits of 
feeling and thinking. They hit many ancient prejudices and stir 
up resentment in us because our comfortable, blind ways and 
selfish interests are disturbed. Let us not, therefore, give too 
easy and complacent assent to the theories, failing to realize what 
is implied in their application, but be prepared to think, weigh and 
try out, even in the face of personal discomfort and a sense of 
sin at so outraging time-honored, traditional methods. 

Instead of making statements that all might accept easily 
without realization of their implications, supposing we put some 
of the new psychology in ways that bring out its opposition to 
our older methods : 

Human beings are not essentially different from animals. It is impos- 
sible to understand children without seeing how their ways of behaving 
have grown out of a long, gradual evoltion of animal life. There is 
no split, no miraculous difference. 

It is natural for children to be interested in all parts of their bodies 
and all of their bodily functions. It is a grave mistake to teach them 
to think of excretion or the organs of excretion or sex as something 
mysterious or sinful. 

There is no particular virtue in submission or obedience as such. 
Children's wills are not benefited by being broken. . 

Failure -which is not compensated for is bad for a child. Success is 
biologically necessary and wholesome. 

There is no virtue in forcing a child to do what is hard. The essen- 
tial quality of work is not hardness or unpleasantness.' Spontaneous 
interest is a better driver than forced attention. 

Expression is a better source of discipline than repression. Punish- 
ment administered from outside is less effective than the internal control 
of a compelling interest. 

Emotions, desires, impulses are more important than intellect and 
ideas. 

A child is not necessarily bad or unnatural because he acquires a 
habit of self-abuse or lying or taking things that do not belong to him. 
Such habits are potential in all children and arise from needs that are 
not being met by the home. 

By this time our Puritan ancestry rising up in us is doubtless 

protesting against such laxness and easy virtue. The path of 

righteousness ought to be hard and stony. How is it possible for 

the good way to be pleasant ? The scientist can only answer that 

, we have given our own methods an age-long trial. We have not 



136 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

developed any of the sure control that science can show in the 
physical world. It is time for us to open our minds, give up our 
prejudices, and let science show us the facts of human behavior 
even when they seem to go against customs we hold dear. Science 
will lay bare many things which are unpleasant to us, but it will 
show ^ how we can get mental health and happiness for our chil- 
dren if we are not afraid to see human beings as they are. 

HUMAN BEINGS NOT PRIMARILY RATIONAL 

The first preconceived idea we have to overcome before we 
can begin to look at behavior as it really is, is the firm belief that 
we are all rational beings. Neither children nor adults are pri- 
marily rational. None of us, however intellectual, are motivated 
by ideas. The whole development of animal life is in terms of 
action in response to some need of the organism. Need of food, 
need to escape from danger, need to mate or procreate, need for 
air, warmth, light these are the primary moving forces. Ideas 
and reason are very recent additions to the equipment of this 
moving, seeking, striving animal world. They are intended pri- 
marily to insure a more prompt, adequate and safe satisfaction 
for those needs which are of first importance to life. The motive 
force in all of us, adults and children alike, is what we need, 
desire, want, not what we coldly think. Remove the drive of 
needs and impulses, and life stops. It is energy, the will to live, 
the something which keeps all normal organisms struggling to 
exist, that is vital. Ideas of themselves have no power unless our 
desires give it to them. Intellect is like the steering gear of an 
automobile it is useless unless there is power. 

Our needs set up the ends for which we strive ; intellect works 
out the best method by which those ends can be obtained. Of 
itself, intellect is neither good nor bad; it works equally for the 
good or the evil end. My desire is to build a house. That desire 
furnishes the motive force. The idea of the house, the details 
of the architectural plan as such, have no force except as my 
wish is for that particular object. If I were set on a boat instead, 
the idea of house would not affect me. But, given the desire, the 
idea furnishes the plans whereby it is realized. It is the servant, 
the worker, the instrument. Desire is master. No one need worry 
about the immorality of this fact. There is no inherent vice, about 
needs or wishes. It is quite as possible to wish good things as 
bad. The only thing to look out for is that one does not fail 
to recognize the wish at the bottom of all conduct, even when it 
is not praiseworthy. 

RATIONALIZATION A COMMON FRAILTY 

Here we come to the great weakness of all human nature and 
the greatest misuse of that most valuable instrument, intellect. 
Intellect ought to be used to work with hard facts in a real world,, 
but what we all do is to use it to deceive ourselves and others by 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 137 

disguising from ourselves the real wishes back of our behavior 
and assigning beautiful, rational motives which accord with our 
ideas of right and wrong and keep us feeling virtuous and at 
peace with ourselves. The psychological scientist calls this ration- 
alization. It is one of our worst vices and the greatest obstacle 
to understanding children as well as ourselves and other people. 
The only way to overcome it is to be willing to see the wish back 
of every act even when it is not a pretty sight. When we can 
do this with ourselves, we can begin to see children as they are 
without abhorrence or overidealization. 

A simple illustration of rationalization is saying we are too 
tired to go to church or that our cold is too bad to permit our 
going when we might find, if we looked deeper, that a comfortable 
chair by the fire, a new novel and a bleak day outside were con- 
tributory factors. We are made more conscious of the cold or 
the tiredness by the active desire to stay at home which is con- 
flicting with our customary interest in going to church, but would 
be repressed sternly by us if not disguised by the legitimate rea- 
son which our physical condition can be made to supply. If some 
really powerful desire were driving us out, we should probably 
reason ourselves into thinking that the cold was better or might 
be helped by fresh air. Such "wishful thinking" as this is far 
more universal and deepseated in every one than we imagine. We 
build up a morality or religion which makes us comfortable and 
then we are not able to recognize in ourselves or our children any 
desire, however natural, that would tend to destroy what we have 
built up. Some of us have ideas of sex which are not in accord 
.with facts. We are then obliged to repress or rationalize any 
expression of sex or impulses toward such expression which are 
contrary to our theories or conviction. We may assume that 
children have no sex interests or feelings. Thereupon we do not 
permit ourselves to see the expression of sex interests in our 
children. It is our theory that no decent woman really longs for 
the physical side of sex life. We must then repress or disguise 
from ourselves the existence of such natural impulses and in so 
doing perhaps destroy our own happiness. 

CHILDREN THE VICTIMS OF ADULT SELF-DECEPTION 

In no direction, except perhaps along sex lines, are we so blind 
to the influence of our own wishes as in our relations to children. 
As parents or teachers we become utterly confused by the differ- 
ence between the real good of the child and our own personal 
desires. Until we are clear on this, until we are able to catch 
ourselves in our rationalizations about children, we shall not be 
fit to deal with them, much less to understand their behavior 
and ours. 



138 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

The discipline and training of children are too often largely 
a matter of adult comfort and are rationalized into theories as to 
the necessity of instant obedience, freedom of expression, certain 
kinds of food or a particular vocation. The lazy parent lets the 
child follow his own whims as to food, bedtime, clothes, play. 
The stupid parent teaches the child all of his own irrational food, 
thought and work habits as the only right ways of behaving. The 
irritable parent makes the child respect his irritability. Silence, 
submissiveness, inactivity, not being in the way, become virtues. 
The domineering parent insists on expressing his own tastes and 
interests through the child. The child must be, do, or like just 
those things which the parent finds supremely desirable. None 
of this done in the name of rational discipline has conscious moral 
or educational value. It depends largely on the chance method 
which the adult chooses of having his own way, preserving his 
comfort, expressing his desires. It has nothing to do with an 
objective appreciation of the child, his needs, and the moving 
forces back of his behavior. 

RATIONALIZATION THE BASIS OF MISINTERPRETATION OF 

CHILDREN 

Parents and teachers are apt to label a child in this rationaliz- 
ing fashion, to brand him according to the way in which he hap- 
pens to interfere with their wishes or prejuidices. The child who 
does not respond at once to adult wishes is obstinate. What his 
refusal to act means to him is usually not investigated. Back of 
obstinacy one frequently finds fear ; a sense of inferiority, a cer- 
tainty of failure. Not trying to do what is asked is a safer thing 
than exposing weakness. Back of obstinacy may be a genuine 
struggle to preserve the integrity of the personality against the 
overwhelming ego of the adult. 

Adults are very ready to call a child lazy simply because work 
for them does not interest him as much as work for himself, 
which they call play. They ought to watch that child when he is 
engaged in his own pursuits. Perhaps he is tireless and persistent 
when he works for himself. The child who does not come on the 
instant when he is called is usually considered disobedient. He 
has perhaps been ruthlessly interrupted in the midst of what is to 
him an important piece of work. All of his interests are engaged, 
concentrated upon an end which is about to be accomplished. His 
unwillingness to leave his job is a splendid quality, but it con- 
flicts with an adult world which fails to make allowance. A 
small boy of 9 who is called in to take a bath before dinner exhib- 
its a sulkiness and resentment quite out of proportion as far as 
the adult can see. At bedtime he manages to come out with the 
deep sense of injustice from which he was suffering. The adult 
had called him quite without regard to what he was doing and 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 139 

had not bothered to inquire why he was not ready to come at that 
moment. He was at a critical point in the construction of an 
elaborate fort, which was to him a serious project. His point of 
view had been ruthlessly ignored and the work value of his play 
not respected. 

Just as we are not rational in our behavior, so the child is not 
rational, but is moved by impulses, needs and wishes which he 
himself does not understand. We cannot, then, expect to influ- 
ence his conduct primarily by reasoning or to find out by asking 
him why he behaves as he does. We have to accept the fact that 
everything he does is a more or less blind effort to meet a deep- 
seated need of his own, an attempt at adjusting himself to his 
environment, just as every animal organism is impelled to do. 
Once we have freed ourselves from our own rationalizing, we 
may hope to look at the behavior of children objectively as some- 
thing to be studied and understood in the light of the needs of the 
child, the environmental situation, and the history of the child's 
development. 

THE PRIMARY NEEDS OF THE CHILD 

What is the child trying to get ? What are his essential needs ? 
What is he trying to satisfy through his behavior? We can be 
sure that certain driving impulses are at work even when we are 
not able to find just how they are being expressed. The infant 
is aroused to activity almost entirely by three needs the need 
for food, the need to excrete waste and the need for air. When 
not impelled to struggle for the satisfaction of these wants, he is 
content to sleep. We must recognize how complete is the absorp- 
tion of infancy in these primary moving impulses and how nat- 
ural is the interest which all unrepressed human beings feel in the 
organs and the function of excretion as well as in the taking in of 
food. The pleasure that is associated with sucking is intense and 
far-reaching in its influence on the human being throughout life. 
To the infant it represents the realization of his most perfect hap- 
piness warmth, protection, nourishment, rhythm of motion, 
pleasant tactual sensations. It is not be wondered at that thumb- 
sucking is such a common habit. Nail biting also is an allied 
activity related to the early pleasures of life which we are loath 
to relinquish. Urination and defecation are likewise associated 
with the pleasures of relief from pressure, pleasant tactual and 
temperature sensations, the loving attention of the mother, and 
the interest of producing something, a sort of creation which 
comes from one's own body. 

There is great danger in giving the child the wrong attitude 
toward these natural interests. The overattentive mother may 
make the early experience so pleasureable that the infant has dif- 
ficulty in giving them up for more-developed interests. He may 
cling to the joys and sensations of this period to the neglect of 



140 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

later stages of growth. On the other hand, the mother who is 
disgusted at natural functions, or who is horrified at the child's 
interest in them and gives him the sense that there is something 
very wicked about his body, is building up a harmful conflict 
of impulses in the child. The interests 'which have to be repressed 
violently take on undue value. The child has to struggle against 
them, thus strengthening them and fixing his attention on them. 
He may be unable to free himself from their attraction as he 
should do in the natural course of development. He may succeed 
in repressing the outward expression of interest and may deceive 
himself, while there remains a fear, a lack of freedom in his atti- 
tude toward his own body and the natural functions, and an over- 
valuation of their importance even. though it be expressed nega- 
tively. Such an attitude is apt to be carried over into a horror 
of sex or an attempt to repress natural sex impulses. 

The best way to treat the first interests of the child is to take 
them in a simple, frank, matter-of-fact way with no undue 
emphasis. Satisfy his curiosity; allow him to express his inter- 
est. Treat it all on the basis of natural fact, and see to it that 
he gets every opportunity to develop responses to other stimuli. 
He will grow away from infantile desires naturally if nothing 
is done to fixate his interests and if he has plenty of opportunity 
in the environment and is not forced back upon his own body 
for lack of other things to xlo. The chief trouble usually lies 
in the false attitude of the adult who reads into the child's 
behavior all of his own ideas of sex and his own sense of sin 
and wickedness associated with the bodily functions. We must 
learn to take all moral quality out of these early interests of the 
child. Too often the adult speaks of a young child as unnatural, 
immoral, a sex pervert, abnormal, and what not, simply because 
he is normally interested in the pleasant sensations connected 
with his body. Too often the adult puts his own fear into the 
mind of the child, telling him that play with his genital organs 
will lead to insanity or will make him an idiot or give him St. 
Vitus dance and the like. Needless to say, that such statements 
are as untrue as they are dangerous to the future happiness of 
the child. It is normal for the child to be interested in his body, 
and there is hardly a child who has not expressed that interest 
at some time or other in the investigation of all parts of his 
anatomy and in experimental playing with the various organs and 
functions. 

ALL BEHAVIOR AN ATTEMPT AT BIOLOGICAL ADJUSTMENT 

Every child is impelled to succeed, to get for himself a sense 
of power and at-homeness in a strange world. Biologically, this 
is a necessity. Every organism struggles to adjust successfully. 
Too much failure is bad. No child can stand an overdose of 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 141 

defeat, and if it is forced on him by adults or his own defects, he 
will automatically try to compensate. Success is sought in 
approval of adults or other children, in physical beauty, skill, 
strength or prowess, in intellectual achievement in work or play, 
in some special talent or skill. 

Any source of weakness, a physical defect, a lack of grace or 
beauty, disapproval from adults, a sense of not being loved, an 
intellectual inferiority, poor health, lack of courage and energy, 
ridicule, a domineering parent, lack of opportunity for play or 
self -chosen work, failure at school, unpopularity with other chil- 
dren, especially the opposite sex, a social inferiority due to pov- 
erty or delinquency, a sense of sin and social ostracism arising 
from a hidden sex interest, or other forbidden conduct any one 
or more of the infinite possibilities of handicap physical, mental 
or social will make it difficult for the child to obtain the sense 
of assurance, well-being, and at-homeness which we all seek. 
Where he is not able to get a satisfying sense of power in one way, 
he seeks it in another, although he himself may have no notion 
of what his conduct means. Who does not recall the agonies of 
inferiority suffered because of red hair, over or underweight, over 
or underweight, a big nose, outstanding ears ! 

UNCONSCIOUS AND UNDESIRABLE FORMS OF COMPENSATION 
FOR INFERIORITY 

The child who for any reason, perhaps lack of physical skill 
and strength, is not popular with children, may easily over- 
compensate by trying to outshine others in school and win the 
favor of teachers. The child who is inferior in intelligence and 
is not equal to the school work, but is forced to face daily defeat 
and disapproval, may develop almost any form of compensatory 
activity. Some children become obstinate and* refuse to cooper- 
ate in any way. Others grow "smarty," become the goats of 
the schoolroom, spend their time trying to draw attention to them- 
selves and upset discipline. Still others go into delinquency out- 
side school. The more sensitive child may become emotionally 
depressed or nervous and unable to use the little ability he had. 
Masturbation, lying, boasting, stealing, may easily appear as ways 
which the organism uses to compensate for the inferiority and 
failure in school. The child unconsciously seeks to comfort him- 
self, to make up in some way for the hurt he is receiving, to gain 
pleasure or a sense of accomplishment. 

The child who has a great lack in his home life, who is per- 
haps without social standing or without parents, will frequently 
take to boastful story-telling. He will brag of his relatives, of 
their power and possessions, or of his own feats. This is Nature's 



142 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

attempt to make the individual feel strong and comfortable in the 
face of a great lack. We usually label it lying without any attempt 
to interpret it. 

A child who has no other way to control the environment, or 
who has never been taught to use direct methods, will often tyran- 
nize over adults with tantrums, vomiting spells, all kinds of moods 
and physical symptoms. He satisfies his desires in this indirect 
way and gets a sense of power and control over his world at the 
same time. Moreover, he avoids the effort of working to obtain 
his ends in a legitimate fashion. He clings to the infantile stage 
of development because he can satisfy his primary needs without 
effort by the methods which worked when he was a baby. When 
we adults cry to obtain our ends, use moods, illness or temper to 
bring our families to time, we, too, are using infantile methods of 
controlling the environment. 

One of the most insidious and easy ways of compensating for 
failure or fear of attempting to succeed, is day dreaming. The 
child who lacks courage and initiative, who is easily repressed 
and submits to every obstacle, will often refuse to compensate 
in any active way, but will seek refuge in dreams. This type 
of child attracts little attention at first. He is quiet, submits to 
discipline, gives no trouble at school, never rebels or quarrels. 
He evades, however, all responsibility, is unduly modest and 
retiring, shunning the limelight and social competition. He tends 
to avoid companionship of other children, likes to stay alone with 
a book or his dream world. 

All of us do a certain amount of day dreaming. We comfort 
ourselves, soften the hard places, shorten the time of waiting by 
dream fulfilment. In dreams we accomplish all that we most 
desire; we are brave, beautiful, successful, beloved. It is a seduc- 
tively easy and satisfying process. If carried out to the extent 
of unfitting the individual for dealing with real people or the 
facts of a real world, it is fatal to mental health and happiness. 
Dreams which are really plans, dreams which are inspirations and 
are followed by action, are legitimate. Dreams which are purely 
sugar-plum comfort and substitutes for accomplishment are allow- 
able only when they occupy too little time to interfere with a 
successful attack on the facts of the real world. In children any 
tendency to use them to evade real issues should be carefully 
watched. 

CHANGING HUMAN BEHAVIOR. EXTERNAL VERSUS INTERNAL, 
REPRESSIVE VERSUS EXPRESSIVE, METHODS 

What is the relation of this interpretation of behavior to disci- 
pline and education? How is undesirable behavior to be altered? 
It may be possible to see that it is fulfilling a need of the child and 
yet something must be done about it. The child cannot be per- 
mitted to continue his unpleasant or antisocial habits. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 143 

As soon as we get to the point of changing the child's behavior 
we have to guard carefully against rationalization because* our 
own driving wishes are at once involved. If we do not scrutinize 
our reactions keenly, we may find ourselves simply putting the 
lid on, stopping by the sheer weight of our superior force activi- 
ties which irritate, repel or alaim us. It is so easy to discipline in 
this way and so natural to cut off short, to destroy any unpleasant 
stimulus which is under our control. 

There are many relatively unimportant things which to save 
time and effort must be enforced in this external fashion. What 
we do is to take away from the child responsibility for working 
out his own reactions, and allow him to substitute our will for 
his. He knows we will nag him into action. We will make the 
effort for him, see that he does what is required. It is perhaps 
well enough to save the child's energy in supplying the will for 
forming such habits as airing the bed, brushing the teeth, wash- 
ing ears, folding napkin, etc. This is pure habit-training and saves 
his strength for other things. While it is absolutely essential 
for the child to have such training, it is not education from the 
inside. The more the child can help to form his own habits, the 
better. Even in this realm, responsibility of the adult should not 
be carried to an extreme. A little girl has the habit of announc- 
ing in the morning that she is not going to school. If this chal- 
lenge is taken up by the parents she is relieved of the necessity 
of deciding for herself. They will see to it that she goes and 
she can indulge her resistance freely. If they refuse to be 
alarmed and force the responsibility back upon her the wind is 
taken out of her sails. She is obliged to make her own decision 
and take the consequences. 

Neither is the reward-punishment motive very educational. It, 
too, is external to the act which the child carries out. He needs 
to be doing things because of his own direct interest. Anything 
as external as compulsion, fear of unishment or hope of reward, 
works only when the indirect stumulus is present. Remove it 
and the child is left without the motivation of the direct interests 
which would operate whether or not external forces were present. 
The child who studies simply because he is made to never becomes 
much of a student. The workman who keeps his job just because 
of the pay envelope will never be likely to increase it. The mor- 
tality^which is kept alive by fear of punishment or hope of reward 
or by the will of another is not more than skin deep. 

METHODS OF DEALING WITH INDIVIDUAL CHILDREN 

When one wishes to alter the behavior of a child, the first thing 
to do is to study the behavior and try to interpret it in terms of 
the previous history of the child, the kind of environment he has 
been reacting to, the first appearance and the development of the 



144 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

behavior, his own explanation of it, and the probable need it is 
supplying. If after careful scrutiny of all the facts, it seems 
evident that what we have is a mere leftover of a pure habit reac- 
tion which has little significance for the child, then a sharp pun- 
ishment may be a good way of shocking him out of this old 
behavior pattern, although not necessarily the only way. If, on 
the other hand, the relation of the behavior to a genuine need or 
desire of the child is apparent, some way must be found of satis- 
fying this need. Repression will simply force it into other chan- 
nels where it may not be so easily followed. You cannot kill 
desire; you can only alter the form of expression. If a legitimate 
outlet can be provided the undesirable behavior can be permanently 
cured because it will no longer be necessary. 

Joe is an Italian boy who has become the terror of the neigh- 
borhood. He is only 12, but he refuses to go to school and is fast 
becoming a gang leader. When Joe is induced after much effort 
to enter a special school which gives individual attention and 
considerable freedom of expression and variety of work, it is dis- 
covered that he resents deeply his language handicap and the fact 
that he must go in a class with little children. The public school 
judges Joe entirely by book knowledge. He is never given an 
opportunity to do in school the things he can do well. In the 
special school he is allowed to use his hands as well as his tongue 
and eyes. He finds that he is as good as anybody when he wields 
hammer and saw. He discovers that he can build and model and 
garden and play baseball just as intelligently as any boy of his 
age. All of his energy goes over into allowable activity. School 
become his greatest joy. He is a leader but not a delinquent. No 
amount of punishment, repression or bribery would have solved 
Joe's problem. All of these had been tried by the public school 
and the mother. The unused energy, the intense need to be supe- 
rior somewhere, had to have expression. As soon as he discov- 
ered school activities which allowed him to satisfy these normal 
desires he abandoned without effort the violent antisocial behavior 
which had reduced his mother to despair. 

Anna was considered the worst child in the orphanage. She 
had a terrible temper, she was hostile and domineering with chil- 
dren and matrons, and she stole anything that came in her way- 
food, trinkets, small change, clothes. She was removed to a small 
observation school in the country where there were nine or ten 
difficult children with a teacher who did not believe in repressive 
methods. She was given complete freedom for a time. At first 
she seemed to be quite wild from the sudden release. She had a 
few tantrums, but was much ashamed of them. She grew deeply 
attached to the teacher and was eager to win her approval. She 
was told that her habit of taking things was very human, but 
ought to be broken as soon as possible. It was not suitable for a 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 145 

girl of her age, but belonged to early childhood. She would not 
be punished if she indulged it, but she must try to be frank 
about it. The child was given many ways to express her strong 
driving impulses. It was found that she had good ability along 
several lines. She loved to manage people and things. She 
was given scope for her desire to dominate. She was sent later 
to a school where she found abundant use for all of her energy 
and ability. The temper was brought within bounds, although it 
has always broken out occasionally under stress. The stealing 
habit has disappeared completely as if it had never been. Repres- 
sive measures had been used to the limit with this child and had 
failed because the needs which the stealing satisfied had never 
been met by the environment of the orphanage. 

The new psychology of behavior tells us that the only way we 
can educate or reform is through the desires, needs, interests of 
the individual. They must ultimately be expressed in some form 
or other. They cannot be destroyed without destroying life itself. 
It is just a question of whether there is enough intelligence 
brought to bear to work out legitimate ways in which the actual 
desires of the organism can find outlet. Energy has to go some- 
where if not forward, then back; if not out in the open, then by 
some underground channel. The teacher may force the child 
to look at his book, but she cannot prevent the wish from fulfilling 
itself in a day dream. She may by fear or bribe induce the child 
to learn an arithmetic table, but she cannot, unless she engages his 
real interest, prevent his forgetting it the moment the examination 
is over. 

EDUCATION FOR THE STONY PATH OF DUTY 

"But," says the Puritan, "must we not teach our children to do 
things they do not like? Must we not prepare them for work, 
for the hard things of life? How shall we teach the supremacy 
of duty if they are always to follow their own interests?" There 
is only one answer to this. It does not silence the incorrigible New 
England conscience, but it is good psychology. The greatest 
motive power in the world is desire, interest. If once engaged 
it will work the individual as no indirect stimulus ever can, because 
his entire attention, his whole heart, are in the process. 

Who works hardest the man who hates his job and. resists 
it at every turn, forcing himself through the long hours, or the 
man who loves it, so he can hardly go home at night? The man 
who is expressing his own deepest interest works for .the work's 
sake. Work is play to him, and in consequence he spends himself 
freely. No one ever produced a marvelous invention, a beautiful 
picture, a great idea, under external compulsion. Hard work is 
the product of intense need or interest. It is for the end we set 
up, our heart's desire, that we surmount all obstacles. 



146 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

When the child finds a school which can educate him through 
his own spontaneous driving interests he will not need to be com- 
pelled to work at his lessons. The difficulty with most schools 
at present is that they substitute for the interest and desire of the 
child the energy and purpose of the teacher to get over so much 
reading, writing and arithmetic. Schools should be planned in 
terms of what the child most needs to work out in relation to a 
real world. At present they tend to express the system in which 
teachers and principals can most easily function. 

B. ADOLESCENCE * 

THE ADOLESCENT CONFLICT 

This paper has been trying to present in very brief, dogmatic 
fashion some of the points in the newer way of looking at human 
behavior and the possibilities of altering the behavior of an indi- 
vidual by seeing what adjustment he is trying to make in a 
blind way and assisting him to make a more intelligent one, an 
adjustment which will at once really satisfy his needs and meet 
with the approval of society. In bringing up children, there is 
no period at which we are more in need of the help which the 
scientist can give that at adolescence. 

Adolescence seems to be a crucial point which tests out the 
wholesomeness of the previous development. It is the point at 
which the individual takes on two selves. To adults around him, 
he is still a child when they wish him to conform to their desires ; 
when he fails to accept authority and brings down condemnation 
for his behavior, he is reproached by the adult in terms of his age 
and approaching manhood. "Jimmy is almost a man; doesn't he 
know a* man doesn't do such things ?" But when Jimmy asserts 
his independence he is quickly returned to the unfree state of 
childhood. Inside of Jimmy a similar conflict rages. At times he 
feels himself a free, independent individual who can go forth 
courageously into the world, leaving the oppressive weight of 
family authority and interference far behind him. But there 
are moments when he seems so helpless and alone in an uncharted 
country that nothing short of his mother's reassuring presence 
brings any relief. Whether Jimmy will be able to keep his face 
turned steadily, frankly, courageously toward the world of inde- 
pendence and responsibility and slowly but surely deprive him- 
self of the comfortable protection of the family and maternal 
solicitude, depends upon everything that has gone into the mak- 
ing of Jimmy up to this point. 

DEVELOPMENT OF WORK AND PLAY INTERESTS 

There are two lines of inquiry we should have to make to 
determine what Jimmy's chances are and what his problems are 

* This section is used by permission of the "Annals" of the American Academy 
of Political and Social Science, 1921, in which it is published as a separate paper. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 147 

likely to be: First, as to the development of his work or play life; 
second, as to the development of his love and sex life. We want 
to know whether Jimmy has carried both his work and love 
interests beyond the subjective, infantile stage over into an objec- 
tive fulfilment as far as his ability and environment permitted. 

First, on the work side, is he occupied for the most part with 
realizing concretely his work, or, if you wish, his play interests? 
If he wants a wagon, will he cry or sulk or have a tantrum until 
his father gives in ? Will he steal a wagon ? Will he cry or brood 
over it, dream about the wonderful things he could do with it, but 
make no effort? Or will he apply himself energetically to some 
plan for earning the money or build a wagon out of home-made 
materials? How difficult is it for Jimmy to put his desires into 
effective action ? How difficult is it for him to get what he wants 
in terms of the facts as they are, without evasion, antisocial 
behavior, or substitution of day-dream fulfilment? Moreover, 
one must ask how interested is Jimmy in work and play. Has 
he a plentiful supply of interests and have most of these interests 
definite, concrete ways of getting expressed? That is, has Jimmy 
both the drives and the developed technics for realizing them? 
Whether or not he has will depend, not on Jimmy alone, but on 
the entire background to which Jimmy's behavior has been a 
response. 

If Jimmy has been under a strongly repressive discipline, if 
all of his attempts have been discouraged or subjected to ridicule, 
if environment has limited too greatly his opportunities, if health 
has prevented aggressive or effective action, if some inferiority, 
real or imagined, physical, mental or social, has developed a 
habit of nonaggressiveness, a fear of attacking a new project, a 
hesitancy to go over into positive action, a tendency to evade 
responsibility because of fear of failure or exposure of weakness, 
then we may expect to find adolescence producing the most critical 
problems. A child who has grown up on the subjective plan, who 
has never learned to deal squarely with facts or to win approba- 
tion by legitimate efforts, or who has gone into compensatory 
activities of an antisocial or auto-erotic character, has been able 
to put off the results of such methods of meeting reality because 
of his childhood. The family, even the school or the foster fam- 
ily, will accept many such bad adjustments without realizing how 
serious they are, as a part of childhood. 

With adolescence, however, comes a point when life looms up 
and even the family cannot continue to protect the child from his 
growing years. He must begin to get the comeback from his 
habits of poor adjustment. The patterns he has been using will 
not work in a world outside his family protection. If he has 
not been accustomed to finding active concrete expression for his 
interests, the sudden flood of new energy, the widening of the 



148 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

horizon, the social impetus that youth receives, will swamp the 
motor apparatus. He has no technics developed and has not the 
habit of trying to develop them for every new interest. Those 
vague but powerful forces coming in upon the old situation are 
difficult enough to harness into actual achievement, even with the 
best efforts of adolescence. 

RESISTANCE TO ECONOMIC INDEPENDENCE 

They involve not only difficult technics, but the willingness to 
free oneself from the economic support of the family and take 
on responsibility for one's own living. There is a tremendous fear 
to many people in the thought of economic independence no 
money to fall back on unless you are able to earn it. Supposing 
you should lose the job ? No father with open pocket book to 
help you out no comfortable home to drop into when work gets 
unpleasant? When that realization is suddenly forced upon the 
adolescent there is often real terror behind it, and it requires a 
genuinely healthy, courageous habit of meeting the problematic 
situations in life to adjust to it without evasion. 

Many a youngster has an aversion to the very thought of 
working, so that he will not even discuss the kind of work he 
might like, or he will make an objection to every kind of work 
that can be suggested. A certain Italian boy, although far from 
normal, illustrates the extreme of this natural reaction. He was 
much attached to his mother and the family life. He resisted the 
responsibilities of school, although he was intellectually bright. 
He was even timid about facing the clerks in a store. Buying 
shoestrings took all the courage he could muster. As he 
approached the working age, he made valiant efforts to hold a 
job. He could describe the kind of work he wanted. He would 
insist that he was anxious to work, but as soon as he got the job 
a special fear would arise to make that particular job impossible. 
Once he had a job that meant a long ride in the subway. He found 
that he became faint and sick whenever he attempted it. Once 
he worked at cutting news clippings, and he developed a fear 
about reading the paper. 

A very unstable girl of 18, who has been forced to work since 
15 because she has no family back of her, resists work and changes 
jobs frequently, but is obsessed by fear as soon as she is without 
work. She has contemplated prostitution and has gone as far as 
to go with one or two men for the sake of an evening's enter- 
tainment. But the fear she feels when she is not working is too 
great to allow her to depend on men friends completely and she 
resists the loose living unless she has a good job. Her dislike 
of work, her fear of growing up, are so great that the necessity 
for working has been registered almost as a compulsion. Need- 
less to say, she also fears adult sex life and is held back by that. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 149 

THE PULL OF UNDEVELOPED INFANTILE INTERESTS 

This particular girl, whom we will call Alice, illustrates the 
adolescent conflict when there is too great a pullback, too many 
obstacles on the side of normal growth. Her early home life 
turned her against men and sex because her father was an abusive 
drunkard unable to support the family. Her mother put all of 
her love and desire into the indulging and spoiling of Alice. Alice 
was taught to dress above her station and feel herself better than 
others. She was the petted, adored, only child. Then the mother 
died, leaving Alice to an unsympathetic, overworked old grand- 
mother, whom Alice has never ceased to blame for her lost child- 
hood and its pleasures. Alice submitted, but never accepted this 
change of living. She never ceased to long for the mother and 
the delights of adoration and dress and pleasure obtained with- 
out effort. 

The grandmother died leaving Alice without any one, penni- 
less, and with not even a common school education. She goes to 
work without skill or training, hating the grandmother, and even 
her mother for dying and leaving her to such a fate. She- has 
never developed the kind of initiative and persistence that will 
enable her to get education by night work. She is not strong. 
She craves pleasure; she blames other people and fate for every 
misfortune. She develops an evasive way of meeting every 
unpleasantness, every failure of hers on a job. She is often late 
to work, she takes correcting childishly ; she is unreliable, stays 
away if she has the slightest pain, wants a lot of attention, has 
no idea of business etiquette. When she loses a job, the employer 
or fellow employee is to blame. 

Adolescence increases the yearnings for a home, for a mother 
to fall back on. The only other outlet she can see leads to the 
pleasure which means sex cabaret, movie, dance hall. Alice is 
afraid of sex. She resists the idea of marriage. What does she 
want with children! Look how her mother suffered, and in the 
end had herself and baby to support. 

So Alice is caught with no developed interests, no technics, 
nothing to stabilize or inhibit the infantile impulses. When one 
talks with her, one gets the full force of the adolescent yearnings. 
She wants to be somebody, to do great things, to be superior. In 
her good moods, she is overwhelmed with dreams of accomplish- 
ment. She pines to use good English, to be a real lady. There is 
pathos in her inquiry as to what you say when a boy introduces 
you to his mother and how to behave in a stylish hotel dining 
room. Such questions have an importance that is almost greater 
than the problem of how to keep straight sexually. The winning 
of social approval is an ever-present burning desire, but she has 
no patterns, no habits, no control over the daily details of the 



150 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

process whereby this is gained. When one tries to place her in a 
good environment with girls of a better class, she reacts with a 
deepened sense of inferiority, expressed in more open, boastful 
wildness. She invents adventures with men to dazzle these virtu- 
ous, superior maidens. The craving for pleasures and something 
to make her forget increases. 

What one would do, if it were possible, is to hold Alice long 
enough to see her through the learning of some skill or trade in 
which she could be superior and by which she could earn a decent 
living. The difficulty is that owing to the amount of instability 
that has been developed it requires almost constant supervision 
just to keep her in one place physically, as well as to hold her 
to the daily effort of mastering a hard task. It also takes a 
great deal of money, for which no guarantee of success can be 
held out. 

DREAMS A SUBSTITUTE FOR TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT 

It is not strange that youth finds it hard to buckle down to 
concrete accomplishment. The urge of life is so intense, the 
dreams so quick and glorious, the actual process so slow. Dorothy, 
a youngster who by temperament and every handicap of environ- 
ment had learned to depend almost entirely upon day-dream ful- 
filment, found herself at 17 facing the problem of earning a 
living. She had not one single worked-out process to make her use- 
ful to any human being. She was unstable, imaginative, impatient, 
undeveloped to the last degree. It looked like a hopeless proposi- 
tion. All the authorities predicted ultimate breakdown and fail- 
ure. One faithful person took her into her own home, provided 
a stable background, and concentrated all her efforts on holding 
the child to learning one technic by which she could become self- 
supporting. There were ups and downs she ran .away; she 
stayed out all night; she made living a stormy affair for her 
friends ; she quarreled with every companion. She had to be held 
down to studying her lessons at night by the constant attention 
of an older person. Her course in stenography was interrupted 
by absences and bad behavior. In the end the worker on the 
case triumphed. The child completed the course and took a job. 
She had developed a genuine skill. Although her work record for 
a long time consisted of one job after another in rapid succession, 
the fact that she knew how to do one thing well always brought 
her back to working and its possibilities. The periods of keeping 
one job grew longer the upsets less damaging to work. Friends 
held on. After three years, when some of the adolescent conflict 
had abated and the growing skill as stenographer had begun to 
have its effect, we find our unstable girl steadied down into a 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 151 

well-paid, reliable worker who understands her own emotional 
upsets and makes adjustments to them without giving up work. 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF NORMAL LOVE INTERESTS 

We have been following the development of the play and work 
interests of the individual and trying to show how a subjective 
infantile development or call it a lack of development, if you 
wish leads to greatly heightened conflict at adolescence because 
of the increased pressure of internal as well as external forces. 

On the side of the love interests, the development of social 
relationships which can be separated from the work side only 
arbitrarily, we find a similar situation. The individual whose 
love-life and social interests have broadened progressively and 
have taken on a more and more objective character meets the 
effort required of adolescence to face adult sex and social responsi- 
bility with courage and positive striving. The individual who 
because of some inferiority, real or imagined, physical or mental, 
has tended to depend upon mother love or family tolerance and has 
avoided the possible criticism of an outside world by shutting him- 
self away from others and comparison with them, will easily find 
in adult sexual relationships something too difficult to be faced. 
He will desire either to remain in the sheltered family situation, 
where he is loved no matter what he does or is, and where as 
a child he can cling .and depend and feel no responsibility for lov- 
ing back again, or he will find in the world some one who will 
accept him on the same basis, and allow him to remain infantile 
or childish in his love needs. 

Such a condition is, of course, often produced not by any essen- 
tial weakness of the individual but by a combination of circum- 
stances : an infantile or unsatisfied father or mother using the child 
in a selfish way to appease his or her own love needs, preventing 
it from growing away from the parental attachment as it normally 
should. Some accident of circumstance may meet him the widow- 
hood of the mother, forcing the boy to take his father's p!ace and 
attaching his love for life; the handicap of a long physical illness 
or extreme delicacy, reinforcing the ordinary resistance to going 
over from the certainty of mother love to the winning of adult sex 
love under conditions of rivalry and possible defeat ; an environ- 
ment which deprives the girl or boy of contact with the opposite 
sex at a time when the transfer of love interest is ready to be made 
and conditions him or her to homosexual or auto-erotic expression ; 
the repression which puritanical adults, teachers, parents, schools, 
orphanages put upon the normal sexual impulses of adolescence. 
When one contemplates all the influences that are at work to 
prevent the courageous objective development of love and sex, 
one wonders why adolescence ever follows a normal biological 
course. 



152 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

THE EFFECT OF UNDEVELOPED, CHILDISH LOVE NEEDS 

Alice illustrates almost all of these influences. She is held 
back from maturity by the pull of childish cravings for mother 
love and protection. What she wants is not the objective adult 
love of one independent individual for another, but subjective 
satisfaction. She is not looking for the kind of man whom she can 
love with a real appreciation of his qualities and a sharing of his 
interests; she is looking for any one who will give her the sense 
of security, the spoiling and indulgence the mother supplied. 
Alice seeks not a mate, but some one to devour. She will con- 
sume her love object. She is not motivated by &ny dreams of 
home and children. Her hunger is for a pleasureful, care-free 
existence in which she is responsible neither for work nor for 
love. 

Even on the physical side of sex, Alice has no desire for adult 
expression. She has all of the repressions which her mother's 
hatred of men, her father's behavior and conventional sex taboos 
could produce. Theoretically, she is as prudish as any carefully 
guarded virtuous maiden, but her practice and her theory are as 
separate as the poles. Alice sins, but she refuses to embrace her 
sin. Physical sex is a disgusting fact of life to which she yields 
because it buys the pleasures which are essential. Her conflict 
is none the less real for its inconsistency. 

PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS FOR THE PROMOTION OF MENTAL 
HEALTH AT ADOLESCENCE 

What can we do practically to meet the complicated problems 
of adolescence? How can we lessen the struggle or lend strength 
to the forward looking interest and impulses? If we wait until 
adolescence has begun, we shall have a difficult task. But grant- 
ing that most of the adjustments should have been made earlier 
and taking adolescence as we actually find it, what is possible? 

We can surround youth with encouragement. There need 
be no sneering superiority, no ridicule, no tyrannical authority, no 
dogmatic overruling, nothing to undermine the confidence and 
self-assertion that are necessary to approach work and love on 
an adult basis. 

We can leave young people as free as possible to develop their 
own interests ; free to discover for themselves, to experiment, 
even to make mistakes. We can give them freedom to experiment 
in the ordering and control of their own group life as well as their 
individual interests. 

We can recognize and supply the need of youth for interpre- 
tations of life, ethics, religion, philosophy, scientific and social 
theory something general enough to be mastered verbally and 
used to reduce the chaos of a new world to a known and familiar 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 153 

thing; something to make life a safer, more manageable affair. 
Adolescence craves a unifying theory to use as a stepping stone 
from the safe limits of childhood to a boundless universe other- 
wise too strange to be faced. 

Patents and school can see to it that youth is supplied with 
definite skills and technics, that potential interests go over into 
action. They can show young people how to gain an objective 
happiness in creative work. They can so equip adolescence that 
it will not be left defenseless in the face of an adult world with 
only dreams to offer. 

The family can reduce the pullback of childhood by encourag- 
ing economic independence, breaking away from home, going 
away to college, widening the social interests to extend beyond 
the family circle. The parents can keep their love for the child 
objective and unselfish and welcome his growing independence 
and hetero- sexual interests. 

Last and most important, if we are wise enough and grown 
up enough ourselves we can give the adolescent an interpretation 
of sex and human behavior which will enable him to face frankly 
his own cravings and inferiorities real or imagined, and adjust 
to them in a positive, constructive spirit. 

Sex instruction as now provided in the public school is not 
equivalent to assisting youth to a happy emotional adjustment. 
Like Alice one may know the facts of sex and hate them. Can we 
provide parents and teachers so well adjusted and understanding 
that they can take the adolescent through each critical moment 
and, by their own courageous and positive attitudes, show him 
the way? For he needs not only to face sex arid learn to look 
forward to love and marriage ; he needs even more to accept him- 
self, honestly and frankly, to recognize inferiorities and abilities, 
and to learn the lesson of compensation. 



CHAPTER V 
THE HERITAGE OF LIFE 

W. B. CANNON, M.D. 
The Department of Physiology, Harvard Medical School 

BOSTON, MASS. 

If we were asked what we understand by our race we would 
probably think of it in terms of the people we see in the streets 
or at great gatherings, or the people in our own country, or per- 
haps we would include the people in other countries all over the 
world. We would think of the children and the middle-aged and 
the elderly indeed, all who are now living. But in seventy years 
almost all who are now living will be dead; they will have joined 
the great host who have lived and played their part before our 
time. And a new host of living beings will have come to take 
their places. Beyond them is sure to be another new host, spring- 
ing up as they pass away. And thus human life will go on for 
thousands of years, so far as we can see. We who live today, 
rejoicing in our happiness, playing and working, doing our duties, 
loving our dear ones, have only a few years in which to learn 
what the past hands on to us and to teach it to those who follow us. 
In other words, it is our race that lasts, and we are only the 
fleeting members of it. 

The importance of the nation or the great group, that which 
lasts, is clearly shown whenever its safety, its customs or its 
ideals are in danger. Then war is not commonly regarded as too 
great a price to pay to save our kind, now and hereafter, from 
those evils. Young men, the strongest and most fit, are without 
hesitation thrown into the fighting ranks, and give up their lives 
for the sake of their race. Death for that cause has always been 
most highly honored. And life, also, devoted to service for one's 
own kind has always been regarded as the noblest use of the brief 
span of years given to any man or woman. The creators of new 
beauty in art and music, the discoverers of new truth in Nature, 
find great satisfaction in the thought that they have brought 
durable benefits to their fellow men. 

For the purpose of continuing the race, there are in the body 
of each one of us parts or organs which are set aside for the spe- 
cial act of bringing new beings into the world ; and there are pow- 
erful natural feelings of love and faithfulness toward one another 
that arise, drawing man and woman together for their own hap- 
piness and leading to the use of these organs for the begetting of 
children. No finer or more sacred relations exist than those 



158 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



which grow from this union into 'the fulness and richness of fam- 
ily life. Just because these organs and instincts form a basis 
for personal and racial welfare, it is in the highest degree impor- 
tant to know their workings. 

To understand how a new being is made we must first realize 
that all animals and plants are composed of uncountable multi- 
tudes of very small units of living matter called cells. Like the 
bricks in a building, these cells form our muscles, our nerves, our 
skin and glands indeed, every part of our bodies. Now all these 
myriads of cells start in a single round and rather large one, yet 
not larger than a point of a pin. This single cell divides into two ; 




Fig. 48. Human spermatozoa, magnified about 1,000 times: h, head; c, interme- 
diate portion; t, tail. (From the book entitled "Obstetrics," by J. Whitridge Williams, 
M.D., copyrighted and published by IT. Appleton & Co. Used by permission.) 

each of these two grows and divides again; the four thus made 
also divide; and so the process of growth and multiplication goes 
on the cells, of course being nourished all the time. As these 
divisions continue, the cells begin to be different. At last some 
have lengthened and become muscle and nerve cells, others have 
surrounded themselves with lime and made bone, others have flat- 
tened and covered the outer surfaces. Thus the heart, the lungs and 
all the other parts of the body are marvelously built each part 
ready for action when it is finished. This astonishing change is much 
more wonderful than would be the growth of an immense building 
from a single brick which would divide itself into two bricks, and 
so on, the bricks taking their proper place to make a complete and 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



159 



beautiful structure ; for the human body is much more complicated 
than any building. And yet all these growing cells of the body set 
themselves in order, quite without command or oversight, and at 
the end of nine months have made a new living being a baby 
ready for birth. 

Besides the cells which make up the framework and the pull- 
ing parts the bones and muscles, for example there are in each 
of us special cells set aside before birth to help in bringing forth 
still other new beings after manhood and womanhood have been 
reached. These cells, the reproductive cells, are different in man 
and woman. The male or sperm cells or spermatozoa (see Fig. 
48), when set' free from the body, move about actively in the 







Fig. 49. Human ovum, the large body, surrounded by cells and nearly ready 
to be set free from the ovary, magnified 210 times. D., discus proligerus; M. G., 
membrana granulosa; T. ex., tunica externa. (From the book entitled "Obstetrics," 
by J. Whitridge Williams, M.D., copyright and published by D. Appleton & Co. Used 
by permission.) 

fluid that surrounds them. Usually many millions of them are 
set free at one time. The female cell or ovum is globular in 
shape (see Fig. 49), much larger than the sperm cell, and has 
no means of moving by itself. Neither the ovum nor the sperm 
cell is able alone to grow into a new being. But if the sperm cells 
are brought near the ovum, they swarm about it, and one unites 
with it. This is called fertilization. The ovum at once begins to 
divide, and there follows the astonishing activity, described above, 
which leads to the formation of a new creature. These reproduc- 
tive cells are the only living things which are given by the parents 
toward the making of their offspring. It follows that the ovum and 
the spermatozoon are the bearers of the traits which are passed on 
from the old to the new beings. The likeness of young members 



160 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



of a family to their forebears, the striking reappearance in children 
of features chin, mouth, nose or eyes and also of mental and 
moral qualities of the father and mother, show the extraordinary 
power of these two united cells to mold the whole body which they 
produce. It is one of the most mysterious facts of all Nature 
that two minute cells one barely visible to the naked eye, the 
other microscopic in size can thus be the agents for carrying on 
the good and evil strains which run in family lives. So each 
generation by its choice of mates has the power of influencing 
the nature of coming generations. It therefore has thrust upon 
it, whether it wills or not, the responsibility for the future qual- 
ity of the race. 

To sum up, then, the reproductive cells are the means by 
which the stream of living beings is kept flowing. Every person 
grows from them. Every person has them in his or her body. 




Fig. SO. The female genitalia exposed by midsection. B is the bladder, U the 
uterus, R the rectum and O the right ovary, which is to be thought of as beyond the 
plane of the section. The branched extremity of the right fallopian tube is resting on 
the ovary. (From Stiles' "Human Physiology," W. B. Saunders Company, Publishers.) 

From them each generation produces the next, and, having done 
so, dies. And the next generation, which, because of inherited 
qualities, is made in the image of the generations past, does 
again what they did. Thus, so long as life goes on, the reproduc- 
tive cells may be thought of as immortal. 

For their special activity the reproductive cells, like other cells, 
must have warmth and moisture. That means, first, that for 
union to take place the ovum and the spermatozoa must be sur- 
rounded by fluid. Fishes lay the eggs and the sperm near together 
in the water they inhabit. And frogs likewise stay in water dur- 
ing the breeding season, male and female closely attached, while 
the sperm and the ova are being put forth. Among air-inhabiting 
forms, however, such as birds, and also mammals (animals which 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



161 



suckle their young), the reproductive cells have to be specially 
cared for to keep them from drying and thus being killed. This 
is done by depositing the sperm cells in large numbers in the 
body of the female where they will have a chance to come in 
contact with the ova. Thus in the hen, the ova (the eggs) are 
fertilized by spermatozoa which the rooster introduces from time 
to time into her body. And after the union of the ovum with a 
spermatozoon the egg is covered with a shell, again to protect 




Fig. 51. Diagramatic chart of male organs of reproduction, 
and Sexual Hygiene." By courtesy of Winfield S. Hall, M.D. 



(From "Reproduction 



against drying, and is then laid. Now when the proper warmth 
is given, by a setting hen or an incubator, at once growth starts 
and is so rapid that in three weeks a chick pecks its way through 
the shell, and a few hours thereafter is running about fit to take 
its own food. 

When the fertilized ovum grows, as a hen's egg grows, for 
example, apart from the mother's body, food must be at hand to 
keep the growing creature alive and to let it go through all the 
changes until it is ready to forage for itself. Only the scar-like 



162 



WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 



spot on the surface of the yolk in the hen's egg is the growing 
part which forms the chick. The rest of the yolk, and the "white" 
which surrounds it, are a store of food (a store which, like that of 
the seedling wheat and corn, we high-handed humans seize for 
our own benefit). This arrangement is generally true for birds, 
and also for reptiles, such as the turtle. 

Among mammals., on the other hand, the ovum not only is 
fertilized, but also undergoes the marvelous changes which result 
in a new being, while held in a special organ of the mother. 
There by seepage from the mother's blood (there is no direct 




Fig. 52. Growing embryo (E) in the womb, five weeks after fertilization. X 1. 
(Anatomical Museum, Johns Hopkins University. Embryo drawn relatively too large.) 
D. R., decidual reflexa; D. S., decidual serotina; -D. V., decidual vera; E., embryo; 
O. L., ovarian ligament; R. L., round ligament. (From the book entitled "Obstetrics," 
by J. Whitridge Williams, M.D., copyrighted and published by D. Appleton & Co. 
Used by permission.) 

blood connection between mother and baby) food is given which 
allows the growth changes to take place. For that reason there 
is little need of a yolk, and the mammalian egg, therefore, is 
much smaller than that of the bird. 

The special organs of a woman which serve for reproduction 
are shown in Figure 50. The ovaries are the parts which hold 
and at times set free the ova; the uterus or womb is a pouch 
where the fertilized ovum becomes fixed and grows into a baby 
ready for birth ; and the vagina is a tube in which the sperm is 
deposited. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 



163 



The generative organs in man are shown in Figure 51. 
From his fourteenth or fifteenth year through the rest of his life 
spermatozoa in vast numbers are being made in the testes. Con- 
necting each testis with the passage in the penis is a fine tube 
which leads the spermatozoa away from their place of origin. 
Near the end of this tube a thick fluid is poured from small pock- 
ets a fluid in which the spermatozoa actively move. The penis 
serves to deposit in the vagina the mixture of this fluid and sperm 
cells, called "semen." 

When the spermatozoa are present in the vagina they swim on 
into the uterus and from there into the tubes which connect 
the uterus with the region of the ovaries. If they meet an ovum 
which has been set free, one of them is likely to fertilize it. The 
fertilized ovum is* then carried along the tube to the uterus. 





Fig. 53. Drawing showing head about to be born. (From the b-ok entitled 
"Obstetrics," by J. Whitridge Williams, M.D., copyrighted and published by D. 
Appleton & Co. Used by Permission.) 

where, if fixed in place, it at once begins to grow. In Figure 52 
is shown the growing embryo in the uterus, five weeks after 
fertilization. 

When nine months have gone by the fetus is fit for birth. 
Then the uterus, which is a muscular organ, begins to press on 
the sack of fluid in which the fetus has grown, and by pressing 
again and again, more and more firmly, perhaps every five min- 
utes for several^ hours, the vagina is stretched open widely enough 
to allow the baby to be forced out. Usually, the head is born 
first, as shown in Figure 53. The contractions of the uterus 
are accompanied by the so-called "labor pains;" if severe, they 
can be lessened by ether. 

After the baby is born, further pressings by the uterus push 
out the "afterbirth," or placenta, a flat, disk-shaped body which 
connected the growing embryo to the wall of the uterus, 



164 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

During the time of a woman's life when she can have children 
(i. e., from 13 or 14 to 45 or 50 years of age) there is a monthly 
loss of blood from the uterus the so-called "monthly period" or 
menstruation. Usually this occurs every twenty-eight days. The 
flows lasts four or five days, and with it ther,e may be headache, 
digestive disturbances, a sense of weakness, feelings of depres- 
sion and self-doubt, and signs of being easily upset by trifles. 
These alterations, when present, are not due to the loss of a small 
amount of blood (a fourth to a half of a pint) actual taking of 
as much blood as that from a vein does not cause them. They 
are without doubt parts of a deep-seated change taking place in 
the body a change which should be regarded as indicative of the 
great function of race continuance, a recurring reminder of the 
part woman takes in the creation of new human beings. 

The care to be taken during the monthly period will be under- 
stood by knowing what occurs at that time. The blood vessels of 
the uterus become stretched with blood. The lining of the uterus 
grows until it lies in folds. Finally, the blood presses so hard in 
the smallest vessels that it breaks their thin walls and runs out. 
This blood, carrying with it shreds from the lining of the uterus, 
and also mucus, which is made in very small pockets (glands) 
found in certain parts of that organ, are all cast forth together 
as the "flow." It is clear that if the pressure of the blood is 
increased, more of it will be lost. Cold baths, or very hot baths, 
hard work, such as lifting, and games which demand great activ- 
ity, cause increased pressure of blood and should be avoided 
unless they are in continuation of a regular daily routine. There 
is a belief that all bathing should be avoided, but this is a mistake. 
Washing the body in lukewarm water is quite without damage. 
And because the flow has an odor, cleanliness is especially neces- 
sary during the monthly period. 

When in a lower mammal (in the mare, for example) a like 
flow takes place, it is called the period of "heat." Toward the 
end of the period an ovum is set free from the ovaries (or sev- 
eral ova if a number of young are produced), and there are 
signs of sexual excitability. The changes in the uterus at this 
time are such as to make it a ready and fit place for holding the 
fertilized ovum. Probably in woman also an ovum is freed at 
the time of the monthly flow, and the change in the lining of the 
uterus may be regarded as a renewal of the surface for the pur- 
poses of reproduction. 

In man there is also a fairly regular discharge of fluid more 
frequent when he is young. This fluid, which. holds many thou- 
sands of sperm cells, gathers in small tubes and sacs connected 
with the penis, and if not used for reproduction is cast forth, at 
night, usually while dreaming. So important an act as reproduc- 
tion, having as its end the renewal of the race, Nature does not 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 165 

leave to reasoning and cold and careful planning. The gathering 
of the fluid in the small tubes is each time the signal for the arous- 
ing of very powerful and tormenting instincts and desires center- 
ing in the thought of a mate and leading him to seek her. There 
are similar feelings which stir in woman as well, though they 
are supposed not to be so strong as in man. Often these desires 
are regarded as wrong and shameful. They are, however, most 
natural, and are implanted in us for a high and noble use. In 
combination with physical, mental and moral qualities, they 
attract man and woman to each other, they lead to marriage, and 
they establish family life, which is the essential unit of civiliza- 
tion. Thus, though arising from physiological changes in the 
body, these sex impulses unfold into the beauties of love and 
unselfish devotion, and serve the most fundamental needs of 
the state and the race. 

So strong and driving is the impulse of reproduction in man 
that it has been commonly, though mistakenly, claimed that it is 
right for him to find relief in sex relations outside of marriage. 
Unhappily there are both men and women who take part in such 
promiscuous sex relations. The woman whose virtue is not strict 
has been, throughout all time, from Bible days till now, a social 
outcast. The man whose virtue is not strict has not been so 
regarded. There seems to be slowly growing the belief that a 
double standard of sexual morals, one for woman and one for man, 
should not exist. And though the reproductive impulses in man 
may be much stronger than in woman, the need is not for greater 
self-indulgence but for greater self-control. Sex indulgence is 
not necessary for health nor for virility. Illicit sex relations 
degrade the thought of love, they coarsen and lower the character 
of a man, they pervert his imagination, and stamp him with a 
record which in the woman he weds he would not tolerate. The 
strong motives of self-respect, cleanness of body, decency in the 
treatment of others, and loyalty to the ideal woman whom he 
will love and serve, should keep a young man virtuous. These 
motives should be strengthened as much as possible by mothers 
and by other persons whose influence affects the behavior of 
youths. Young women should know that the close contacts 
occurring in certain games and that the liberties permitted in 
"spooning" arouse inevitably sex passions in young men and ren- 
der self-control more difficult. It should be remembered also that 
only after personal habit and social custom have once been broken 
does self-indulgence begin to be easy. Shame and .fidelity serve 
best when checking the first step. 

Promiscuous sex relations are likely to be the occasion for 
carrying loathsome diseases from person to person, especially the 
two diseases, syphilis and gonorrhea. These are in the highest 
degree evil in that they threaten not only the health of individ- 



166 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

uals, but also the existence of the race. Like some other diseases, 
they are spread by contact, not necessarily in the sexual act, but 
even by kissing. Syphilis in woman often causes birth before 
the proper time, or birth of defective children. It may lead to 
paralysis, feeblemindedness, and to serious injuries of internal 
organs of the body. Our public asylums for the insane and feeble- 
minded have within their walls many who are victims of syphilitic 
infection. The other disease, gonorrhea, is very hard to cure. 
. When it starts in the sex organs of a woman, it commonly spreads 
to the womb and thence out the tubes toward the ovaries. When 
it has gone that far it may be necessary for a surgeon to remove 
all these parts in order to save the woman's life. Of course, she 
cannot have any children, and she may be an invalid for the rest 
of her years. On the other hand, she may have the disease and 
yet have a baby, but, unless great care is taken, the baby's eyes 
may be attacked by it and made blind. A man who has been a 
partner in shifting sex relations may be a carrier of these diseases 
and bring them to others. It is the right of every woman to 
demand that the man she marries shall be clean free from dis- 
ease which will imperil her own life, and possibly the life of 
others (her children), and which clearly endangers the welfare 
of the race. 

There are persons who think that the individual is the unit of 
society. Good reason exists, however, for regarding as the social 
unit the family. The long time during which children are helpless 
or unable to make their own way demands the love and attention 
of the mother. And during the time when the mother is bearing 
and rearing children, the father must be expected not only to give 
her comfort and aid, but also to provide for all the household. 
Thus quite naturally in the growth of a family husband and wife 
are disciplined by common responsibilities and are more and 
more firmly bound to each other by that mutual loyalty and 
fidelity on which married life is founded. 

When new beings are brought into the world they have the 
qualities of the father and mother, passed on to them in the germ 
cells. Thus both the evil and the good may crop out in those 
who come after us. It has been noted, for example, that insanity, 
feeblemindedness and epilepsy, as well as other defects and dis- 
orders, are carried by the germ cells from parents to children. 
For the health and happiness of those who come after us, we 
would do well to take care that physical and mental traits which 
are sources of misery are not handed on and that, so far as pos- 
sible, traits are transmitted which show vigor of body and mind 
and uprightness of character. In the choosing of a mate the 
bad possibilities, as well as the good, should have consideration. 

In the foregoing account of reproduction emphasis has been 
laid chiefly on the bodily features of the process. We should not 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 167 

overlook the other features. We must remember always that 
reproduction is associated with all that is most beautiful and 
precious to us. The words "home," "mother," "father," "chil- 
dren," "brother," "sister," need only to be mentioned to recall 
that they name the highest values which we know. Not only do 
these values rise from the acts and processes we have been con- 
sidering, but these acts and processes are myteriously and sym- 
bolically linked with a spirit of love and service and the joy of 
close and loyal companionship, which are the best things that 
life holds for us. 



CHAPTER VI 

RECREATION 

PART I. RECREATION FOR HEALTH -BUILDING 

E. C. LINDEMAN 
Professor of Sociology, North Carolina College for Women 

GREENSBORO, N. C. 
I. INTRODUCTION 

Progress means adaptation. If circumstances did not change 
it would be unnecessary for human beings to be concerned about 
progress. But circumstances do change ; in fact, they are con- 
stantly and continuously changing. Fortunately, man is not at 
the mercy of the ruthless law of the survival of the fittest. He 
can make his adaptations by "taking thought" by consciously fit- 
ting himself to new environments. 

The circumstances of modern life have experienced an abrupt 
change during the last half century. The means of earning a 
livelihood, the modes of living, the forms of social contacts, and 
the very basic principles upon which life proceeds have been rad- 
ically altered since man began using machines to produce surplus 
goods. 

We now live in a civilization which is deeply affected by organ- 
ized industry. Very little productive work is performed in the 
home. The father, and in many cases the mother, must spend 
their working hours away from the family. As the standard of 
living grows higher, it frequently becomes necessary to have 
the younger members of the family engage in some form of pro- 
ductive labor. Power-driven tools are concentrated in buildings 
called factories, and thither the bread-earning peoples must go 
to spend their working hours. 

When the worker arrives at the factory or shop, he or she 
must conform to certain rules. Not the least of these rules is to 
obey the machines. They move methodically, relentlessly and 
continuously; the worker must adapt himself to the movements 
of the machine. This means new postures, new movements, and 
new coordination of muscles, nerves and bones. After the par- 
ticular machine becomes familiar to the worker, it becomes pos- 
sible to perform one's work without conscious thinking; the 
movements become more or less automatic. To work without 



(f 



170 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

* "' ' 

thirling means that in the end the work itself must lose its inter- 
est and its charm. In short, the creative, artistic impulse which 
goes to make work a joy tends to disappear under the rules of 
machine industry. Work becomes labor. 

The effects of the industrial revolution have been intensified 
by the fact that other significant changes took place during the 
same period. The change in modes of economic production was 
accompanied by a fundamental change in the modes of thought. 
The intellectual basis of life changed abruptly in the middle of the 
nineteenth century. Science did not content itself with mere 
inventions; it attacked the basic principles upon which life had 
hitherto been ordered. 

The social revolution springing from the ringing challenge 
of "liberty, equality, fraternity" of the French Revolution, added 
its impact to the other two movements. The combination of 
these three revolutions laid the basis for a new civilization. We 
have not yet understood the full implications of what that new 
civilization means. This we know: that life is no longer simple, 
and that it grows daily more complex. 

We are not sure that modern civilization, with all its machines, 
its science, its technology, its accumulated knowledge, its economic 
interdependence, can carry its own weight. Some are already 
insisting that the civilization of our time is in decay. No observer 
whose eyes are undimmed by thoughtless optimism can deny the 
fact that we stand face to face with a demand for adaptation 
which constitutes a crisis. Either man will learn to control this 
giant machine modern civilization or the machine will control 
him. The leadership needed for a time like this is a leadership 
sound of body, clear of mind, unselfish but courageous in pur- 
pose, and devoted to the higher or spiritual values of life. Honest 
work, honestly performed, will supply some of these qualities. 
But work under the. present industrial and economic order is des- 
tined to become more and more subject to the machine process ; 
its contribution to the development of human character is doomed 
to a diminishing role. 1 Left by itself, the machine is more likely 
to disrupt modern civilization than to add positively to its 
progress. 2 

The personal equipment and the adaptations made necessary 
by modern life will need to come about by means of constructive 



1. In a subsequent pamphlet an attempt will be made to present a solution for 
this menace which Professor Lindeman regards as a "doom." It is the belief of the 
editors of the series that work can still be made a vital contributor toward the 
health of the worker and the satisfaction he finds in living, and, indeed, that unless 
work does contribute toward those ends the ends themselves cannot be fully realized. 

2. "I too believe that work may become something more than labor, but not by 
mere technological improvements. In order to restore work to its creative place there 
must be a fundamental change in motives and ends as well as means. In other words, 
there must be conscious control of machines and processes by the workers themselves, 
not because such control involves pecuniary gain but because it provides an oppor- 
tunity for expressing, directing, thinking, creating." E. C, L. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 171 

use of leisure hours. We shall, no doubt, soon conceive of a 
new term which will give positive meaning to the periods not 
spent in economic production ; they may come to be known as the 
culture hours rather than the leisure hours. How play and recre- 
ation may be utilized in assisting us to adapt ourselves to the new 
world will be discussed in the following chapter. 

II. VALUES PRODUCED BY RECREATION 

Recreation may be consciously utilized in fitting man to sur- 
vive, or to adapt himself to a changing order. Directors of recre- 
ation frequently lose sight of the more fundamental aspects of 
their programs ; they often feel satisfied when recreation fills an 
idle hour, or when it appears to give joy to those who participate. 
To occupy the attention which would otherwise be given to vacuity 
or to mischievous activity is, indeed, one of the functions of rec- 
reation; it is, however, a negative one. There are more funda- 
mental reasons for recreation, and these need to be understood 
by the person interested in the promotion of recreation. 

The obvious fact about recreation in its more common forms 
is that it gives physical exercise. It requires the partaker to use 
his muscles and his nerves ; to move his body about. For thou- 
sands of years the human body developed along certain lines ; it 
reached a high degree of specialization in its functions. But 
the evolution of man prepared him for an altogether different type 
of life physically from that he is now called upon to live. Auto- 
matic tools, street cars, automobiles, elevators, railroads, tele- 
phones, are but a few of the mechanical inventions which have t 
transformed life. The problem of the present is not improvement 
of structure in the human body, but rather the conservation of J 
that body in order to make it possible for it to withstand the : 
strain of modern, accelerated processes. 

Recreation utilizes the neglected portions of the body. If life 
is so ordered as to make it impossible to make use of the larger 
or major muscles, deterioration in these muscles will in time cause 
the body to lose symmetry. Recreation utilizes the neglected 
muscles and restores symmetrical development. 

Recreation brings about coordinated use of the various sets of 
muscles. Our daily tasks may utilize certain muscles in a sys- 
tematic manner, but the required motions may not demand coor- 
dination of 'other sets of muscles. Recreation throws the entire 
body into action and makes coordination not a strained effort, 
but the natural result. It causes the body to act as a unit, as 
becomes a perfectly organized machine. 

Recreation prevents physical fatigue by making- activity a 
pleasure. Work may tire a person to the point of fatigue, but in 
most cases it does so because the motions have become monot- 
onous; because interest in the activity has ceased. Work has 



172 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

become laborious rather than creative. The body on the point 
of fatigue is quickly rejuvenated by joyful particpation in a 
recreational activity. 

In short, recreation is not merely exercise; it is exercise plus 
the factor of pleasure, of joy, of zest. It contains a psychological 
element which is constantly decreasing in the fields of labor. 

Closely allied to the physical values in play are those which 
may be termed mental. Our mental attitudes are determined in 
large measure by the healthful, wholesome functioning of our 
bodies. The nerves and the muscles of our bodies have a direct 
relationship. The nervous system includes the brain. When 
the proper relationship between nerves and muscles is disturbed 
there ensues a series of mental disturbances. These may range 
all the way from mere pessimism to morbidity, and in the extreme 
to insanity. 

Recreation reduces the personality to the normal; frees it 
from little bothering fears, shyness, dislikes clogs and barriers 
of various kinds. All of those mannerisms, edgy differences, over- 
indulged peculiarities, which set one person off from another play 
a diminishing role in recreation. The personality begins to act as a 
unit. Nerves and muscles are synchronized. The mind learns 
to act quickly in response to certain stimuli ; the body, in turn, 
accommodates itself to obedience to the dictates of the mind. 
This is a healthful state of being. The personality regains 
assurance; it learns to depend upon itself. It loses its touchy 
self-consciousness, smoothes out its cross purposes, brings its 
scattered activities into some sort of relation with each other, 
and gets a better consciousness of itself as a balanced and effec- 
tive whole hence expresses the real self. All of the sense per- 
ceptions seeing, hearing, smelling, feeling are sharpened by 
their spontaneous use in recreative activities. These senses in 
turn react upon the total consciousness of the individual. The 
mind operates more successfully when its stimuli are received 
through the medium of highly developed senses. In short, recre- 
ation in utilizing the complete personal equipment provides for a 
correlation between the various bodily organs and hence produces 
normal attitudes of mind. 

The sound mind operating in the sound body should enable 
the individual to adapt himself to the changing circumstances of 
a rapidly shifting civilization. But the crucial adaptations needed 
in our time are of a social nature. Our behavior is given direction 
according to our social contacts. To know how a person lives 
within certain social groups is to know the surest clue to his 
behavior. The physique and the mind provide the basis for social 
living. However, the actual participation in life's processes 
depends upon certain habits, customs, attitudes, traits, conven- 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 173 

tions, etc., all of which have social origins and social controls. 
The best way to know a person is to have ordinary contacts with 
him. But our contacts become less and less normal. We meet 
our associates in businesses or professions ; these contacts are apt 
to reveal only certain portions of our natures. When we throw 
off our reserve in the spontaneity of recreative expression we 
give our real selves to others. 

Recreation of a sociable nature implies that two distinct forces 
are thrown into action. We cooperate and we compete. The 
phrase "play the game" has come to mean a sort of patriotic self- 
subordination for the, good of the whole; it is not a subordination 
which lowers or degrades the self, but rather an active unifying of 
the self with the group. The self must be its highest self if it is to 
make the best contribution to group success. 

In playing the game, this attitude of mind is developed nat- 
urally without forced or coercive methods. The person who par- 
ticipates in group forms of recreation unconsciously forgets him- 
self in order that the team or the group may win. In recreation, 
competition rises to its highest plane; it becomes a form of social- 
ized competition. 

The social virtues have an ethical background. To "play 
fair," "play the game," "obey the rules" all of these common 
colloquial phrases which have grown up around play and recrea- 
tion have a distinct ethical or moral implication. Recreation does 
not ostensibly teach formal ethics; rather, it "grows" ethics. 
Right behavior is one of the natural fruits of organized, con- 
structive recreation. Right, fair, just ways of doing things 
become habitual. To test ethical principles in the laboratory of 
recreation is to put them to a severe trial. What we say we 
believe is right is a far different thing from the thing which we 
may do under the stress of competition. In play our real selves 
come to the top ; we are not on our guard. The usual inhibitions 
lose their force when the whole body is acting vigorously and 
freely. What we really are in our deeper selves expresses itself 
in play. When such play is properly directed, recreation becomes 
applied ethics. 

There is also this assurance : habits of conduct learned uncon- 
sciously in spontaneous play activities are far more likely to 
prove permanent than the learned principles. 

A well-ordered life economically, physically, mentally, socially 
and ethically produces a natural overflow of good will, an 
exuberance of spirit. Recreation fills out the wholeness of the 
well-ordered life. Engaged in rightly, its expression is akin to 
the creativeness of the artist. Leisure hours, like working hours 
at their finest, can then become periods of expiession for that 
higher sphere of life which usually goes by the name "spiritual." 



174 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

III. MINIMUM STANDARDS OF PLAY AND RECREATION FOR 
GIRLS AND WOMEN 

The tests which apply to good education also apply to good 
recreation. Not all activity is suited to the needs of the individ- 
ual. The director of play should have in mind a few funda- 
mental principles of selection. These principles should be based 
upon the growth-period of the person involved, and should look 
forward to the future expectations of the person's capacities. 
The recreation programs of the past have been based too largely 
upon a psuedopsychological theory of sudden and catastrophic 
changes in life. It is true that there are certain periods of life 
in which changes appear to be abrupt, but the emphasis in the 
past has been placed unduly upon the abruptness. 

Human beings grow according to organic principles which are 
now fairly well understood. These principles should be inter- 
preted in terms of corresponding mental facts. Recreation enters 
the sphere of the child's growth as the social factor which relates 
him harmoniously (or otherwise) to the social process. In this 
chapter we are viewing the development of a girl's life from the 
psychological basis. Upon this basis certain psychological and 
sociological inferences are made. In this and the following the 
figures given are averages. It should be understood that there 
can be considerable variation from them without any indication 
of ill health: 

GIRLS BETWEEN THE AGES OF 4 AND* 7 

Physiological characteristics: (a) Weight at 3, 30 pounds; weight at 
6, 45 pounds. Boys and girls are likely to have the same weight and 
height up to the age of 6, namely, 1 pound of weight for each inch of 
height. (&) Height at 3, 36 inches; height at 6, 44 inches, (c) Types 
of recreation needed : The best types of recreation are those which 
demand the use of the legs and arms : running, jumping, climbing. Games 
requiring accuracy, skill, strict competition or force should not be used. 
Plays involving imagination are most useful ; representative games 
depicting occupations, animals, etc.; dolls, sand piles, tag, etc. Contact 
with nature by means of miniature gardening is very beneficial, (d) 
Sleep requirements: Twelve hours (in bed at 7 p. m.). An afternoon 
nap daily. 

Clothing should be very loose. During this period the child should 
be engaged in activities of a recreational or playful nature from five to 
eight hours each day. 

GIRLS BETWEEN THE AGES OF 7 AND 10 

(a) Weight at 6, 45 pounds ; weight at 9, 60 pounds; weight at 6 is 
one third of adult weight, (b) Height at 6, 44 inches; height at 9, 50 
inches ; 31 per cent, increase in weight and 13 per cent, increase in 
height, (c) Types of recreation needed: The recreational value of voca- 
tional interests should be utilized. Girls often wish to play at dress- 
making and teaching. Realism beginning to play important role. Loss 
of interest in school work should be compensated by interesting activi- 
ties at home. Manual work should be simple but purposeful. Games 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 175 

requiring perseverance and long application should not be used. Memory 
games exceedingly useful. Singing and marching games are very useful. 
Elements of rivalry, hero worship and emulation may be utilized in 
games. Rest periods should be frequent. (c?) Sleep requirements : 
Eleven hours (in bed by 8). 

Short periods of activity, intervals of rest, sunshine, pure air, light, 
sleep and plain food are the great requirements. The active play periods 
(vigorous} should not exceed thirty minutes; ten to fifteen minutes con- 
stitute better average periods. 

'GIRLS BETWEEN 10 AND 14 

NOTE. Some of the characteristics here discussed should appear 
earlier in most girls. Girls are apt to be precocious in several directions 
around the ages of 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. 

(a) Weight at 12, 77 pounds; weight at 15, 107 pounds (girls are 
slightly heavier than boys), % adult weight, (b) Height at 12, 55 inches; 
height at 15, 63 inches (%o adult height). Ratio between weight and 
height: At 12 years, 1.4 pounds per inch; at 15 years, 1.7 pounds per inch. 
(c) Types of recreation needed: Exercises which increase lung capac- 
ity. Exercise in the open air as frequently as possible. Girls apt to 
develop habits of inactivity (reading novels, etc.) ; this is a mere sub- 
stitute for the active exercise which is needed. Recreations which empha- 
size correct posture needed. Recreation which utilizes the girl's ambi- 
tion, her dislike of being superseded, needed. Blood should be drawn 
from brain to muscles at frequent intervals ; headaches, loss of appetite, 
etc., likely to follow otherwise. Disinclination to play is not normal; 
usually due to accumulation of wastes in the body, (d) Sleep require- 
ments, ten hours. 

NOTE. The boy ordinarily takes up such competitive games as base- 
ball at this period. Girls are likely to drop vigorous -exercise at the 
time when they need it most. Mental hygiene needed as much as physical 
hygiene; the mind is now subject to peculiar complexes. Cheerfulness, 
poetry, music, group games these are the natural antidotes needed to 
react against the tendency toward introspection. 

GIRLS BETWEEN THE AGES OF 15 AND 21 

(a) Height: Girl at 16 has usually attained full height, (b) Types 
of recreation needed: Mere play is not enough; gymnastics needed. 
Competitive athletics. Games involving loyalty to her mates. Recreation 
which promotes unselfishness. Games involving heroic qualities. Games 
which utilize enthusiasms, (c) Sleep requirements : Ten hours. For 
adults, nine hours are better than the usually recognized eight. 

NOTE. The greatest danger of this period (adolescence) is too much 
and too intense social life added to school requirements. Cramming 
should not be permitted. Excitement should never be prolonged. Fatigue 
should be guarded against. Late hours and lack of sleep are greatest 
dangers. 

WOMEN BETWEEN THE AGES OF 21 AND 35 

For the great majority of women this is the period of courtship and 
marriage. Because of our peculiar conventionalities, women are very 
likely to abandon physical exercises. These conventions consist of false 
views of beauty, false views of modesty, and absorption in the tasks 
of childbearing. All of the physical resources built up during the preced- 



176 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

ing periods are now called upon to serve in relation to vital functions. 
It is the greatest of errors to suppose that these resources will suffice 
unless physical training is continued. 

Those young women who devote all or a portion of this period to con- 
tinued education, to professional work, or to work in industry, also stand 
in danger of abandoning active recreation. Their necessary tasks involve 
the use of certain sets of muscles with an almost assured lack of use of 
other muscles. The machine may make demands upon the body which 
the body is not prepared to endure without fatigue or deterioration. 
Recreation is needed to supplement or to complement the necessary 
movements involved in the vocational life. 

IV. RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES * 

Most of the activities which follow will prove available for any one 
of the four types of recreation, individual, family, group or community. 
They may be given unlimited variety by adaptation to the different forms, 
such as outdoor, indoor, social athletic. 

1. Athletics. The spirit of team work so conspicuous among boys and 
men is often lacking in girls and women ; therefore, activities wtyich 
develop this spirit are much needed by the latter. They should aint to 
arouse interest in the intrinsic health value of athletics. Training for 
team games increases the efficiency of the group in all group activities. 
Fundamentals of big team games should be learned and may be used 
in other competitive undertakings. 

A. Individual Adaptations. Form in serving and hitting tennis ball. 
Tether ball is an excellent way of developing skill and quickness. Pitch- 
ing a baseball. (Stones may be used for practice in throwing, when on 
a hike.) Batting a baseball. Serving and returning a volley ball. Bas- 
ketball goal throwing and practice games, such as goal throwing relays, 
allowing thirty seconds to throw as many goals as possible. Progressive 
goal throwing (progressive from easy positions to difficult ones). Ball 
passing. All kinds of ball-passing games. Principles of Newcomb. Land 
swimming drill. Kicking a soccer ball. 

B. Group Adaptations. Soccer ball, volley ball, tennis, baseball, dodge 
ball, wall ball, kick ball, crosstag, Chinese tag, three deep. All kinds 
of passing games (played either with bean-bags or an ordinary basket- 
ball). Tournament. Trackmeet (indoor and outdoor meets are splendid 
ways of bringing groups together and developing real sportsmanlike 
spirit). Such a program as the following could be used: Short sprints, 
throwing balls for distance, relay races, competition balancing, a short 
game of volley ball, drilling, folk dancing and singing (can be worked 
into a program with good effect). 

2. Hiking. Nature study hikes. Overnight hikes with ponchos and 
blankets ; sleeping under the stars. Hare and hound chases. Hikes, with 
volley ball (a string strung up between two trees will answer this pur- 
pose), baseball, story-telling, singing around the fire, etc. Bacon bats. 

3. Swimming. Class work the club going in together. Splash par- 
ties. The following articles in the water add to the pleasure of the 
participants: Waterwings, inner tube, tub, rubber and cork balls. 

4. Camping. Week-end camps, vacation camps, all-summer camps, 
canoeing, boating, horseback riding, launch parties. 



By Era Betzner. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 177 

5. Winter Sports. Hockey, coasting, skiing, skating, snow-shoeing. 

6. Pageants and "Dramatics." Dramatizations of different group 
experiences, "A Day at Summer Camp" in the winter time, etc.; 
charades, tableaux, shadow pictures, spring opening fashion show, health 
farces and plays, simple one-act plays, vesper services in which the dra- 
matic and pictorial elements are used. 

7. Music. Dances of our land and other lands, songs of our land and 
other lands, ukelele, mandolin, violin, piano, etc., singing carols. 

8. Handicrafts. 

9. Reading. 

10. "Hobbies." . 

11. Parties and social events, including the celebration of such holidays 
as: New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday, St. Valentine's Day, April 
Fool, May Day, Hallowe'en, Thanksgiving, Christmas, St. Patrick's Day. 

The following useful points in teaching games should be remembered : 
Be sure you know your game. The explanation should be brief and to 
the point. Give directions without scolding even if not listened to. 
It will often suffice to start the direction, and then wait a moment and 
s_tart over again. Speak so that every member of the group can hear. 
Waste no time in getting started. Watch the group for change of inter- 
est, changing the game just before the first person is ready to drop out. 
Insist on fair play. Friendliness is an essential factor. When the game 
is a guessing game, make an effort to have all of the members hear and 
be heard. Guard against rowdyism in social gatherings. This can 
usually be done by changing the rhythm of the game being played or by 
substituting for it another activity of a different rhythm. 

V. THEORIES OF PLAY AND RECREATION 

The leader in recreation for girls cannot be contented with 
the mere knowledge of how to direct games. She must be able to 
interpret recreation in terms of the real purposes and objectives 
in life. Recreation can no longer be considered as the mere 
"filler" for unoccupied hours ; it has a constructive, organic func- 
tion in modern life. This function demands interpretation. 

Various theories of play have been suggested by biologists, 
psychologists and sociologists. A brief survey of these theories 
may help the leader to formulate a workable theory of her own 
Such a theory should harmonize with her fundamental philosophy 
of life. 

The negative theory of play (sometimes designated as puri- 
tanic) deserves little attention. According to its tenets, play is 
all harmful, wasted effort. This theory, undoubtedly, had its 
origin in a perverted outlook upon religion. There are, of course, 
still many people who believe that happiness, cheerfulness and 
joy are antithetic to religion. 

Perhaps the best manner of treating this concept of play is to 
call attention to the fact that it has never succeeded. Play, instead 
of decreasing in importance, continues to increase. When it 
is suppressed, it usually breaks out in forms that are harmful. So 



178 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

fully has the modern church come to recognize the importance of 
play that many of its programs consciously provide for recrea- 
tional activities. 

The utility theory of play had its origin among certain biolo- 
gists, who transferred their researches to the field of psychology 
during the early days of physiological psychology. 

According to this concept, play serves merely as a preparation 
for the useful, productive activities of life. The kitten, for 
example, who appears to secure enjoyment by chasing a ball of 
yarn secures the pleasure only incidentally. In playing with the 
ball of yarn she is in reality developing those capacities which will 
later equip her to catch mice. From anologies of this sort it has 
been argued that the principal function of play is to prepare for 
useful vocational pursuits. Not many modern psychologists 
adhere to this theory. 

Certain biologists and anthropologists have deduced still 
another theory of play which connects it with the cultural epochs 
through which man has passed from barbarism to civilization. 
This is most frequently referred to as the recapitulation theory. 
The embryologists have discovered that the human being in 
embryo passes through certain stages of biological development 
resembling various phases of lower animal life. From this phe- 
nomenon analogies have been drawn. The principal deduction 
has been that man after being born must also recapitulate or 
repeat the various cultural epochs of the race. That is, he must 
become hunter, caveman, tribesman, etc., before he can accommo- 
date himself to the civilized state. Play is interpreted as the 
activity of infancy which reproduces these precivilized stages and 
gives the developing individual the opportunity of recapitulating 
his past racial history. 

This theory also has been practically abandoned by most lead- 
ers in the field of recreation. It does not conform to the principles 
of social psychology, and even in its purely biological analogy 
fails to become convincing. 

As productive enterprises come to be more and more subject 
to increase by means of automatic machines, man's hours of 
labor continue to decrease. Conversely, his leisure hours increase. 
Moralists have long ago pointed out the fact that most evil 
impulses obtain their opportunity for expression during leisure 
hours. The discipline of modern conditions of labor allows for 
little time or opportunity for misbehavior. Evil tendencies have 
thus shifted their field of activity to the leisure periods. Recre- 
ation, according to this theory, steps in to counteract the influ- 
ences of evil. It occupies the individual when he is not under 
compulsion to work, and thus saves him from himself and from 
evil companionship. This must be regarded as merely a nega- 
tive theory of play and recreation. Recreation which simply 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 179 

prevents evil or apathy is valuable, but does not possess sufficient 
scientific relationship to modern life to merit the attention which 
is being given to it. 

The child in infancy begins his attempts at adapting himself 
to this environment. His first movements are apparently with- 
out purpose, but very soon the observer recognizes the fact that 
the movements give certain satisfactions ; there are evidences that 
the child feels the thrill of achievement. Pleasure and disappoint- 
ment accompany most of these early movements of the body. 
As growth continues, the child attempts more difficult movements. 
One can detect his distinct efforts at trying his strength. From 
the viewpoint of recreation, it has been affirmed that all of these 
movements which are associated with the play of the child are in 
reality adaptive in character. In other words, play is looked upon 
as the child's method of growth. The importance of this theory 
increases when we attempt to visualize a child completely inhibited 
from play. Such a child could not, of course, grow in a normal 
manner. Play, then, is the natural means by which the child 
climbs from infancy into maturity. 

Obviously, all play and recreation have been associated with 
physical health. The person whose movements are free, who 
can use his body effectively, and who appears to secure enjoy- 
ment from such exercise, is assumed to be in good health. In 
fact, physical education has come to be looked upon as the posi- 
tive phase of the health movement. Corrective exercises, when 
the play element is added, are recommended by physicians. Busi- 
ness men in mid-life are urged to take up some recreative activity 
or hobby in order to relax the tension on nerves. The need of 
play from the health standpoint has become almost axiomatic in 
most American communities. Gymnasiums, golf links, bowling 
alleys, etc., have a distinct health significance in modern life. 
Without question, the health function of recreation must be 
admitted. 

With the exception of the first theory discussed, all of these 
mentioned have made some contribution to the theory of play. 
Moreover, each theory has added something of a positive nature to 
the recreation movement. Any combination of these theories 
leaves something to be desired ; growth, health, utility these are 
all essential elements of man's adaptation to his environment, 
but they leave him incomplete. The cultural theory is more than 
a mere coalition of other theories ; it is an inclusive, cumulative 
concept of play which includes what other theories provide, but 
adds the element of art, of creativeness, of spiritual values. Pop- 
ulation groups which have recreation blended in their traditions, 
customs, habits and conventions, produce one kind of culture or 
civilization; groups without the recreation element produce a 
culture of an entirely different nature. 



180 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

The recreation leader should now be able to evolve a philosophy 
of play a philosophy which will provide for her as firm and as 
scientific a basis for her tasks as accompanies the standardized 
vocations. This philosophy will include considerations such as: 

(a) The industrial, intellectual and social changes which are 
producing modern civilization; (b) the discernible value which 
play and recreation produce in this civilization; (c) the processes 
of growth in which play and recreation fit as supplementing and 
complementing forces. 

With these factors well thought about and related to each 
other, the recreation leader will be prepared to formulate and 
evolve a recreation program suitable to the highest needs of girls 
and women. 

VI. TESTS WHICH THE RECREATION LEADER MAY APPLY TO 

ACTIVITIES 

The dynamic personality which is capable of energizing people 
into enjoyable activity is not likely to possess the qualities of 
mind which analyze, test, weigh, compare and furnish criteria for 
those activities. The specialists in the various related branches 
of science should be expected to perform this task. However, 
the practical recreation leader must be made aware of such tests 
and criteria if her work is not to degenerate into stereotyped, 
static and uninteresting programs. The tests which follow are 
not to be regarded too rigidly; a test implies expectation of the 
ideal, and no conditions are ever exactly ideal. The recreation 
leader will make the wisest use of these tests if she regards them 
as principles according to which her work is being directed. 

1. Good recreation, like good education, presupposes that its 
recreative qualities lie in the fact that the participants are vitally 
interested. The observer who comes upon a play group and, after 
observation, says, "They certainly do enjoy that, don't they?" has 
expressed the kernel of the first test. He means to imply that 
these participants are actually and vitally engrossed in the thing 
they are doing. 

2. Good recreation can never be inimical to health. The par- 
ticipants may be ever so joyfully and vitally engaged, but if the 
game which is being played or the conditions under which it is 
being played are likely to lead toward deterioration of health, 
the form of recreation is not good. Forms of recreation may be 
poorly adapted to the age of the participants ; they may be poorly 
adapted to the strength and endurance; they may be played 
under conditions of poor ventilation ; they may be played accord- 
ing to rules which necessarily involve fatigue for some of the 
participants. All of these conditions are sure to affect the health 
of the participants and must be considered by the recreation 
leader. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 181 

'3. Good recreation does not involve expensive equipment. On 
the contrary, the more a form of recreation throws the players 
back upon their own physical, mental and social resources, the 
more likely it is to be constructive. This does not mean that 
paraphernalia is superfluous ; it merely means that good recreation 
is not dependent upon it. 

4. Good recreation involves types and forms which make it 
possible for small as well as large numbers to participate. There 
is a place for mass recreation, but there is also a place for recrea- 
tion carried on within small groups. Types of recreation amenable 
to the purposes of small groups need emphasis. 

5. Good recreation involves types and forms which make it 
possible for both sexes to participate. Social life does not divide 
itself horizontally by separating the sexes ; on the contrary, social 
life cuts across sex lines. The recreation leader should empha- 
size forms of recreation which may be engaged in by both sexes, 
even though she deals primarily with girls. 

6. Social life does not divide categorically according to age 
lines. Good recreation should provide recreative activities suit- 
able to both young and old. If recreation is to become a cultural 
process, it must not be isolated in its forms so that certain groups 
are automatically excluded. 

7. Recreation has two functions: it develops the individual 
in his individual capacities, but it also develops the individual in 
his social capacities. Good recreation will provide ample oppor- 
tunities for the development of cooperative habits. There are 
periods and occasions when individual development should be 
sought through recreation. The social habits are more difficult 
and are essential to harmonious adaptation. Recreation is one 
of the most useful means for socializing individual behavior. 

SOURCES OF INFORMATION FOR RECREATION LEADERS 

PHILOSOPHY 

"The Community," by E. C. Lindeman, published, by Association 
Press, 347 Madison Avenue, New York. 

"Play in Education," by Joseph Lee, published by Macmillan. 

"Efficient Life," by L. H. Gulick, published by Doubleday. 

"Recreation for Teachers," by Henry S. Curtis, published by Macmillan. 

"Manual of Play," by William Byron Forbush, published by George 
W. Jacobs & Co., Philadelphia. 

ATHLETICS AND SPORTS 

"Handbook of Athletic Games," by Bancroft and Pulvermacher, pub- 
lished by Macmillan. 

"Spalding's Athletic Library," American Sports Publishing Co. A 
series of booklets giving specific information on how to play different 
American games, basket-ball, hockey, tennis, etc. 



182 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

"Stunts," by Pearl and Brown. A valuable book for every physical 
director or director of athletics. 

"Outdoor Games and Sports," by Claude Miller, published by Double- 
day, Page & Co. 

"Play," by Emmett Angell, published by Little, Brown & Co., Boston. 

ENTERTAINMENTS 

"Producing Amateur Entertainments," by Helen Ferris, published by 

E. P. Dutton Co. Splendid instructions for "stage stunt evenings." 
"Our American Holidays," by Schauffler, published by Moffatt & Yard. 
"Social Activities," by A. M. Chesley, published by Association Press, 

347 Madison Avenue, New York. An illustrated manual, suitable for 
small evening gatherings, school entertainments, celebration of holi- 
days, etc. 

"Entertainments for Every Occasion," by Lucy C. Yendes and Walter 

F. A. Brown, published by Hindes, Hayden and Eldredge. 
"Money-Making Entertainments for Church and Charity," by Mary 

Dawson, published by Davis McKay. 

"Bright Ideas for Money Making," by Jacobs, published by George 
W. Jacobs Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 

"Ice Breakers," by Edna Geister, published by Woman's Press, 600 
Lexington Avenue, New York. 

"It is to Laugh," by Edna Geister, published by Woman's Press, 600 
Lexington Avenue, New York. 

MOCK TRIALS, VAUDEVILLE, MINSTRELS 

Dick & Fitzgerald, 18 Vesey Street, New York. Dialogue, description, 
directions. 

A. Flanagan Company, 521 S. Wabash Avenue, Chicago, 111. 

M. Witmark & Sons, 144 W. Thirty-Seventh Street, New York. "The 
Witmark Amateur Minstrel Guide." 

PAGEANTRY AND DRAMA 

"A Second List of Plays and Pageants," compiled by the Bureau of 
Pageantry and the Drama. A bibliography of plays and pageants with 
descriptive notes and suggestions for producing. Published by Woman's 
Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York. 

American Pageant Association. Secretary, Miss Virginia Tanner, 26 
Arlington Street, Cambridge, Mass. 

"Handbook of American Pageantry," by Ralph Duval. The philosophy 
and psychology of the pageant, its structural composition and detailed 
suggestions for presentation. Duval Publishing Co., North Attleboro, 
Mass. 

"Festivals and Plays in Schools and Elsewhere," by Percival Chnbb; 
contains specimen programs and general bibliography as well as bibliog- 
raphies on festival music and costumes. Harper & Brothers, New York, 
publishers. 

DANCING 

"Folk Dances and Singing Games," by Elizabeth Buchenal, published 
by G. Schirmer, 3 East Forty-Third Street, New York. 

"Polite and Social Dances," by Marie R. Hofer, published by Clayton 
F. Summy. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 183 

"Popular Folk Games and Dances," by Marie R. Hofer, published by 
Flanagan Co., Chicago, 111. 

"Old English and American Games for School and Playground," by 
Florence Brown and Nina L. Boyd, published by Chicago School of 
Civics, 2559 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, 111. 

"Social Games and Dances," by Elson and Trilling (parties and 
dances), published by Lippincott. 

"Country Dance Books," by Cecil J. Sharp, published by H. W. Gray 
Co., 2 West Forty-Fifth Street, New York. 

MUSIC 

"Music for Everybody," by Lawrence and Bartholomew, published by 
Abingdon Press, Cincinnati, Ohio. Splendid directions for leading com- 
munity singings. 

"Twice Fifty-Five Community Songs," published by C. C. Birchard 
& Co., Boston, Mass. 

"The Feast of the Little Lanterns," a Chinese operetta by Paul Bliss, 
published by Willis Music Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. 

"A Nursery Garland," by Kitty Cheatham, published by G. Schirmer. 

"Modern Piano Pieces the Whole World Plays," Nos. 2 and 8, pub- 
lished by D. Appleton & Co., New York. 

"Folk Songs of Many Peoples," by Florence Hudson Botsford, Vol- 
ume 1, published by the Woman's Press. A collection of the folk songs 
of the Baltic, Balkan and Slavic peoples, of invaluable aid to workers 
with the foreign born, recreation and group leaders. 

MUSIC ORCHESTRA, GLEE CLUB, UKELELE, ETC. 

Schirmer Music Co., 3 East Forty-Third Street, New York, will sup- 
ply lists and information. 

CAMPING, HIKES 

"Woodcraft Manual," by Ernest Thompson Seton, the Woodcraft 
League of America, Inc., 13 West Twenty-Ninth Street, New York. 

"Going Afoot," by Bayard H. Christy, published by Association Press, 
347 Madison Avenue, New York. 

"Woodcraft for Women," by Katherine G. Pinkerton, published by 
Outing Publishing Company, New York. 

"Camping Out," by Warren Miller, published by George H. Doran 
Company. 

"Nature Study Pamphlets," by Louise Brown, published by Woman's 
Press, 600 Lexington Avenue, New York: 

"Nature in Camp." 

"All Night with the Stars." 

"The Sky Winter Nights." 

"Trip to the Moon." 

"The Sky, Spring and Summer Nights." 




PART II. RECREATION AND HEALTH 

Recreation is in truth a necessity of life, an essential of health. 
Its claims must be honestly defined and joyously fulfilled. Few 
people,, and especially few women, respect recreation as they 
should. Its place in life is too narrowly conceived, too grudgingly 
admitted, too indirectly supplied. To achieve health without 
recreation is difficult, and to achieve recreation without enjoyment 
is impossible. "But can one be joyous because one must?" Some 
one objects ! After all, why not try it and see? 

Health-building is a many-sided process which makes impos- 
sible a passive attitude toward any of its essential elements. Per- 
sonal responsibility extends itself over the whole area of individual 
life; it does not limit itself to the control of striped mus- 
cle tissue. Those who wish to be happy need not take it all out 
in wishing; it certainly is a more subtle and more complicated 
task to be happy than to flex the biceps, but will has a part to play 
in both. It is a lazy conception of life which looks on health and 
happiness as the gift of accidental circumstances, rather than as 
necessities of life which are within the individual's power of con- 
trol. Fortunately for all of us, it is possible to capture joy and 
to build its energizing substances into the structure of abundant 
life. 

WHAT IS RECREATION ? 

Recreation is more than the playing of games. It is renewal of 
life all of life, not physical life without relation to mental, nor 
spiritual life without relation to physical. This renewal is evi- 
denced through health and in terms of the whole personality 
mental, physical, emotional and spiritual. 



186 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

The rules of health-building are so simple that their impor- 
tance is underestimated. People are prone to regard them as a 
bottle of medicine, a prohibitive regimen meant to deprive us of 
the joy of living. Yet we all know that the person who is in really 
splendid physical condition naturally eliminates many of the fears 
and worries incidental to daily life, such as fear of illness or 
failure. In a sound healthy body, the proper direction of ner- 
vous energy becomes an easy task. Such a person nearly always 
has mental poise. The ability to make one's body do exactly 
and promptly what one wants it to do requires concentration, bal- 
ance, alertness and adaptability qualities which are mental. This 
relationship between the mental, physical, emotional and spiritual 
is particularly intimate in wholesome recreation. 

THE SEEING EYE 

If there were a society for the protection of words, we should 
surely ask for a committee to defend the word "recreation." Why, 
for instance, should a person who goes to a party and hates going 
to parties think that she is doing it in the name of recreation? 
Or why should a person who loves to go to parties do nothing 
else at all to add to her means of enjoyment and self-expression? 

We need to turn a seeing eye on what we have assumed to 
represent play in our personal lives. We may find ourselves in 
the position of the little girl who had been nearsighted all her 
life. When at last her malady was discovered and spectacles 
were put on her, she walked into the street with her mother to 
meet a great adventure. "Look, look over there !" she exclaimed, 
excitedly ; "there's another side to the street !" "Why, of course," 
said her mother; "what's strange about that?" "But I have 
never seen it before!" exclaimed the child. People who find life 
stale, dull and irksome because they are not adjusted to its claims 
need first of all to try to discover the other side of the street. 
Dull streets are not always dull for the same reason. The student 
who takes no pleasure in books, and the cook who cooks three 
meals a day and hates it, apparently lead a very dull existence. 
In some cases perhaps they need to exchange places with each 
other, but in most cases they should try first of all to discover 
the other side of their own street. 

CAN COOKING BE RECREATION? 

If you asked the woman who cooks three meals a day whether 
cooking can be recreation, she would probably answer in the neg- 
ative. She will probably say no, whether she likes cooking or not. 
Yet if she enjoys cooking, why is it not recreation? There is 
room for play of the imagination in the production of a meal ; 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 187 

theie is chance for adventure in the methods of cookery of other 
countries and the latest methods of our own country. There is 
the possibility of experimentting with the various edible products 
of the whole world's fertility; the stimulating appreciation of 
guests to whom she extends her hospitality ; and the newer knowl- 
edge of nutrition by which to guide her children's habits. Even 
the cooking of three meals a day need not be wholly devoid of 
zest, if all its opportunities for creative activity are made the 
most of. 

Of course, in these days of economic pressure, the woman at 
the opposite, extreme has come into existence in great numbers. 
She has achieved full independence from home and fireside, yet 
possibly she loves to cook. It is her favorite recreation. It may 
so fall out that a gasplate or an electric grill in one small room, 
touched with art and imagination, becomes a center of friendli- 
ness and hospitality which cannot be duplicated in palace halls. 
To some women, cooking is like the sight of green grass or a 
wood fire, elementally refreshing. But the woman who is "tied 
to a cookstove" finds no recreation in it because there is no ele- 
ment of contrast in her life. Since wholeness is the aim of life, 
recreation should help to establish the right relationship and bal- 
ance between the elements making up the life of the individual. 

OUR MACHINE-MADE OCCUPATIONS 

Before the nineteenth century we were a hand-working people ; 
but the industrial revolution has changed us into a machine- 
working people. The change has demanded new posture, physical 
and mental, and a new coordination of the powers of both body 
and mind. The worker knows little more of the instruments with 
which he works than the instrument knows of him. Gone is the 
joy of creation with tools which he himself has fashioned. Gone, 
too, are many of the inconveniences which went with such pro- 
duction. It is difficult to estimate the discrepancy between the 
number of people employed by any large concern, no matter 
what the product, and the number of those who find real self- 
expression in their employment. Beginning with the janitor and 
going on through the various types of work manual, overhead 
and executive we could probably find few individuals who know 
how to escape the routine of their vocation enough to find the 
greatest possible measure of self-expression through it. Here 
recreation can come to their aid through productive and satisfy- 
ing activity which will function in the building o( health and 
personality. 

THE POSITIVE USE OF LEISURE 

. This places a greater responsibility on the use of leisure time 
than heretofore has been given it. The individual must find in it 
the source of his own renewal of life, physical and mental, emo- 



188 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

tional and spiritual. Most people are inclined to require of recre- 
ation only that it shall furnish harmless pleasure. But this is not 
enough, for leisure should be used to counteract the pernicious 
one-sidedness of modern occupations. Just how much any partic- 
ular way of using it is worth, is a question that must be decided 
according to the needs of the individual. 

The creative impulse which has perpetuated the arts of man- 
kind, builded bridges, cities and railroads, discovered continents, 
sustained pioneers, has its counterpart in all of us. This creative 
desire will always seek expression through the chief interest of the 
individual it may be in the cookies that a woman bakes or in 
the exquisite song of a prima donna or in the shouts of a small 
boy who has made a kite. When a narrow education or monoto- 
nous labor seems to have shut off the sources of spontaneous 
joy in life, a little patient self-searching will usually disclose a 
spring somewhere which needs only to have the choking debris 
of dead habit cleared away to flow with life again. 

It is within the reach of every individual to find some means of 
self-expression in the type of recreation which, in spite of all 
handicaps, he is relatively free to choose. 

The present playground movement is a real attempt to adjust 
our civilization to the needs of youth. But what of adults? 
After the development of machinery has released the worker for 
increasing instalments of leisure, how shall we plan for the use 
of that leisure? With more, and more policemen? Or shall we 
replace them with social engineers, whom the community needs 
even more than it needs mechanical engineers? Engineering sci- 
ence has found the way to bridge geographical spaces, but it 
remains for social engineers to bridge the chasms of disastrous 
pleasure-seeking and swamps of mere boredom and time-killing 
which increase as working hours decrease. People are at work 
upon the scientific study of human joy and happiness, and in the 
next ten years we may know much more than we do now about 
how to have a good time living and give others a chance. In 
the meanwhile, the individual should see to it that his own atti- 
tude toward leisure is not merely negative and passive, for this 
exposes him to exploitation by amusement interests which exist 
for profits only. 

THE IDLE ONLOOKER 

Some one has said that the great American disease is specta- 
toritis. In the name of recreation, too many people sit in the 
spectators' gallery where responsibility and initiative are entirely 
absent. Do not our popular plays and fiction, and especially our 
movies, supply a hot-house brand of romance congenial to the 
typically dreamy and neurotic disposition? Our most popular 
games and sports fill the country-club verandas with dyspeptic 
onlookers in rocking chairs and crowd the bleachers with enthusi- 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 189 

asts who satisfy themselves with exercising the upper lungs and 
waving the arms. Our churches too often are places where a 
complacent audience gathers instead of a congregation expressing 
in outward and visible form the reality of an inward spiritual 
experience. >->,./ 

There is no doubt that most of our commercialized recreation 
fails to contribute to mental buoyaflcy and individual creativeness. 
It is not really health-building. True recreation calls upon all the/;' 
resources of the personality, but uses them in such a way thatj 
they are quickened rather than exhausted. Too much of that/ 
which is called recreation begins in indifference and ends in doing 
nothing, thinking nothing, caring nothing. As individuals, we 
need to be participators, not onlookers in life, for happiness 
comes from the use of energy as surely as energy springs from 
the feeling of happiness. 

PRIMITIVE PATTERNS OF RECREATION 

It has been said that man is a combination of child, savage, 
and animal. We have primitive emotional needs which live in us 
whether we will or no. Out of these early desires, our most com- 
plicated arts have grown and our historic festivals have come 
into existence. There was a time when, as the sun with its 
warmth and glow disappeared, our ancestors were conscious of 
desire for its return because they were also conscious of fear of 
losing it. Their great desire brought them together in a self- 
expressive activity which was prayer. In the same way they 
prayed for rain. In the darkness and cold of winter, they prayed 
for the spring and the renewal of seed-time; in summer they 
prayed for harvest and the fall with its fruits. They built altars 
for prayer and thank-offering, and laid the beginnings of the 
great cathedrals. 

Today, with all the richness of our technical and mechanical 
equipment for expression, the lack of inward spirit is painfully 
apparent. We are surrounded by so-called objects of art which 
leave the emotions untouched because they bear no trace of any 
creative activity whatever in their production. We have Christ- 
mas, and we exchange presents ; but most of us wish we did not 
have to bother with them. We have New Year's, and we make 
obvious resolutions; but we do not consecrate our desire to keep 
them. Easter comes and we eat eggs. Why do* we eat eggs at 
Easter time? Why do we have May poles? "Goodness knows!" 
We shrug our shoulders; "Everybody does it." We have June 
weddings and Hallowe'en parties without knowledge of their 
origin or desire to know their real significance. Thanksgiving 
comes along, and even this, the latest-born of all our festivals, 
fails to arouse in us an emotional reaction because we have not 
experienced the feeling of want and after it plenty, as the Pil- 



190 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

grims did. Thus do we miss that renewal of life which our ances- 
tors found in the drama of nature and in the popular festivals 
which followed nature's round of seasons. As we permit or 
rather encourage ourselves to catch glimpses of the inner signifi- 
cance of art forms and recreation customs and feel the root emo- 
tions of festivals so deeply implanted in our past, we shall 
overcome a careless blindness Vhich shuts out much beauty from 
our lives. 

THE DANGERS OF BEING DIFFERENT 

Each person in dealing with his problem is certain that he is 
dealing with a phenomenon which has no precedent. This con- 
viction is the basis of personality and the source of the sense of 
personal responsibility. Yet when it takes the form of wishing 
and striving to be different from others, it strikes into a path 
which is not devoid of danger. To counteract this tendency we 
need to appreciate our place as single individuals in a close-knit 
whole, realizing that the whole is only a vast congregation of our 
blood-brothers and near cousins. One's own personality is a 
vitally interesting thing, but one should not lose sight of the fact 
that it is made of universal human materials which go into the 
making of everybody else. 

There are not a few people who may be said "to enjoy ill 
health" and who bind their families to them by their infirmities. 
The ailment which is known as "nerves" is far too common. 
Those people who consistently wear a halo of nerves, of overwork, 
of general delicacy, are likely to become eventually a burden to 
themselves, their families and their friends. Yet an intelligent 
choice of recreation or even a change of interest will often work 
wonders once the slight readjustment has been accomplished. 

THE VALUE OF HABIT 

The basis of personality is habit, the most ordinary stuff of 
I life. Habits are the result of repetitions, each one making the 
next more probable; and they have a very tough hold on life. 
| Because they are so familiar, they seem of no significance. Yet 
\Uhey are the secret of permanent health-building. The break-up 
of a wrong physical routine and the formation of health habits 
requires an initial effort and presupposes courage. As Dr. Con- 
stance Long says: "Occasions of real courage are rarely wanting 
in life, though they may all lie practically in the moral sphere." 
It even takes moral courage to build up one's play life in the 
beginning-, when one has lost the habit of play, yet that which 
begins with effort may be continued with spontaneity. The pos- 
sibility of supplanting old habits and patterns with better ones 
is in itself a stimulating thought for the individual. 

Every one knows that low spirits and depression are not com- 
patible with continued health. What is not sufficiently under- 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 191 

stood is that sermonizing is of little avail, and self-reproach of 
less. Habits of active recreation are the best help because they 
mean self-help, without which real improvement is impossible. 
They are a good tonic for dismal moods, a calming influence for 
overexcited feelings; they regulate the emotional temperature in 
such a way that sudden frosts and passing heats are reduced to 
a healthy minimum. 

HUMOR AND PHILOSOPHY 

Active recreation is not limited entirely to what we do. It is 
sometimes a matter of mental attitude. The ability to take a 
humorous view of "a situation often seems to be the only alterna- 
tive to undue emotional intensity. Likewise a touch of philosophy, 
not the kind which deals with high intellectual abstractions, but 
the common, homespun kind, is an every-day necessity for all 
of us. 

Humor is of course a talent, and philosophy a gift ; but both 
can be cultivated by every individual to some degree. They are 
not the exclusive privilege of those who excel in them. From 
the point of view of health, they have a universal use. Every 
one will concede that it is possible to cultivate worry ; then why 
should we be helpless in the attainment of its opposite? There 
are many people who have a tendency to take refuge from men- 
tal unhappiness in physical pain, because physical pain is after 
all easier for them to bear. This may be true to some extent of 
many of us. It is very likely to be true of one who has no 
resources of humor or philosophy to bring to bear upon personal 
disappointment and affliction. 

CREATIVE RECREATION NECESSARY 

To be part of a health-building plan, our play activities, how- 
ever simple, must involve creative production, mental or manual. 
The medium of self-expression chosen for our particular need 
may be music, color, drama, hospitality and social intercourse, or 
games and sports. It may take the form of knowledge about 
flowers, trees, birds, geography, photography, handicrafts and 
decoration, painting and literature. The need of art in shaping 
these outlets is fundamental. Activity in any form of art will 
increase appreciation first and the power of expression afterward. 

Excellence in some one field is possible for everybody, and 
skill is a vital experience which is necessary for the developing 
personality. Nobody can get along happily without the conscious- 
ness of some kind of ability, for lacking this, painful feelings of 
jealousy and self -depreciation are likely to occur. "In every 
case," advises Dr. Long, "the best antidote to self-depreciation 
is found in working for the thing we are envious of in others, or 
that we have so far acquired only in fantasy from the magic of 
the fairies." 



192 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

The acquisition of skill should not be limited to games which 
are competitive in character. It is unfortunate that so many 
girls become interested to the point of cultivating skill only in 
types of play which lead them to excessive competition. The 
excitement, the intense effort required may, if not properly 
directed, become a nervous drain instead of a source of renewed 
energy. 

NEED OF CHANGE 

To keep fresh that enjoyment of life so essential to health, 
we need the element of change, the stimulus of surprise. While 
regularity of habits is essential to health, monotony must be 
guarded against by keeping the way open for the unexpected. If 
we would keep a pool fresh and crystal clear, we must see that it 
has an outlet; otherwise it will become stagnant. So it is with 
our energies. 

I know a certain happy woman who, in spite of her several 
children and the manifold demands of incessant housework, boasts 
that she and her husband have never settled down. At 9 o'clock 
on Saturday night they may decide on a camping trip over Sunday, 
which is carried out with impromptu preparations and improvised 
program. Perhaps she packs some work in the back of the car 
or perhaps she lets it wait until she gets around to it. This is 
probably why the shine of her eyes, the lift pf her head, make 45 
seem a most desirable age. There must be enough change, 
enough unexpectedness in life, to keep alive the habit of looking 
forward. The expectation of adventure is strongest in youth, 
but in some degree it should accompany us throughout the ensu- 
ing years. Life is a dangerous business ; few of us come out of 
it alive. In the meantime, a state of absolutely monotonous 
security is neither possible nor desirable. 

NEED OF RHYTHM 

Rhythm in music is something like rate of speed in going 
about other affairs of life. We move at various speeds or rhythms 
characteristically; the rhythm of the snail would scarcely do for 
the impetuous spirit of the greyhound; and among people each 
one finds his own appropriate and comfortable rate somewhere 
between these two extremes. But each one of us varies from 
rhythm to rhythm as the day's occupations change only some of 
us vary too little. Some of us move too lazily too much of the 
time; more of us in this bustling modern world let life hurry 
us into much too strenuous and nerve-tearing a pace ; we step 
too lively. The true art of living requires that we should be \ 
able to suit the rhythm to the occasion. Not long since I was 1 
walking with a woman who had been working at high tension all 
day. She had stopped work without changing her rhythm, and 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 193 

was walking with a short, choppy step and talking in the same 
way. She was still going full steam ahead and, so far as could 
be foreseen, would eventually plunge into her bed with a sudden 
crash of brakes and all her mental machinery still busily grinding 
on in wakefulness. 

It is not alone by working too many hours a day, but some- 
times by failing to change gears at the right time, that serious 
damage is done. If we ran motor cars with no more intelligence 
that we often show in running ourselves, we should not get far 
without a trip to the police station or a plunge over a precipice. 
The ability to change one's gear, mental and physkal, at the right 
moment, may be increased by practice, and is one of the princi- 
.pal means of continuous self -protection. 

SLEEP, AIR AND EXERCISE 

It is impossible to stress too greatly the claims of sleep, out- 
door exercise and physical activity. Sleep cannot be enforced; it 
can be invited by relaxation of body, mind and spirit. The com- 
plete relaxation of body, which may be consciously practiced and 
controlled, will do much toward making sleep "possible in spite 
of disturbing mental elements. If all else fails, and the country 
is within your reach, or even a scrap of yard, take your blanket 
or sleeping bag and make your bed on the earth, out under the 
stars. Where your forefathers slept for ages, you will discover 
unsuspected sources of rest and refreshment. 

We should demand of ourselves the development of some 
physical activity which brings us to the out of doors and" requires 
the use of the entire body. It may be swimming and diving, run- 
ning, walking, golf, tennis, dancing. In the individual life, the 
physical and mental powers do not compete with each other. They 
usually go hand in hand, and a good physical endowment usually 
accompanies a good mental endowment. The individual is equally 
responsible for the development of both. 

The simple, elementary needs of the human organism are not 
always aided by advancing civilization. As scientific progress 
has banished darkness, cold and extreme physical exertion from 
the home, it has made it possible for the people to turn night into 
day, to eschew the open air almost entirely in cold weather, and 
to use no more muscular effort than it takes to move from a 
swivel chair to an easy chair and from an easy chair to bed. 

It was but yesterday, perhaps, you exchanged your oil lamps 
for electricity, and then last night you sat reading an 'hour longer, 
secure in the knowledge that your illumination would not flicker 
and fail, no matter how long you sat up. How many miles have 
you walked since you got the little Ford ? Since the movie house 
hung out its sign at the nearest corner, how many' hours of fresh 



194 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

air have been subtracted from your daily life? The answers to 
these questions will suggest how constant and how inherent in 
our modern conditions is the temptation to cut down on things 
which we know to be essential to health. Apparently we must 
make an effort to adjust ourselves to the blessings and benefits 
of civilization in such a way that we command them and not 
they command us. 

As already emphasized, play is not limited to games. Every 
medium of active personal enjoyment -- color, music, dancing, 
drama forms suitable material for play. 

COLOR 

Color has a recreational value which is less considered and 
less consciously used perhaps than most of the other things which 
renew and refresh the spirit. As an aid in the adjustment of 
relationships with people and things, it is a profitable a-nd fasci- 
nating study. With color, as with sounds, there are combinations 
which produce discord instead of harmony. Such false arrange- 
ments may have an irritating influence upon you without your 
being conscious of the source. 

Have you ever slept in a bedroom with wallpaper whose color 
and design brought no sense of restfulness to the tired occupant ? 
Have you ever gone into a room whose coloring had been made 
to look cool or warm as the occasion demanded? Just as a 
colorful pageant may, almost without a spoken word, tell the 
story or suggest the plot, so one's surroundings may express to 
others one's real personality. To be sure, it may only register 
through the blue curtains, or a yellow bowl, or a rose-colored 
rug, rather than through a completely and richly furnished inte- 
rior. Yet personality is there, and the furnished room is expres- 
sive of the occupant. Have you ever worked all day in a drab- 
colored office, adding black figures on white paper, or at a noisy, 
clacking machine, or in a colorless schoolroom with too many 
children to treat them individually? If you have, you know the 
meaning of fatigue. Suppose, then, at the end of the day you 
went home and created with your hands some colorful object, a 
woolen flower, a blouse, a piece of furniture you know, too, the 
meaning of recreation. 

If you have never tried to find play for yourself in the blend- 
ing of colors, try it. Make some bead-work, furniture, batiks, 
baskets, clay models. Go to see a musical comedy, or a costume 
play, or an art exhibit. And then go to Nature and study the 
colors from which artists have borrowed theirs. You have now 
opened to yourself a field of enjoyment from which nothing can. 
shut you out but your own indifference, and its whole wealth is 
yours. 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 195 

MUSIC 

The Greeks knew better than we the value of music in edu- 
cation. The appreciation of rhythm, balance and modulation was 
constantly stressed in education for a well-rounded life. The 
trained musician has the rich capacity for enjoyment which is 
furnished by knowledge and experience. But the untrained 
listener also has a certain share in the universal beauty of music. 
Perhaps he can only appreciate the rhythm, and has but slight 
perception of melody and harmony. But this is something with 
which to begin. The victrola has brought even the symphony 
orchestra and opera within the reach of all, and our study and 
refreshment may proceed through books and records. 

Some people have an exaggerated humility about music, pro- 
testing that they have not sufficient culture to appreciate it. Even 
the most primitive savage is not shut out from the enjoyment of 
music. It seems odd, therefore, that it should be so often regarded 
as the pastime of "high-brows" and not as the recreation of ordi- 
nary people. A profound but simple need of human nature, the 
love of music is sufficiently present in all of us as it was in our 
savage forebears to be capable of positive development and per- 
sonal expression. 

DANCING 

Like music, dancing is an instinctive method of expression. 
The desire to recreate music into bodily movement is universal. 
At a concert you would often like to tap your foot and must 
forcibly restrain yourself from doing so. Folk rhythms, hymns 
and popular music, with their pendulum-like movement, are most 
enjoyed by the untrained listener, because he apprehends the sim- 
ple rhythm with his muscles. We wish to make a melody a part 
of ourselves, and in dancing we seem to do this. The joy of 
sound becomes transmuted without effort into the energy of 
motion, and the joy of motion thus created is the source of new 
energy for the individual. 

Among primitive tribes, the dance is an integral part of 
religion and social custom. War dances, seasonal dances, ritual 
dances, folk dances of various kinds, tell the story of a people's 
work and play. These dances dramatize tribal and social rela- 
tionships, and represent a composite form of activity in which 
color, music, drama, all combine in one expressive, satisfying art. 

In this broad sense, dancing today has become a lost art. 
The technic of modern dancing, like the mode of women's dress, 
has been subjected to the rule of fashion which distorts as well 
as beautifies. Yet in spite of graceless and even vulgar features, 
.it remains a channel open to everybody for the enjoyment of 
companionship, and as such plays the same part in life as a dinner 
party with congenial friends, around a beautifully set table, with 



196 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

shaded lights, carefully prepared food and friendly conversation. 
It needs the aid of art and intelligence to realize its many values. 
Dancing is a normal expression, not to be decried or put down, 
but to be developed with the same regard for beauty and grace 
as are the kindred arts which were once a part of it music, 
sculpture, poetry and the drama. 

Practically everybody has the capacity for self-expression 
through dancing. In making plans for recreation, the desire for 
rhythmic, graceful movement should be taken into consideration. 
Regardless of pounds, years or other conventional handicaps, 
dancing should be cultivated. Many leaders of aesthetic and 
interpretative dancing nowadays appreciate its relation to health; 
and there are also some who appreciate the expression of maturity 
of feeling as well as mere youthfulness of spirit. Classes in folk- 
dancing have recently become more general and more accessible 
for everybody. Rhythmic exercises to the music of a victrola 
may be taken in the privacy of one's own room. Given the per- 
sonal desire, and the belief that dancing is not merely a safety 
valve for adolescent energy, we shall begin to find opportunities 
for expressive exercise and congenial dances for everybody. 



DRAMA 



Drama is the portrayal of all phases of human life. Through- 
out history it has been successfully used to represent the develop- 
ment of individual character, of work, of government, of the 
arts; "to hold the mirror up to Nature." As a creative activity, 
drama takes on many forms, from the very simplest to the most 
complicated. The child who hears the story of "The Three 
Bears" and then gets down on all-fours saying, "Let's play bear !" 
is a dramatist in his own fashion. From this to the portrayal of 
the whole gamut of human emotions on the professional stage 
may seem to be a far cry, but there is the same imitative impulse 
expressed in both. The dramatization of any event, experience 
or idea intensifies it a thousandfold in the minds of the beholders. 
As in dancing, the desire to create, expressed through the drama, 
is neither moral nor immoral, but the method of interpretation 
may make it so. 

We are accustomed to think of plays as moral or immoral, 
according to their content. It is true that the story of the play, 
its characters and its ideals, may have an important influence on 
the lives of individuals.- Realizing this, we usually judge the 
characters in the drama as if they were actual people, approving 
or disapproving in the light of our personal moral standards. 
Thus we try to reinforce our own best ideals and improve our 
own habits of conduct. But there is another way of looking at 
the characters in the play. Here is a chance to broaden our 
sympathies and to learn to understand people who are different 



POSITIVE HEALTH SERIES 197 

from ourselves, for a good dramatist will always help us to do 
this. It is something that must be learned in the interest of 
building personality. The one who has the best command of her 
own personality will be most tolerant of personality in others. 

Yet entirely aside from their content, plays, moving pictures, 
novels and short stories may have a wholesome or unwholesome 
effect. If they are used wholly as food for phantasy which finds 
but little outlet in action, they lead to a type of sentimentalism 
which does not further mental or physical health. A romantic 
attitude toward life which prevents us from facing ourselves as 
we are, our environment as it is and may be, and our possibili- 
ties as they challenge us, should not be fostered by our recrea- 
tion habits. Dreams are a valuable part of life, but they should 
lead to a certain realization in some form of effective activity. 

We should play our parts on the world's stage not as ama- 
teurs but as professionals. The tendency of the amateur is tq 
take the whole stage when he is speaking, and get outside of his 
part altogether when he is not speaking. The able professional 
actor lives his part from the time he enters until his exit. Living 
the part on the stage of life requires that we play it through, at 
home and abroad, in public and in private, in work and play, 
in our dreams and in their realization. 

THE ART OF LIVING 

The art of living is the art of health, and both we have defined 
as wholeness of life. To achieve this wholeness, recreation is 
indispensable. It means the consistent and persistent building up 
of contrast and variety in life to counteract the monotony which 
seems to be almost inseparable from all work, and is present to a 
dangerous degree in most modern occupations. The development 
of business and industry today results in more and more jobs 
that are purely repetitive, and women even more than men are 
enlisted for this type of work. We-have hosts of unhappy peo- 
ple of all ages in the treadmill of civilization, .complaining of their 
conditions and failing to make the psychological adjustments 
required by the tremendous economic changes. We know that 
the treadmill conditions must be changed if humanity is to mea- 
sure up to its human possibilities. What too few of us admit 
is that the individual's problem of personal adjustment cannot 
wait until the social environment has been made better and more 
human. Personal health and happiness must be striven for day 
by day, and through every channel of work and play which is 
open to us ; we must make the most of our opportunities instead 
of making the most of our obstacles. 

In order to relate our recreation to the art of living, we 
should not take it like a dose of medicine, doing things because 
they are "good for us" or because "the doctor told us to." How- 



198 WOMEN'S FOUNDATION FOR HEALTH 

ever, it is better to begin in this dutiful spirit rather than not 
begin at all. As William James has taught us in his psychology, 
sometimes the gestures of enjoyment will help to evolve the 
spirit. The first thing is to begin, somewhere and anyhow. 
Develop an interest or enthusiasm, whatever it may be. Then, 
having made the start, learn to combine several creative interests 
in turning out a pleasurable product. Through the cumulative 
result of recreation habits, a solid foundation will be built which 
will make further creative activities less difficult. 

It is not well to give too much attention to the forced and 
rapid development of one particular type of expression, while 
neglecting all others. A variety of expression is the means of 
full development, meeting equally the claims of body, mind and 
spirit. The necessary equipment does not require great imagina- 
tion, money or beauty ; indeed, it does not require anything which 
we absolutely cannot get. It requires only the simple available 
things and the will to discover in them the sources of personal 
happiness. 

The art of living is not the restricted sphere of the gifted few, 
but the joyous inspiration of every one who perceives that a well- 
balanced and out-going personality is not simply the gift of a 
merciful Providence, but can be steadily achieved by building it 
as well as by desiring it. It is true that the technic for which 
we are searching is an elusive thing, but life life pulsating and 
joyous is waiting for those who have learned the art of living. 
Each generation does its share when it lives life abundantly and 
so enriches the gift which it enjoys and passes on. 





02 

bO 
00 
LO 

to o 



CD > 

Cn| H 

-p 

JH -H 

=2 2 



13 O 
S-J Q 

P r" 



03 



.i 



University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 





