Home's Pharmacy 



THE BEST OF EVERYTHING IN DRUGS, 
SPICES, TOILET ARTICLES, STATIONERY, 
POST CARDS, AND SODA WATER jt * 



Agents for CRESCENT ICE CREAM 




omr Helps 



FROM 

THE LADIES' AID SOCIETY 

of The First Baptist Church 

California 



Clean Clothes Phone 301 

Make Clean Cooks 



Whittier Steam Laundry 








THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



106 



GIFT 

of 
Bruce Henstell 



/hittier 



Free Delivery Prices Always the Lowest 

Phone 44 




The Prescription Drug Store 



We Sell You Wtat You Want 103^ S.Greenleaf Ave. 



HOME HELPS 

A warm hearth, and a bright hearth, and a hearth swept clean, 
Where the tongs can't raise a dust, and the broom isn't seen; 
Where the clouds never fly about, and the foot doesn't fall, 
Ah! that's the fire for a man like me, in cottage or In hall. 

As cleanliness comes next to godliness, it should be the 
fundamental principle of all house-keeping; let it underlie 
every department from the garret to the cellar, but most ap- 
parent in the pantries, cellar and closets, for there is the 
resting place of all the supplies that come to the table. If 
stale articles are allowed to accumulate in the cellars and 
refrigerators, the purity and genuine flavor of the food is 
imperilled or destroyed. Neither fruit nor vegetables, milk 
nor meats of uncertain age should be allowed to accumulate 
and taint the atmosphere. Establish the rule of a weekly 
cleansing of every receptacle of food, also of a daily thor- 
ough oversight of the same. 

THE CARE OF HOUSEHOLD STORES. 

Bread should not be exposed to the air, but kept in a 
very clean tin box or crock with a cover. 

Wood is objectionable for keeping either bread or cake, 
as many kinds impart a disagreeable flavor. 

Wrap hams in paper and pack in a barrel or box of 
ashes. The ham or piece of dried beef which is cut for daily 
use can be placed in a paper-lined bag, tied tight to keep out 
flies, and kept in a cool place. 

Keep cheese in a tight tin box; when very dry, grate 
and keep in glass jar, closely covered. 



SOUPS 



Give no more to every guest, 

Than he is able to digest; 
Give him always of the prime, 

And but a little at a time. Swift. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Stew a can of tomatoes and strain ; add a pinch of soda 
to remove acidity; in another saucepan boil three pints of 



NEVER TOO OLD TO BEGIN 



milk thickened with a tablespoonful of corn starch previous- 
ly mixed with a little cold milk; add a lump of butter size 
of an egg; salt and pepper to taste, mix with tomatoes; let 
all come to a boil and serve. 

JELLIED BOUILLON- 

To each one-half pound of beef and veal used add 1% 
pints of cold water ; crack the bones, if any, and let simmer 
till meat is in rags. Strain off the liquid and add 1 teaspoon 
celery salt, 1 tablespoon chopped carrot, onion and tomato 
and 4 pepper corns. Let this simmer again twenty minutes, 
then strain, and when cool set in refrigerator for twelve 
hours to jelly. Serve in chilled glasses or fancy cups, with 
an olive or a slice of lemon for garnish. 

TOMATO CREAM SOUP. 

One quart either canned or fresh tomatoes, cooked some 
time and strained ; add soda the size of a large pea ; cool it 
and add a quart of rich milk, one tablespoonful of butter 
and one of corn starch or flour; salt and pepper to taste. 
Boil a few minutes. 

POTATO SOUP. 

In one quart of milk put one-half of an onion and let it 
simmer fifteen minutes ; take your potatoes, mash them, and 
add to the milk; strain through a colander; season with 
one-half tablespoonful butter, teaspoonful of salt and a 
pinch of pepper. A good quick soup. 

OYSTER STEW. 

First get nice, fresh oysters, open the can and pour the 
oysters into a colander, rinse with ice-cold water, put into a 
stew pan and stir over, the fire until the leaves begin to sep- 
arate; pepper, salt and butter them to taste, and serve 
either on carefully prepared toast, or in saucers or small 
soup plates. Put no water to them. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Put one quart of boiling water in a kettle, then one 
quart of rich milk; stir in one teacup of rolled cracker 
crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt to taste. "When all 
comes to a boil, add one quart of nice fresh oysters; stir 
well to keep from scorching ; then add a piece of sweet but- 
ter about the size of an egg; let it boil up once only, then 
pour into tureen immediately and send to table. Skim be- 
fore adding the butter- 



TO DRINK BEN-HUE COFFEE 



FISH 



Hospitality should be classed among the cardinal virtues. 

BROILED WHITE FISH. 

Clean, split down the back, and let stand in salted wa- 
ter for several hours ; wipe dry, and place on a well-greased 
gridiron over hot coals, sprinkling with salt and pepper. 
Put flesh side down at first, and when nicely browned, turn 
carefully on the other side. Cook for twenty or thirty min- 
utes or until nicely browned. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

Take raw clams, chopped fine, and make a batter with 
juice, an equal quantity of sweet milk, four eggs to each 
pint of liquid, and flour sufficient to stiffen. Fry like other 
fritters. 

CLAM STEW. 

Lay the clams on a gridiron over hot coals, taking them 
out of the shells as soon as open, saving the juice ; add a 
little hot water, pepper, a very little salt, and butter rolled 
in flour sufficient for seasoning; cook five minutes and pour 
over toast. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Spread a rich puff paste over a deep pie plate (the sides 
and edge not the bottom) ; drain the liquor from large, fine 
oysters ; put them into a pan and season with pepper, salt, 
spice and butter; have ready the yolks of three hard-boiled 
eggs, chopped fine, and some grated bread crumbs ; pour the 
oysters into the dish, strew over them the chopped egg and 
bread crumbs, roll out the lid of the pie; after putting. in 
a little flour and half cup of cream, put on the lid and bake 
in a quick oven till the crust is done. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Score and press pulp from a sufficient number ears corn 
to make 1 pint pulp. Beat 2 eggs, whites and yolks sepa- 
rately; add first yolks then whites to the corn, mix gently, 
add l /2 teaspoon salt, dash pepper, 2 heaping tablespoons 
flour; mix well. Put butter into frying pan. When hot 
drop mixture by spoonfuls into it. Brown on both sides. 
Serve hot. 

LOBSTER. 

Be sure the lobster is fresh ; to test it, draw back the 

3 



GOOD SEASONING IS MOST ECONOMICAL 



tail; if it springs into position again it is pretty sure to be 
good. The size of the lobster regulates the time required to 
cook it; fifteen minutes for large ones and ten for small. 
Putting them at once into boiling water is the common mode 
of cooking; have the water cover them and boil until done. 
Don't cook too much, as the fine, delicate flavor is destroyed 
by it. If meat clings to the shell when opened and looks 
shrunken, it is cooked too much. 

BROILED LOBSTER. 

Split the meat of the tail and claws, and season well 
with salt and pepper ; cover with soft butter and dredge 
with flour. Place in the broiler, and cook over a bright fire 
until a delicate brown. Arrange on a hot dish, pour Becha- 
mel sauce around and serve. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

The meat of a two and a half pound lobster cut into 
dice, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of flour, one pint wa- 
ter, a speck of cayenne, salt and pepper to taste. Let the 
butter get hot, and add the dry flour. Stir until perfectly 
smooth, then add the water, gradually stirring all the 
while. Season to taste; add the lobster, heat thoroughly 
and serve. 



MEATS AND GAME 

"The Knife is Mightier than the Sword." 

RULES FOR COOKING MEATS. 

Salted meat should be put to cook in cold water, that it 
may freshen while cooking. Fresh meat that is to be served 
with sauce at table should be put in boiling water to cook, 
as that best preserves the juices. 

Put soup meat over in cold water to cook, as that ex- 
tracts the juices. "When making soup have a kettle of boil- 
ing water on the fire for replenishing with, and keep the 
meat simmering or boiling slowly all the time. Be sure to 
remove the scum when it first rises. The more gently the 
meat boils the tenderer it will be. It requires 20 minutes 
to the pound for cooking lamb and veal, 15 for beef if rare. 

Break eggs in cold water to poach, and put old potatoes 
to cooking in cold water. So say the French cooks. 

A piece of red pepper cooked with a boiled dinner is an 
improvement. 



USE BEN HUE HIGH GRADE SPICES 



Remember always that the meat fiber is toughened by 
rapid cooking. 

LITTLE PIGS IN BLANKETS. 

Cut fat English bacon in. very thin slices ; season large 
oysters with salt and pepper, and wrap an oyster in each 
slice of bacon; pin it up with a fresh tooth-pick; heat a 
frying-pan and put in the little pigs. Cook just long enough 
to crisp the bacon, about two minutes in a very hot oven. 
Place slices of toast that have been cut into small pieces 
and serve immediately. Do not remove the skewers. This 
is a nice relish for lunch or tea. To garnish with parsley 
improves the looks of the dish. The pan must be very hot 
before the "pigs" are put in; then be careful not to burn 
them. 

CAROLINA CHICKEN. 

One scanty cup of milk thickened with one even tea- 
spoonful of flour; put in a saucepan to boil and add one 
beaten egg, then a cup of finely-chopped chicken. Serve in 
large spoonfuls on pieces of toast. 

CHICKEN SHORTCAKE. 

Prepare a couple of nice tender fowls as for fricassee- 
ing; cook them .until well done; season with pepper- salt 
and butter; thicken to the consistency of thick cream (add 
a cup of cream if possible). Have a pan of hot soda discuit 
just out of the oven when the chickens are ready to take 
up, split the biscuit open and butter them, place on a plat- 
ter and pour chicken over and send to table. 

FOR CHICKENS IN SHELLS. 

Boil the chicken in water or broth; cut the meat into 
. little dice, mix them while hot with a Bechamel sauce or 
with a white sauce made with cream; sprinkle sifted bread 
crumbs or cracker crumbs over them; brown slightly in a 
hot oven. Serve immediately. Sometimes mushrooms are 
mixed with the chicken dice- 

CREAM CHICKEN. 

Stew two chickens until very tender. Remove meat 
from bones and cut in small pieces; add a can of mush- 
rooms, also cut up, bring iy% quarts of sweet cream to a 
boil and thicken with 4 tablespoons of flour rubbed into 5 



IF INVITED TO TAKE TEA 



tablespoons of butter, pour over the chicken, put cracker 
crumbs on top, also bits of butter, and bake from 20 to 30 
minutes. 

ROAST VEAL. 

Prepare a leg of veal for the oven by washing, drying 
and larding it with strips of bacon or ham, and dredging it 
well with flour and seasoning with salt and pepper; baste 
frequently and serve with gravy (it is cooked in) thickened. 
A roast fillet of veal should be prepared by stuffing it with 
bread crumbs, seasoned with chopped ham, summer-savory, 
pepper and salt. Dredge lightly with flour and bake. 

MARBLED VEAL. 

Take a knuckle of veal, cut off the meat, boil the bones 
for gravy, cut the meat in small pieces, and fill a basin or 
mould with a layer of veal and a layer of ham, alternately ; 
season with mace, pepper and salt: pour over it the gravy 
and put it in the oven for an hour or more till done, and 
when cold turn it out. Nice for tea, sliced. 

CALF'S LIVER STEWED. 

Boil till partly done; take out the saucepan and chop 
into small pieces ; put back in the saucepan, stew until ten- 
der and skim well; season with butter, pepper and salt; 
thicken with a little flour, and serve over slices of toasted 
bread. 

CALF'S LIVER FRIED- 

Cut in thin slices, wash and drain them, roll in corn 
meal or cracker crumbs; fry the fat from three slices of 
pork and fry the liver in it. 

LAMB AND TOMATO. 

Prepare six nice tomatoes f tfr cooking ; drain off all the 
water you can from them, as it makes them rank. Chop 
some cold lamb and have ready some grated bread crumbs. 
Alternate a layer of crumbs, meat and tomato, seasoning 
each layer as you go with pepper, salt, butter, and a little 
sugar, finishing with the crumbs. Bake in the oven until 
brown on top and cooked through. Any other meat may be 
substituted for lamb. 



SAY, BEN-HUE SUITS ME 



TO BROIL A FORE QUARTER OF LAMB. 

Take out all the bones but the small ribs; broil as you 
would chicken. For the gravy, have the bones cracked in 
small pieces, put in a covered saucepan with a little water. 
There should be a teacup full when done. Strain and add 
flour to make thick as cream (a little cream is an improve- 
ment) ; butter the size of an egg. Do not let it boil after 
the butter is in. About as delicious as spring chicken. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

Cut the meat of two chickens fine with shears and add 
^2 onion grated, 1 pint mushrooms (canned). Stir 5 table- 
spoons of flour in 4 tablespoons of butter and add this to 
l*/2 quarts of sweet cream which has just come to a boil- 
Beat this until smooth and add to chicken and season with 
pepper and salt. Put in baking dish, sprinkle with cracker 
crumbs and bake % hour. 

BREADED TONGUE. 

Slice cold cooked tongue, then dip in beaten egg, then 
in bread crumbs and fry brown. Make a tomato sauce, pour 
sauce into a platter, lay the slices of fried tongue upon it 
and garnish with parsley and sliced olives. 

LIVER PATTIES. 

Take a half pound of calf's liver, boil and chop fine; 
season with salt, pepper, and catsup, adding a little thick 
brown case. Bake a few minutes in hot patty shells. 

NICE WAY TO COOK STEAK. 

Cut steak in nice sized pieces. Dip in ice water, roll in 
flour, fry in plenty of butter and lard. Cook veal cutlets 
and mutton chops same way. 

TO BOIL HAM. 

Soak, from twelve to twenty-four hours, a ham weigh- 
ing eight to ten pounds; then cover with boiling water, to 
which add a pint of vinegar, two or three Bay leaves, a little 
bunch of thyme, some parsley (dried will do) ; boil very 
slowly two and one-half hours- take out, skin and remove 
all the fat but a layer half an inch thick ; trim all the black, 
discolored outside, put in dripping-pan, strew bread crumbs 
mixed with a little brown sugar and brown in the oven 
(hot) half an hour or so. Sherry wine added while roast- 
ing improves the flavor. 



YOU MAY THINK OTHERS NICE 



VEAL BIRDS- 

Have the veal cut in thin slices, trimmed in squares of 
about four inches each way. Cut also pork into 1-inch 
squares, allowing one for each bird, chopping pork and 
trimming as fine as possible and adding half the amount of 
cracker crumbs. Season highly with salt, pepper, celery 
salt, paprika and onion. Mix with egg and milk enough to 
hold together. Fill each with dressing and fasten together 
with tooth-picks. Roll in flour and brown in butter in the 
oven. 

SCALLOPED CHICKEN. 

One chicken, 1 can mushrooms, 1 pint oysters. Cook 
chicken and cut up in small pieces. Scald oysters and chop 
them, chop mushrooms, put together same as any scallop and 
roll with rolled crackers. Season with butter, salt and pep- 
per, cover with milk and bake. 

FROG LEGS. 

First skin, then throw into boiling water for five min- 
utes. Take out and put them in cold water until cold then 
wipe dry. Season with salt and pepper, dredge with flour 
and fry a nice brown in butter. Serve with a little cream 
sauce around them. 

SCALLOPED VEAL. 

Boil the veal, and when cold and firm cut it with a 
sharp knife into small cubes. Butter a baking dish and 
place in it a layer of bread and cracker crumbs, then a lay- 
er of veal, alternating until the dish is two-thirds full, the 
last being a thin layer of bread crumbs. Sprinkle each of 
the layers with salt and pepper and lay over them bits of 
butter, also add a little milk and broth. Enough liquid 
should be added to moisten the crumbs entirely through. 
For a three-quart tin, bake from one to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds round steak ground very fine, 3 eggs, 1% 
cups crackers rolled fine, % cup butter, salt and pepper to 
taste. "Work with hands until it is like a rubber ball ; spread 
with butter on outside and bake l}/2 hours in a little hot 
water; baste often 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Four and a half pounds chicken boiled and chopped 



Lady's 
'Bank Account 

Household accounts in muny 
homes are like snakes in Ire- 
land there aren't any. The 
money comes and goes in hap- 
hazard fashion and there is no 
exact knowledge as to where it 
goes. It goes it's gone, that is 
all there is to it. Pater familias 
complains of the heavy drain on 
the family purse, and mater 
familias murmurs that living is 
so high nowadays. She has wor- 
ries and troubles enougth with- 
out bothering her head about 
columns of figures that won't 
add twice alike and accounts 
that absolutely refuse to bal- 
ance. 

There are many wives in this 
city, however, who have discov- 
ered the convenience and help- 
fulness of a checking account at 



the 



Whittier 
National Bank 

Then their troubles are over. 



Banks are the friends 
helpers of the provident. 

Ways to Sate 



and 



At the end of the month you 
may wonder where all the money 
has gone. It's spent, it's gone 
you realize that and that's all 
you do know about it. 

Here are two suggestions 
which, if followed up, will re- 
duce your expenses and allow 
you to have money in the bank. 

1. Keep an expense record. 

2. Spend less than you earn. 

The first rule makes the sec- 
ond one easy. The second one 
will make a savings account 
with this bank a necessity and 
convenience. You can start an 
account with $1.00. 

Home Savings 
'Bank of Whittier 



A Recipe 



F^or Tired F^eet 
A F^air of 




S 



to be used in connection with a liberal quantity of their 
Superior Dry Goods 






and in direct contact with a pair of 



Ouster Brown Guaranteed Hose, 
255c per pair 



L. A. Davis E. B. Van Antwerp 

Res. Phone 4783 Res. Phone 6874 

Phone 173 

Sanitary Plumbing Co. 

PLUMBING 

Steam and Gas Fitting 
All Work Guaranteed 109 N. Greenleaf Avenue 

STOVES 

A Complete Line 
GAS, WOOD AND COAL 

None Better in the Market 

Farmers' Hardware & Supply Co. 

Home Phone 30 105-107 N. Greenleaf Ave. 

Good Cooks Are Essential to Happiness and Good Music Goes 
a Long Way Towards Accomplishing the Same Thing. 

BALDWIN STARR 

ELLINGTON RICHMOND 

HOWARD FRAYSER 

VICTOR TALKING MACHINES 

Caldwell-Thornburgh Piano Co. 

110 E. Philadelphia Street 





. NO DISH IS TOO LARGE 

if it contains some of our 
Ice Cream. What fla\or do 
you like? Your wants will 
be given careful considera- 
tion. 

Lamor& Hamilton 

Phone 48 108 E. Phil. St. 



BUT THERE'S NOTHING LIKE BEN-HUR 

SPICE 

very fine; moisten to a thick pulp with the liquor in which 
it has been boiled. Mix with this a pint and a half of mash- 
ed potatoes, beaten to a cream, three eggs, one teaspoon 
mustard, sweet marjoram, salt and pepper to taste, a little 
celery chopped very fine; soften with milk till very soft, 
and add quarter of a pound of butter ; mold into forms, dip 
into egg and cracker dust, and fry in boiling lard. 

ROAST LIVER. 

One and a half or two pounds of nice calf's liver; wash 
and cut three gashes across it, into each of which place a 
slice of thinly cut bacon; press together and roast an hour 
and a half or two hours in an oven hot enough to brown 
nicely ; baste often ; serve while hot. 

STUFFED BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a flank or round steak, pound it, and sprinkle 
with pepper and salt ; then make a plain stuffing and spread 
on the meat, roll it up, and tie closely ; put in a pot with a 
quart of boiling water and a lump of butter the size of an 
egg ; boil slowly one hour ; then put in a pan with the water 
in which it was boiled, and bake until nicely browned, bast- 
ing it frequently; dredge a little flour into the gravy, boil, 
and pour over the meat. 

BEEF CROQUETTES. 

Chop fine some cold beef, beat two eggs, and mix with 
the meat, and add a little milk, melted butter, salt and pep- 
per. Make into rolls and fry. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Three pounds of beef chopped fine, six crackers rolled 
fine, three eggs well-beaten, one tablespoonful of salt, one 
teaspoonful of pepper, one tablespoonful of melted butter; 
mix well and shape like a loaf of bread ; put a little water 
and \bits of butter into the pan, cover with a pan, bake two 
hours, and baste occasionally. 



VEGETABLES 

The onion strong, the parsnip sweet, 

The twining bean, the ruddy beet, 
Tea, all the garden brings to light, 

Speaks of a landscape of delight. 

Never let vegetjilili-s si and in llu- water after coming off 
the fire, but put them in a colander over boiling water if 
you have to keep them back for dinner. 



SUCH AROMA AND DELICIOUS FLAVOR 



CORN OYSTERS. 

Sixteen ears of young sweet corn grated, two eggs, the 
yolks and whites beaten separately, a full teaspoonful of 
sugar, pepper and salt. Bake in small cakes on a hot grid- 
dle. If the corn is old, you can add a couple of tablespoon- 
fuls of milk. 

TO COOK SWEET CORN. 

Husk and silk young corn, cut from cob as described 
in canning succotash. Cook cobs, then cook the corn in the 
same water half an hour (very little water), add three tea- 
spoonfuls sweet cream, butter, salt and pepper; scald and 
serve. 

CORN OMELETTE. 

One dozen ears of young corn grated, salt and pepper, 
four eggs, a lump of butter size of an egg, one cup of milk, 
one tablespoonful of flour, the whites and yolks of eggs 
beaten separately. Heat and butter an earthen pie plate 
and bake in a hot oven ; done when browned nicely. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak over night five cups of beans. In the morning 
parboil, adding tablespoon soda; then drain, add small cup 
of molasses, 1 teaspoon of mustard, salt to taste, and half a 
pound of salt pork. Put in a jar, cover with hot water. Bake 
five or six hours. 

OILED CUCUMBERS. 

Thirty medium sized cucumbers, 12 good sized onions, 
1 quart vinegar, *4 bottle table oil, 1 small handful red pep- 
per, 6 tablespoonfuls celery seed. Peel and slice cucumbers 
and onions, mix, salt, thoroughly cover, let stand all night ; 
in the morning place in colander and drain, then cover with 
vinegar and stand four hours ; pour off vinegar. Take oil 
and mix well with cucumbers ; heat one quart fresh vinegar 
to boiling and pour hot over cucumbers and onions ; put in 
air-tight jars. It will be right to use in about a week. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Butter an earthen dish, then put in a layer of tomatoes, 
fresh or canned (without skins), then cover with a layer of 
rolled crackers; add a little butter, sugar, salt and pepper; 
repeat this process until dish is full, then bake one hour in 
hot oven. Have cracker crumbs on top layer and dot with 
bits of butter. 

10 



IT'S BEN-HUR COFFEE 



ESCALLOPED CABBAGE. 

Chop a head of cabbage quite fine and scald. Melt 2 
tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan and mix smooth with 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour; then add 1 pint of milk and stir 
till it boils ; season with salt and pepper and add 4 hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine. Drain the cabbage, put in a pud- 
ding dish and pour the sauce over it. Put grated bread 
crumbs and bits of butter over top and bake slightly brown 
in the oven. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

One pint fresh or canned tomatoes, one generous pint 
bread crumbs, three tablespoonfuls of butter, one of sugar, 
one scant tablespoon of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pep- 
per, put a layer of the tomatoes in a dish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and dot butter here and there over it, then strew 
with crumbs. Continue this until all the ingredients are 
used and bake brown one hour if fresh tomatoes, half hour 
if canned. 

TOMATO PUDDING. 

Slice tomatoes and spread over the bottom of a pud- 
ding dish. Season each layer with salt, pepper and sugar, 
then a layer of bread and butter. Repeat until the dish is 
full. Bake one hour. Eat with meats. 

Tomatoes may be stuffed and baked. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Peel tomatoes and cut crosswise in thick slices, salt and 
pepper, dip each slice into thick flour, then in beaten egg 
and fry on griddle or spider, in hot lard if in spider. After 
taking up, pour in a cup of cream, thicken and season, then 
pour over them. A little sugar sprinkled over them when 
cooking improves them. 

POTATOES A LA PARISIENNE. 

With a vegetable scoop cut out balls from raw-pared 
potatoes. Let them stand in cold water, and about ten min- 
utes before serving time put the balls in a basket and fry 
them until brown in a kettle of fat. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Pare potatoes, slice them very thin and let them stand 
in ice water for several hours. When the slices are brittle 
drain off the water from them, put them into a frying basket 

11 



BEN HUE COFFEE HAS QUALITY 



and lower them, into a kettle of boiling fat. Cook for ten 
minutes. 

FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

Cut a medium sized potato into four parts, let stand in 
cold water, drain, place into a frying basket and lower into 
a kettle of boiling fat. Cook eight or ten minutes. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

One large cup of cooked rice, one-half cup of milk, one 
egg, one tablespoon of sugar, one tablespoon of butter, one- 
half teaspoon of salt and a slight grating of nutmeg; put 
the milk on to boil, add the rice and seasoning, add the egg 
well-beaten, stir one minute, take off and cool. When cold 
shape, roll in egg crumbs and fry. 

BREADED SAUSAGE. 

Prick the sausages with a fork, roll in egg, then in 
bread crumbs, place in a frying basket and lower into fat 
and cook for ten minutes. If anything requires seasoning, 
see that it is done before the breading. 

STEWED PIE PLANT. 

Skin and cut nice pie plant as you would for pies. Put 
it in a porcelain kettle with a little water, -cover and stew 
as you would apples; sweeten to taste. Very nice. 



SALADS 



A salad should come to the table fresh and crisp. The 
garnishes should be of the lightest and freshest kind. 

SALMON SALAD. 

One can of salmon drained, chopped and boned, add one 
cup of chopped celery, one-half cup nuts, pepper and salt, 
and enough hot dressing to mix. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Cut cold boiled sweetbreads in small dice, put in a salad 
bowl and chopped boiled potatoes and celery cut up. Pour 
over boiled dressing and garnish. 

ADIRONDACK SALAD. 

One can peas, three tablespoonfuls onions, four table- 
spoonfuls cream cheese, four tablespoonfuls sweet midget 

12 



Sanitary BaRery 

OUR SPECIALTY 

MILK BREAD 

210 Wi-st Philadelphia St. 
Phone :>:> WHITTIER, CAL. 

Open Day and Night Storage, Repairing and Supplies 

"Our Repair Wagon Will Go Anywhere Anytime" 

Central Garage 

ALL KINDS OF MACHINE WORK 

21IJ-L220 \V.-st Philadelphia Street 
K. A. I J-ll. Manager Home Phone 7 

WHEN YOU NEED 

GREEN, STAPLE OR FANCY GROCERIES 
COME TO OUR STORE 

L. C. Montgomery 

Phone Ex. 31 GROCER S. Greenleaf 

GOOD SERVICE REASONABLE RATES 

Home 
Telephone Co. 



T. L. Ely, General Manager 



L. Scofield, Agent 
Home 125 



San Pedro Lumber Co. 

Wholesale and Retail Lumber Dealers 



WIIITTIER, CAL. 



Stationary Gas Engines, Air Compressors and All Pumping 

Plant Work. 
Home phone 203. 




Saunders Brothers, Props. 
CHALMERS-DETROIT AND HUDSON AUTOMOBILES 

222-224-226 West Philadelphia St. 



IF YOU WANT 

To rent a houss or rooms, 

To buy a residence lot or 
business lot, 

A walnut grove or orange 
grove, 

Unimproved land, 

To secure a loan or insur- 
ance, 

Notary work, 

Your taxes paid, 

Literature about this section. 

Information ragarding land 
values, 

Estimates of incomes from 
different products 

Or a look over this section of 
the country, 

Call on or Write to 

S. W. Barton & Co. 

REAL ESTATE, LOANS 
AND INSURANCE 

Pioneer Real Estate Firm of 

Whittier, Cal. 
104 West Philadelphia St. 



J. L. MALCHO 

MERCHANT TAILOR AND 
GENTS' FURNISHER 

Cleaning, Pressing, Repairing 



Goods Called for and 
Delivered 

Suits to Measures, $15.50 
and Up 

103 N. GreenleafAve. 
AVhittier, Cal. 

Home Phone 90 



ASK YOUR NEIGHBOR 



pickles, salt and paprika. Boiled or mayonnaise salad dress- 
ing. Cut onions very fine and cut cheese and pickles in 
small pieces. Serve very cold with a meat dinner. Also 
very good for a stag dinner. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Two cups of apples (cut in cubes), one cup of celery 
(cut in cubes), one-half cup of English walnuts (chopped 
rather fine), pinch of salt. 

Dressing: One cup whipped cream, three tablespoon- 
fuls salad dressing, two tablespoons sugar. After thorough- 
ly mixing the two, cover with whipped cream. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Three-fourths glass of sugar, into which stir one heap- 
ing tablespoon of flour, pepper, one teaspoon salt. Fill glass 
with milk, stir in the yolks of five eggs, one tablespoon but- 
ter, one pint vinegar, one-half pint of water; stir until thick- 
ens. 

TOMATO SALAD DRESSING. 

One-half cup vinegar, one teaspoon sugar, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon mustard, one egg well beaten. Cook 
over hot water. When cold pour over tomatoes. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Lump of butter size of an egg, one tablespoon mustard, 
one scant tablespoon salt, one-half cup sugar, mix well. 
Three eggs, drop them separately into the other ingredients 
andjbeat well after each. Two-thirds cup vinegar, one cup 
cream or rich milk ; cook in double boiler. If for fruit 
salad add whipped cream. 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Three tablespoons ground mustard, one tablespoon sugar 
well worked together; then add one beaten egg and beat 
until smooth. Add one teacupful of vinegar, a little at a 
time. When cool add one tablespoon of salad oil. If pre- 
ferred, leave out oil and add one tablespoon of butter before 
cooking. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Beat yolks of eight eggs light, add one cup sugar, table- 
spoon each of mustard, salt and black pepper, a small pinch 
of cayenne pepper, one-half cup sweet or sour cream. Bring 
to a boil one and one-half pints of vinegar and one cup but- 

13 



TRY BEN HUR WHITE PEPPER 



ter, pour on above mixture; stir well. When cold, bottle 
tight. 

SALAD. 

Three bananas (sliced), one cup English walnuts, one- 
half cup celery (cut fine), one cup white grapes (seeded). 

Dressing: Two eggs (beaten), one-salf cup of sugar, 
one-half cup vinegar, one-half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon 
butter. Boil until it thickens, and just before mixing the 
salad, add three-quarters cup of cream. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Dissolve one package gelatine in cold water, add one 
quart hot water, one-half cup sugar, juice of one lemon and 
two oranges, one box grated pineapple and six bananas. 
Set on ice to harden. 

TOMAT6 SALAD. 

Peel with a sharp knife small, round tomatoes, hollow- 
ing out the stem sides slightly; arrange them on a platter 
hollow side up, with three or four small crisp lettuce leaves 
under each one, and fill the hollow of each tomato with a 
dressing made as follows: One egg, two tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, butter the size of a hickory nut, salt, cayenne pep- 
per, and a teaspoon of French mustard. Stir all together 
and cook slowly over hot water, stirring constantly until 
thickened. Do not cook too long, or it will curdle. A 
mayonnaise dressing can be used if preferred. 

SWEETBREAD SALAD. 

Let the sweetbreads lie in salt water at least an hour or 
two before cooking. Boil until tender with a little salt ; let 
them get cold, then chop up with celery, and serve with a 
mayonnaise dressing. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Cut a quart of oysters into bits; mix with them two- 
thirds as much blanched, tender celery (also cut, not chop- 
ped to pieces) as you have oysters; put into a glass dish; 
pour over it a good mayonnaise dressing, and serve immedi- 
ately. Until the oysters and celery are mixed keep both in 
a very cold place. This salad is delicious if eaten as soon as 
made. 

CREAM CHEESE SALAD. 

Wash a head of lettuce and dry carefully on a clean 
towel, arrange it in a salad bowl with a little cream-curd 
cheese, or a roll of fresh Jersey Neufchatel cheese. Pour 

14 



THE IDEAL PEPPER FOR SALADS 



over this six tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar, add a 
saltspoonful of salt and a quarter of saltspoonful of pepper ; 
keep in a cool place until served. A delicious breakfast 
salad, served with good coffee and fresh rolls. 

SALAD. 

Wax beans make a delicious salad ; choose young beans, 
remove the strings, cut into half-inch pieces, or longer if 
you choose ; cook in salt and water ; while warm, cover them 
with a dressing of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, remember- 
ing the old maxim: "A spendthrift for oil, a miser for 
vinegar, a wise man for salt, a mad man for mixing." Use 
at least twice as much oil as vinegar. 

CELERY SALAD. 

One head of cabbage, three bunches of celery, chopped 
very fine ; take a scant teacupful of vinegar, a lump of but- 
ter the size of an egg, the yolks of two eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful mustard, one of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a tea- 
spoonful of sugar ; mix these well, put the mixture on the 
stove. 



CAKES 



The turnpike road to people's heart I find. 

Lies through their mouth or I mistake mankind. 

CAKE MAKING. 

If it is warm weather, place the eggs in cold water for 
a few minutes, as they will then beat up better, be sure they 
are fresh. The cake tins should be prepared before the 
cake if baking powder is used, so that the cake may be 
placed in the oven at once on being mixed. Fresh lard is 
better for greasing the pans than butter. Do not stir cake 
batter, but beat it thoroughly from the bottom of the dish 
at every stroke, beating more slowly towards the last, the 
motion being always upward. In winter you may use the 
hand, but in summer a wooden spoon is better. Always mix 
a cake in earthen or stone ware. 

"Milk" means always sweet milk. 

DARK CAKE. 

One cup dark sugar, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, 
one-third cup chocolate dissolved in hot water, two-thirds 
cup sweet milk, one teaspoon of vanilla flavoring, two cups 
sifted flour, with one teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in hot water; beat all. thoroughly. 

15 



FOR PURITY, STRENGTH AND FLAVOR 



DELICATE CAKE. 

1 cup sugar, ^ cup butter, cream well; add cup of sweet 
milk slowly, 2 cups flour, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking 
powder sifted well with the flour, whites of four eggs, beat- 
en well ; add half at a time, last to batter. Flavor with lem- 
on extract. 

KELLY ISLAND CAKE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, one-half cup milk, three teaspoons baking powder. 
For filling stir together a grated lemon, a large tart apple, 
an egg and a cup of sugar ; boil four minutes. A great fav- 
orite of gentlemen. A very excellent cake. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound butter, one ounce mace, one pound sugar, 
one pound flour, two pounds currants, one pound raisins, 
one ounce cinnamon, one ounce cloves, four nutmegs, eight 
eggs, one-quarter pound citron, one-half ounce extract of 
rose, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda. 

BLACK CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, scant one-half cup 
butter, three well-beaten eggs, saving the white of one egg 
for frosting. Take one cup of sweet milk, putting one-half 
on stove to heat, stirring into it a scant one-half cup grated 
chocolate; cool, and add to the mixture. Put one teaspoon 
soda in the other one-half cup of milk and add lastly add 
one and three-quarter cups flour with a little baking powder 
sifted in ; vanilla. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, scant three-quar- 
ter cup butter, three eggs, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, a little baking powder sifted in flour, pinch of salt, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, two and one-half cups flour, one 
cup chopped raisins. 

DELINEATOR WHITE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, scant 
one cup luke warm water stirring in gradually, two and one- 
half cups flour, one heaping teaspoon of baking powder, 
three eggs or whites of four. 

16 



DR. MARY KRAFT 

OSTEOPATH 
Diseases of Women and Children; Confinements 



Dr. Chas. C. Williams 

DENTIST 

Home Phone 65 



R. C. Hiatt IT* , . A 11 (~* B.F.Arnold 

Home Phone R 377 niuT.~.T\I nOlQ V_,O. Res. Phone 238 

REAL ESTATE 

Loans, Mines, Oil Lands, Insurance 
San Joaquin Valley Lands a Specialty 

Office Phone 377 
Lock Box 95 114 V 2 East Philadelphia Street 



Home Phone 49 

F. A. JACKSON 

Proprietor Iowa Livery WHITTIER, CAL. 

C. H. DANFORTH 

AUTOMOBILES, MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES 

164 SO. GREENLEAF AVE. 

MISS A. M. GORDON 

Millinery 
124 Philadelphia Whittier. Cal. 



R. L. McGee Office Phone 173 

L. E. McGee Res. Phone 2284 

McGEE BROTHERS 

ELECTRIC WIRING 
And Supplies. Motors Installed. Estimates on Contract Work 

Guaranteed Clear Certificate of Inspection 
Tungsten Lamps and Fixtures Office 109 N. GVeenleaf Ave. 



PORTRAITS VIEWS 

Ramsey's Studio 

1091/2 South Greenleaf Ave. 
KODAK FINISHING ENLARGEMENTS 



Home Phone 52 



DR. E. A. DANIELS 



DENTIST 

Hockett Building 



. Volkmor 

SCIENTIFIC HORSESHOER 
SHOEING OF ROAD HORSES A SPECIALTY 

Electric Horse Clipping General Blacksmithing 

Electric Disc Sharpening Iron and Wood Work 

Home Phone 116 
Full Line of Farm Implements 109 W. College Street 

BEST GOODS LOWEST PRICES 

The Enterprise Grocery 

M. H. MILLiS, Proprietor 



Phone 175 



L R. MORRIS CO. 

Tom Morris, Manager 
NEW AND SECOND-HAND GOODS BOUGHT AND SOLD 

119 'South Greenleaf Avenue 

Berry's Market 

For Everything in the Choicest of Meats and Poultry 
Green Cut Bone for Poultry 

FRESH FIS,H FRIDAYS 
Geo. W. Berry, Prop. Phone 132 

Sutphen 

The Whittier Tailor 

FINE DRY CLEANING A SPECIALTY 
Phone 82 * 113 W. Philadelphia St. 



BEN HUE EXTRACTS YOU'LL FAVOR 



SUNSHINE SPONGE CAKE. 

Whites of seven eggs, yolks of five eggs, one heaping 
teacup fine granulated sugar, one heaping teacup flour, 
measure sugar and flour after sifting five or six times, one- 
quarter teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon lemon extract, 
add pinch salt and cream tartar to the whites of the eggs. 
Beat until stiff, add sugar and beat thoroughly ; add flavor- 
ing and yolks of eggs, carefully stir in flour; bake thirty- 
five or forty minutes in slow oven. When removed from 
oven invert pan and leave until cool. 

SOLID CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of sour milk, two small eggs, beaten all together, 
not separately; grate one-third cake of Baker's chocolate 
and put in one-half cup of hot water in which one teaspoon 
of soda has been dissolved, two heaping cups of flour, with 
tablespoon of vanilla. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar (brown), one cup molass- 
es, one cup sour milk, one and one-half teaspoons soda 
(scant measure), three cups flour, four eggs, two pounds 
raisins, one-quarter pound citron, one nutmeg, spices. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
three cups flour, the whites of six eggs, three teaspoons 
baking powder. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

Separate and cool eleven whites of eggs, sift one tumb- 
ler of flour with one level teaspoon cream tartar three 
times; sift one and one-quarter tumblers sugar three times: 
Beat whites until stiff, carefully stir in sugar, then fold in 
the flour, very little at a time ; flavor and bake one hour. 

NEW YEAR'S MARBLE CAKE. 

Dark Part: Yolks of four eggs, one cup brown sugar, 
one-half cup molasses, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of sour milk, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon cinnamon, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoon soda, one and one-half cups sifted 
flour. 

White Part: Whites of four eggs, one cup of white 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoon of vanilla, 

17 



USE BEN-HUR BAKING POWDER 



two and one-half cups sifted flour. Put in the pan alter- 
nately, first a spoon of white, then a spoon of dark, etc. 

DEVIL'S FOOD. 

One and one-half cups granulated sugar, three-quarter 
cup of butter, three-quarter cup of sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda mixed with a tablespoon of boiling water, two cups of 
flour, one teaspoon of vanilla, three eggs, two squares of 
chocolate. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

Two squares chocolate, one egg, one-half cup milk; 
cook; add one cup sugar, butter size of egg, one teaspoon 
vanilla, one-half cup milk with teaspoon soda, two cups 
flour sifted with one teaspoon cream tartar. Bake in loaf 
or layer. 

WEST SIDE CAKE. 

One teaspoonful soda in coffee cup, add eight table- 
spoons hot water, four tablespoons melted butter, yolks of 
two eggs. Fill cup with molasses, beat well, thicken with 
flour; bake in two layers with frosting between, or in one 
plain cake. 

SNOW CAKE. 

One-fourth cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, two eggs (whites), one and two-thirds cups flour, one- 
half teaspoon vanilla, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one and one- 
half cups sugar, four eggs, (whites only), two cups flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder, vanilla extract for flavoring. 
Make one sheet. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, one-half 
cup milk, one cup flour, one heaping teaspoon baking pow- 
der, one-half pound each currants and raisins, one-half tea- 
spoonful each cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon. Bake one hour. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Four eggs, three-quarters cup pastry flour, one-half cup 
powdered sugar ; beat sugar and yolks of eggs to froth ; beat 
whites to stiff, dry froth and add to sugar and yolks. Add 
flour stirring swiftly and gently. Bake in shallow pan 

18 



IT MAKES LIGHT, WHOLESOME CAKES 



twenty minutes. While warm cut off edges and spread with 
jelly. Roll up in towel till time to serve. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, one cup of raisins, one cup of nuts, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one teaspoon of cloves, two teaspoons of cocoa, 
one-quarter teaspoon of nutmeg, four eggs, two cups of 
flour, one teaspoon baking powder, a little salt, vanilla. 

COFFEE CAKES. 

Three cups of bread sponge, one-half cup of butter, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, two eggs. Roll thin, cut out as for 
biscuit; sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and bits of butter. 
Bake slowly. 

FIVE MINUTE CAKE. 

Break an egg in a teacup and fill it with sweet cream. 
Pour this over one teacup of sugar and beat well. Sift to- 
gether one cup of flour, one-half cup of corn starch and two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add this to the mixture 
and flavor to taste. This may be baked in loaf or in layers 
with any filling desired. 

PORK CAKE. 

One pound fat salt pork chopped fine, two pounds 
raisins, two cups sorghum, two cups sugar, one teaspoon cin- 
namon, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon allspice, one nut- 
meg, two cups boiling water, one and one-half teaspoons 
soda, six cups flour. Bake two hours in a slow oven. 

DARK CAKE. 

First Part: One-half cup grated chocolate, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one-half cup sugar; cook, but not boil, and 
set away to cool. 

Second Part: One cup sugar, two eggs, one-half cup 
butter, two-thirds cup sweet milk, two cups flour, level tea- 
spoon soda, flavor to taste. Bake in layers. 

Filling i'or Dark Cake: One cup thick sweet cream, 
beat in powdered sugar until thick; flavor with lemon ex- 
tract. 

MAHOGANY MIXED CAKE. 

Two-thirds of grated chocolate, one-half cup of brown 
sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, boil and cool ; one cup of 
brown sugar, scant one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet 

19 



WE SUGGEST BEN-HUR SPICES 



milk, two eggs, one and two-thirds cups flour, one pound 
nuts, one-half pound raisins, level teaspoon soda, teaspoon 
vanilla. Bake one hour. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, two cups light brown sugar, one- 
half cup of sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tar- 
tar, four eggs, two cups flour, one tablespoon of cinnamon, 
one teaspoon of cloves and nutmeg. Bake in layers and 
keep the whites of two eggs for frosting between layers. 

DROP CAKES. 

Two cups brown sugar, one cup shortening, one cup 
sour milk, one teaspoon soda, three eggs, four cups flour, 
two teaspoons cinnamon, one of cloves, one cup raisins. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Four eggs well beaten, two coffee cups sugar; beat eggs 
and sugar well together; two cups flour, butter the size of 
a walnut, two-thirds of a cup boiling water, three teaspoons 
baking powder, flavor to taste. Add the water gradually 
the last thing. Bake in well-greased dripping pan, spread 
with jelly while hot and roll. This will make two large rolls 
or three small ones. 

OATMEAL CAKES. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter or fryings, two eggs, one 
cup of sour cream or milk, one teaspoon soda, two cups oat- 
meal and two cups of flour mixed well together; one cup 
raisins cut fine, flavor with vanilla. Bake in gem tins. 

BURNED SUGAR CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
cup cold water, two cups flour, yolks of two well-beaten eggs, 
one teaspoon vanilla, three teaspoons of the burned syrup, 
one-half cup flour, the whites of the two eggs, add two tea- 
spoons of baking powder. Bake in three layers. 

Caramel: One-half cup sugar, burned; removed from 
fire and add one-half cup cold water ; set on stove and boil 
again to a thick syrup. This furnishes caramel for three 
cakes. ' 

Filling: One cup sugar boiled, add three teaspoons of 
the caramel, white of one egg. 

LAYER CAKE. 

One and one-fourth cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 

20 



THEY WILL MAKE GOOD CAKE BETTER 



one-half cup sweet inilk, one and three-quarters cups flour, 
three eggs, beaten separately, two teaspoons baking powder. 
Use any filling you like. 

DEVIL'S FOOD CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, yolks of two 
eggs, one-half cup of grated chocolate melted in two table- 
spoons of boiling water and beaten more; two-thirds cup of 
sweet milk with one level teaspoon of soda dissolved, two 
cups of flour with one teaspoon baking powder; lastly, 
add one teaspoon of vanilla, well beaten whites of two eggs ; 
mix chocolate with butter and milk and yolks of eggs. Fine 
with raisin filling. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One-half cup of milk, one cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, three cups of flour, four eggs beaten separately, one 
tablespoon baking powder, two cups of walnuts cut small. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two ounces chocolate, four eggs, one-half cup milk, one- 
half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one heaping 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one and three-quarters cups 
flour. Beat butter to a cream, add the sugar, the yolks and 
part of the flour, beating all the time. Then add milk and 
chocolate dissolved in five tablespoonfuls of boiling water. 
Add the remainder of the flour and the baking powder. 
Stir the stiffly beaten whites carefully into the mixture. 
Bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

Boiled Frosting: Mix one-half cup of water and one 
and one-half cups of granulated sugar. Boil gently without 
stirring until it will spin a thread. Beat the whites of two 
eggs to a very stiff froth. Beat in one-quarter of 
a teaspoonful cream of tartar. Pour boiling syrup gradual- 
ly into this, beating until stiff enough to put on cake with- 
out running. Flavor when nearly cool. 

SPANISH CAKE. 

One cup brown sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
sweet milk, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon each 
baking powder and cinnamon, one-half teaspoon cloves, two 
eggs, leaving out the white of one for frosting. Bake in 
two layers and frost. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One cup sour milk, six tablespoons corn meal, three 

21 



USE BEN-HUR BAKING POWDER 



tablespoons flour, three tablespoons sugar, pinch salt. Bake 
in hot oven. 

POTATO CAKE. 

One cup potatoes (mashed), one cup butter, two cups 
sugar, one square chocolate, one-half cup sweet milk, one- 
half teaspoon nutmeg, cinnamon and vanilla, one and one- 
half cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one cup nuts, 
one-half cup raisins, four eggs ; mash potatoes hot, cream 
butter and sugar, add mashed potatoes, then yolks of eggs, 
flour, milk, other ingredients, whites of eggs last. 

NUT CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, one and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der, whites three eggs, one-half teaspoon vanilla, one teacup 
walnut meats rolled. 

ALMOND FROSTING. 

Blanch half a pint sweet almonds by putting them in 
boiling water, stripping off the skins, and spreading upon 
a dry cloth until cold ; pound a few of them at a time in a 
mortar till well pulverized; mix carefully the whites of 
three eggs and three-quarters of a pint of powdered sugar; 
add the almonds, flavor with teaspoonful vanilla or lemon, 
and dry in a cool oven or the open, air when weather is 
pleasant. 

GELATINE FROSTING. 

Two even tablespoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in three 
teaspoonfuls of cold water, after which add three table- 
spoonfuls of boiling water. Strain and stir in fine sugar un- 
til stiff. Beat a long time. Very nice. 

HICKORY NUT MEAT FROSTING. 

To one egg add a cup of sugar, chop the meats very fine 
and mix with frosting after long beating, and spread on 
cake as thickly as you wish. 

ORNAMENTAL FROSTING. 

Draw a small syringe full of the icing and work it in 
any design you fancy. Wheels, Grecian borders, flowers or 
borders of beading look well. 

YELLOW FROSTING. 

The yolk of one egg and nine tablespoonfuls of pulver- 
ized sugar ; flavor with vanilla. Use the same day it is made. 

22 



IT MAKES LIGHT ,WHOLESOME CAKES 



GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter or part lard, one 
egg, one tablespoon of vinegar, one tablespoon of gingert, 
one teaspoon of soda dissolved in boiling water. Mix like 
cooky dough, rather soft. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups sugar, one cup sour milk, one cup of sour 
cream, three eggs, two scant teaspoons soda, flavor to 1 , suit 
the taste, one-half teaspoon of salt, flour 'enough to roll. ' 

COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup of butter, three eggs, one cuji 
of sour cream, two scant teaspoonfuls soda, flavor to suit the 
taste; add flour enough to roll. 

NUT WAFERS. 

For the nut w r afers work four tablespoons of butter un- 
til creamy, using a wooden spoon, preferably a wooden cake 
spoon which has slits; then add gradually, while stirring 
and beating constantly, one cup granulated sugar and two 
eggs well beaten. Mix and sift two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one-quarter teaspoon of salt and one cupful of 
pastry flour (once sifted). Add to first mixture, then add 
four tablespoonfuls of milk, three-quarters cupful of finely 
chopped peanuts and one teaspoonful of lemon juice. ,Drop 
from a teaspoon on an unbuttered tin shoot one inch apart; 
and place half a peanut on top of ^each. Bake fifteen min- 
utes in a slow oven. This recipe should make three dozen 
cookies. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup raisins (chop- 
ped), two cups white flour, two cups oatmeal, eight table- 
spoons milk (sweet), one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon 
soda. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Three cups molasses, two-thirds cup lard, two cups wa- 
ter, one large tablespoon ginger, two heaping teaspoons 
soda. Knead soft a long while. 

COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one egg, one-half 
cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, nutmeg to flavor, flour. 

23 



YOU MAY THINK OTHERS NICE 



GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup lard, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one 
tablespoon ginger, heaping teaspoon soda, knead stiff with 
flour, with a spoon, keep it warm while kneading, roll in 
balls with hand, keep apart in pan to give them room to 
spread. 

BOCKS. 

One and one-fourth cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, 
three-quarters teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon cinnamon, 
one-quarter teaspoon cloves, one cup chopped raisins, two 
cups flour, two cups oatmeal. Drop on buttered tins and 
bake in a quick oven. 

NUT COOKIES. 

Sugar, two cups, butter, two-thirds cup; eggs, three; 
sour cream, one cup ; soda, one teaspoon ; chopped nuts, one 
cup. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Two cups sugar, one cup molasses, three eggs, four 
tablespoons of vinegar, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one table- 
spoon ginger, one tablespoon soda, flour enough to roll. 

JUMBLES. 

Four eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup 
sour cream, two teaspoons of soda, small nutmeg, flour 
enough to roll. 

CHILDREN'S COOKIES. 

One-half cup brown sugar, one-half cup molasses, one- 
half cup butter or lard, one-half cup hot water, two cups 
flour, one-half tablespoon soda, one-half tablespoon ginger. 
Stir and drop on buttered tins. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

Six cups oatmeal, one cup butter, two cups of sugar, 
one cup boiling water, one teaspoon soda, flour enough to 
roll. Rub butter in the oatmeal, then add sugar and water 
and flour. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup white sugar, one cup shortening (butter and 
lard mixed), two eggs, and a pinch of salt, one teaspoon 
soda, six tablespoons sour milk, two cups flour, two cups 
oatmeal, one cup chopped nuts or raisins. Drop a tea- 
epoonful in a place in a 'greased pan and bake in hot oven. 

24 



BUT THERE'S NOTHING LIKE BEN-HUR 

SPICE. 



FRUIT COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter worked to 
a cream, add three eggs well beaten, one-half cup molasces, 
one teaspoon soda dissolved in a little cold water, cup of 
raisins, cup of currants', one teaspoon each of cinnamon, 
cloves and ginger, flour enough to roll. 

COOKIES. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of sour cream, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half teaspoon soda, one-half tea- 
spoon salt, two heaping cups flour, one teaspoon baking 
powder sifted with the flour, one teaspoon of vanilla. Add 
just enough more flour to roll out easily. Sour milk can be 
used instead of sour cream with more bu'ter. 

ROCKS. 

One and one-half cups light brown sugar, one cup but- 
ter, three eggs, two and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, three-quarters pound of rais- 
ins, one and one-half pound English walnuts or hickory 
nuts. Drop spoonful in place on buttered tins. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cup 
of butter, one cup of buttermilk, yolks of two eggs, one 
tablespoon of ginger, three teaspoons of soda, one teaspoon 
of cloves, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one teaspoon of vanilla. 
Bake in quick oven. Whites of two eggs for cooked frost- 
ing. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup sugar, one cup of molasses, one heaping cup of 
butter, and lard, mixed, two eggs, two teaspoon ginger, a 
little ground cinnamon, one heaping teaspoon soda dissolved 
in a little hot water, flour to roll thin. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter and 
lard, mixed, two eggs, one cup sour. milk, two teaspoons 
soda, one teaspoon cinnamon, one of cloves, two teaspoons 
ginger, one teaspoon vanilla. Flour enuogh to keep from 
sticking. Cut in squares, bake in quick oven; frost when 
cold. Keep in stone jar; will keep a long time. 

GRAHAM FRUIT COOKIES. 

One tablespoon butter, one and one-half cups brown 



GOOD SPICES MAKE GOOD COOKIES 



sugar, one cup thick with graham flour to roll out. Bake 
in an oven as hot as for white flour cookies, as it takes 
longer to bake them. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Mix thoroughly one cup of sugar and butter the size of 
a walnut, add two eggs. Dissolve one level teaspoon soda 
in a little warm water and add to One cup buttermilk. Now 
add the buttermilk and one quart of flour, also one-half tea- 
spoon of salt. This will seem a soft dough, but be careful 
about adding any more flour. Sprinkle with sugar. 

DROP DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup sweet milk, two cups sugar, two teaspoons 
melted butter, four eggs, one teaspoon baking po\vder, two 
cups currants. Make stiff batter and drop teaspoonful in 
boiling lard. Splendid. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one-half cups sugar (light brown), one and 
one-half cups buttermilk, three eggs, eight tablespoons 
melted butter, enough flour to make them sufficiently stiff 
to roll out. Flavor. Fry in smoking hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one teaspoon of melted 
butter, two-thirds cup of sour cream, two even teaspoons 
of cream tartar, one even teaspoon of soda, flour enough to 
roll. Salt and nutmeg to taste. 

NEW ENGLAND FRIED CAKES. 

One cup light brown sugar, one rounding tablespoon 
butter, one cup sweet milk, two eggs, one-quarter tablespoon 
salt, one-quarter teaspoon nutmeg, 4 cups flour, four round- 
ing teaspoons baking powder. Sift baking powder with 
flour, cream butter and sugar, add eggs and beat thorough- 
ly; then add the milk and flour. More flour should be add- 
ed on the kneading board until the dough can be rolled out 
one-fourth of an inch thick and retain its shape when: cut. 

WHITE COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, 
one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, one teaspoon vanilla. Add flour to make as soft 
a dough as can be rolled. Roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 

Two-thirds cup sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup 

26 



BEN HUE SPICES ARE EXTRA GOOD 



butter, one-half cup sour milk, one teaspoon ginger, one tea- 
spoon soda. Mix with graham flour. 

NUT CRULLERS. 

Beat four eggs until light, then beat in one cupful of 
sugar. To this add the grated rind of one lemon and one- 
half a nutmeg grated, one-half teaspoonful of salt and a gill 
of sweet milk ; stir in one-half pound of dried cocoanut and 
one quart flour, in which two teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der are sifted. Roll to the thickness of half an inch, cut 
out with a round cutter half an inch in diameter. Boil in 
hot lard to a delicate brown and roll in powdered sugar. 
These little balls taste like confectionery. 
COCOANUT COOKIES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one scant cup butter 
(creamed together), two eggs beaten, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one cup cocoanut, teaspoon vanilla, two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder sifted in enough flour to make a soft dough. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One-half cup of melted butter, one cup of soft light 
brown sugar, two eggs, one-half teaspoon of soda dissolved 
in two tablespoons of water, two teaspoons of baking powder. 
Flavor to taste and flour enough to mix a dough as soft as 
can be handled. Set dough on ice to harden before rolling 
out. 

OATMEAL COOKIES. 

One cup white sugar, one cup shortening, two eggs, 
pinch of salt, five tablespoons sour milk, one-half teaspoon 
soda, two cups oatmeal, two and one-half cups flour, one 
cup seeded raisins. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 

One pint of cream, one-half cup sugar, one-quarter pound 
or marshmallows, English walnuts, two tablespoons of gela- 
tine. Dissolve gelatine in one-half cup of hot water and 
pour over the marshmallows, which will also dissolve. Whip 
the cream and add it to the sugar, nuts and other mixture. 
Set aside to cool. 

BREAD AND ROLLS 

To mould mankind at will and shape their acts, 
First dine them well and they will become as wax. 

INGREDIENTS FOR ONE LOAF OF BREAD. 

One cup lukewarm milk or water, one-eighth cake com- 

27 



A SUGGESTION FOR BREAKFAST 



pressed yeast dissolved in one-quarter cup of lukewarm wa- 
ter, one-half teaspoonful sugar, same of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of lard, and three to three and one-half cups of flour; 
the less flour used, the better. Beat the sponge well; let 
stand until light, then mix in a loaf. Use only enough of 
the flour to make a batter (for the sponge) thick as for grid- 
dle cakes. 

The two important ingredients in wheat flour are starch 
and gluten. Starch produces heat, gluten muscle. The 
popular process flour we now hear so much of, is more nu- 
tritious than that formely used because of the large amount 
of gluten it contains. Yeast serves to change part of the 
starch in the flour to sugar, but there is no such change 
when soda is used for raising bread or biscuits. 

BUTTER ROLLS. 

In measuring sugar and salt after a recipe, the spoon 
should be level full for the latter and rounding full for the 
former. 

One quart flour, one-half pint of warm milk, one table- 
spoonful of lard, one of sugar, one and a half cakes quick 
yeast dissolved in half a cup of warm milk. Add flour to 
make a thick batter, and beat until light; (can't beat too 
much) ; then mix the lard, sugar and the half pint of warm 
milk and flour with the yeast, and beat it and beat it, and 
beat it and set it to rise : when light, add salt ; mix stilz 
enough for biscuit, and let rise again; when light, roll and 
cut out small, put a small piece of butter on the top of each 
biscuit, double over or pinch together, let them rise again, 
and bake in a quick oven. Do not place them very near 
each other in the baking pans. Bake fifteen minutes. In 
kneading do it with the fingers, not the whole hand. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups buttermilk, one cup sweet milk, one-half cup 
brown sugar, one cup corn meal, one cup white flour, three 
cups graham flour, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon salt, 
one cup raisins floured, two teaspoons soda dissolved in hot 
water. Beat hard, cover and bake one and one-half hours. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Two-thirds cup white sugar, one-half cup maple syrup, 
one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, two cups flour, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon ginger, one teaspoon 
soda, two eggs. Bake in moderate oven. 

28 



BEN HUR COFFEE AND FRIED CAKES 



WHITE GEMS. 

Two eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, two table- 
spoons sugar, one cup sweet milk, two scant cups flour, one 
and one-half tablespoons baking powder, a little salt. Bake 
in gem tins. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups graham flour, one cup white flour, one cup 
molasses, one-half cup sour milk, one cup water, one egg, 
pinch of salt, one teaspoon soda, one cup dried currants. 
Steam two and one-half hours. 

FRITTERS. 

Two eggs beaten well, two cups of flour, one cup of milk, 
two teaspoons of baking powder, a pinch of salt. Drop in 
hot lard and cook until brown. 

MUFFINS. 

Two cups flour and two teaspoons baking powder, one- 
quarter cup lard, one-quarter cup sugar, one cup milk, yolks 
of two eggs. Lastly add whites of two eggs beaten stiff. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One pint sweet milk, scalded. Put into it while hot one- 
half cup of sugar and one tablespoon of butter. When the 
milk is cool add a little salt and one-half cup of yeast or one 
compressed yeast cake. Stir in flour to make a stiff sponge 
and when light mix as for bread. Let it rise until light, 
punch it down with the hand and let rise again. Repeat 
two or three times, then turn the dough on the moulding 
board and pound with the rolling pin until thin enough to 
cut. Cut out with a tumbler, brush the surface of each one 
with melted butter and fold over. Let the rolls rise on the 
tins, bake, and while warm brush over the surface with 
melted butter. Don't mix too stiff. 

"DUTCHMEN." 

One pint bread sponge, one-half cup sugar, two beaten 
eggs, heaping tablespoon lard. Mix soft, let rise, make into 
tiny biscuits, let rise again, bake in rather quick oven, 
serve hot. 

ROLLS. 

One pint sweet milk, one-half cup sugar, one half cup 
butter (or lard and butter mixed) ; stir together and let 
come to a boil ; when cool put in one soaked yeast cake and 

29 



FOR EARLY RISING 



stir well. Pour this into one quart of flour and let remain 
over night. In the morning mix as bread and when light 
poke down just once; let it rise a second time, then roll 
out quite thin; cut out with cooky cutter, spread with but- 
ter, double over half and let rise, then bake. 

NUT BREAD. 

Sift together four cups flour, four teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon of salt, one cup of sugar, and add one 
cup of chopped hickory nut meats, not very fine. Stir, then 
add one cup of milk and one well beaten egg. Pour into 
two buttered bread pans and let stand twenty minutes. 
Bake one-half hour. 

ANNA'S WAFFLES (EXCELLENT). 

Three cups of flour, one and one-half cups of sweet milk, 
three eggs, one tablespoon melted butter, one and one-half 
tablespoons baking powder, salt; beat eggs separately. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint sour milk, two teaspoons soda, three eggs beat- 
en separately, three teaspoons melted butter, salt, and flour 
to make stiff batter. Very nice. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

One pint boiling water poured upon two tablespoons 
new milk and a saltspoon of salt ; one of pepper and ginger. 
Let stand until just lukewarm ; then stir in flour enough to 
make thick batter ; put the dish in a kettle of warm water 
and stand until light, keeping it warm, then add three pints 
warm milk or water and flour enough to make thick batter, 
adding a teaspoon salt. Let rise again, mix into loaves and 
bake when light. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

To a quart of flour add a saltspoon of salt, three very 
heaping teaspoons of baking powder, a piece of lard the size 
of an egg; sift the baking powder and salt into the flour, 
then rub the lard thoroughly through the flour; mix to a 
soft dough with sweet milk, with as little kneading as possi- 
ble, roll and cut with a cooky cutter, and bake in quick 
oven. 

BUNS. 

Three cups sweet milk, one cup yeast, two cups sugar, 
one cup butter, one cup currants. At night mix two and 
one-half cups of milk, one cup sugar and the yeast with flour 

30 



USE BEN HUE BAKING POWDER 



enough to form a thick batter. In the morning beat the re- 
maining sugar and butter together and add to the batter. 
Add the remainder of the milk and mix moderately stiff 
with flour, adding the cup of currants. If it should seem 
best, add a pinch of soda to the milk before mixing stiff. 
When risen light, roll out to the thickness of half an inch 
and cut with a biscuit cutter. Let rise and bake. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Three teacups sour milk, one teacup molasses, one tea- 
cup corn meal, three teacups graham, one teaspoon soda, one 
scant tablespoon salt. Mix and pour into three well buttered 
molds and set in steamer over boiling water, cover closely 
and steam four hours, then remove to a moderate oven for 
fifteen or twenty minutes to dry top. 

WALNUT BREAD. 

Stir one cup chopped walnut meats into the sponge 
for two small loaves of bread. Mix hard and treat as you 
would ordinary bread dough. Bake in pound baking pow- 
der cans. When cold cut in thin slices, butter, and press 
two slices together. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Three cups of graham flour, stir in the flour one heap- 
ing teaspoon of soda, a little salt, two-thirds cup of molass- 
es, one cup sour milk, two-thirds cup of seeded raisins. 
Steam three hours, put in oven, bake fifteen minutes. Serve 
hot. 

CURRANT ROLLS. 

Dissolve one yeast cake in a pint of scalded and cooled 
milk ; add flour for a "sponge". When light add three eggs, 
one-half cupful each of sugar and melted butter, a teaspoon 
of salt, and flour to knead. When light, roll into a thin 
sheet, brush with butter, dust with cinnamon and sugar, and 
sprinkle with currants. Roll, cut into rounds. Bake about 
half an hour. 

CORN CAKES. 

One cup flour, one cup corn meal, three teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, one-half cup butter,one-half cup sugar, salt to 
taste. Add last one egg beaten light and added to one cup 
sweet milk. 

POTATO ROLLS. 

Two cups mashed potatoes, one cup of home-made yeast, 

31 



SUCH AROMA AND DELICIOUS FLAVOR 



three eggs, one cup of sugar. When raised light add one 
cup of lard or butter, and flour to make a soft dough, and 
when quite light , mould into small rolls -and let rise again 
before baking. If wanted for six o'clock p. m., set about 
nine a. in. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

One pint meal, one tablespoon lard, one heaping tea- 
spoon baking powder, one-half pint of milk, two eggs, one- 
half teaspoon of salt. Beat the eggs separately until very 
light. Then add to the yolks the meal, baking powder and 
salt sifted together, then the lard melted, then the milk, and 
when just ready to pour into the hot buttered pans add the 
whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. 

DABS. 

Two cups whole wheat flour, three tablespoons of but- 
ter or lard, one tablespoon of baking powder, two table- 
spoons sugar, one teaspoon salt, milk enough to make a stiff 
batter that will drop from a spoon, about one cup. Drop 
in dabs on a well greased dripping pan and bake. 

BREAKFAST BUNS. 

One pint warm water, one-half cup lard, one cup light 
bread sponge, one teaspoonful salt. Mix stiff at noon and 
let dough rise till night. Make into biscuits, making them 
flat like a baker's buns, place at least two inches apart in 
bake pans, let rise till morning and bake ten or fifteen min- 
utes. In warm weather mix about middle of the afternoon. 

STEAMED GRAHAM BREAD. 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of sour milk, one-half 
cup of molasses, one-half cup of sugar, one cup seeded rais- 
ins, one teaspoon soda, salt and graham flour to make a 
stiff batter. Steam three hours. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of sour milk, two-thirds cup of molasses, one 
and one-half level teaspoons of soda dissolved in hot water, 
one teaspoon salt, one large coffee cup each of flour, corn 
meal and graham flour. Beat well, making a stiff batter. 
Steam three hours, then bake fifteen minutes. If desired, 
add one-half cup of seeded raisins. 



PIES 

CHICKEN PIE CRUST. 

Two teaspoons baking powder in two cups flour, two 

32 



Teas and Coffees Our Specialty Home Phone 281 

Whittier Grocery Co. 

J. N. WOODARD, Prop. 

119 East Philadelphia Street Whittier, Cal. 

The Toggery 

THE SPECIALTY STORE FOR 

MEN'S, BOYS' AND CHILDREN'S CLOTHING, HATS AND 

FURNISHINGS 

N. Rosenbaum 

Post Office Block 
WHITTIER, CAL. 

Pure Ice Puritas Water 

Recommended to Those Who Eat and Drink 

Whittier Ice Co. 

Phone 119. Office 121 S. Greenleaf 
CHAS. H. BAIRD, Manager 



COOK WITH GAS 

Southern California Edison Co. 



121 E. Philadelphia St. 
Phone 14 



W. H. Kimball 



109 East Philadelphia Street 



THE BEST RECIPE FOR A GOOD TEMPER IS TO GO TO 

E. H. White 

FOR YOUR FURNITURE AND CARPETS 

125 S. Greenleaf A\e. 

Residence Phone: Home 130 

Dr. O. J. Osborn 

VETERINARIAN 

Office and Hospital : 148 South Comstock Avenue 
Both Phones 160 

Whittier, Cal. 

H. Auf der Heide All Work Guaranteed 

Storage, Supplies 
Home Phone 26 

College Garage 

Cor. College and Greenleaf 

REPAIRING GASOLINE AND ELECTRIC CARS 
GENERAL MACHINE WORK 

Agent for Demot Auto 



IT'S BEN-HUR COFFEE 



tablespoons lard or butter, salt, one egg, one cup milk. Mix 
soft so as to spread on the -pie with a spoon. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grate the yellow rind of a lemon, add the juice, one cup 
sugar, one saltspoon of salt, two level tablespoons of flour; 
beat well and add one cup of milk, pour in pie tin lined with 
crust and bake. "When done beat the whites of the eggs to 
a sliflf froth and one-half cup sugar spread on the top. Re- 
turn to the oven and brown lightly. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Three bowls of beef boiled and chopped, five bowls of 
apples, one bowl of molasses, one of vinegar, two quarts of 
cider, one of suet or butter, two of raisins, five of sugar, two 
tablespoons each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves, one table- 
spoon each of salt and black pepper, three lemons ; grate in 
the outside and squeeze in the juice. Add all but the meat 
and spices, boil until the raisins are tender, and pour on to 
the meat and spices. This makes a large quantity, but it is 
vory nice and keeps well. 

APPLE OR PEACH MERINGUE PIE. 

Pare, slice and stew the fruit, sweeten and mash ; grate 
nutmeg on it, spread crust on plate and bake till done ; then 
spread on the plate and cover with thick meringue made 
by whipping to a froth the whites of three eggs for each pie, 
sweetening with three tablespoons of sugar. Beat until it 
will stand alone, and cover the pie three-quarters of an inch 
thick; set back in the oven till well "set" and eat cold. A 
little corn starch can be added if the egg is too thin. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One pint well stewed and drained pumpkin, one quart 
rich milk, scalded, one cup sugar or a little less, and two 
tablespoons of molasses, one tablespoon ginger, same of cin- 
namon, half saltspoon of salt, two eggs. Bake in quick 
oven in a pie plate lined with nice crust ; fill and bake at 
once. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

To one quart of stewed pumpkin use three pints of milk 
or cream, three eggs, one nutmeg, tablespoon of butter, and 
half a cup (small) of powdered cracker to four pies. Sweet- 
en to taste. 

33 



SIMPLY DE-LICIOUS 



MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

One and one-half cups of cranberries, one cup raisins, 
one cup sugar, one tablespoon flour, one teaspoon vanilla, 
one-half cup water, one teaspoon butter (melted), chop cran- 
berries and raisins, then add flour, sugar, etc., and don't 
bake it too fast. 

ORANGE PUFF PIE. 

Cream together three-quarters of a cupful of sugar and 
three tablespoonfuls of butter and beat in the juice of an 
orange and half the rind grated ; add the yolks of three eggs 
and the whites of one, beaten ; line a deep pie plate with rich 
flaky crust, and fill with the mixture ; bake, and when done 
cover with an icing made by beating the whites of two eggs 
to a stiff froth and adding three tablespoonfuls of powder- 
ed sugar. Set in the oven and brown slightly. Serve cold. 

CHOCOLATE PIE 

Two cups milk, scant cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, pinch salt, level tablespoonful of pulverized chocolate, 
yolks of two eggs, whites for frosting. Put chocolate and 
sugar in cold milk before putting over the fire. Keep out 
a little of the cold milk to rub the flour smooth, also a little 
sugar for frosting. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup of milk, one table- 
spoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, 
juice and rind of one lemon. This makes enough for one pie. 

SOUR CREAM PIE. 

Four eggs ; save whites of three eggs for top. Piece of 
butter size of small walnut, one cup sugar, one cup chopped 
raisins, one cup sour cream. Beat eggs well, add cream and 
beat again, then add sugar, butter and raisins ; beat this un- 
til raisins are thoroughly separated. 

Beat whites of three eggs and spread on top. 

LEMON PIE. 

One cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one egg, 
one cup of water, juice and rind of one large lemon, one 
soda cracker. 

MOCK LEMON PIE. 

One cup of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of flour, 
the yolks o.? two eggs (save the whites for frosting), one 

34 



BEN HUR HIGH GRADE COFFEE 



teaspoon of lemon extract, two-thirds cup of boiling water, 
two-thirds cup of stewed pie plant; mix sugar, flour, egs 
and extract together, then pour on the water, then the pie 
plant. Bake with one crust. 

BEST PIE CRUST 

Two and one-half cups of flour, one cup of lard, one 
even teaspoon of salt, one even teaspoon of baking powder, 
one-half cup cold water 



PUDDINGS 



Live like yourself, was soon .my ladies' word. 
And lo, a pudding smoked upon the board. Pope 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup sweet milk, one cup suet 
chopped fine, on.e-half teaspoon soda, one cup raisins, one 
cup currants, two and one-half cups flour. Mix well; salt 
and spice to taste. Steam three hours. 

WALNUT LOAF. 

Mix thoroughly two cups soft bread crumbs from center 
of loaf, one cup chopped walnut meats, one level teaspoon 
salt, one-quarter teaspoon pepper and ginger. Melt one- 
third cup butter in one-half cup hot water, pour gradually 
into a beaten egg, then combine with dry ingredients. Shape 
into an oval loaf, put into a buttered pan, bake forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. Baste with hot water in which 
a little butter has been melted. Serve with brown sauce. 



Pare and core twelve apples ; slice them ; then stir into 
one quart of new milk; one quart of sifted corn meal; add 
a little salt, then the apples, four tablespoons chopped suet 
and one teacup molasses, adding one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved. Mix thoroughly, pour into buttered dish and bake 
for four hours. Serve hot with the following sauce: 

Sauce: One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg 
beaten light, one lemon, juice and rind ; one-half cup boiling 
water; put in a tin basin and thicken. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Three-quarters cup butter, one-half cup molasses, one- 
half cup brown sugar, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, 
three cups ifour. one coffee cup raisins, one-half cup currants. 



THE SECRET OF GOOD PUDDING 



one teaspoon cloves, two teaspoons cinnamon, one teaspoon 
salt. Steam about two and one-half hours. 

Sauce: Juice and grated rind of one lemon, one-half 
cup of butter, one tablespoon corn starch, one cup of sugar. 
Retta Perry. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses (sorghum), one cup of suet chop- 
ped fine and mixed with three cups of flour and pinch of 
salt, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, nutmeg to taste; last add one-half pound raisins 
and other fruits if desired. Steam three hours and serve 
with sauce. 

SCALLOPED APPLES. 

One quart stale bread crumbs, one-quarter cup butter, 
one quart sliced apples, one quarter cup sugar, one-quarter 
teaspoon grated nutmeg, grated rind and juice of one-half 
lemon (lemon may be omitted). Grease pudding dish with 
butter ; place layer of bread crumbs in bottom ;cover with 
lumps of butter; add layer of sliced apples, add sugar, nut- 
meg and lemon. Then add another layer of bread crumbs, 
and continue in same way until dish is full, having bread 
crumbs on top. Bake forty minutes in moderate oven. Cov- 
er at first to prevent crumbs browning. Serve with sugar 
and cream. Very good served without cream with roast 
pork. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One pint cream, three-quarters of a pint of milk, one- 
quarter of a pound of sugar, one-quarter of a box of gelatine, 
two eggs, one teaspoon of vanilla added to the cream; add 
to the sugar the yolks of the eggs beaten together, dissolve 
the gelatine in the warm milk, strain this into the sugar 
and yolks; beat the whites stiff; have the cream cold and 
whip light, add the cream to the eggs, sugar and gelatine; 
lastly add the whites of the eggs; pour into moulds lined 
with sponge cake, and set in the ice chest until wanted. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, two eggs, one-third cup 
boiling water, one teaspoonful baking powder; flavor with 
lemon. Break the eggs into the sugar, beat thoroughly, add 
the flour and the baking powder, then the water and the 
lemon ; bake in a square loaf, split the cake an<f pile on the 

36 



W. H. Kerwin W. Beech 

"IDYLLWILD" 

Quality 

CANDIES, ICE CREAM AND SHERBETS 
Special Attention to Lodge and Party Catering 

Phone 298 
103 South Greenleaf Agency National Ice & Cold Storage Co. 

H. S. ROWLEY 

NEW AND SECOND-HAND 

PLJ R N 1TURE 

Phone 369 208 E. Philadelphia Street 

If You Want to Buy or Sell REAL ESTATE Call on or Address Us 

BALDWIN & BELL flJ3 

107 East Philadelphia Street 

Home Phone 220 
Agents for Orchard Dale Tract S. H. Bell, L. M. Baldwin 

Home Phone 271 

Guy E. Bailey, D. D. S. 

First National Bank Building 
Phone 137 Notary Public 

GREGG, BATES & GREGG 

REAL ESTATE, LOANS AND INSURANCE 

116 West Philadelphia Street 

The Whittier Bakery 

ALWAYS FOR QUALITY 

119 W. Philadelphia Street 
A. BIERMANN, Prop. 

Home Phone 323 

C. W. Clayton 

REAL ESTATE 
Loans, Rentals, Insurance 105 E. Philadelphia St. 



"A-l" Flour 

* 

"Makes a Loaf you 
Like to Loaf Around" 

GLOBE MILLS LOS ANGELES 

J. H. Linkletter Guy Tyler 

Link fitter & Ty er 

LUMBER & HILL COMPANY 

ALL KINDS OF LUMBER 
AND MILL WORK 

Home Phone 47 
121 N. Milton Ave. WHITTIER, CAL. 



BEN-HUR BAKING POWDER 



top whipped cream, lay in a flat dish and surround with 
jelly. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One egg well beaten, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
small piece butter. Mix all together and boil till thick as 
cream. Good on any pudding or boiled rice. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

One cup cooked prunes (chopped fine), one cup chopped 
cups flour, yolks of two eggs, one-quarter teaspoon each of 
cloves and cinnamon, one teaspoon salt, two-thirds cup of 
hot water; add one level teaspoon of soda, and add this 
hot water the last thing. I add a small teaspoon of baking 
powder to the flour ; also pour in greased pan and steam two 
hours. 

Sauce: Boil one cup sugar with one-half cup water, 
boil until it hairs and pour over the stiffly beaten whites of 
the two eggs. Flavor to suit the taste. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Two cups flour, one cup milk, one cup raisins, one-half 
cup butter, two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, three teaspoons 
baking powder. Steam one-half hour in eight cups. 

Sauce : Six tablespoons milk, when scalding add one 
and one-half cups powdered sugar, mixed with yolks of 
three eggs, stir until thick, flavor and add beaten whites and 
stir until it foams. Mrs. R. 

BOILED BREAD PUDDING. 

One quart of bread crumbs soaked in water; add one 
cup of molasses, one tablespoon of butter, one cup of fruit, 
one teaspoon of each kind of spice, one teaspoon of soda, 
about one cup of flour. The bread crumbs must be soaked 
in as little water as possible. Boil in a well greased mold 
two hours. Eat with sauce. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Pare and core six apples, slice in pudding pan, cook one 
cup of sago in one quart of water until clear; add one cup 
milk, one-half cup sugar, two eggs. Pour over apples and 
bake in moderate oven. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

One cup tapioca soaked in plenty of cold water over 

37 



BEN-HUR COFFEE HAS QUALITY 



night, drain off the water and add juice from one can of 
pineapple, juice of one lemon, one and one-half cups sugar ; 
cook until clear, add pineapple cut in small pieces or the 
grated, and the whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. 

FROZEN PUDDING. 

Cook six ounces of rice in one quart of milk in double 
boiler until tender, add one teaspoonful salt, three eggs well 
beaten, four ounces sugar; cool; then add one teaspoonful 
vanilla extract, put into freezer and freeze solid. Eemove 
dasher and hollow out center; whip one pint of cream until 
stiff, add one-quarter pound candied pineapple, one-quarter 
pound seedless raisins that have been sprinkled with two 
tablespoonfuls of orange juice and remained covered for 
two hours, one-quarter pound candied cherries and four 
ounces sugar. Mix well and fill cavity; pack and freeze. 
This is delicious to serve in place of ice cream 

STEAM PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup water, 
two eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, flour to make a 
stiff batter. 

Sauce: One-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one 
teaspoon lemon essence, one pint boiling water thickened 
with flour. 

COCOANUT TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak four tablespoonfuls of tapioca over night in cold 
water ; pour off the water and stir the tapioca into a quart 
of boiling milk in the double boiler. Boil the milk and tapio- 
ca ten minutes, then add the beaten yolks of four eggs, one 
cup of sugar and three tablespoonfuls of cocoanut chopped 
fine ; if fresh cocoanut is used, boil for another ten minutes. 
Pour into your pudding dish, beat the whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, add a little sugar and spread over the pudding, 
sifting a little cocoanut over the top. Set in the oven and 
brown slightly. Serve cold. 

BUCKEYE PUDDING 

One cup molasses, one cup of warm water, one cup of 
chopped raisins, two cups of flour, yolks of two eggs, one 
dessert spoonful of soda. Steam two hours. 

Sauce : Whites of two eggs beaten stiff, one cup of pul- 
verized sugar and one-half cup of butter (creamed together), 

38 



ASK YOUR NEIGHBOR 



add eggs beaten well, one tablespoon of hot water, one 
tablespoon of vanilla. Set in dish of warm water to warm, 
but not cook any. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM. 

One pint cream (whipped), one-half teacup sugar, two 
tablespoons gelatine dissolved in as little cold water as possi- 
ble, five cents' worth marshmallows, five cents' worth English 
walnuts, flavor as desired. Serve very cold. 

CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup hot water, one cup cran- 
berries (uncooked), one teaspoonful soda, flour to make a 
moderately stiff batter. Steam two hours. 

Sauce : One cup sugar, one-third cup butter. Mix these 
till creamy and add one cup of cream. Warm slightly. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Heat one quart milk until almost boiling, one-half cup 
corn starch, same of sugar, three teaspoons cocoa, pinch of 
salt, mixed well and made smooth with milk; stir this into 
hot milk until it thickens. Remove, add one teaspoon va- 
nilla, then pour into molds or cups wet with cold water and 
serve cold with whipped cream or cream and sugar. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Peel and slice four large oranges, lay in your dish and 
sprinkle over them one cup sugar, the yolks of three eggs 
beaten, one-half cup of sugar, two tablespoons of corn starch, 
one quart boiling milk; let it boil and thicken, then let it 
cool a little before pouring over the oranges. Beat the whites 
with a little pulverized sugar and flour over it, set in oven 
to brown. 

PRUNE DESSERT. 

One-half pound prunes cooked until tender, rub through 
colander; soak one-half box gelatine in one-half pint cold 
water five minutes, then add one pint boiling water; when 
dissolved add one cup sugar, stir all together, set in cool 
place to harden. "When firm sprinkle top with broken meats 
of English walnuts. Serve with whipped cream. 

GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Two eggs, one cupful sour milk, one large cupful suet 
(ground or chopped), one-half cupful dark molasses (New 
Orleans best), one-half cupful "C" sugar, one small cupful 

39 



GIVE THE 



NEWMARKET 



A TRIAL 

Meats of the Highest Quality. Lowest Prices, Prompt Service. 
117 South Greenleaf. Phone 127. 

Home Phone 72 White Sewing Machines 

- Bryan-Zimmer Co. 

FURNITURE, CARPETS 

Tapestries, Art Squares, Mattings, Linoleums 
Window Shades, Picture Framing 

and Repairing 
East Philadelphia Street Whittier, Cal. 

Home Phone 51 



Humphrey - Daggett Hardware Co. 



HARDWARE, PLUMBING 

122-24-26 W. Philadelphia St. 
Tinning, Cornice Work Whittier Cal. 




VEHICLES, FARM IMPLEMENTS 

Manufacturers of Harness 
Harness Repaired While You Wait 



COFFEE, TEA, BAKING POWDER, SPICES, 
EXTRACTS 



ORANGE ICE. 

Two and one-half cups of water, one and one-half cups 
of sugar. Cook until syrup and let cool. Strain the juice 
of five oranges and one lemon and add to syrup, then freeze. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

One quart of milk, a pinch of salt, four eggs beaten 
separately and one box of Knox's gelatine dissolved in a 
little water. Let milk cook until it simmers and then add 
yolks, with four tablespoons of sugar. Stir in gelatine and 
remove from stove. Then beat whites of eggs stiff adding 
two tablespoons of sugar and a few drops of extract of va- 
nilla. Serve wtih cream. 

SHERBETS 

Commonly called water ices, are prepared of sugar, wa- 
ter and fruit juice. If a rich and smooth ice is wanted, boil 
the sugar and water together twenty minutes. 

ORANGE I5HERBET. 

Grate the yellow rind of two oranges and squeeze the 
juice of two lemons, with which mix one pint of orange 
juice. Let stand one hour. Add a pint of sugar and one 
quart of water. Strain and freeze. 

MILK SHERBET. 

One quart of milk, one pint of sugar, juice of four lem- 
ons, or one pint of mashed strawberries. Put milk in freez- 
er. Freeze twenty minutes. Stir in sugar and fruit juice. 
Freeze. 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

One can of peaches, one heaping pint of granulated 
sugar, one quart of water, two cupfuls of whipped cream. 
Boil the sugar and water together twelve minutes, then add 
the peaches and cook twenty minutes longer. Rub through 
a sieve, and, when cold, freeze. "When the beater is taken 
out stir in the whipped cream with a spoon, cover and let 
stand one hour. 

STRAWBERRY SHERBET. 

One pint and a half of strawberry juice, one pint of 
sugar, one pint and a half of water, the juice of two lemons. 

41 



YOU MAY THINK OTHERS NICE 



Boil the water and sugar together for twenty minutes, add 
the lemon and strawberry juice. Strain and freeze. 

SOUFFLE DE RUSSE. 

Three pints of milk, four eggs, one-half box of gelatine ; 
sweeten and flavor to taste; boil as custard. As it is taken 
from the fire stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour 
into molds and when cold eat with cream. 

FRUITTI-FRUITTI ICE CREAM. 

One quart rich cream, one cup sugar, four eggs. Beat 
yolks of eggs and sugar to a cream and add the whites, then 
the cream; then add two small cups of dates, one cup of 
figs, half a pound of citron, a half cup of seeded raisins, a 
half cup of blanched almonds, the same of English walnuts, 
all chopped fine. Freeze. 



CHEESE 



And e'en if the moon be not made of cheese, 

There are some good things that are, if you please. 

WELSH RAREBIT AND GOLDEN BUSH. 

One-quarter pound grated cheese cut small, one-half 
pint milk, -one egg well beaten, one-fourth teaspoonful mus- 
tard, lump butter ; cook on a quick fire, stirring all the time ; 
add last a soda cracker rolled fine ; pour over thin strips of 
buttered toast and serve at once, adding a poached egg on 
the top of the toast and cheese. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup of butter stirred till soft, one full teaspoon 
dry mustard, one-half cup fiour, one cup grated cheese, four 
teaspoons cold water, a little cayenne pepper, mix together 
and roll out very thin ; cut in very narrow strips with a jig- 
ging iron. 

A NICE DISH OF CHEESE. 

A half pound grated cheese, half the quantity of bread 
crumbs, two teaspoonfuls of butter, one coffeecup of sweet 
milk; mix the cheese, butter and crumbs; season with salt; 
pepper and mustard, a little ; pour the milk over these boil- 
ing hot ; set over boiling water until the cheese dissolves ; add 
the yolks of three eggs, beaten ; stir well, and add to it the 

42 



BUT THERE'S NOTHING LIKE BEN-HUR 

SPICE 



whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; butter a very shal- 
low pan or pieplate, pour in the mixture and bake twenty 
minutes ; serve immediately. 

FANCY STUFFED DATES. 

Into a spoonful or two of jelly stir some chopped Eng- 
lish walnuts, a little crystallized ginger and a little sweet 
pickle, all finely cut and well mixed together. Take stones 
from dates and fill dates with mixture, then roll in powder- 
ed sugar. 

PRUNE WHIP. 

One cup cooked prunes (chopped fine), one cup chopped 
nuts, whites of six eggs, eight tablespoons sugar, pinch of 
salt. Mix prunes and nuts. Bake in pan with opening in 
center. Place this pan in another pan of boiling water and 
bake forty-five minutes. When done make meringue as for 
lemon pie. 

RAISIN MANGO PICKLES. 

Put cucumbers in brine ten days as for any other pick- 
les. Then put in fresh water and soak free from salt, cut in 
halves lengthwise, take out all the inside seeds with a spoon. 
Stuff with fresh raisins, tie with a string and place in jar. 
Take four cups brown sugar to every seven cups fruit and 
two quarts vinegar, one tablespoon spice, cinnamon and 
cloves. Place on fire to boil a few minutes, put on pickle 
and tie securely. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

Three heaping tablespoons grated cheese, two of flpur, 
yolk of one egg, butter size of a walnut, two tablespoons 
milk to mix hard. Cut in strips and bake; roll thin. 

QUINCE HONEY. 

Four large quinces, three pounds of granulated sugar, 
two quarts water; boil twenty-five minutes before adding 
grated quinces. Boil until thick like honey. 

DUTCH DUMPLINGS. 

Scald one pint new milk, sift and stir enough flour in 
milk to make very thick. When cold add three well beaten 
eggs, spoonful butter, even teaspoon salt. Drop in boiling 
gravy over meat and boil thirty minutes. 

43 



BEN-HUR QUALITY GOODS 



OLIVE SANDWICHES. 

Spread bread with rich manyonnaise dressing, seed and 
chop olives quite fine and spread on sandwiches. 

EGG SANDWICHES. 

Kemove the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and rub 
smooth. Season with one teaspoonful of French mustard, 
a little salt, a dash of pepper and a little vinegar to stiffen. 
Add the finely chopped whites and spread between slices of 
buttered bread. 

HAM SANDWICHES CREAM DRESSING. 

One pint finely chopped ham, yolks of three eggs, half 
a teaspoon mustard. Beat yolks light, add half a teacup of 
vinegar, a tablespoon each of butter and sugar. Set the 
vinegar, butter and sugar on stove and stir continually till 
it is the consistency of thick cream, not allowing it to curdle, 
it will if too thick and not stirred all the time. When cool 
stir in one cup of thick, sour cream. Mix a little red pep- 
per with mustard and add to the dressing. Butter nice, 
light bread, spread the dressing on one slice, placing a plain 
buttered slice on top. 

TO MAKE WALNUT CREAM CANDY OR DATES. 

Take the white of one egg, as much water as egg, add a 
little vanilla and salt- Stir (not beat) in sugar to form a 
cream, until a fork will stand up straight in it. Then place 
a little on the kernel of your nuts on each side and press 
gently ; take stone from date and do in the same manner. 

DIVINITY. 

One-half cup water, one-half cup Karo corn syrup, two 
cups sugar; mix and cook until it hardens in water. Beat 
whites of two eggs stiff, stir hot syrup over eggs slowly and 
beat until very stiff ; add to this English walnuts and Bishop 
cherries. 

SOMETHING GOOD. 

One quart flour, one egg well beaten, one-half cup of 
butter, one tablespoon of sugar, three teaspoons of baking 
powder, enough milk for a soft dough. Put in gem tins and 
put half peach (either fresh or canned) on each one; fill 

44 



WILL IMPROVE ALL COOKING 



cavity with sugar. Bake and when done serve with whipped 
cream. 

PENOCHA CANDY. 

To three cups of light brown sugar take one and one- 
half cups of cream and milk mixed. Cook, stirring constant- 
ly until it thickens in water sufficiently to adhere together; 
then pour into a large cup of English walnut kernels broken 
up fine (or as many kernels as one prefers). Stir until it 
thickens and will run into a greased platter. Before it is 
too cold cut it in small squares. 

PANOCHI (CANDY). 

Two cups granulated sugar, two-thirds cup milk or 
cream and one-quarter cup butter. "When hot add one cup 
black walnut meats ; cook until it will harden in water, take 
from stove and stir until it begins to cool, then pour into 
buttered pan. 

ROASTED ALMONDS. 

Shell and blanch almonds, put) them in a sauce pan, with 
some salt, set them in the oven until they are hot, remove 
the sauce pan from the oven and add a small piece of butter 
to the almonds, and shake them over the fire until they are 
brown, taking care that they do not burn. 

SALTED PEANUTS. 

Shell them, remove the skins, put them into a dripping 
pan with just enough butter to make them glossy, and then 
brown them in hot oven, shaking the pan frequently to 
make them brown evenly. When the nuts are brown sprinkle 
them with salt. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

One pint best New Orleans molasses, one cup brown 
sugar, a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut, the juice 
of one lemon or one tablespoon of vinegar. Boil until, when 
dripping in cold water, it will harden immediately; then 
stir in a pinch of soda ; when thoroughly mixed pour out on 
buttered tins; when cool pull quickly, using the fingers only. 
Avoid pressing too much, as that makes it solid. It should 
be full of holes when ready to cut. 

45 



FOR PURITY, STRENGTH AND FLAVOR 



"A DAINTY DISH." 

Allow one egg for each person. Boil ten minutes. For 
each egg one tablespoonful of milk and a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut ; to every two eggs a teaspoonful of corn 
starch, with pepper and salt to taste. Put this batter on the 
stove for a few minutes, then add the whites of the eggs 
chopped very fine. Stir until creamy and pour over slices 
'of buttered toast, and over this grate the yolks of the eggs. 

CARAMEL OR BURNED SUGAR. 

Put two ounces of brown or white sugar into an old tin 
cup over a brisk fire. Stir this until it is quite dark and 
gives forth a burning smell, then add a cup half full of cold 
water. Let it boil gently a few minutes, stirring well all 
the while. Take off and when cold bottle for use. This 
keeps well and may be used for flavoring for gravies and 
soups. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One pound of loaf sugar, one cupful of water, one-half 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, two of vanilla, two of vinegar, 
butter size of an egg. Boil until it hardens when dropped in- 
to water. When nearly cold, pull as you would other candy. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Take of grated chocolate, milk, molasses and sugar one 
cupful -each; piece of butter size of an egg. Boil until it 
drops hard, put into a buttered pan, and before it cools 
mark off in square blocks. 

TO WHIP CREAM. 

Very rich or very poor cream will not whip well; thick 
cream that will hardly pour should have an equal quantity 
of milk added to it before whipping. The cream should be 
ice cold. If the cream is very rich a beater will whip it ; 
but there is nothing that will whip cream as well and as 
quickly as a "whip-churn," a tin cylinder, perforated at the 
bottom and sides, in which a dasher of tin, also perforated, 
can be easily moved up and down. 

SYRUP FOR GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Stew some good-flavored, rich apples. Strain as for 

46 



BEN HUE EXTRACTS YOU'LL FAVOR 



jelly; add sugar enough to make a rich syrup and let it 
come to a scald. 

HOW TO BLANCH ALMONDS. 

Shell the nuts and pour boiling water over them. Let 
them stand in the water a minute and then throw them into 
cold water. Rub between the hands to get the skins off. 

CREAMED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Use three hard-boiled eggs. Put one-half pint cream 
and one-half pint milk in a double boiler; add one teaspoon- 
ful of butter and one teaspoonful of flour well mixed and 
stir until thick, adding a level teaspoonful of salt. Separate 
the whites and yolks of the eggs and chop the whites not 
too finely, and add to the hot cream. Have ready nicely- 
browned slices of toast, on a warmed platter. Cover the 
toast with the creamed whites and grate the yolks over all, 
garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. 

EGGS A LA CREME. 

Boil eggs hard and cut in halves, place in a vegetable 
dish and cover with drawn butter sauce. Paris. 

FRICASSEED EGGS. 

Boil a half dozen eggs five minutes; dip them in cold 
water; shell them and cut in thick slices, and lay on hot 
toast. Boil a pint of milk; mix a spoonful of corn starch 
with it, the same of butter, and stir them in the milk so as 
to make a smooth sauce ; add some pepper and salt, and pour 
over the eggs. Serve at once. 



47 



INDEX 



Page. 

Soups 1 

Fish and Oysters 3 

Meats and Game 4 

Vegetables 9 

Salads 12 

Cakes 15 

Cookies and Doughnuts 23 

Bread and Bolls 27 

Pies 32 

Puddings 35 

Ices 40 

Cheese 42 

Candy and Miscellaneous 44 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Ten eggs are equal to one pound 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of white sugar, 
powdered or loaf sugar broken, is equal to one quart. 

One pound of butter when soft, is equal to one quart. 

One pound and two ounces Indian meal is equal to one 
quart. 

One pound and two ounces of wheat flour is equal to 
one quart. 

Four tablespoons are equal to one-half gill. 

Eight large tablespoons are equal to one gill. 

Sixteen large tablespoons are equal to one-half pint. 

A common sized wine glass holds half a gill. 

A common sized tumbler holds half a pint. 

Four ordinary teacups of liquid are equal to one quart. 

48 



J. H. GWIN 



FANCY GROCERIES, FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 



208 W. Philadelphia St. Phone 50 

Phone 270 

R. RASMUSSEN 

PRACTICAL HORSESHOEING 
GENERAL REPAIR WORK OF ALL KINDS 

All Work Guaranteed Cor. Philadelphia St. and Milton Ave. 

Clean, wholesome pictures. Nothing to offend the most fastidious. 
We are catering to only the best people, especially the church people. 

THE FAMILY 

C. H. KEIPP, Prop, and Mgr. 

THE WOODCRAFTER'S SHOP 

AND NOVELTY WORKS C. A. MATTESON, Proprietor 

Mfgrs. "The Auto Grip" Ironing Board, Furniture, Traveling Cases, 

Automobile Trunks, Original and Artistic Novelties in 

Wood, Brass and Copper. 

Light Mill Work and General Repairing. Picture Framing. 
Home Phone 165 210 East Philadelphia Street 

Home Phone 120 

H. J. TRIPLETT 

PAINTS AND WALL-PAPER 

Painting, Paper Hanging, Tinting and Decorating 

204 East Philadelphia St. 

A. H. Woodward, Phone 337 E. J. Allen, Phone 6264 

Phone 131 
We Buy We Sell 

THE FASHION STABLES 

WOODWARD & ALLEN, Proprietors 

Good Turnouts 

Dr. T. J. Stover, Veterinary Surgeon 
Phone: Office 131, Res. 204 128 N. Greenleaf Ave. 



Home Phone 134 



L. Landreth & Co. 



HAY, GRAIN, FEED, COAL, WOOD, SEEDS, SALT 

AND POULTRY SUPPLIES WHOLESALE 

AND RETAIL 



1 1 5 No. Comstock Ave. Whittier, California 

The 

King Citrus Nurseries 

WHOLESALE ONLY 

An Excellent Line of Washington Navels, 
Valencias and Eureka Lemons for Sale. 

Specialty on contracts for stock to be delivered in season, 
1911 and 1912, at very reasonable prices 

CITRUS STOCK EXCLUSIVELY NO SIDE LINES 

JNO. R. KING, Prop. 

N. CITRUS AVE. Phone 4981 N. MAGNOLIA AVE. 



